Zelenskyy Visits Soldiers on Southern Front Line While Heaviest Fighting Rages in Eastern Donbas
20220619
https://www.voazimbabwe.com/a/6623601.html
The recommendation is the first step in the long process of becoming a member of the 27-nation bloc. EU leaders will meet later this month to consider the commission's recommendation. The commission also recommended candidacy for Moldova, though not for Georgia.
Zelenskyys visit to Mykolaiv was the Ukrainian leader's first to the southern city since Russia invaded Ukraine almost four months ago.
Mom, I just want to let you know that Im alive and I hope to be back home as soon as I can be, he said. So, love Diesel for me. Love you.
Heavy battles are raging in villages near the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk, according to Ukrainian authorities. Russian troops have been trying to take control of Sievierodonetsk for weeks.
The president's office published video Saturday of Zelenskyy surveying a badly damaged high-rise residential building and holding meetings with local officials. He also visited soldiers on the southern front line.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has made a rare trip outside Kyiv to visit the war-damaged city of Mykolaiv in the south while the worst of the fighting continued in the eastern Donbas region.
"We have nothing against it. It's their sovereign decision to join economic unions or not. ... It's their business, the business of the Ukrainian people," Putin said.
The head of the EU said Friday that Ukraine should be formally considered for candidate status.
Russia's defense ministry said Saturday that Russian forces have destroyed oil refining and fuel storage facilities in the areas of Lysychansk and Kremenchuk, located in central Ukraine. Russia said the facilities were intended to supply equipment to the Ukrainian military in the Donbas region.
Zelenskyy applauded the decision in a tweet Friday. "It's the 1st step on the EU membership path that'll certainly bring our Victory closer," he tweeted.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Friday he is not opposed to Ukraine joining the EU because, unlike NATO, the EU is not a military alliance.
Haidai also reported that Russian troops are heavily shelling Lysychansk, a city across a river from Sievierodonetsk, that is still controlled by the Ukrainians.
Drueke spoke to the camera from what appeared to be an office and sent a message to his mother.
"Now the most fierce battles are near Sievierodonetsk. They Russia do not control the city entirely," Serhiy Haidai, the governor of the eastern Luhansk region, said on Telegram. "In nearby villages there are very difficult fights  in Toshkivska, Zolote. They are trying to break through but failing. Our defenders are fighting Russians in all directions.
Russian state television showed video Friday of two Americans who went missing last week while fighting in Ukraine. The video seems to confirm that U.S. military veterans Alex Drueke and Andy Huynh, both from Alabama, are Russian captives.
His aunt, Dianna Shaw, said Drueke used a key word and gesture in the video that he and his mother set up when he was serving in Iraq so she would know that he was OK.
