First ship carrying Ukrainian grain leaves port of Odesa
20220801
https://journalrecord.com/2022/08/01/first-ship-carrying-ukrainian-grain-leaves-port-of-odesa/
Finally, life begins to move forward and there are some changes in a positive direction, she said. In general, the port should live its own life because Odesa is a port city. We live here. We want everything to work for us, everything to bustle.
Lebanon, the corns destination, is in the grip of a severe financial crisis. A 2020 explosion at its main port in Beirut shattered its capital city and destroyed grain silos. Lebanon mostly imports wheat from Ukraine but also buys its corn to make cooking oil and produce animal feed.
Ukraine and Russia are major global suppliers of wheat, barley, corn and sunflower oil, with the fertile Black Sea region long known as the breadbasket of Europe. The holdup of food shipments because of the war has worsened rising food prices worldwide and threatened hunger and political instability in developing nations.
The first grain ship since Russian aggression has left port, Ukrainian Minister of Infrastructure Oleksandr Kubrakov declared on Twitter.
The bulk carrier Razoni sets out Monday from the port in Odesa, Ukraine. AP photoMichael Shtekel
Russia and Ukraine signed agreements in Istanbul with Turkey and the U.N. on July 22, clearing the way for Ukraine to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural products that have been stuck in Black Sea ports because of Russias invasion of Ukraine more than five months ago. The deals also allow Russia to export grain and fertilizer.
Yet the resumption of the grain shipments came as fighting raged elsewhere in Ukraine, with Russia pressing its offensive in the east while Ukraine tries to retake territory in the Russian-occupied south.
More ships are expected to leave from Ukraines ports through the safe corridors. At Odesa, 16 more vessels, all blocked since Russias invasion on Feb. 24, were waiting their turn, with others to follow, Ukrainian authorities said.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who proposed the grain deal in April, said the Razoni was loaded with two commodities in short supply: corn and hope.
Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Hearing the ship sound its horn as it left port delighted Olena Vitalievna, an Odesa resident.
Under the agreements, ships going in and out of Ukrainian ports will be subject to inspection to make sure that incoming vessels are not carrying weapons and that outgoing ones are bearing only grain, fertilizer or related food items, not any other commodities.
Unlocking ports will provide at least $1 billion in foreign exchange revenue to the economy and an opportunity for the agricultural sector to plan for next year, he said.
In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov hailed the ships departure as very positive, saying it would help test the efficiency of the mechanisms that were agreed to during the talks in Istanbul.
The Sierra Leone-flagged cargo ship Razoni sounded its horn as it slowly departed with over 26,000 tons of corn destined for Lebanon.
But some shipping companies are not yet rushing to export food across the Black Sea as they assess the danger of mines and the risk of Russian rockets hitting grain warehouses and ports.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  The first ship carrying Ukrainian grain set out Monday from the port of Odesa under an internationally brokered deal to unblock the embattled countrys agricultural exports and ease the growing global food crisis.
Hope for millions of people around the world who depend on the smooth running of Ukraines ports to feed their families, he said.
In an interview with Turkeys state-run Anadolu Agency, Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar warned that the global food crisis threatens to trigger a serious wave of migration from Africa to Europe and to Turkey.
As part of the agreements, safe corridors through the mined waters outside Ukraines ports were established.
The Razoni was expected to dock early Wednesday in Istanbul, where teams of Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and U.N. officials were set to board it for inspection.
