Russia fails to pay foreign debt blames sanctions
20220627
https://journalrecord.com/2022/06/27/russia-fails-to-pay-foreign-debt-blames-sanctions/
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters Monday that there are no grounds to call this situation a default, saying Russia has paid but it could not be processed because of sanctions.
Moscow owed $100 million in interest on one bond priced in dollars and one priced in euros, which was originally due May 27. A 30-day grace period expired Sunday, but there has not been an official determination of a default yet.
Last month, the U.S. Treasury Department ended Russias ability to pay its billions in debt back to international investors through American banks. In response, the Russian Finance Ministry said it would pay dollar-denominated debts in rubles and offer the opportunity for subsequent conversion into the original currency.
Western sanctions over the war have sent foreign companies fleeing from Russia and interrupted the countrys trade and financial ties with the rest of the world. Default would be one more symptom of that isolation and disruption. A default would not affect the Russian economy right now because the country has not borrowed internationally in years amid sanctions and is making lots of money from exporting commodities like oil and natural gas, said Chris Weafer, a veteran Russian economy analyst at consulting firm Macro-Advisory. But longer term, when the war has resolved and Russia tries to rebuild its economy, this is where the legacy of default will be a problem. Its a bit like if an individual or if a company gets a bad credit score, it takes years to get over that, he said.
Russia appeared to default on its foreign debt for the first time since the Bolshevik Revolution more than a century ago, further alienating the country from the global financial system following sanctions imposed over its war in Ukraine.
For all practical purposes, Russia is in default, said Jay S. Auslander, a sovereign debt lawyer at the firm of Wilk Auslander in New York. The 30-day grace period has expired. Bondholders do not have their money.
Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Russia says it has the money to pay its debts but Western sanctions created artificial obstacles by freezing its foreign currency reserves held abroad.
Investors who wanted out of Russian debt have probably already headed for the exits, leaving those who may have bought bonds at knocked-down prices in hopes of profiting from a settlement in the long run. And they might want to keep a low profile for a while to avoid being associated with the war. Once a country defaults, it can be cut off from bond-market borrowing until the default is sorted out and investors regain confidence in the governments ability and willingness to pay. But Russia has already been cut off from Western capital markets, so any return to borrowing is a long way off anyway. The Kremlin can still borrow rubles at home, where it mostly relies on Russian banks to buy its bonds.
The other side argues that this happened because of sanctions, but sanctions were fully in your control, Auslander said. All of this was under your control, because all you had to do was not invade Ukraine.
Participants pass as Russian President Vladimir Putins address appears on a screen recently during an international economic forum held in St. Petersburg, Russia. AP photoDmitri Lovetsky
Russia owes about $40 billion in foreign bonds, about half of that to foreigners. Before the start of the war, Russia had around $640 billion in foreign currency and gold reserves, much of which was held overseas and is now frozen. Russia has not defaulted on its international debts since the Bolshevik Revolution, when the Russian Empire collapsed and the Soviet Union was created. Russia defaulted on its domestic debts in the late 1990s but was able to recover from that default with the help of international aid.
Russia has effectively been in default for months in the eyes of bond investors, said Liam Peach, an economist specializing in emerging European markets at Capital Economics. Insurance contracts that cover Russian debt have priced an 80 likelihood of default for weeks, and rating agencies like Standard  Poors and Moodys have placed the countrys debt deep into junk territory.
