US warns China about support for Russia
20220315
https://journalrecord.com/2022/03/14/us-warns-china-about-support-for-russia/
Fox News reporter Benjamin Hall was injured while reporting outside of Kyiv on Monday and was hospitalized, the network said.
Meanwhile, two administration officials said the U.S. had determined that China had signaled to Russia that it would be willing to provide both military support for the campaign in Ukraine and financial backing to help stave off the impact of severe sanctions imposed by the West. The officials said that assessment had been relayed to Western and Asian allies and partners earlier Monday.
Firefighters evacuate an elderly woman from an apartment building hit by shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine, on Monday. Ukrainian State Emergency Service via AP
Moscow has received a positive response from Beijing, said one official, describing a diplomatic cable sent to U.S. embassies asking for them to inform their host governments of the information. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive information.
The U.N. said Russias war against Ukraine is threatening the global food supply and putting developing countries, especially the worlds poorest, at risk. More than 40 African and least-developed countries import at least one-third of their wheat from Ukraine and Russia, and 18 of them import at least 50.
A planned NATO exercise with about 30,000 troops from more than 25 countries from Europe and North America began in northern Norway
WASHINGTON AP  Face to face, President Joe Bidens national security adviser warned a top Chinese official on Monday about Chinas support for Russia in the Ukrainian invasion, even as the Kremlin denied reports it had requested Chinese military equipment to use in the war.
The European Unions foreign policy chief says the 27-country bloc is finalizing its new round of sanctions against Russia for its barbaric invasion of Ukraine.
The national security adviser and our delegation raised directly and very clearly our concerns about the PRCs support to Russia in the wake of the invasion, and the implications that any such support would have for the PRCs relationship not only with us, but for its relationships around the world, said State Department spokesman Ned Price, using the initials for the Peoples Republic of China.
Sullivan made clear during an intense seven-hour meeting that the Biden administration has deep concerns about Chinas alignment with Russia at this time, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said.
The Ukrainian state power company says the power line supplying the site of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster has been damaged by Russian forces again after it was repaired. The Ukrenergo company said in a statement Monday that its technicians had started to supply power Sunday evening but before the power supply was fully restored, the occupying forces damaged it again. Ukrenergo said it will attempt another repair.
The live main evening news program on Russias state television was briefly interrupted Monday by a person who walked into the studio holding a poster against the war in Ukraine.
U.S. adviser Jake Sullivan and senior Chinese foreign policy adviser Yang Jiechi met in Rome, with the Biden administration increasingly concerned that China is using the Ukraine war to advance Beijings long-term interest in its competition with the United States.
Polands foreign minister accused Russia of state terrorism for targeting civilians, schools, hospitals and other civilian infrastructure in an attempt to break the spirit of the Ukrainian people.
Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
A BELGRAA flight from Belgrade to Moscow turned back Monday following a second false bomb threat in four days, Serbian police said.
Sullivan was seeking clarity on Beijings posture and was warning the Chinese anew that assistance for Russia  including helping it avert sanctions imposed by the U.S. and Western allies  would be costly for them.
