Asda Aldi Sainsburys and other UK supermarkets pull items following Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220311
https://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/north-wales-news/asda-aldi-sainsburys-uk-supermarkets-23357650
A spokesperson for Tesco said it would no longer be buying products from businesses that are wholly Russian-owned.
Sign up to our free newsletter for the top North Wales stories sent straight to your e-mail
They said in a statement: "We stand together with Aldi colleagues across the world and will be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal."
Asdas co-owner Mohsin Issa said: We stand with our customers and colleagues who are shocked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine  and our thoughts are with those people whose lives are affected by this crisis.
A spokesman for Morrisons, meanwhile, said: We have taken action on our vodka lines today including delisting Russian Standard.
Tesco said it will not be removing any products from its shelves, but said it will not place any further orders with Russian suppliers.
UK supermarkets have been taking different approaches in regard to the selling of Russian products.
A spokesperson for the Co-op said the decision to remove the sale of Russian-made vodka was "a sign of solidarity with the people of Ukraine".
After initially not confirming the donation amount, the supermarket confirmed they would be donating a further 5 million euros to established aid organisations to "ensure help reaches those that need it most".
Asda has confirmed it is removing all products that originate from Russia from its stores and online - around 100 items in total.
A statement from the supermarket read: "We are supporting humanitarian relief efforts through our partnerships with the Red Cross, food banks and other relief organisations to help those affected in Ukraine and neighbouring countries.
On March 4, Asda and its charity, the Asda Foundation, announced a 1m package to support displaced Ukrainian families in Europe and the UK.
The decision was influenced by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has led to repeated calls of a boycott on Russian products and seen McDonalds, Starbucks and Coca-Cola all halt their operations in Russia.
At the start of the month, Aldi announced that they would be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal.
Do you think Russian products should be banned in the UK? Let us know in the comments
Whether you live in the region or just like to visit the area, our weekly newsletter will bring you inspiration for the best places to visit, eat, shop and have fun in North Wales.
Each major supermarket across the UK has taken a different approach to calls of boycotting all Russian products
The supermarket giant has also recently renamed its Chicken Kiev to Kyiv - the Ukranian capital - to stand with Ukraine.
Waitrose and John Lewis said earlier this month they would no longer sell products made in Russia, starting with Russian vodka and one line of pizza oven pellets.
Supermarket giants Asda, Sainsbury's, Aldi and Waitrose have pulled a number of items from their shelves this week.
"We have reviewed our product range and have decided to remove from sale all products that are 100 sourced from Russia."
