North Wales beauty queen on why shes booked an Airbnb in Ukraine this summer
20220307
https://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/north-wales-news/north-wales-beauty-queen-shes-23314008
When she saw a post on Facebook about booking Airbnbs, as a way of sending money to war-affected Ukrainians, it seemed the perfect solution.
I told them that, when this is all over, to cancel the booking and re-let the room, she said.
However, its being reported that fake accounts are being created by scammers in an attempt to cash in.
Other people are cancelling their rooms straight away, enabling Airbnb hosts to constantly re-let rooms to maximise donations.
Writing on Twitter, he said: "Lots of talk about booking random Airbnbs in Ukraine and paying for them with no intention of staying, to transfer cash to the country.
"Warning: were I a Russian scammer, I would be setting up fake Airbnbs in Kiev and Odessa as fast as I could to cash in on those noble intentions."
Late last week more than 61,000 nights were booked in Ukraine by people who have no intention of travelling there, said Airbnb, which has waived all guest and host fees.
COMMENT: A good way to help, or too risky? Have your say in the comments below.
One read: Thank you very much for your support at such a difficult time for Ukraine.
People who have already donated said it was a simple way of helping ordinary Ukrainians.
Until last year Dianne reigned as Miss Great Britain Natural Beauty, and she is a finalist in this years Miss Natural Beauty Wales contest.
A warning has been issued to people channeling money to Ukraine by booking Airbnbs they wont use
People are also being warned to make sure they are booking rooms owned by local Ukrainians  and not by property companies which, conceivably, could even be Russian owned.
They are all prominent members of the North Wales pageant community, which collectively made and gifted 25 crisp packet blankets for the appeal.
A Prestatyn woman who booked nights in Ukraine said it was a more direct and personal way of easing the financial burden in these troubled times.
Donors should check reviews for the exact property they are booking, not of other properties from the same host.
Although Ive never used Airbnb, I thought it was a good way of helping ordinary Ukrainian people.
Denbighshires Dianne Gibbons had already collected two carloads of donations for the Ukrainian relief effort - but she wanted to do more.
They should also send messages or emails to hosts, letting them know what you are doing.
Many hosts are genuine and some have offered to pass on donations to the wider community in Ukraine, including resistance fighters.
Travel expert Simon Calder said the idea is likely to be a magnet for scammers.
Items included wound closures bought from a local pharmacy, and three plastic-backed foil blankets Dianne and her two daughters made from empty crisp packets.
I went for a private listing, not a company one, as I wanted an individual person to benefit, she said.
Last week Dianne, 49, from Bodelwyddan, took clothes, toys and medical supplies to a collection centre in Flintshire, part of the wider Wrexham-based effort organised by the Polish Integration Support Centre.
Dozens of supporters across North Wales have gifted money this way  but a warning has been issued for those thinking of following suit, with some fake accounts being created by scammers in an attempt to cash in
People across the world have been booking Airbnbs in Ukraine as a means of sending money to the countrys resistance and relief efforts.
For her Airbnb booking, Dianne picked out a Kyiv resident with a single listing and plenty of reviews, and claimed a 28.10 night in June.
When I heard the country was looking for financial donations, I was reluctant to contribute via a charity because I know they take a percentage to help with running costs.
Dianne was moved by the response and urged her Airbnb host to use the money as she saw fit.
