Russia warns it could cut gas supplies to Europe if oil ban is imposed
20220308
https://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russia-warns-could-cut-gas-23319172
It could meant the gas flow from Russia to Germany could be stopped in a reaction to a decision by the German government to stop the opening of the new pipeline, Nord Stream 2. Russia warned it could push the price of oil up to $300 a barrel, Sky News reports.
Sign up to our free newsletter for the top North Wales stories sent straight to your e-mail
The Telegraph reports that it followed the United States saying the West was considering a ban on Russian oil imports. Mr Novak warned: "A rejection of Russian oil would lead to catastrophic consequences for the global market.
Since the end of February there has been a notable intensification of Russian accusations that Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons, a MoD statement said.
Deputy prime minister Alexander Novak said in a statement on state television : "In connection with unfounded accusations against Russia regarding the energy crisis in Europe and the imposition of a ban on Nord Stream 2, we have every right to take a matching decision and impose an embargo on gas pumping through the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline."
These narratives are long standing but are currently likely being amplified as part of retrospective justification for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Russian gas supplies to the West could be cut in response to any ban on Russian oil imports. The warning from Russia's deputy prime minister follows continued sanctions and boycotts on the country following its invasion of Ukraine.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has warned that European countries would need to secure substitute sources of energy supply if they are to ban Russian oil and gas imports.
In another development today, The Ministry of Defence MoD has said Russia is likely ramping up claims Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons as retrospective justification for its invasion.
