Who will help those people Local Ukrainianborn pastor weighs in on Russian invasion
20220225
https://www.khq.com/news/who-will-help-those-people-local-ukrainian-born-pastor-weighs-in-on-russian-invasion/article_3a4ff632-95c9-11ec-a080-43a76e33dea1.html
As a pastor, Petr turns to prayer, and the day he can get back to doing what he believes he was put on Earth to do.
Heres a list of vehicles that dont forget about style and can protect you if youre involved in an accident. Read moreSafety with Style: The Safest Vehicles for Washington Drivers
Nominate your non-profit organization for a chance to win a coffee delivery from KHQ and Craven's Coffee!
"Who will help those people?... Those people have to live in cellars, they have to live in basements, probably hungry, no showers and cold," Petr said. "Right now, Ukrainian people are left to fight tanks and jets with rifles. It's like fighting an elephant with my fist."
Filing apersonal injury claimallows you to claim all damages, including your current and future medical expenses. But what happens to that settlement if youre not alive to receive it? Read moreWhat If I Pass Away before I Collect My Accident Settlement?
If you're interested in learning more about Petr's efforts in Ukraine and how you might be able to help, you can contact him at petrgodsembassycomcast.net.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
Things happen quickly behind the wheel, and the consequences of a poor decision can be severe.Here are a few tips that could save your life if youre in a dangerous situation behind the wheel. Read moreHow to Be the Ultimate Defensive Driver on Washington Roads
"You have to understand the mindset of the Russian people. They don't talk, they punch. They kick... Russians, they first throw a punch, then they talk," Petr said. "They believe that their roots and their pasts matter so much. I personally think humanity matters a lot more. Love matters a lot more than the borders."
But it's the kind of conflict as someone born in Ukraine, Petr has seen play out before.
"As soon as the borders are open and it's safe, we want to be able to go and help," he said.
"I lived there half of my life. I'm 46 now, I lived in Ukraine until I was 21," Petr said sitting in his dining room Thursday afternoon. "I was there in June. We were supposed to be in Ukraine in March."
President Biden announced sanctions against Russia on Thursday, but they are sanctions Petr doesn't believe will deter Russia's President Vladimir Putin.
"They were bombing right next to them," Petr said pulling up a picture of a ping on a map next to a military base he was sent early Thursday morning. "The walls were shaking."
Get the latest news, weather, sports and information from the region's top local news source.
Petr Gaydarzhi is familiar with Ukraine and not just from the dozen or so trips he's taken there through his church, God's Embassy.
Petr said he still has a few dozen relatives living in Ukraine who are keeping him updated while they can.
"Actually, exactly 100 years ago, Ukraine was forced into the Soviet Union," Petr said. "Whatever Putin is doing right now is not new. It's actually been happening every 30 or 40 years. It just happens over and over again."
However, with Russia's invasion of Ukraine this week, Petr knows it's a place he may not see for a while.
