Heartbreaking pictures expose tragedy of Russias invasion of Ukraine
20220225
https://www.joe.ie/news/ukraine-russia-heartbreaking-images-743053
In a tweet posted by RauliKarkulahti, the woman can be seen dabbing the blood away from her face.
While some are saying goodbye to husbands, boyfriends, and brothers, a video showing a little girl hugging her father has been seen across the Internet.
Following Vladimir Putin's TV address on Thursday, Russian forces entered Ukraine by way of neighbouring countries like Belarus.
Police drag huge crowds of people as chanting can be heard and screams bellow from the mouths of the captured. In one video attached below, it's clear protests continued into the night.
Heartbreaking and very emotional moments between a Soldier of Ukraine and his daughter says goodbye to his family when he going to fight against the Russian Army.WorldWarIII Wordle250Ukraine StopWar Biden Putin PutinIsaWarCriminal StopTheWar pic.twitter.comcfJs2LBGH9
Huge anti-war protest happening in Moscow, the capital of Russia: Russian citizens rejecting the Ukraine invasion pic.twitter.comCx6GADwlPy
A Pentagon official said Russia is looking to "decimate" the Ukranian government and President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that Russian special forces are hunting for him and his family.
Young Ukrainians, who look to be in some kind of bunker, are heard singing songs of hope as they use their phone torches as if at a concert.
"Thud, thud, thud. It's like this drum beat of war."Sky's sparkomat and markaustintv are forced to take cover in Ukraine, as you hear the sound of "Russians moving in".Latest: https:t.comCQ7jAL8Yz Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comQxFUwVVshO
Amid Russia's continued assault on Ukraine, heartbreaking pictures are circulating online that really put everything in perspective.
While world leaders fumbled over another packet of sanctions, Ukrainian people became more displaced, injured - and in some instances, unfortunately died.
A picture is worth a thousand words. In this case it is a video. A father says goodbye to his daughter during the evacuation. Ukraine pic.twitter.comg9BQ0RX5sc
One of the most powerful front pages Ive seen in a long time Ukraine pic.twitter.comeegmzujNGo
Images of displaced Ukrainians have circulated on social media, and many are comparing the scenes to World War II.
The same woman, whose name is currently unknown, is also on the front page of Friday morning's Daily Mirror with Putin, alongside the headline "Her Blood, His Hands."
Hordes of people lie on the ground, covered in blankets and coats as they try to keep warm.
Kyiv now. But we are still strong. And well fight. There are millions of people living in the capital of Ukraine. Our children are hiding in bathrooms and cellars. pic.twitter.comgb9a6JsVuK
The two draw a heart together before placing their hands together with only the glass between them.
One woman, seen with blonde hair and a face covered in blood, has been shared widely across the Internet.
Above them, the Russian military continues its assault, raining missiles down on the country's biggest cities.
