Hell on Earth  Shocking survivor accounts of assault on Mariupol emerge
20220321
https://www.joe.ie/news/mariupol-assault-survivor-stories-ukraine-russia-744632
Local authorities have stated that over 2,400 Mariupol residents have been killed since the invasion commenced.
"They are under the debris. We dont know how many are alive at the moment."
Speaking on Morning Ireland on RT Radio 1 on Monday, Oliver Carroll of The Economist noted that hunger has become a huge factor, with the last operating supermarket in Mariupol closing its doors a week ago following shelling.
Russian officials had imposed a deadline of surrender on Ukrainian troops in Mariupol, offering apparent safe passage only in the event of a ceasefire.
Other witnesses have described "post-apocalyptic" scenes on the streets of Mariupol, including stray dogs eating the remains of corpses, and mass public graves in place of formal burial arrangements.
"Everything was burning, there were corpses everywhere, and I was just walking through, picking up a cabbage here, a carrot there, knowing it meant my family would live another day or two, he added.
Zelensky referred to the bombing of an art school on Sunday, where people were taking shelter from aerial assaults.
Ukraine has rejected Russia's latest demand to surrender the city of Mariupol as the conflict enters its 26th day.
Several accounts from survivors are detailed in a Financial Times report, including those of residents who have been forced to kill stray dogs for food.
"You hear the words but its impossible to really take them in, to believe this is happening," said one local businessman named as Dmytro.
Attempting to draw a comparison in terms of scale, he referred to Aleppo levels of destruction.
Amidst the chaos, new eye-witness reports of the ongoing assault have emerged, with particularly harrowing details standing out.
It is estimated that over 10 million people have fled their homes in Ukraine since the conflict began in late February.
"Hiding from shelling, from bombing. There were no military positions. There were about 400 civilians, mostly women and children, the elderly.
People who are still there and people who left they have one thing to say to the West and that is act now because, unfortunately, were not going to be talking about thousands of deaths  its going to be much worse than that.
