Irish citizens in Ukraine urged to shelter in a secure place as Coveney utterly condemns Russia
20220224
https://www.joe.ie/news/irish-citizens-ukraine-urged-shelter-secure-place-coveney-utterly-condemns-russia-742941
"Our thoughts and prayers are with the innocent people of Ukraine, as families wake up to shocking Russian attacks.
Following this, the Department of Foreign Affairs DFA in Ireland issued "urgent consular advice" regarding Ukraine.
"At the emergency UN Security Council meeting, Ireland condemned the decision of Russia to launch a military operation and called on UNSC United Nations Security Council members to 'assume their responsibility and to speak out in the strongest possible terms about this act of aggression'," he added.
He added that Ireland's diplomatic team in Kyiv has moved to a safe place and that the Irish Government are in close contact with them and are working with EU colleagues to ensure their safety.
Urgent consular advice regarding Ukraine.All Irish citizens in Ukraine should shelter in a secure place. Do not move around the country in the coming hours. Please follow the advice of local authorities.We will post regular updates on dfatirl as the situation develops.
"Russia has launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. God help them," he said on Twitter.
"Make no mistake: this is a shocking murderous act of aggression against a sovereign peaceful state.
"We utterly condemn Russia for this act of unjustifiable war in the heart of Europe."
Irish citizens in Ukraine are being urged to shelter in a secure place following reports that Russia has launched a "full-scale invasion" of the country.
Meanwhile, Irish Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney "utterly" condemned Russia for what he called "a shocking murderous act of aggression".
Russia has launched a full scale invasion of Ukraine. God help them.Rocket attacks  explosions across the country. Make no mistake: this is a shocking murderous act of aggression against a sovereign peaceful state. EU and world needs to respond strongly. dfatirl
Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes. This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
"Do not move around the country in the coming hours. Please follow the advice of local authorities.
