Over 11000 Russian citizens arrested at antiwar protests since February
20220306
https://www.joe.ie/news/anti-war-protest-russia-743766
Police officers in Moscow today are stopping people, demanding to see their phones, READING THEIR MESSAGES, and refusing to release them if they refuse. This from Kommersant journalist Ana Vasilyeva. https:t.coE8oBw3XPz1 pic.twitter.comrxk7AmdzOp
Videos have also emerged of Moscow police stopping passers-by in random searches, and checking their phones for any incriminating messages.
"In my opinion, the Irish are kind and responsive but sometimes when they absolutely don't understand the situation, they take sides without any analysis and they act based on it.
Over 11,000 Russian civilians have been arrested for attending anti-war protests since the invasion of Ukraine since 24 February.
OVD-Info have shared resources for those that have been arrested, including a list of those that have been confirmed to have been detained.
Russian Ambassador to Ireland Yury Filatov has accused Irish people of being at the forefront of "anti-Russian events" in the EU.
Filatov made the comments during an interview with the state-owned Russia 24 television station after being asked if there was a threat to Russian citizens located in Ireland.
Filatov also claimed that Russian citizens in Ireland have been receiving threats and that there have been cases of bullying.
The numbers were collected and published by OVD-Info, an independent human rights project based in Russia.
   4359  ,    23.1636  , 1185.        ,     : https:t.cohX3yFaeKzu pic.twitter.comSgqdMmQIyE
Russia's parliament has passed a law which means that those spreading "false information" at anti-war protests could face up to 15 years in prison.
One protest in Ireland included a priest who threw red paint at the gates of the Russian Embassy in Dublin while on the phone to radio presenter Joe Duffy on Friday 4 March.
The video shows young men being stopped and asked for their phones, with police scrolling through messages.
As of the time of publishing, 4359 protesters have been arrested in 56 different cities across the country since the war first broke out.
