Zelensky says peace talks sound more realistic as negotiations continue
20220316
https://www.joe.ie/news/zelensky-peace-talks-russia-ukraine-744422
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has suggested that peace negotiations with Russian officials are progressing, noting that the latest round of talks featured "more realistic" dialogue.
We'll continue tomorrow. A very difficult and viscous negotiation process. There are fundamental contradictions. But there is certainly room for compromise. During the break, work in subgroups will be continued...
Speaking on RT's Six One News on Tuesday evening, Taoiseach Michel Martin noted that the world is "anxious not to provoke a third World War" when discussing the current crisis.
According to the United Nations, over three million people have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion commenced in February.
"However, more time is still needed for decisions to be in the interests of Ukraine."
The Taoiseach was then asked if the world was doing enough to stop what is happening in Ukraine.
"Those who oppose authoritarianism and despotic regimes are doing everything they possibly can within the limits of being very anxious not to provoke a third World War, for example.
"What we're up against here is a leader who seems to work in a 19th-century sort of context who believes he has the right to attack people, to annex a country because of some historic view he has of the world," he said.
A fresh round of explosions have been reported in the capital as of Wednesday morning.
Speaking in his latest address on Tuesday night, Zelensky said that the talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials were "pretty good" overall.
According to President Zelensky, his Russian counterparts "have already begun to understand that they will not achieve anything by war" as the conflict enters its 21st day.
Zelensky has also stated that the "door is closed" with regards to the potential of Ukraine joining Nato.
The Ukrainian capital Kyiv has enacted a 35-hour curfew as an overall assault on the city continues.
"There are real limits to the degree of intervention that the US and others can undertake here but up to those limits, everything possible has been done."
Presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak, who is part of the Ukrainian negotiation delegation, spoke of a "very difficult" process but also hinted at cause for optimism.
"The meetings continue, and, I am told the positions during the negotiations already sound more realistic," Zelensky said.
