WATCH  Ukraine accuses Russia of war crimes at International Court of Justice
20220307
https://www.timeslive.co.za/news/world/2022-03-07-watch-live-international-court-to-hear-case-brought-by-ukraine-against-russia/
The hearings start at 11am,  with Ukraine presenting its case. Russia is due to respond on Tuesday.
The Russian embassy in The Hague did not immediately respond to questions from Reuters about the case.
Ukraine's suit argues that the claim of genocide is untrue, and in any case does not provide legal justification for invasion.
There is absolutely no evidence that there is genocide going on in Ukraine, the association's president, Melanie O'Brien, told Reuters.
The case it has lodged at the World Court, officially known as the International Court of Justice ICJ, centres on the interpretation of a 1948 treaty on the prevention of genocide, signed by both countries. The treaty names the ICJ as the forum for resolving disputes between signatories.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has said Russia's special military action is needed to protect people who have been subjected to bullying and genocide  meaning those whose first or only language is Russian  in eastern Ukraine.
Ukraine will ask the UN's top court on Monday to issue an emergency ruling requiring Russia to stop its invasion, arguing that Moscow's justification for the attack is based on a faulty interpretation of genocide law.
Last week, the executive board of the International Association of Genocide Scholars issued a statement saying Putin was misappropriating and misusing the term 'genocide'.
Though the court's rulings are binding and countries generally follow them, it has no direct means of enforcing them.
The ICJ can order the fast-tracking of provisional measures in a matter of days or weeks to prevent a situation from worsening before it looks at the merits of a case, or whether it has jurisdiction. Ukraine sought provisional measures from the court in 2014 after Russia's annexation of Crimea, and the ICJ ordered both sides not to worsen the dispute.
