1st grain ship leaves Ukraine in bid to ease global food crisis after months of Russian blockade
20220801
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/1st-grain-ship-leaves-ukraine-in-bid-to-ease-global-food-crisis-after-months-of-russian-blockade/ar-AA10aXfT
The breakthrough follows a United Nations-backed deal between Kyiv and Moscow last month and while intense fighting continues in the east and the south. The departure of the first shipment will raise hopes that the impact of the war  now five months old  might be eased for millions facing hunger and poverty across the world, though doubts over Russia's commitment to any deal will continue.
The milestone departure comes as Russian forces continue to pound cities across Ukraine, threatening to upend the grain deal as they seek to press their offensive in the east and hold onto territory they've already seized in the south.
But last Wednesday, the U.N. inaugurated a joint coordination center to oversee the implementation of the deal. Hosted in Istanbul, the center will be run by representatives from Turkey, Ukraine and Russia.
But the Russian invasion blocked shipments, sending the price of food soaring and the U.N. warned that shortages could push some countries to the edge of famine. Western leaders accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of using food as a weapon.
The first ship carrying grain from Ukraine left a port in the southern city of Odesa Monday, after months of Russian blockade helped fuel a mounting global food crisis.
The center will also coordinate the inspection of the loading of grain at the three ports, as well as vessels entering the ports along the agreed shipping route.
One of the worlds biggest grain exporters, Ukraine is known as Europes bread basket and supplies an average of 45 million tons of wheat globally annually, according to the U.N.
On Monday, Secretary-GeneralAntonio Guterres praised the centers work to bring about the Razonis departure, and expressed hope that it will be the first of many more commercial ships to set sail, bringing much-needed stability and relief to global food security especially in the most fragile humanitarian contexts.
Full NSA Sullivan: Possibility of sending F-16s to Ukraine is for another phase of the war
There was no immediate reaction from Moscow, although news of the ships departure was covered by Russian state media Monday, citing Ukrainian and Turkish officials.
Boats carrying commercial food exports will be guided out of the Black Sea by Ukrainian pilot vessels to avoid sea mines, according to the U.N.
CORRECTION Aug. 1, 2022, 9:05 a.m. ET: A previous version of this article misstated the capital of Turkey. It is Ankara, not Istanbul.
In a separate video shared by Kubrakov on Twitter, the ship can be seen slowly departing the port. NBC News could not independently verify the video.
Ukraines infrastructure minister, Oleksandr Kubrakov, said in a Facebook post that the vessel would move along a safe corridor established by the U.N. and Turkey and observed by Russia's Navy.
Before heading to Tripoli the ship will reach the Turkish city of Istanbul on Tuesday, where it will be inspected, Turkey's defense ministry said. The country played a crucial role as mediator of the deal.
Zelenskyy and ambassadors from the Group of Seven nations visited a port in the Odesa region last week where they observed ships being loaded with grain.
Shipping monitor site marinetraffic.com showed the ship moving south-east of Odesa at 12:30 p.m. local time 5:30 am ET.
But less than 24 hours after the deal was signed, Russian missiles struck Odesa's port. Zelenskyy slammed the attack, saying it proved Russia couldnt be trusted to honor its international agreements.
Loaded with26,000 tons of Ukrainian corn, the Sierra Leone-flagged cargo ship Razoni began its journey early Monday through heavily mined waters beyond the Black Sea and toward the port of Tripoli in Lebanon, officials said.
Progress in getting grain to feed millions around the world, U.S. ambassador to Ukraine Bridget A. Brink said in a tweet marking the ships departure. But while its positive news, Brink said Moscow must end its assault on Ukrainians and their agricultural land.
It is important for us to remain the guarantor of global food security, he said in a post on his Telegram channel. "While someone takes the lives of other countries while blocking the Black Sea, we allow them to survive.
I am hopeful that their swift collective action will translate quickly and directly into much-needed relief for the most vulnerable food insecure people around the world, U.N. Humanitarian Affairs CoordinatorMartin Griffiths said at the centers launch.
The center will monitor the movement of commercial vessels carrying grain and related food commodities out of the Black Sea to ensure both sides comply with the agreement.
Hopes were raised last month when the two sides struck a deal in Istanbul to end the blockade and allow grain to be shipped. Brokered by the U.N. and Turkey, the deal allowed shipments of commercial food exports to resume out of three key Ukrainian ports on the Black Sea: Odesa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
Sixteen more ships that have been blocked since the beginning of the Russian invasion are also waiting to leave Odesa, Kubrakov added. He called the first ships departure a colossal success for ensuring global food security.
Ukrainian officials said a Russian strike on another major port city, Mykolaiv, killed one of the country's agricultural tycoons, Oleksiy Vadatursky, and his wife on Sunday. Vadatursky was the founder of one of the largest Ukrainian agricultural companies, Nibulon, and one of the people that have helped guarantee the worlds food security, Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy said in his address late Sunday, expressing condolences to his family.
Lebanon, where the Razoni is headed, has been plagued by years of economic and political turmoil. On Sunday, a part of its grain silos damaged in the 2020 Beirut Port explosion collapsed, just days shy of the two-year anniversary of the devastating blast.
