Aussie heads to Ukraine to help with explosives as Russian invasion continues
20220606
https://www.msn.com/en-au/news/australia/aussie-heads-to-ukraine-to-help-with-explosives-as-russian-invasion-continues/ar-AAY7MTf
'It is heartbreaking watching Nathan go off and sacrifice his own life and time away from his family and friends to help keep the people of Ukraine safe but we want to be able to support him just the same,' Mr Rompa's sister Kate wrote.
'I've got the experience in the military and the skills to do this, so I want to help.'
While they're proud of his mission, the family are heartbroken his life will be at risk once again.
'Without people like this team of engineers finding these devices, these could go off any time, even years from now  will affect families in Ukraine for years to come.'
'We are so proud that Nathan is willing and able to assist, as not only this war but every war that is going on is heartbreaking,' Ms Rompa said.
An Australian explosives expert who previously served in Afghanistan is about to put his life on the life once again to assist with the humanitarian effort in Ukraine.
He will arrive in Ukraine just three weeks after an Australian humanitarian worker was killed on the frontline.
Former ADF serviceman Nathan Rompa will head to the war-torn country next week, where he will spend at least three months volunteering for a not-for-profit group of ex-military engineers as Russia's invasion of Ukraine enters its fourth month.
Ms Rompa said the family started the GoFundMe to help Nathan be as prepared as possible.
'We want to help in any way we can so that these guys have the best equipment, safety gear etc.
'Since that happened I've wanted to help in some way but I was busy with work and becoming a pilot,' he told The Mercury.
Mr Rompa served in the defence force for four years, including a stint serving in Afghanistan, and is now a disability support worker.
The 29-year-old from Hobart will use his expertise to disarm and dispose of explosive threats and safely remove unmarked mines and booby traps.
'As more and more lives being lost everyday, we need all the support we can get to help this group to be able to stay as long as they can to remove as many dangerous explosive devices as they can, but also making sure they are safe.'
Fellow Tasmanian Michael O'Neill, 47, was working as a truck driver helping wounded and injured Ukrainians on the frontline when he was killed a fortnight ago.
'Things have slowed up through winter, so I thought it was a great time to get over there and do something.'
'To me it doesn't matter what people this is affecting, it's a crime against humanity,' he said.
Mr Rompa admitted his family were initially 'nervous and apprehensive' but they have since set up anonline fundraiser to help fund his trip and the group's efforts in Ukraine.
Mr Rompa has wanted to help long before Ukraine was first invaded by Russia in February.
