Biden announces ban on all Russian energy imports over Ukraine invasion experts expect gas price spike
20220308
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/us-to-ban-russian-oil-imports-over-ukraine-invasion/ar-AAUMI9c
"I would look at it through a different prism than past coordinated efforts," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday when asked aboutthe United Statesbanning Russian oil.
Though Biden said the move would deal a "powerful blow to Putin's war machine," he warned the decision would be felt at home, where Americans seeprices rising at the gas pump.
The White House faced mounting pressure in Congress to act on Russian energy.A bipartisan group of lawmakerssaidMonday it had reached a deal for a legislative path to ban the U.S. import of Russian energy products and suspend trade relations with Russia and Belarus.
Though Russia doesn't export much oil to the USA, Biden acknowledged the American cost. He pointed out the price of gas has gone up 75 cents since Putin began his military buildup at Ukraine's borders. Record-high inflation has also driven up gas prices.
WASHINGTON President Joe Biden announceda ban on the U.S.import of allRussian energyproducts to target "the main artery of Russia's economy" inthe latest effort toratchet up sanctions over  President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
The president noted the United States, in coordination with partners, is releasing 60 million barrels of oil from joint reservesthe U.S. commitment is about half of that emergency sale.
Its going to be headache here. Make no mistake. Maybe more of a migraine, said Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy, which monitors fuel supply and prices. Its not the end of the world for the U.S., but it would be much closer for Europe.
Its in everyones interest to reduce the impact on the global oil marketplace, she said.
Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Monday that the administrations efforts to stop Russia should not be undercut by propping up Venezuelan President Nicols Maduro.
Bern, a finance professor at the University of Notre Dames Mendoza College of Business and author of Investing in Energy," called the ban "the biggest opportunity to make a dent in" Russia's coffers.
If Russia cuts off oil supply to European allies in retaliation, that could affect U.S. consumers, Ward said.
The national average for a regular gallon of gas broke the record Tuesday. The average cost was $4.17, an increase of more than 50 cents from last week, according to AAA.
The administration has talked with large oil producers and suppliers around the world about how to mitigate the impact.
Shell reacts: Shell will stop buying Russian oil, natural gas and donate to Ukraine relief efforts
Psaki was pressed Monday about conversations administration officials had with oil-producing Venezuela, Iran and Saudi Arabia  countries accused of committing human rights abuses or other troublesome acts. She said discussions have been on a range of issues.
A Quinnipiac poll released Monday found that 7 in 10 Americans supporta ban on Russian oil, even if it means higher gas prices.
Even before Bidens announcement, the stock market fell and energy prices jumped Monday as lawmakers and administration officials discussed imposing more sanctions.
The American Petroleum Institute  which said it has started to unwind its relationship with Russia  backed the ban, as did the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Both said the United Statesshould produce more oil and gas to lessen dependence on foreign energy sources.
"With this action, it is going to go up further. I'm going to do everything I can to minimize Putin's price hike at home," he said.
The official said the ban takes effect immediately but will allow a 45-day period to wind down purchases under contract.
How to know if your info has been involved in a data breach and what to do about it
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip phone is coming may be the next fad of future phenomena
Though the United Stateshas closely coordinated with allies in imposing sanctions, it would be moredifficult forEuropean countries to ban imports because of their greater dependence on Russian oil and gas.
Bern said the United States could fill the gap by increasing imports from Canada and Mexico.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Biden announces ban on all Russian energy imports over Ukraine invasion experts expect gas price spike
The democratic aspirations of the Venezuelan people, much like the resolve and courage of the people of Ukraine, are worth much more than a few thousand barrels of oil, he said in a statement.
Video: As Gas Prices Continue to Rise, U.S. Bans All Russian Oil Imports Cover Video
The president said he made the decision in consultation with European allies but they maynot be in a position to join the ban. He said the United Statesis working closely with themto develop a"long-term strategy" to reduce their dependence on Russian energy.
"Russian oil will no longer be accepted at U.S. ports," the president said Tuesday at the White House. "We will not be part of subsidizing Putin's war."
Energy companies, including ExxonMobil and BP, have moved to severties with Russia, despite Western reluctance to cut off energy imports.Shell, which apologized for purchasing a cargo of Russia crude oil after the invasion, said it would shut down its operations in the country and no long purchase Russian oil.
Higher prices could remain for months, rather than days or weeks, he warned, affecting all types of fuel, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.
RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement that Bidens agenda is to blame for the pain at the pump.
After the president's announcement, the head of the Republican National Committee attacked Biden over high gas prices without saying whether the GOP supports the import ban.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
"In the short term, you're going to see prices definitely go up,"energy expert Gianna Bern said. "How much, it remains to be seen, and where and how the void gets filled."
Graeme Souness calls for football fans to learn CPR as its revealed that more than half of Brits dont know how
Theban is expected to devastate the Russian economy, which relies on oil and gas production for more than 40 of the country's revenue.
Shortly after Bidens announcement, Britain announced it will phase out Russian oil imports by the end of the year. That will allow enough time for companies to adjust and consumers to be protected as alternative supplies are found, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a statement.
How high will gas prices go?Why are gas prices rising so quickly? How high are they expected to get?
She said pump prices might not fall until the price of crude oil rises so much that the transportation sector and everyday drivers reduce their use in response, decreasing demand.
Travel to Europe could become drastically more expensive, and COVID-19-related supply chain problems could be exacerbated as shipping costs rise.
The ban extends to purchases of Russian crude oil, certain petroleum products, liquefied natural gas and coal, a senior administration official said on condition of anonymity todiscuss details of the action.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Monday that Europe cannot secure its energy supplies without imports from Russia.Finance Minister Mihaly Varga said Hungary would not support sanctions on Russian energy.
"The oil and gas imports that have been coming into the United States needed to be addressed," she said.
In 2021, the United Statesimported about 700,000 barrels per day of crude oil and petroleum from Russia, according to the White House. The Europeans imported about 4.5 million barrels per day of oil.
Live updates on Ukraine: Civilian evacuation begins in Sumy as Ukraine warns refugees could be forced to Russia: Live updates
Russia, the world's third-largest producer of oil and second-largest producer of gas, supplies about 30 of Europe's oil and 40 of its natural gas.
Biden pushed back on the argument that the administration holds back domestic energy production. Biden said oil and gas production approach record levels.
Lawrence Ward, an expert on national security law and trade at the international law firm Dorsey  Whitney, said Bidens move is quite possibly the last step that America can take to inflict harm on Russia without putting boots on the ground in Ukraine. U.S. and European allies had insulated Russian oil from the sweeping economic sanctions placed on Moscow, citing its effect on the global energy markets.
Its difficult to parse out, but I think were headed to $4.50 per gallon, De Haan said. By the summer driving season, by the Memorial Day weekend, its really going to pinch Americans who are living check to check.
