Biden commits additional aid to Ukraine as Russia declares success in Mariupol
20220421
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/biden-commits-additional-aid-to-ukraine-as-russia-declares-success-in-mariupol/ar-AAWrFsM
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy tweeted following the announcement that he was grateful" to Biden and the American people for the additional support.
With the additional aid announced Thursday, the U.S. has given $3.4 billion in military support to Ukraine since the start of the war, and $4 billion since Biden entered office. But Biden said he has nearly exhausted his drawdown authority given to him by Congress in last month's spending bill. Next week he said he will make an additional request to Congress to "keep weapons and ammunition flowing without interruption."
Were in a critical window now of time where theyre going to set the stage for the next phase of this war, Biden said.
Biden said the latest aid would include $800 million in heavy artillery weapons, including 72 howitzers and 144,000 rounds of ammunition, along with 121 tactical "ghost" drones. The U.S. also plans to provide another $500 million in humanitarian and economic assistance.
The administration also announced new sanctions Wednesday against Russians and Belarusians who have committed human rights abuses and companies and individuals who have sought to evade sanctions.
Ukrainian civilians have been facing attacks by Russias military as itopens a long-anticipated offensivein the countrys eastern region with Russia claiming success Thursday in the besieged city of Mariupol. Biden said there is no evidence yet that Mariupol has "completely fallen."
WASHINGTON  President Joe Biden said Thursday that the U.S. would give another $1.3 billion in military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine but that additional funding will soon be needed from Congress to maintain the flow of weapons.
Biden said the U.S. would ban Russian affiliated ships from U.S. ports and is beginning a program to help Ukrainian refugees enter the United States.
The latest actions come as Russia has launched a new assault in Ukraines east, in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. It also test-fired an intercontinental ballistic missile this week, although Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Russia had notified the U.S. in advance in accordance with treaty obligations, adding that the test was routine and not deemed a threat to the U.S. or its allies.
Earlier this week, Biden told reporters he didnt know if he would visit Ukraines capital, Kyiv, though White House press secretary Jen Psaki has said he won't be going to the country.
"We dont know how long this war will last, but as we approach the two-month mark, heres what we do know, Putin has failed to achieve his grand ambitions on the battlefield," Biden said during remarks from the White House before heading to Portland, Oregon, and Seattle to promote the administrations infrastructure plans and attend fundraisers for the Democratic Party.
The United States also continues to work with its Allies and partners to identify and provide Ukraine with additional capabilities.
"We will not lessen our resolve. Were going to continue to stand with the brave and proud people of Ukraine. We will never fail in our determination to defend freedom and oppose tyranny. Its as simple as that," Biden said.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
Biden said the Defense Department is still determining how much additional funding he will request from Congress.
We wont always be able to advertise everything we, that our partners are doing to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom, Biden said. But to modernize Teddy Roosevelts famous advice, sometimes he will speak softly and carry a large Javelin because were sending a lot of those as well.
The administration announced last week that it was sending an $800 million package to Ukraine that included 40,000 artillery rounds and 18 155 mm howitzers, but a U.S. official said those artillery rounds would last only a little over a week.
Russian President Vladimir Putin declared success in Mariupol on Thursday and ordered his forces not to storm the Azovstal steel plant where the last pocket of Ukrainian resistance in the city is holding out.
"This help is needed today more than ever! It saves the lives of our defenders of democracy and freedom and brings us closer to restoring peace in" Ukraine, Zelenskyy said.
