Biden passes the hat for Ukraine on his visit to South Korea and Japan
20220515
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/biden-passes-the-hat-for-ukraine-on-his-visit-to-south-korea-and-japan/ar-AAXzRIV
'I think you could expect that at each stop, the President is going to focus on his concerns about Ukraine and the importance he places in providing assistance to Ukraine,' a senior administration official told DailyMail.com on a press call with reporters on Biden's trip.
Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida announced last week that his country would provide an additional $300 million in economic aid to Ukraine, doubling its total to $600 million since Russia's invasion.
Populations and leaders in both countries have rallies around the Ukrainian cause, but Biden is using his trip to try to organize further contributions.
Video: Biden lands in South Korea, advocates for international cooperation amid Ukraine invasion USA TODAY
President Joe Biden is pitching for allies Japan and South Korea to do more to assist Ukraine as he meets with leaders of both countries on his trip to Asia  pushing for further support as Ukraine suffers defeat in Mariupol following a long Russian siege.
'So for I think the President, there's the idea that these are two different theaters, I think doesn't make sense anymore. These are there's very strong linkages between both,' the official added.
He announced the funds, to be distributed through the World Bank, in advance of Biden's trip.
As it turns out, a delay in the Senate allowed Biden to showcase U.S. support for Ukraine during his trip, which has otherwise been low on headline-grabbing 'deliverables' that administrations usually like to tout during summit meetings.
Biden signed a $40 billion U.S. aid package for Ukraine Friday in Seoul after an aid flew it here following Senate passage Thursday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky last month publicly asked South Korea to provide arms, as he seeks to rally allies for enough support to force Russia to relinquish territorial gains.
The official said Biden has 'made very clear how impressed he is by what the ROK has done. And the fact that the ROKs actions, I think, further reinforced to the degree to which key allies in Asia are supporting our efforts and the efforts of the international community in Europe, in the same way that in recent years, European countries have paid much more attention shown much more interest in ensuring peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific,' the official said.
'You have something that can be indispensable for us ... armored vehicles, anti-aircraft, anti-tank, anti-ship weapons,' Zelensky said.
South Korea has emphasized its own security situation in turning down Ukraine's initial request for arms. That posture was underscored this week, as U.S. officials warned North Korea might stage another nuclear or ballistic missile test during or around Biden's trip.
Both countries have also joined in backing economic sanctions on Russia following the February invasion. Japan did so as a member of the G7 group of industrialized nations.
It's stand for territorial integrity also has implications in its own neighborhood, where Japan has territorial disputes with China over the Senkaku islands.
South Korea joined international sanctions on Russia, and banned the export of strategic items like chips to Russia.
South Korea is one of the world's top arms exporters, and Japan is the world's third largest economy.
