Boris Johnson faces fury after comparing Ukraine war to Brexit vote
20220320
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/boris-johnson-faces-fury-after-comparing-ukraine-war-to-brexit-vote/ar-AAVh9uK
Former European Council president Donald Tusk, who fought Russian backed-Communism in Cold War Poland, said the Prime Minister's words 'offend Ukrainians, the British and common sense'.
In his speech, Mr Johnson said: 'I know that it's the instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom, every time.
Asked if he thought the comments were 'an insult to every Ukrainian', he said: 'Absolutely not. No, I think the Ukrainians will be looking at what has been done in practice - 200 million of aid, as I've said, providing them with military support.'
Chancellor Rishi Sunak offered on a tepid defence of the PM today, telling Sky News: 'Clearly they are not directly analogous and I don't think the Prime Minister was saying that they were directly analogous either.'
Addressing the event yesterday the Prime Minister said it is the 'instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom', with the Brexit vote a 'famous recent example'.
'When the British people voted for Brexit in such large, large numbers, I don't believe it was because they were remotely hostile to foreigners. It's because they wanted to be free to do things differently and for this country to be able to run itself.'
In a Twitter comment - which was retweeted by France's ambassador to the UK Catherine Colonna - Mr Ellwood said: 'If we are to ultimately defeat Putin we require international leadership and unity.'
Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Ed Davey, said the Prime Minister 'is a national embarrassment', adding: 'To compare a referendum to women and children fleeing Putin's bombs is an insult to every Ukrainian.
'I can still remember the enthusiasm of Putin and Trump after the referendum. Boris, your words offend Ukrainians, the British and common sense.'
Boris Johnson is facing a mounting international and domestic backlash today after comparing Ukrainian resistance to the Russian invasion to the UK's Brexit vote.
Senior Tories and EU officials were among those who criticised the remarks made in a speech to the part faithful at the Conservative Spring Conference in Blackpool.
And senior backbench Tory Tobias Ellwood, the chairman of the Defence Committee, said the comparison 'damages the standard of statecraft' being exhibited in the response to the invasion.
SNP Westminster leader, Ian Blackford, said: 'Boris Johnson's comments comparing Ukraine's life-threatening situation with Brexit was crass and distasteful, and shows just how dangerously obsessed the Tories are with Brexit.'
Mr Sunak added: 'People will draw their own conclusions. People can make up their own minds.'
Former Belgian prime minister, Guy Verhofstadt, another leading critic of Brexit in Brussels, said the comparison was 'insane'.
More than 13,000 people, soldiers and civilians, are believed by the UN to have been killed since Putin's war of aggression began last month.
The comparison was criticised by Tory peer Lord Barwell, who pointed out Ukraine is seeking to join the European Union.
In his speech to the Tory spring conference in Blackpool, Mr Johnson said it is the 'instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom', with the Brexit vote a 'famous recent example'.
But fellow ToryMP Robert Halfontold BBC Breakfast: 'I don't think it is as big a deal as some people are making out.
The other example given by the Prime Minister was the British people's willingness to voluntarily get vaccinated against Covid-19 because they 'wanted to get on with their lives' and 'were fed up with being told what to do by people like me'.
Mr Tusk, a former Polish prime minister who was leader of the European Council during the bitter process of the UK's exit, said: 'Boris Johnson likens Ukrainians' fight to British people voting for Brexit.
Lord Barwell, who served as Theresa May's chief of staff in Number 10, said voting in the 2016 referendum 'isn't in any way comparable with risking your life' in a war with Vladimir Putin's forces.
'The way I see it is the Prime Minister was saying we're a vibrant democracy. We're such a vibrant democracy, we've had a referendum. Ukraine wants to be a vibrant democracy and the Russians are trying to stop that.'
Philippe Errera, the political director at the French foreign ministry, said: 'If I were Ukrainian, I would feel insulted. If I were British, I would feel ashamed. As a French diplomat,I will not comment on twitter...'
There was also a rebuke from senior French diplomats, including the country's ambassador in the UK.
Writing on Twitter, he said: 'Apart from the bit where voting in a free and fair referendum isn't in any way comparable with risking your life to defend your country against invasion  the awkward fact the Ukrainians are fighting for the freedom to join the EU, this comparison is bang on.'
