Catholics Gather Worldwide to Pray For Peace In Ukraine
20220326
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/catholics-gather-worldwide-to-pray-for-peace-in-ukraine/ar-AAVvnLN
Our faith in humanity is certainly put to the test but our trust in God has to remain firm, the Archbishop said.
We think that Ukraine deserve to be independent state and to have freedom and we wish the same for Russia, said Damian Priestman, who emigrated to Florida from Moscow seven years ago with his wife, Olga Priestman.
The couple left Russia seeing political asylum in this country. Olga's mother is Russian, her father is Ukrainian, and she says this war has divided her relatives because the Russian side gets only propaganda.
The purpose of prayer is to change our hearts so we hope that the effect of this prayer will be a change of heart in those that are pursuing war, said the Archbishop of Miami, Rev. Thomas Wenski.
The chapel was adorned with sunflowers and Ukrainian flags, the symbols of a country adopted by the faithful.
So my Russian relative now against my Ukrainian relative and its, I cant explain the pain which I feel because of this situation, its terrible, Olga Priestman said just before she, her husband, and their four children entered the church.
The church in Miami was packed with people who have been watching the news, who have seen the horrors of the Russian assault on Ukrainian cities.
Absolutely, they are encouraging us, its admirable the way they are fighting for their country as we have been fighting for Nicaragua, we fight for Cuba as well and Venezuela, we are one and the same cause, the same fight, we have to stand together, Fuentes said.
Its called a consecration, and it took place at the National Shrine of Our Lady of Charity in Miami and at Catholic Churches all over the world simultaneously, including St. Peters Basilica in the Vatican.
We are all Ukraine right now, said Muneca Fuentes, who was carrying a Ukrainian flag.
We are deeply sorry about whats happening, Damian Priestman said. Our hearts grieving because of this cruel invasion in Ukraine and so we came to show our support to Ukrainian people and also to pray.
Fuentes is from Nicaragua, so she knows the dangers of authoritarian regimes and says she admires how the Ukrainians are fighting for freedom.
