Chuck Todd Wonders How Long NATO Can Stand By and Watch Russia Attack Ukraine
20220320
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/chuck-todd-wonders-how-long-nato-can-stand-by-and-watch-russia-attack-ukraine/ar-AAVi60F
Our core responsibility is to protect 1 billion people living in 30 different NATO-allied countries. And we are doing that by increasing the presence in the Eastern part of the alliance, Stoltenberg answered. I also believe that, regardless of how this conflict now ends, we are faced with a new reality, a new security reality, where Russia more openly contests core values for our security and are willing to use military force to achieve its objectives. And therefore, we need to reset our deterrence and defense.
Ferguson: The Fed's focus should be on the labor market, that's where the risk is
A hard landing will change public policy and turn stock outlooks, says economist Hugh Johnson
He added: And let me also remind you of the fact that NATO allies have actually trained and supported Ukrainian armed forces for years, trained tens of thousands of Ukrainian forces, Special Operation Force, Command and Control, Logistics. And all of this proves extremely important now. These troops are on the frontline fighting against the invading Russian troops. So the support allies have provided over many years proves now to have been extremely important.
A ban on TikTok is more likely as bipartisan support grows, says Platformer's Casey Newton
NATO allies are stepping up their support to Ukraine, partly by delivering military support, humanitarian support, and billions of financial support to Ukraine, Stoltenberg responded. And then, of course, we imposed unprecedented sanctions on Russia to ensure that President Putin is paying a high price for this totally unjustified, senseless war against an independent sovereign nation, Ukraine.
Elsewhere on Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky stated that while he is "ready for negotiations" with Putin, he warned it would mean that this is a third World War if the peace talks failed. Additionally, Zelensky said Ukraine's sovereignty cant be on the table and that if Ukraine were a NATO member, a war wouldn't have started. Zelensky, however, has hinted as recently as last week that he would drop Ukraines ambitions to join NATO anytime soon.
Back on Meet the Press, Todd pressed Stoltenberg on whether he would offer more assistance to Ukraine as Russia ramps up its attacks against the countrys population.
Weve seen an increased targeting of civilians, Mr. Secretary General, in Ukraine, the moderator said. How long can NATO stand by and watch Russia target civilians without finding a way to help more when it comes to the Ukrainian resistance?
With Turkey now trying to mediate peace negotiations between Kyiv and Moscow as the war enters its fourth week, Stoltenberg didnt express much optimism that a diplomatic resolution was close to being struck.
So this is something we take extremely serious, he continued. But at the same time, again, we are not, we are very much aware that we need to act in a way that prevents this conflict from goingfrom being a very bloody, ugly, horrific conflict in Ukraine to something that turns out to be a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia in Europe and potentially involving, of course, the United States directly.
China's new foreign minister says relations with U.S. have 'entirely deviated' from a rational path
Some buildings post-pandemic are 'not going to be competitive as office buildings anymore' says RXR's Rechler
Russias use of chemical weapons, would that be considered, though, an escalation on his part that would make NATO rethink? Todd wondered.
While confronting NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg on Sunday over the military alliances response to Russias deadly and unprovoked war on Ukraine, NBC News anchor Chuck Todd asked the NATO chief how long they will stand by and watch amid Russian attacks on civilians.
So first of all, we have to remember that this is President Putin's war, and he can end it now. And that's what all NATO allies call on Russia to do. Then, of course, we welcome all efforts to find a negotiated, peaceful solution, he told NBCs Meet the Press. I visited Turkey a few days ago, met with President Erdoan, and Turkey is doing some real efforts to try to facilitate support, talks between Russia and Ukraine. But it's far too early to say whether these or the talks can lead to any concrete outcome.
French pension reform bill won't face backlash in parliament, but will among the population, professor says
President Joe Biden is scheduled to travel to Europe this week to take part in a series of emergency summits over the month-long war in Ukraine, which could include world leaders unveiling a new series of punitive measures against Russia. At the same time, while Russia increasingly targets Ukrainian civilians, NATO has pulled some items that Ukraine wantsspecifically a no-fly zoneoff the table for now as it looks to avoid direct confrontation with Russia.
Later in the interview, Todd again pushed the NATO leader on whether additional Russian aggression in Ukraine would escalate the alliances military involvement.
The Meet the Press host later added that it sounded like the NATO chief doesnt have an answer yet on whether chemical weapons would represent a red line for the organization, prompting Stoltenberg to note it would be a blatant and brutal violation of international law for Russia to unleash a chemical attack.
Todds pointed grilling of Stoltenberg on the potential of NATO escalating its military involvement in the Ukraine-Russia war comes as Beltway reporters have come under criticism for seemingly urging the White House to provide Ukraine with more overt military support, which would ostensibly draw the U.S. into a direct armed conflict with Russia.
