Coup to oust Putin is already under way
20220514
https://www.msn.com/en-au/news/australia/coup-to-oust-putin-is-already-under-way/ar-AAXfP9n
General Budanov also claimed Putin, 69, is in a very bad psychological and physical condition, saying that he is suffering from cancer and other illnesses.
Major General Kyrylo Budanov, 36, said he believed a turning point in the conflict will come later this summer and will eventually see Putin ousted from office.
The magazine said it was able to authenticate the oligarchs identity and voice, but would not reveal their name because of repercussions he could face for criticising Putin.
His health has been the subject of speculation this year, with his face becoming visibly puffy from what has been described as steroid use to treat one of his conditions.
In it the oligarch reportedly made a number of claims concerning Putins health, highlighting him suffering from lower back problems as evidence of his condition. Putin underwent surgery on his back in October 2021.
General Budanovs comments are the most upbeat assessment given by any Ukrainian official since the war began.
The speculation comes as an audio recording of an oligarch  named only as Yuri  was said to have been obtained by a Western venture capitalist and shared with New Lines magazine.
The breaking point will be in the second part of August, General Budanov told Sky News.
However, in a rebuke to Russias claims of military prowess, he branded Moscows army a horde of people with weapons, adding that this highly publicised Russian power is a myth.
Ukraines spy chief last night claimed that a coup to remove Vladimir Putin is already under way and that Russia would lose the war by the end of this year.
But the Ukrainian head of military intelligence was one of the few top officials to correctly predict Russian troops and tanks would pour over Ukraines borders to try to seize its territory.
It was also claimed yesterday by an unnamed Russian oligarch that Putin is very ill with blood cancer.
