DartmouthHitchcock prepares first aid kits for Ukrainian soldiers
20220407
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/dartmouth-hitchcock-prepares-first-aid-kits-for-ukrainian-soldiers/ar-AAVYc61
"It's a very meaningful thing, personally," Sobko said of the opportunity to help pack first aid kits for people defending Ukrainian cities against Russia's onslaught. "I sing to myself Ukrainian patriotic songs while I'm packing  hoping that it instills a little bit of that as I'm packing  that it's sending that over to Ukraine."
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon turned into a production line Wednesday, with hospital staffers volunteering to pack roughly 1,000 individual first aid kits. They are bound for Ukrainian fighting forces defending their country from Russia's violent invasion.
Drawings and messages from local children will be tucked in with the first aid kits, organizers added.
"Any person who has zero training could still use it," Fifield said of the contents of the kits.
Several people with close connections to Ukraine turned out Wednesday to support the effort to pack first aid kits.
Kalaida now works for DHMC in data analytics. She said she and her husband were both eager to lend a hand to pack kits.
The first aid kits and an additional 500,000 pairs of medical gloves for Ukraine were a $180,000 donation from the hospital. That figure represents both materials and shipping costs, Fifield noted.
"Our cities are being completely destroyed," said Irina Kalaida, who was born and raised in Ukraine.
CHECK OUT WPTZ:Get the latest Plattsburgh and Burlington news of the day. See the stories making headlines, and get the latest weather report online, anytime.
"The ultimate goal is to get the people what they need in a timely manner," said Hunter Fifield, DHMC's site director of supply chain operations.
As Russia's war on Ukraine drags on, new medical aid from a hospital in New Hampshire is on its way to the front lines of fighting.
"Ukrainian people are so grateful," Kalaida told NECN and NBC10 Boston. "I actually informed all my fiends in Ukraine that our hospital donated this money and organized this effort, to which my college friend replied, 'Please make sure it includes tourniquets for stopping blood, because it's what's most needed.'"
The kits are full of potentially life-saving gear, including emergency shears to cut through clothing, pads that could help plug wounds, tourniquets and more.
