Daywatch An undertheradar twist in the Michael Madigan indictment  Chicago Public Schools to drop mask mandate  How hospitals are supporting exhausted workers
20220308
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/daywatch-an-under-the-radar-twist-in-the-michael-madigan-indictment-chicago-public-schools-to-drop-mask-mandate-how-hospitals-are-supporting-exhausted-workers/ar-AAUMA8f
As workers drop out of the industry and variants continue to emerge, many are rethinking whether people need support one time  a difficult case and a patient dies  or ongoing support  constantly seeing patients upset about long wait times at an emergency room that they cant control.
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle has announced a $42 million guaranteed income pilot for suburban county residents, which she said will be one plank of an ambitious multiyear plan to tackle racial and economic inequities using federal COVID-19 stimulus funds.
The 14,260-square-foot full-floor penthouse on the 89th floor of Chicagos Trump International Hotel  Tower sold for $20 million  $10 million less than seller Sanjay Shahs asking price but $3 million more than Shah had paid for the unit in 2014.
Chicago Public Schools announced masks will be optional for staff and students at schools and on school buses beginning March 14, setting up another showdown with the Chicago Teachers Union over COVID-19 safety protocols.
The union filed an unfair labor practice charge with the state labor board Monday, asking for the CPS mask mandate to continue until CTUs complaint is resolved. Universal masking is one of the tenets of the COVID-19 safety agreement the teachers union forged with CPS in January after an acrimonious battle led to five days of canceled classes during the omicron surge. In a letter Friday to Mayor Lori Lightfoot, CTU President Jesse Sharkey warned that moving to a mask-optional policy would be a clear violation of the agreement.
Preckwinkle has offered few details about the cash assistance program, but its total would surpass a similar $31.5 million pilot in Chicago as well as most guaranteed income experiments across the U.S. Preckwinkle has said selected residents will get monthly payments for at least a year with no strings attached.
And in the latest updates from Ukraine, evacuations of people fleeing embattled cities along safe corridors began Tuesday, while U.N. officials said the exodus of refugees from Russias invasion reached 2 million. Ukraine on Monday accused Russia of medieval tactics as the countrys humanitarian crisis deepens.
The first forfeiture seeks funds that include but are not limited to approximately $2,850,337. The second forfeiture is slightly lower, pegged at $2,827,837. The difference between the numbers, $22,500, may seem insignificant, but the Tribunes Jason Meisner and Ray Long explain its connection to ATT.
The niece of a high-ranking Chicago police official tells officers that her aunt is probably their boss and not to worry as an officer drives away with a Lexus registered to the womans aunt during a drug arrest last month, as seen in body-camera footage recently released by the Chicago Police Department.
Shah never moved into the 12-room penthouse, which has five bedrooms, 7-12 bathrooms, floor-to-ceiling windows, a 19-foot ceiling in the living area, 18-foot glass insulated windows and a private access elevator.
On Feb. 1, a drug arrest was made involving the niece and a Lexus that belonged to internal affairs Chief Yolanda Talley. The incident wasnt immediately publicly disclosed by the department, which also has not detailed what role Talley played in making any report.
For nearly two years, Chicago hospitals have implemented many things to retain and support workers, from pizza to applauding them to carts with coffee that go around and subtly assess workers for signs of distress.
The bombshell racketeering charges filed against former Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan last week contained an under-the-radar twist that could have big implications for telecommunications giant ATT. The indictment ends with two forfeiture allegations, representing money prosecutors will seek to collect as ill-gotten gains from Madigan and his co-defendant, Michael McClain, in the event of a conviction.
The thing weve been hearing is folks just feel pretty done, said Eve Poczatek, who leads the Center for Clinical Wellness at Rush University Medical Center. This persistent burnout, its really real.
COVID-19 tracker  More newsletters  Puzzles  Games  Daily horoscope  Ask Amy  Todays eNewspaper edition
