Defense  National Security  Pentagon denies giving Ukrainians specific intelligence
20220506
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/defense-national-security-pentagon-denies-giving-ukrainians-specific-intelligence/ar-AAX0qFZ
We had no prior knowledge of Ukraines intent to target the ship. The Ukrainians have their own intelligence capabilities to track and target Russian naval vessels, as they did in this case.
Who else will participate?: The G-7 includes Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The fundscome from the $13.6 billion supplemental funding granted by Congress in March forUkraine-related assistance $3.5 billion of which is meant to replenish U.S. weapons stocks.
Following the required 30-day notification to Congress, the first tranche of funds, roughly $1.45 billion, was transferred to the Army and Marines earlier this week to procure replenishment stocks of Stingers, Javelins and other key components,William LaPlante, the undersecretary of Defense for acquisition and sustainment,told reporters.
In addition, the Pentagon will award a $17.8 million contract for industry to produce and ship Switchblade unmanned aerial systems to Ukraine.
Waiting, watching: The international community is closely watching Russias actions on Victory Day, the May 9 holiday marking the countrys victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. Some have speculated thatRussian PresidentVladimir Putin could use the day to formally declare war on Ukraine Putin has previously referred to the war only as a special military operation.
Biden filmed a virtual story-time at the base as part of her Joining Forces initiative to support military families in partnership withUnited Through Reading, an organization that connects military families with deployed service members through video recordings and virtual book readings.
Ukraine combines information that we and other partners provide with the intelligence that they themselves are gathering on the battlefield, and then they make their own decisions and they take their own actions, he said.
Kirbyfirst denied late Thursdaythat the U.S. gave the Ukrainian military specific targeting information that allowed them to sink the Moskva.
The virtual meeting will take place one day before Russias Victory Day, timing that Psaki emphasized on Friday when disclosing plans for the engagement in a gaggle with reporters on Air Force One.
Upcoming contracts: LaPlante noted that the Army is actively negotiating with industry for Stingers and related components, with an award expected at the end of May.
PresidentBidenwill participate in a virtual meeting with Group of Seven G-7 leaders on Sunday morning that will also include Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelensky, White House press secretaryJen Psakisaid.
Issues: But with the U.S. having provided a third of its stockpile of Javelins and a quarter of its Stingers in just under three months of war, the Biden administration is scrambling to refill those depleted supplies.
Biden administration officials have warned that Russia could try to annex more Ukrainian territory on May 9, which is Monday.
First ladyJill Bidenarrived in Romania on Friday to start her four-day trip across Eastern Europe, which will include a visit with Ukrainian refugees amid Russias war in Ukraine.
An earlier report: The comment from Kirby came after officialstold NBC News and The New York Timesthat intelligence given from the U.S. to Ukraine helped sink the ship.
On Monday, she is slated to meet with President of Slovakia Zuzana Caputova at the Presidential Palace in Bratislava before returning to the U.S.
The outlets reported, however, the officials said the U.S. was not aware Ukraines military would attack the Moskva and was not consulted before the decision occurred.
This is Defense  National Security, your nightly guide to the latest developments at the Pentagon, on Capitol Hill and beyond. For The Hill, Im Ellen Mitchell. A friend forward this newsletter to you? Subscribe here.
We did not provide Ukraine with specific targeting information for the Moskva. We were not involved in the Ukrainians decision to strike the ship or in the operation they carried out, Kirby said in a statement.
Thats an award thats going to be seen later today, later this afternoon, LaPlante said.
Travel plans: Biden next plans to travel to Bucharest and on Saturday will meet with members of the government of Romania, U.S. Embassy staff, humanitarian aid workers and educators who are helping teach displaced Ukrainian children.
The leaders are expected to discuss the response to Russias war in Ukraine and potential additional sanctions on Moscow in response to the invasion.
We do not provide intelligence on the location of senior military leaders on the battlefield or participate in the targeting decisions of the Ukrainian military. The Ukrainians have, quite frankly, a lot more information than we do. This is their country, their territory, and they have capable intelligence collection abilities of their own.
Pentagon press secretaryJohn Kirbyon Friday again denied that the U.S. gave the Ukrainian military specific information to allow them to sink the flagship of Russias Black Sea Fleet, the Moskva, in April.
Well break detail the Pentagons response, plus a recent shift of funds to replenish U.S. missiles sent to Ukraine, an upcoming meeting including top Western leaders and Jill Bidens trip to Europe.
The Pentagon has shifted $1.45 billion to the Army and Marine Corps to restock Javelin anti-tank and Stinger anti-aircraft missiles the United States has sent to Ukraine, the Defense Departments top weapons buyer said Friday.
Work with military families: The first lady also discussed with troops the hardship that deployments have on families, referencing her own experience during her late son Beau Bidens deployment. Since Russias invasion into Ukraine, the total number of personnel at the base has roughly tripled in size to about 2,700, military leadership on site told reporters.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
To that end, the administration has requested a second supplemental from Congress, another $33 billionto support the Ukrainian military and economy and address the humanitarian crisis prompted by the war. About$5.4 billion of that would go toward additional weapons replenishment.
Thats it for today. Check out The Hills Defense and National Security pagesfor the latest coverage. See you next week!
Compounding the issue, however, is Raytheon Technologies, the maker of Stinger missiles. Last week it revealed it will not be able to quickly producemore of the weapons due to lack of parts and materials.
The first ladys plane touched down at Mihail Kogalniceanu International Airport in southeastern Romania around 5:02 p.m. local time. She was greeted by military officials before going toMihail Kogalniceanu Air Base, where sheserved foodto U.S. troops, according to reporters traveling with the first lady.
The U.S. has given Ukraine more than 1,400 Stinger systems and 5,500 Javelins along with billions of dollars worth of other weapons since Russia began its attack on Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Meeting goals: Psaki wouldnt preview any actions on Friday, but said the administration was considering sanctions on additional individuals and companies as well as steps to prevent sanctions evasion.
She will thenvisit Slovakias border with Ukraineon Sundayto mark Mothers Day, visiting a city-run refugee center and a school, where she will tour and learn about services for Ukrainian refugees and hear from those refugees. Biden will also visit a public school in Kosice that is hosting Ukrainian refugee students.
She said the leaders during the virtual meeting would demonstrate the unity of Western countries against the Russian invasion.
Numbers breakdown: Inside Defense first reportedon the transfer, which includes about $1.1 billion for the Army  split between $809 million for Javelin missiles and $303 million for Stingers  with the Marine Corps getting $370 million for Stingers, according to a document the outlet obtained from the Pentagon comptroller.
The Pentagons response: In a press briefing Thursday, Kirby said Ukraine uses a range of intelligence to make decisions on the battlefield.
The missiles, which can be man-carried and launched, have been used to great effect against Kremlin forces.
