Dont normalise violence Ukrainians in NZ urge people not to forget their countrys plight
20220605
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/europe/top-stories/dont-normalise-violence-ukrainians-in-nz-urge-people-not-to-forget-their-countrys-plight/ar-AAY60Hy
"People are dying. Innocent people are dying because of a dictator who's delusional. And he's made a big mistake and it's costing an awful lot of people's lives," said Ukrainian Communities spokesperson Craig Kirkwood.
The rain in Auckland on Sunday will have put some people off joining the march, but there were still 500 enthusiastic supporters.
The marchers said New Zealand needs to be more vocal in its condemnation of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
They marched through Auckland on Sunday as the French President Emmanuel Macron was criticised for telling the world not to humiliate Russia.
But French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday local time told reporters: "We must not humiliate Russia so that the day when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means."
Ukrainians in New Zealand are urging the public not to forget about their country's plight, as Russia's invasion surpasses 101 days.
While the war may have faded from the headlines, Ukrainians and their supporters in Auckland say the message to Russia should be writ large.
"I just would like to ask everyone, please don't normalise violence and please don't negotiate with abuser Putin," added protester Sana Budailo.
In response, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted: "Calls to avoid humiliation of Russia can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it. Because it is Russia that humiliates itself."
Irena is grateful for her visa, but Ukraine's need is still great, as is its spirit.
"She can see how many people, not only New Zealand but the whole world, support Ukraine, so we are just waiting for the victory," Konoplenko said.
The big fear there though was that after 101 days of the war, fatigue in Auckland is kicking in.
Meanwhile, there are claims and counterclaims about the fate of the fiercest battleground Severodonetsk, with Ukraine claiming to have recaptured 20 percent of the industrial city.
