Drone cameras Canada to send to Ukraine banned earlier for export to Turkey because of use in combat
20220309
https://www.msn.com/en-ca/news/canada/drone-cameras-canada-to-send-to-ukraine-banned-earlier-for-export-to-turkey-because-of-use-in-combat/ar-AAUQiEY
Global Affairs Canada has declined to answer questions on that donation, but some industry officials say there are already problems buying the needed gear.
Ukraine is believed to have around 50 of the Bayraktar TB2 drones, which it first bought in 2019.
This use was not consistent with Canadian foreignpolicy, nor end-use assurances given by Turkey, Garneau stated.
In addition, Liberal cabinet ministers also announced Canada would provide $25 million in non-lethal aid. But that gear, including helmets, gas masks and night vision goggles, wont come from Canadian Forces equipment inventory. Instead, the Canadian governments procurement system will buy the equipment from various companies and suppliers.
Canada has said it is shipping a variety of lethal and non-lethal equipment to Ukraine.
Sources tell this newspaper the money will be used to buy between 30 and 40 of the cameras from L3Harris Wescam in Hamilton, Ont. It is not known how quickly the surveillance cameras can be made available to Ukraine and the Canadian government has not provided any details.
The Canadian military is to send 100 anti-tank weapons and 2,000 rounds of ammunition to Ukraine as well as more protective vests for troops. No details on when the equipment will reach Ukraine were released for security reasons.
The cameras Canada will provide to Ukraine for use against the Russian military are the same ones the Liberal government earlier banned for export to Turkey after they were used in combat.
While some of the gear arrived shortly before Russias invasion of Ukraine, there are growing questions about whether the rest of the equipment will be provided in time.
The Wescam equipment is also installed on U.S. Predator drones that have been used in what the Americans call targeted killings involving terrorist targets. But it has also been estimated that between 10,000 and 20,000 innocent civilians have been killed in those drone attacks in Afghanistan, Somalia, Pakistan and Yemen.
Turkey, a NATO ally, reacted angrily to Canadas decision last year on the export ban. Officials there warned that the Canadian response could cause serious problems to Turkey and its drone clients.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Wednesday the government would provide $50 million in new military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Some of that money will be used to purchase Wescam surveillance cameras for Ukraines Bayraktar TB2 armed drones. The Bayraktar TB2 is built by Turkey and has been sold to Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Poland and several other nations.
Turkish officials also accused Canada of holding a double standard since the Liberal government had continued to allow military exports to Saudi Arabia. That nation has a poor human rights record and has played a key role in the war in Yemen, a conflict that has resulted in the deaths of 100,000 people.
The relatively low-cost Bayraktar drones have been successful in targeting tanks and other armoured vehicles during various conflicts. Ukraine has posted video of one of the aircraft attacking a Russian military column.
Last April, Marc Garneau, then Canadas foreign affairs minister, put a halt to exports of L3Harris Wescam cameras to Turkey for use in the Bayraktar TB2. The ban on exporting the sensors to Turkey came after the Canadian government determined the Bayraktar drones were used by Azeri forces fighting Armenia in the enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh.
