Elon Musk challenges Vladimir Putin to single combat on Twitter Stakes are Ukraine
20220314
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/elon-musk-challenges-vladimir-putin-to-single-combat-on-twitter-stakes-are-ukraine/ar-AAV3e5A
Some Ukrainian leaders praised Musk's tweet, includingVitali Klitschko, mayor of Ukraine capital Kyiv and Hall of Fame boxer, who previously vowed to fight "the bloody war" against Russia.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Elon Musk challenges Vladimir Putin to single combat on Twitter: 'Stakes are Ukraine'
I am sure that elonmusk can send Putin to Jupiter. https:t.cobXxy7yaQxJ Mykhailo Fedorov FedorovMykhailo March 14, 2022
"I am sure that Elon Muskcan send Putin to Jupiter,"Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov wrote beforesharing a link to a website taking donations to "Send Putin to Jupiter."
"You, little devil, are still young,Compete with me weakling It would only be a waste of time. Overtake my brother first,"Rogozin wrote. He also includedthe name of the1800s Russian poem "The Tale of the Priest and of His Workman Balda," which is about a lazy priest who hires a cheap workerbefore the worker drives him insane.
"I hereby challenge Vladimir Putinto single combat.Stakes are Ukraine," Musk tweeted Monday morning, with Putin's name and Ukraine written in Cyrillic script.
Musk's comments come after his satellite internet company, Starlink, arrived in Ukraine in early March. Starlinkleverages satellites to beam broadband internet accesswhich is now active in Ukraine.
Dmitry Rogozin, director general of Roscosmos, the Russian space agency, responded by calling Musk a "weakling" and "little devil."
I hereby challenge  to single combatStakes are  Elon Musk elonmusk March 14, 2022
Texas Tech coach Joey McGuire provides updates on RB SaRodorick Thompson and QB Behren Morton
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked Musk on Twitter for his decision on March 5, adding he spoke with him andmore Starlinksystems would be sent over as people flee the country.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
Texas Techs Mark Adams on seeing patience pay off with young squad figuring things out
Global leaders around the world have condemned Russia's President Vladimir Putin over his decision to invade Ukraine, but Elon Musk is taking it one step further in challenging the Russian leader to a one-on-one fight.
Texas Tech OL coach Stephen Hamby discusses impact Mike Leach had on his career, life
In a follow-up tweet, Musk then tagged Putin's official Twitter account and wrote in Russian, "Do you agree to this fight?"
