Employee bursts onto live Russian state TV to denounce war They are lying to you here
20220212
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/employee-bursts-onto-live-russian-state-tv-to-decry-war-and-propaganda/ar-AAV38ko
A recording of Monday evenings interrupted live broadcast was unavailable on Channel Ones website, which says it was taken down at the request of the copyright holder. All previous episodes from last week are readily available. Channel One said it is looking into the incident with an outsider appearing in the shot during a live broadcast, according to state-run news agency Tass.
The protest was hailed around the world as a dangerous act of resistance, as Russia deepens its repression of government critics and falsely portrays its invasion as a limited operation meant to denazify a neighbor. The Kremlin has blocked sources of independent information on the fighting in Ukraine and threatened 15 years in prison for anyone who spreads fake news contradicting Russias official narrative on the war. Thousands of people protesting the violence have been arrested in Russia, according to OVD-Info, which says the invasion and its fallout have irrevocably changed Russian society.
OVD-Info, a human rights group that tracks protest activity and detentions in Russia, identified the woman as Marina Ovsyannikova, an editor and producer with the broadcaster, and said she has been detained. Before storming the set of Channel One, Ovsyannikova recorded a video message in which she said, What is going on in Ukraine is a crime.
A woman burst onto the set of Russian state TVs flagship evening news program Monday, chanting stop the war and denouncing government propaganda  a striking moment of public protest as the Kremlin cracks down on any criticism of its invasion in Ukraine.
Citing an unnamed individual in law enforcement, Tass also said the woman is detained and could be held liable under Russias ban on discrediting actions of its armed forces. The unnamed person said Ovsyannikova is an editor at Channel One, according to Tass. Ovsyannikovas Instagram account also identifies her as a Channel One employee.
Denouncing the war in Ukraine, Ovsyannikova said responsibility for this lies only on one person  Russian President Vladimir Putin.
We were silent in 2014 when it all started, she said, referring to the year when Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine. She said the silence continued when Kremlin critic and opposition activist Alexei Navalny was poisoned. We just silently watched this anti-human regime, she said, and now the entire world turned their backs against us.
Unfortunately, I have been working at Channel One during recent years, working on Kremlin propaganda, Ovsyannikova said. And now I am very ashamed. I am ashamed that Ive allowed the lies to be said on the TV screens. I am ashamed that I let the Russian people be zombified.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelensky, tweeted a clip of Ovsyannikovas protest while praising her for trying to expose the reality of Russias war to an audience of millions. Any protest is a direct road to jail, he said. Ovsyannikovas act also reverberated beyond Russia and Ukraine: The Guardian, a British newspaper, put an image of her viral moment on its Tuesday front page.
Standing behind Andreeva, the protester held up a poster with a mix of English and Russian spelling a forbidden message: No war. Stop the war. Dont believe the propaganda, they are lying to you here. The woman remained on the screen for several seconds before the program apparently cut away.
Russian TV presenter Vladimir Solovyov, meanwhile, hailed Andreeva  the interrupted Channel One host  as a hero. Andreeva posted a video of herself doing yoga and repeating the mantra stand like a stone, saying her practice got her through the day.
The protester had jumped into frame as a longtime Channel One host, Ekaterina Andreeva, read an item about Russian efforts to mitigate the effect of sanctions over its actions in Ukraine.
Russia has long drawn criticism for repressing dissent, and its invasion of Ukraine last month has ushered in a new era of global condemnation, with the West levying sanctions and major companies halting their Russian business.
If at least one in ten was even a little like you, Russia would be a prosperous democratic country, the person wrote. Thanks for your action. Peace to us all!
In her video message recorded earlier, Ovsyannikova said her father is Ukrainian and her mother is Russian. They have never been enemies, she said, pointing to her necklace comprising the colors of the Russian and Ukrainian flags.
She ended with a call to action, alluding to the high price of dissent in Russia: It is only in our power to stop this madness. Take to the streets. Do not be afraid. They cant jail us all.
Thousands of people soon flooded Ovsyannikovas Facebook page with comments, many of them expressing thanks and calling her courageous. The Facebook page identifies her as a Moscow resident with experience in TV news broadcasts.
I am grateful to those Russians who do not stop trying to convey the truth, he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky personally thanked the woman who entered the Channel One studio in one of his regular video updates posted to Telegram.
