EquilibriumSustainability  Penguins faltering on Antarcticas west coast
20220412
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/equilibriumsustainability-penguins-faltering-on-antarctica-s-west-coast/ar-AAW9xsN
Today well look at tensions over whether bargain-savvy India will keep buying Russian oil despite calls to the contrary from the U.S.Then well look at how a pair of mad cow disease cases in Rio de Janeiro last fall threw the world beef market into turmoil and why U.S. exporters are now calling for a Brazilian beef ban.
Biden, Modi have candid exchange:President Biden held a candid exchange of views with Modi on Monday, which an officialdescribed as warm and productive,our colleague Sarakshi Rai reported.
The country is seeking out new ways to replace Russian gas, while Japans industry ministry has instructed power companies to ensure that they have three weeks of reserves, Reuters reported.
With about 3.8 million breeding pairs across Antarctica, Adlies are among the continents most numerous penguin species thatsubsist on the tiny krill that thrive in icy water, the Times reported.
But Russia supplies Japan with 13 percent of its thermal coal used for power generation, 8 percent of coal for steelmaking and 9 percent of its liquefied natural gas, Bloomberg reported.
The trade groups say that doesnt only endanger individual Americans but thousands of farmers who depend on beef exports.
By 2020, 43 percent of Chinasmeat imports came from Brazil at a steep environmental cost, according to The Guardian.
Major beef industry trade groups areredoubling their calls for a ban on U.S. imports of Brazilian beef, the National Cattlemans Beef Association NCBA announced on Monday.
The populations of Adlie penguins on the melting west side are just a complete train wreck, Heather J. Lynch, a Stony Brook College ecologist, told the Times.
But on the eastern side, where the climate has not changed as dramatically, the populations have not changed dramatically, Lynch said.
Although press secretary Jen Psaki said that payments for Russian energy were not being sanctioned, she said that theU.S. was discouraging India from increasing such purchases, The Hindu reported.
But China was more cautious,blocking Brazilian shipments on arrivalandinstating a three-month ban, according to Reuters.
Every country is differently situated, has different needs, requirements, but were looking to allies and partners not to increase their purchases of Russian energy, Blinken said.
But in the upcoming decades, the east side, which is located on the shores of the Weddell Sea, will likely remain cold and icy and exactly the kind of place where these Adlies need to live, Lynch added.
But India has said it would continue to buy Russian oil, which the country receives at a heavily discounted rate, according to Bloomberg.
Penguin populations are collapsing along the west side of the Antarctic Peninsulabut remain abundant on the frozen islands of the east side, according to The New York Times.
Total bilateral trade between the countries stood at $11.8 billion in the 11 months following April 2021  up 46 percent from the $8.1 billion recorded the previous year, the Times reported.
As India deepens its trade relationship with Russia, G-7 countries are continuing to seek out ways to toughen sanctions against Moscow and minimize their own subsequent distress.
The rising U.S. sales to South Korea, China and Taiwan  up 38 percent, 114 percent and 78 percent over 2021, respectively  helped cancel out falling exports to Mexico, the USDA said.
Economic danger: In addition to the public health threat is the resultant economic danger, as a single outbreak on a single farmcan crash an entire countrys beef exports overnight, according to the Wisconsin State Farmer.
The great beef supply shuffle.The USDA didnt reinstate its embargo after the November 2021 outbreak.
Please visit The HillsSustainability sectiononline for the web version of this newsletter and more stories. Well see you tomorrow.
Spiking Brazilian imports:U.S imports of Brazilian beef surged last year and kept on growing. American meatpackers brought in 100 million pounds in 2022, or more than six times the previous year, according to the USDA.
Welcome to Equilibrium, a newsletter that tracks the growing global battle over the future of sustainability. WereSaul ElbeinandSharon Udasin.Send us tips and feedback. A friend forward this newsletter to you?Subscribe here.
But these demands reached new urgencythis week against the backdrop of two other beef industry trends revealed bya newreport from the U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA. That report detailed both the soaring imports of Brazilian ground beef into the U.S. and the rising importance of a disease-conscious East Asian market to beleaguered cattle ranchers.
Partner of choice:Meanwhile, Secretary of State Antony Blinken acknowledged India and Russias longstanding relationship but stressed that the U.S. is willing to be a partner of choice with India, Indian broadcaster NDTV reported.
What has Japan sanctioned thus far?Japan has imposed export controls, including on semiconductors, while also sanctioning some oligarchs and barring Russia from issuing bonds in the country, according to Bloomberg.
Calls for a ban started last fall as two cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy  commonly called mad cow disease  in Brazil threw the global beef market into turmoil.
That brings us to November 2021, when two people in Rio de Janeirowere infected by meat tainted withmad cow disease, according to Reuters.
That flood of fresh or refrigerated meat was mostly low-end trimmings thatget mixed into the broader U.S. beef supply. But trade groups worry such imports could also bring in mad cow disease.
Rising coal prices, no short-term solutions:With the global market for thermal coal already tight, competition for the product is on the rise  meaning that domestic prices could increase and translate into higher electricity bills, according to Bloomberg.
While G-7 nations Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S.have taken the lead in imposing sanctions against Russia, they have been encouraging other countries, like India, to set limits, Bloomberg reported.
What is mad cow disease?Bad news. Its a deadly illness caused by abnormally-folded proteins called prions that lock into and break down nerve tissuein humans and other animals, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Supply disruption:Beijing had been importing more beef to make up for short supplies of pork, which had been ravaged by a fatal outbreak of African Swine Fever thatkilled about 43 million pigsworldwide, a study in Nature found.
Thats not too far-fetched:East Asian nations banned Canadian beef in Januaryover a single case ofmad cow disease, according to Bloomberg.
India boosting exports to Russia:In addition to generating controversy over its energy importsfromRussia, India is also planning toincrease its exports of goodstoRussiaby an additional $2 billion, the Times of India reported.
No risk here:Despite these incidents, Brazilian beef still has a negligible risk of containing the disease,and the sick cows never madeit into the food system, according to a December report by the World Organization for Animal Health.
Modis administration is talking to Moscow about removing import barriers for Indian-made products, as the countries also define a proposal for trading in rupees and rubles, according to the Times.
The U.S. has already sanctioned Russian energy, but the EU has thus far only instituted a ban on Russian coal  though it isconsidering an embargo on oil, Reuters reported.
Although efforts to cut Japans reliance on coal could encourage a quicker transition to renewable energy  not to mention the resurrection of the countrys shuttered nuclear power plants  neither of these options offer immediate solutions, Bloomberg reported.
Japan has agreed to follow the EU and G-7 members in banning imports of Russian coal and is trying to secure alternative sources of energy, according to Bloomberg.
The official suggested that India could cease importing Russian oil with few economic repercussions, noting that Indias energy imports from Russia account for only 1-2 percent of its total energy imports.
The risk to Americas beef exporters is clear:That a single person in the U.S. sickened by a single tainted hamburger made from imported beef could torpedo that entire market share.
The Chinese ban had two major effects:While temporary, Chinas temporary gap in supply enabled U.S. suppliers to begin exporting far more beef to East Asia,and importing far more beef from Brazil, according to the USDA.
The USDA banned imports of fresh Brazilian beef in 2017,but lifted the ban in February 2020, according to the agency.
As temperatures have risen on the west side, ice and krill have vanished, and western penguins have declined by as much as 90 percent, Lynch said.
Zero-tolerance: A single sick cow on an Oregon dairy farm in 2003  sometimes dubbed the cow that stole Christmas  led to 57 countries banning the import of U.S. beef, Bill Bullard of trade group R-CALF told the Farmer.
Little room for error:Japans energy generation capacityhas been stretched since the 2011 closureof nuclear plants following the Fukushima disaster, according to Reuters.
Germany is reconsidering whether to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to this Junes Group of Seven G-7 summit, due toIndias reluctance to condemn the Russian invasionof Ukraine, sources familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.
For example:After a mad cow disease outbreak killed 117 people and led to the slaughter of 4.4 million cattle in the U.K. in the 1990s, countries around the world instituted bans on British beef  some of which remained in place until 2019, the Farmer reported.
Not the first time:The Brazil-U.S beef trade has often been rocked by scandals around Brazilian failures to report cases of mad cow disease reporting including in 2010, 2015, 2019 and 2021 according to the Farmer.
