EquilibriumSustainability  Hydrogen helium shortages imperil weather balloons
20220405
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/equilibrium-sustainability-hydrogen-helium-shortages-imperil-weather-balloons/ar-AAVTVJT
Transaction ban on banks:This fifth package of sanctions contains five other pillars in addition to the coal ban, including a full transaction ban on four key Russian banks.
The aim of these sanctions, according to von der Leyen, is to cut the money stream of Russia and its oligarchs.
How did the authors tackle this challenge?They first distributed an anonymous survey to experts at seafood companies, research institutions, human rights groups and governments to help quantify the degree of certainty as to whether a port was linked to either illegal fishing or labor abuses.
What countries fared the worst?The authors found that fishing vessels incurred the most risk of labor abuse and illegal fishing off the coasts of West Africa, Peru and the Azores, an autonomous region of Portugal located in the mid-Atlantic.
Today, we are proposing to take our sanctions a step further, she said. We will make them broader and sharper, so that they cut even deeper in the Russian economy.
Please visit The HillsSustainability sectiononline for the web version of this newsletter and more stories. Well see you on Wednesday.
The study,published in Nature Communications, found most illegal fishing and labor abuse issues stemming fromvessels registered to China and other countries with poor anti-corruption oversight.
With this, we will continue to degrade Russias technological base and industrial capacity, von der Leyen said.
They concluded that vessels with higher risks of labor abuse are at port for shorter periods, with port officials having less time to interfere with potential illegal activity.
Authors used human insight and machine learning to home in on the difficult-to-trace periods in which vessels exchange crews and catches  called transshipment.
The European Commission announced Tuesday itwould impose a ban on imports of coal from Russiaas part of its latest package of sanctions against Moscow.
Another pillar in the package involves targeted export bans worth about 10 billion euros $10.9 billion in areas including quantum computing, advanced semiconductors and sensitive machinery.
To take a clear stand is not only crucial for us in Europe, but also for the rest of the world, von der Leyen said. A clear stand against the violation of the fundamental principles of the world order.
Increasing pressure:Noting that the four sanctions packages the EU has issued thus far have hit hard and limited the Kremlins political and economic options, von der Leyen stressed the need to increase our pressure further.
Eliminating financial support:The final prong of the sanctions package includes very targeted measures, such as an EU-wide ban on the participation of Russian firms in public procurement in member states, as well as the exclusion of all financial support to Russian public bodies, the commission president explained.
Pathways for risk mitigation:The authors highlighted some potential ways to mitigate risks through detection and response activities at port.
More on the horizon:Von der Leyen said the commission is working on additional sanctions, including a ban on oil imports, and considering other ideas presented by EU member states such as certain types of taxes.
They then used machine learning to combine survey responses with satellite-based vessel-tracking data, curated by Global Fishing Watch, an international NGO that provides open-source datasets relevant to ocean governance.
Researchers found that vessels that engage is such activity also often have labor abuses on board, including forced labor, debt bondage and poor conditions.
Today well explore a European Union decision to launch a fresh package of sanctions on Moscow, including a ban on Russian coal. Then well look at a new study detailing illegal fishing and labor abuses on the high seas.
Solar cells that thrive at twilight, batteries that blaze and a fingerprint for forest heat death.
To substitute for the decrease in balloons  made worse by the closure of a Cape Cod launch site last year  the agency has been relying on balloons on sites that are still open, as well as ground-based sensors, satellites and commercial planes, according to the newspaper.
Prohibition on vessels, with a few exceptions:A third prong in the package is a prohibition of Russian and Russian-operated vessels from EU ports, aside from in certain cases covering essentials such as agricultural and food products, humanitarian aid and energy, the EU leaders statement said.
Those banks, which von der Leyen said would now be totally cut off from the markets, represent 23 percent of the Russian banking sectors market share.
While the National Weather Service stressed that these changes would not affect forecasts and warnings, other meteorologists expressed concerns. Balloons are usually launched twice daily, 12 hours apart, and can make observations up to a height of about 20 miles, the Times reported.
Cut the money stream:The fifth embargo focuses on 5.5 billion euros $6 billion worth of specific new imports of products such as wood, cement, seafood and liquor.
Disruptions to global supplies of hydrogen and helium have forced the National Weather Service tocut back on weather balloon launches potentially impacting forecasts and climate research, The New York Times reports.
We need to ensure that policies and practices allow fishers to access trusted actors and services at port so they can safely report on their condition, she added.
Researchers noted that one particularly important connection was the amount of time a vessel stays at port and the likelihood of labor abuse.
From there, they identified points at which illegal behavior was occurring during swaps of people and equipment.
We cant go back and get that data, Sandra Yuter, an expert on remote sensing of meteorological data at North Carolina State University, told the Times. Were going to have big gaps.
While earlier media reports on Tuesday suggested that the new package might include a ban on oil, the EU leader only stated that the commission is working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports.
A first step:Surveillance on the high seas is innately challenging, so these data provide a critical first step in helping stakeholders understand where to look deeper, lead author Elizabeth Selig said in a statement.
Vessels registered to countries with poor corruption controls, vessels owned by countries other than the flag state  or country to which a vessel is linked  and vessels registered to China presented a higher risk of participating in illegal activities, the study found.
Refining port policies:Ports are one of the few places to identify and respond to labor abuse, Jessica Sparks, a fellow at the Stanford Center for Ocean Solutions and associate director at the University of Nottingham Rights Lab, said in a statement.
Coastal regions off West Africa, the mid-Atlantic near Portugal and Peruare the riskiest spots for illegal fishing and labor abuse, a new study has found.
Welcome to Equilibrium, a newsletter that tracks the growing global battle over the future of sustainability. WereSaul ElbeinandSharon Udasin. Send us tips and feedback. A friend forward this newsletter to you?Subscribe here and view todays full edition here.
