EU approves Ukraine candidacy for membership Ukraine admits threat of a tactical Russian victory in Donbas June 23 recap
20220616
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/as-ukraine-bids-for-eu-membership-ukrainian-leaders-express-optimism-live-updates/ar-AAYLNm5
Surging Russian forces overwhelmed two more villages in eastern Ukraine on Thursday and closed in on the city of Lysychanskamid a slow but systematic advancement through the industrial heart of Ukraine.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: EU approves Ukraine candidacy for membership Ukraine admits 'threat of a tactical Russian victory' in Donbas: June 23 recap
After its earlymilitary humiliation, Russia has regrouped in Ukraine and focused its wrath in the eastwith relentless shelling  giving Moscow momentum asthe war moves into a bleak new phase.
The U.S. will send $450 million more in military aid to Ukraine, including more medium-range rocket systems, officials said Thursday.
But Ukraine stillholds potent advantages, including a fierce will to fight and new Western weapons.
Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas says the West shouldnt underestimate Russias military capabilities in Ukraine, saying Moscow is in it for the long haul asthe warenters its fifth month.
Kallas said Europe should ensure that those committing war crimes and attempted genocide are prosecuted, noting that Russian President Vladimir Putin escaped punishment for annexing the Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and supporting an insurgency in eastern Ukraines Donbas region that killed over 14,000 people even before this years war began.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM: Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone
"Thank you to my colleague and friendSecDef Lloyd J. Austin III for these powerful tools!" Reznikov said on Twitter. "Summer will be hot for Russian occupiers. And the last one for some of them."
With its vast supply of artillery, armorand troops, Russia now has an edge, experts say. Combat in Ukraine has shifted to the eastern part of the country, its mineral-rich, industrial heartland.Russian-backed separatists have foughtfor control of the region, known as the Donbas, since 2014.
Lysychansk and small areas of sister city Severodonetsk represent the last hurdle in Russia's quest to control the Luhansk region.The fall of Loskutivkaand Rai-Oleksandrivkacomes one day after Russia rolled into the villages of Pidlisne and Myrna Dolyna.
Ukraine has already implemented about 70 of EU rules, normsand standards, European officials have said. But they warned that the country still needs political and economic reforms, pointing to corruption.EU candidate status doesn't guarantee Ukraine membership and does not provide the military security provided by NATO membership. Still, PresidentVolodymyrZelenskyy was elated.
"Sincerely commend EU leaders decision at EUCO to grant a candidate status," he tweeted. "Its a unique and historical moment."
"Historic agreement, historic decision," European Council President Charles Michel tweeted after the decision was announced on the first day of an EU leaders summit in Belgium.
Germany activated the second phase of its three-stage emergency plan for natural gas supplies Thursday, warning that winter energy supplies are a concerndue todwindling deliveries from Russia.
Ive heard talks that, you know, there is no threat anymore because they have exhausted themselves. No, they havent, she said of the Russian military, which failed to take Kyiv in the early stages of the war and is nowconcentrating its firepower in the east.
Nike announced it will fully shut down operations in Russia after initially suspending its company-owned business three months ago. "Our priority is to ensure we are fully supporting our employees while we responsibly scale down our operations over the coming months," the company said.
"About 20 of Ukrainian territory has de facto been annexed," said Seth Jones, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "Theyve replaced currency with ruble in many areas, replaced the educational curriculum, includingRussian history. The hand-picked local authorities are Russian."
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
The direction of the conflict will likely come into clearer focus over the summer,whenRussia is likely to attempt to consolidate its gains in the Donbas region. However, experts believe local resistance, the steady flow of Western armsand Russian incompetence suggest they'll have difficulty holding ground.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to the Ukrainian president, acknowledged the "threat of a tactical Russian victory in the region is there, but they havent done it yet."
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Thursday, June 23. Follow here for the latest updates and news from Friday, June 24, as Russia's invasion continues.
U.S. high-mobility missile artillery systems HIMARS have arrived in Ukraine, Defense MinisterOleksiy Reznikov said.The Ukrainian militaryhas already undergone special trainingfor theweapons in Europe, he said.
The regions of Luhansk and Donetsk make up the Donbas region, home of Russian separatist "republic." After its failure to take the capital of Kyiv in the early days of the war, Russia has made no secret of its redirected efforts to control the Donbas.
The U.S. provided ammunition that can hit targets from more than 40 miles away  valuable, but not thelonger-range missiles sought by Ukraine that could reach close to 200 miles.
The EU also granted candidate status to Moldova, a tiny, non-NATO country that borders Ukraine.
The European Union leadership approved Ukraine's candidacyfor membership Thursday, starting the embattled nation on a yearslong path toward cementing a closer relationship with the West as it attemptsto distance itself from its Russian invaders.
