EU imposes embargo on two thirds of Russian oil to stop Kremlins war machine
20220531
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/eu-imposes-embargo-on-two-thirds-of-russian-oil-to-stop-kremlins-war-machine/ar-AAXU0RF
Mr Michel added the sanctions would immediately impact 75 of Russian oil imports. And by the end of the year, 90 of the Russian oil imported in Europe will be banned, he wrote.
Hungarys Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, had made clear he could support the new sanctions only if his countrys oil supply security was guaranteed.
In a post on Twitter, EU Council President Charles Michel said the agreement covers more than two-thirds of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine. Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war.
But the sixth package of measures announced on May 4 had been held up by concerns over oil supplies.
Why are you dependent on Russia  Why can Russia still earn almost a billion euros a day by selling energy? he said in an address to EU leaders.
The latest measure was made at a summit focusing on helping Ukraine, with a long-delayed raft of sanctions that was blocked by Hungary.
The Russian army has now gathered there the maximum combat power, he said of Donbas as a whole.
He also said the package includes de-swifting the largest Russian bank Sberbank, banning three more Russian state-owned broadcasters, and sanctioning individuals responsible for war crimes.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky also addressed the blocs 27 leaders in Brussels by video in a 10 minute-message. He has repeatedly demanded that the EU target Russias lucrative energy sector and deprive Moscow of billions of dollars each day in supply payments.
Meanwhile, in his nightly address, Mr Zelensky said the Donbas situation remains extremely difficult and said the Russian army was trying to gather a superior force to put more and more pressure on our defenders.
The EU had already imposed five previous rounds of sanctions on Russia over its war. It has targeted more than 1,000 people, including Russian President Vladimir Putin and top government officials, as well as pro-Kremlin oligarchs, banks, the coal sector and more.
The EU gets about 40 of its natural gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, and Ukraine says those energy imports are funding Russias war on its neighbour.
EU leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian oil brought in by sea, aiming to cut a huge source of financing for its war machine.
Mr Zelensky reminded leaders of the atrocities going on in his country, including the death of civilians and children, telling them it is crucial that sanctions are adopted as soon as possible, according to a senior EU diplomat who spoke to the Associated Press.
