EU leaders agree to partial embargo on Russian oil
20220530
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/eu-leaders-gather-to-try-and-hammer-out-agreement-over-russian-oil-ban/ar-AAXSNbK
More than ever its important to show that we are able to be strong, that we are able to be firm, that we are able to be tough, he added.
Some protesters gathered outside EU buildings Monday before the summit, holding signs like No to Russian oil and gas.
Von der Leyen and Michel said the commitment by Germany and Poland to phase out Russian oil by the end of the year and to forgo oil from the northern part of the Druzhba pipeline will help cut 90 of Russian oil imports.
We want to stop Russias war machine, Michel said, lauding what he called a remarkable achievement.
BRUSSELS  European Union leaders reached a compromise Monday to impose a partial oil embargo on Russia at a summit focused on helping Ukraine with a long-delayed package of sanctions that was blocked by Hungary.
The EU gets about 40 of its natural gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, and divisions over the issue exposed the limits of the 27-nation trading blocs ambitions.
The impasse embarrassed the bloc, which was forced to scale down its ambitions in a bid to get Hungary on board. When European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed the package, the initial aim was to phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year.
ButHungary led a group of EU countriesworried over the impact of the oil ban on their economy, including Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. Hungary relies heavily on Russia for energy and cant afford to turn off the pumps. In addition to its need for Russian oil, Hungary gets 85 of its natural gas from Russia.
The watered-down embargo covers only Russian oil brought in by sea, allowing a temporary exemption for imports delivered by pipeline. EU Council President Charles Michel said the agreement covers more than two-thirds of oil imports from Russia.
Hungarian Prime minister Viktor Orban had made clear he could support the new sanctions only if his countrys oil supply security was guaranteed. The landlocked country gets more than 60 of its oil from Russia and depends on crude that comes through the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline.
Von der Leyen said the punitive move will effectively cut around 90 of oil imports from Russia to the EU by the end of the year.
In his 10-minute video address, Zelenskyy told leaders to end internal arguments that only prompt Russia to put more and more pressure on the whole of Europe.
The new package of sanctions will also include an asset freeze and travel ban on individuals, while Russias biggest bank, Sberbank, will be excluded from SWIFT, the major global system for financial transfers from which the EU previously banned several smaller Russian banks. Three big Russian state-owned broadcasters will be prevented from distributing their content in the EU.
He said the sanctions package must be agreed on, it needs to be effective, including on oil, so that Moscow feels the price for what it is doing against Ukraine and the rest of Europe. Only then, Zelenskyy said, will Russia be forced to start seeking peace.
The EU had already imposed five previous rounds of sanctions on Russia over its war. It has targeted more than 1,000 people individually, including Russian President Vladimir Putin and top government officials as well as pro-Kremlin oligarchs, banks, the coal sector and more.
The summit also focused on continued EU financial support to Ukraine with the endorsement of a 9 billion-euro $9.7 billion tranche of assistance.
It was not the first time he had demanded that the EU target Russias lucrative energy sector and deprive Moscow of billions of dollars each day in supply payments.
Michel said the new sanctions, which needed the support of all 27 member countries, will be legally endorsed by Wednesday.
Orban had been adamant on arriving at the summit in Brussels that a deal was not in sight, stressing that Hungary needed its energy supply secured.
But the sixth package of measures announced May 4 had been held up by concerns over oil supplies.
Both Michel and von der Leyen said leaders will soon return to the issue, seeking to guarantee that Russias pipeline oil exports to the EU are banned at a later date.
The issue of food security will be on the table Tuesday, with the leaders set to encourage their governments to speed up work on solidarity lanesto help Ukraine export grainand other produce.
Ursula Von der Leyen, the head of the EUs executive branch, had played down the chances of a breakthrough at the summit. But leaders reached a compromise after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy urged them to end internal arguments that only prompt Russia to put more and more pressure on the whole of Europe.
