Eurovision Song Contest 2022 Grand Final results Ukraine wins with UK finishing second place
20220515
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/newslondon/eurovision-song-contest-2022-grand-final-results-ukraine-wins-with-uk-finishing-second-place/ar-AAXh8tK
The Ukrainian folk-rap act, Kalush Orchestra were the frontrunners after Russia's invasion - which prompted organisers to ban Russia from competing.
Ukraine received a stunning 439 votes from the public, catapulting them to an unassailable lead at the top of the leaderboard.
The six-member band received special permission to leave the country to represent Ukraine at the contest, with one of the original members staying to fight. The others plan to return as soon as the contest is over.
Register now for one of the Evening Standards newsletters. From a daily news briefing to Homes  Property insights, plus lifestyle, going out, offers and more. For the best stories in your inbox, click here.
Their song, Stefania, was written as a tribute to the frontmans mother, but has taken on an additional poignant meaning after Russias brutal and unprovoked invasion of the country on February 24.
Marius Bear from Switzerland delivered a raw rendition of his track Boys Do Cry backdropped with simple lighting while France's Alvan and Ahez had fire on stage to perform their track Fulenn.
Spains effort came third, with a total of 459 points, Sweden fourth with 438 points, and Serbia fifth with 312 points. Germany placed last, with just six points.
In a moment of joy, Timur Miroshnychenko, Ukraines answer to Graham Norton was seen reacting from a bombshelter as the country won the competition.
Norway's Subwoolfer dressed in yellow wolf costumes while performing a synchronised dance number and singing Give That Wolf A Banana.
Estonia closed the show with Stefan performing a catchy rendition of Hope, adding at the end of his performance: "Don't lose your hope for a better tomorrow."
The UK finished in second place, with Sam Ryder topping the jury vote. Ukraines jury were among those giving 12 points to Ryders Space Man, but it failed to clinch the top spot after the publics votes were added.
Ukraine has won the Eurovision Song Contest 2022 with 631 points after delivering a powerful performance of their song Stefania.
Finland's rock group The Rasmus kicked off the first few performances with a powerful version of Jezebel, ripping their shirts off mid-show.
Spain's entrant Chanel gave a jazzy performance to SloMo while the entire crowd sang along with Italy's Mahmood and Blanco who sang Brividi, which featured a powerful rap, behind a back drop of twinkly lights.
Armenia's representative, Rosa Linn, gave an emotional performance with her song Snap on a stage with a bed, lamp and chair all seemingly wrapped in white toilet roll.
The final opened with an energetic performance featuring strobe lighting and projections of the sculpture of David by Michelangelo from Czech Republic's We Are Domi singing Lights Off.
Ukraines frontman had finished the bands performance with the plea: Please help Mariupol, help Azovstal right now.
Passengers at risk of being injured or killed due to overcrowding at London Bridge station, warns MP
