Failure to end Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol hampering Russian advance
20220421
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/failure-to-end-ukrainian-resistance-in-mariupol-hampering-russian-advance/ar-AAWstnu
The failure of Russian forces to take the last pocket of Ukrainian resistance in the besieged city of Mariupol is hampering their latest offensive, Western officials have said.
As a result, they were being fed into the offensive in a piecemeal fashion with limited impact, taking relatively small amounts of terrain.
Doing that around that area is not a trivial task if you want to seal it completely, one official said.
That may still limit the ability of those forces to get themselves sorted to take part in operations in the Donbas.
One official said they had concentrated sufficient troops potentially to surround and destroy a significant proportion of Ukraines best forces, if they used their own forces intelligently.
The official said that while the performance of the Russian forces had improved since the first day of the invasion, they were still not operating as a true manoeuvre force.
One official said it may be driven by a desire by the Russian leader to secure a tangible success in time for the Victory Day parade in Moscow on May 9 marking the defeat of the Nazis in the Second World War.
Nevertheless, officials said it was still possible for the Russians to make military gains which President Putin could claim as a success, although it was unlikely to be swift.
I think that may have been a factor in their decision politically to commit their forces into the Donbas ahead of that force being entirely reconstituted and prepared.
President Vladimir Putin has said his forces would seek to seal off the vast Azovstal steel works, where Ukrainian marines have been holding out, rather than risk storming it.
If they were to surround those forces and grind them down over time that would be enough for Putin to be able to claim it as a win, the official said.
The official said it would would require sustained Western support to the Ukrainians in a conflict which could last most of the rest of this year.
However, officials said that would limit the numbers of troops that Russia could release for operations in the Donbas region which the new focus of their operations.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
The Pentagon has said the Russians have 76 battalion tactical groups in the south and east of Ukraine  the equivalent of 45,000 to 60,000 troops.
They could then seek to establish full control over the Donbas  already part-held by pro-Moscow separatists  with a land bridge from Crimea to Russia.
If President Putin is going to stand on the May 9 Victory Day, he will want to do so on the back of Russian forces not being ritually humiliated in Ukraine which is pretty much been happening so far
They are still driving down roads in long columns. That makes them very vulnerable because they have a very exposed flank, the official said.
In the really worst case scenario it could embolden the Russians to revive some of their earlier war aims, such as an assault on Kyiv or taking the port city of Odesa, effectively cutting off the Ukrainians from the sea.
If President Putin is going to stand on the May 9 Victory Day, he will want to do so on the back of Russian forces not being ritually humiliated in Ukraine which is pretty much been happening so far, the official said.
However, Western officials many of the Russian units had not had time to properly reconstitute after being receiving a mauling by Ukrainian forces in the north of the country in the failed advance on Kyiv.
