Fox News correspondent injured while covering Russias invasion of Ukraine
20220315
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/fox-news-correspondent-injured-while-covering-russia-s-invasion-of-ukraine/ar-AAV52tb
Shaun Tandon, AFP state correspondent, said he was "horrified" to learn that Hall was injured while covering the war in Ukraine.
"This is a stark reminder for all journalists who are putting their lives on the line every day to deliver the news from a war zone," Scott said.
"We have a minimal level of details right now, but Ben is hospitalized and our teams on the ground are working to gather additional information as the situation quickly unfolds,"Fox News Media CEO Suzanne Scott said in a statement, according to Fox News."The safety of our entire team of journalists in Ukraine and the surrounding regions is our top priority and of the utmost importance."
Hall's injury comes a day after American photojournalistBrent Renaud was killed after Russian forces firedon a car in Irpin, a town 30 miles outside the capital of Kyiv.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
What's everyone talking about?Sign up for our trending newsletter to get the latest news of the day
Hall has been in Ukraine for weeks and reporting from Kyiv where Russian forces have been advancing to capture the city.
Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall was injured on Monday outside of Kyiv while covering Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the network reported.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Fox News correspondent injured while covering Russia's invasion of Ukraine
According to CNN, he began his career as a war correspondent and reported from the Middle East and Africa for multiple news organizations before joining Fox in 2015.
"We know Ben for his warmth, good humor and utmost professionalism. We wish Ben a quick recoveryand call for utmost efforts to protect journalists who are providing an invaluable service through their coverage in Ukraine," he said in a statement.
