Fox News cameraman and Ukrainian journalist killed in vehicle attack that injured correspondent Benjamin Hall
20220315
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/cameraman-injured-with-fox-news-correspondent-benjamin-hall-when-their-car-was-targeted-in-ukraine-has-died/ar-AAV5sRB
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
Ms Scott announced the hospitalisation of Mr Hall - a British-American journalist serving as the networks State Department correspondent who has previously written for The Independent - in a memo to colleagues on Monday afternoon which did not reveal what had happened, the extent of his injuries or that Mr Zakrzewski was also injured in the same attack.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
We extend our deepest condolences to Pierres wife Michelle and family - please keep them all in your prayers. And please continue to pray for Benjamin Hall, who remains hospitalized in Ukraine. We will continue to be in touch with any further updates as needed.
I dont know what to say. Pierre was as good as they come. Selfless. Brave. Passionate. Im so sorry this happened to you, Fox News correspondent Trey Yingst tweeted.
A cameraman who was injured alongside Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall when their vehicle was attacked in Ukraine has died.
As the Fox News community mourns the loss of Mr Zakrzewski and prays for Mr Halls recovery, some of the networks own hosts have come under fire for promotive misleading narratives about the Russia-Ukraine conflict that increasingly flatter the Kremlins version of events.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
On Tuesday, Ukraines Ministry of Defence said Mr Hall had lost part of his leg.
The most controversial host is Tucker Carlson, whose show is reliably among the most-watched pundit on cable news. Having often questioned before the conflict why anyone in the US should root for Ukraine a well-established American ally against Russia an authoritarian adversary, he has lately helped introduce a conspiracy theory about US-funded and operated biolabs in Ukraine that have supposedly been developing bioweapons.
The truth is the target. Russian troops fired at Fox News camera crew near Kyiv. Cameraman Pierre Zakrevsky and producer Oleksandra Kurshynova were killed. Journalist Benjamin Hall survived, but lost part of his leg. RussianWarCrimesinUkraine
It is with great sadness and a heavy heart that we share the news this morning regarding our beloved cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski. Pierre was killed in Horenka, outside of Kyiv, Ukraine. Pierre was with Benjamin Hall newsgathering when their vehicle was struck by incoming fire, the statement from Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott read.
Pierre was a war zone photographer who covered nearly every international story for FOX News from Iraq to Afghanistan to Syria during his long tenure with us. His passion and talent as a journalist were unmatched. Based in London, Pierre had been working in Ukraine since February. His talents were fast and there wasnt a role that he didnt jump in to help with in the field - from photographer to engineer to editor to producer - and he did it all under immense pressure with tremendous skill.
They made very clear that there was a red line, she said. The red line was a neutrality for Ukraine, that they could not enter Nato. Ukraine is still not a Nato member. And in the end, if they get this peace agreement  thats probably going to end up being the case anyway.
Fox News anchor Bill Hemmer shared the news live on air, calling Mr Zakrzewski an absolute legend whose loss is devastating.
He was a professional, he was a journalist, and he was a friend, Mr Hemmer said. We here at the Fox News Channel want to offer our deepest condolences to Pierres wife, Michelle, and his entire family. Pierre Zakrzewski was only 55 years old, and we miss him already.
She added that Mr Biden has been leading the world in putting consequences and repercussions in place in the form of crippling economic sanctions.
Everyone in the industry knew of, admired and adored Fox News war zone photographer Pierre Zakrzewski. May he Rest In Peace. My thoughts and prayers to his wife and family. https:t.co6OvL2BXzlb
The network announced the death of Pierre Zakrzewski in a statement on Tuesday morning, before reports emerged Ukrainian journalist Oleksandra Kurshynova also died in the same attack.
Well, let me first say, your colleague, Benjamin Hall, I know theres not final reports yet or we would wait for your news organization to confirm those but our thoughts, the presidents thoughts, our administrations thoughts are with him, his family and all of you at Fox News as well, she said in Mondays press briefing.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Joe Biden was thinking of Mr Hall when asked about the situation and the presidents previous pledge to respond forcefully if any Americans were harmed in Ukraine.
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
He was profoundly committed to telling the store and his bravery, professionalism and work ethic were renowned among journalists at every media outlet. He was wildly popular - everyone in the media industry who has covered a foreign story knew and respected Pierre.
Fellow anchor John Roberts tweeted: I worked with Pierre many times around the world. He was an absolute treasure. Sending our most heartfelt prayers to Pierres wife and family.
The attack on Mr Hall and Mr Zakrzewski came just a day after American journalist Brett Renaud was shot and killed by Russian forces in Irpin while on an assignment for TIME magazine.
Mr Renaud was in a car on route to report on Ukrainian refugees trying to evacuate when the vehicle was ambushed by Vladimir Putins troops, according to Ukrainian officials. A second American journalist was also wounded and taken to hospital.
On Monday, Fox and Friends co-host Rachel Campos-Duffy further scrambled her networks mixed messages about the conflict by raising the argument that the conflict is in fact the wests fault.
The safety of our entire team of journalists in Ukraine and the surrounding regions is our top priority and of the utmost importance. This is a stark reminder for all journalists who are putting their lives on the line every day to deliver the news from the war zone. We will update everyone as we know more. Please keep Ben and his family in your prayers.
I dont know what to say. Pierre was as good as they come. Selfless. Brave. Passionate. Im so sorry this happened to you. pic.twitter.comIvxlPWGDAl
Earlier today, our correspondent Benjamin Hall was injured while news gathering outside of Kyiv in Ukraine, the Monday memo read. We have a minimal level of details right now. Ben is hospitalised and our teams on the ground are working to gather additional information as the situation quickly unfolds.
Horrible news to report: Fox cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski was killed in the same attack that wounded correspondent Benjamin Hall. I worked with Pierre many times around the world. He was an absolute treasure. Sending our most heartfelt prayers to Pierre's wife and family.
The host asserted that the US provoked Russia by allowing the prospect of Ukraine becoming a member of Nato.
