From the Iraq war to Russia invasion of Ukraine Little Mermaid statue gets political graffiti again
20220315
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/from-the-iraq-war-to-russia-invasion-of-ukraine-little-mermaid-statue-gets-political-graffiti-again/ar-AAV62mk
She was restored only to lose an arm two decades later to a pair of drunks in a late-night escapade.
In the traditional tale the Little Mermaid trades in her mermaids tail for a pair of legs but in that particular year someone who has never been identified beheaded her with a hacksaw.
Unfortunately this series had an unsatisfying finale and, despite a confession by a group of radical feminists claiming it was a protest again sexualisation of women, no one was ever brought to justice.
Further attempts were made to decapitate the mermaid, but not until 1998 was anyone successful and in true Scandi-noir fashion a murder squad were put on the case to find the culprits.
The Little Mermaid statue has long been a must visit site for visitors to Copenhagen, even before instagram.
Similar signs have also been daubed on the walls of a Russian Orthodox church in Copenhagen. The Aleksander Nevskij Church does not belong to the Russian Orthodox Patriarchy in Moscow and has in fact organised a collection of funds to help refugees in Ukraine.
The letter Z sprayed on Russian tanks and worn on clothes is generally understood to display support for Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The symbol is now used by Russian state media and in advertisements.
Waltzing Jane Fonda, Austrian billionaire Richard Lugnar to bring Oscar winner to Vienna Opera Ball
Images show that the fairytale character has been spray painted with signs equating a Z with a swastika.
Despite the refusal of the Danish police to believe the radical feminists, the Little Mermaid statue has been a site of many political protests of varying stripes.
In 2003 - in what was believed to be a protest against the Iraq war - the statue was removed from her plinth and onlookers found her floating in the harbour. Just a few years later a Burqa was placed on her in what was interpreted as a protest against Turkey joining the EU.
Commissioned in 1909 the statue was made by sculptor Edvard Eriksen and was presented to the city four years later. The character rested peacefully on her rock-like plinth through two World Wars until 1964.
In 2017 the Little Mermaid was covered in blue and white paint in a protest against whaling, and in January 2020 Free Hong Kong was scrawled across the statue.
It may be that this latest defacement is just one in a long line of political statements that the mermaid has attracted, and its difficult to think that Hans Christian Andersen saw this coming when he was penning childrens stories.
