Gazprom Whats behind Russias natural gas cut off and how will it affect the UK
20220427
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/newslondon/gazprom-what-s-behind-russia-s-natural-gas-cutoff-and-how-will-it-affect-the-uk/ar-AAWFwke
The decision followed Polands announcement it was imposing sanctions on 50 entities and individuals, including Gazprom, Russias biggest gas company.
Britain stands with Poland and it is important that we state that Putin must not be able to win, whatever desperate tactic he throws at this situation.
Poland and Bulgaria would be the first countries to have their gas cut off by Russia since Moscow started what it calls a military operation in Ukraine on February 24.
Polands Climate Minister Anna Moskwa said there was no need to draw gas from reserves and that gas to Polish customers wont be cut.
Register now for one of the Evening Standards newsletters. From a daily news briefing to Homes  Property insights, plus lifestyle, going out, offers and more. For the best stories in your inbox, click here.
Only a few Russian gas buyers, such as Hungary and Uniper, Germanys main importer of Russian gas, have said it would be possible to pay for future supplies under the scheme announced by Moscow without breaching EU sanctions.
He told the Commons: There are reports that have broken during this debate that Russia has cut the gas off to Poland.
We have been warning about this for a while but we will stand shoulder to shoulder with our Polish friends and allies, Raab told Sky News.
Labour shadow defence minister Luke Pollard said reports Russia has cut the gas off to Poland are a serious and dangerous escalation.
Russias energy giant Gazprom has told Poland and Bulgaria it will halt gas supplies beginning Wednesday.
This is a serious and dangerous escalation that illustrates the desperation of the Kremlin and the urgent need for Europe to move away from its reliance on Russian oil and gas.
It halting gas supply will have a  very damaging effect on Russia as well because it is becoming further and further, more and more, not just a political pariah, but an economic pariah.
Russian energy company Gazprom on Wednesday halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland as they had failed to pay in roubles.
There are no gas pipelines directly linking the UK with Russia and imports from Russia made up less than of 4 per cent total UK gas supply in 2021, the British Government said.
They would have to open accounts at Gazprombank and make payments in euros or dollars to be converted into roubles.
In a statement, Gazprom said it had completely suspended gas supplies to Bulgargaz Bulgaria and PGNiG Poland and further warned that transit via Poland and Bulgaria would be cut if gas was taken illegally.
Flows from other directions will replace Gazproms supplies, Polands Minister in Charge of Energy Security Piotr Naimski said, adding that the Yamal contract was meant to end in December anyways.
Russias decision to cut off gas supply to Poland will only add to its status as an economic and political pariah, Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab said on Wednesday.
The EU paying 200 million to 800 million euros $880 million per day so far this year.
Europeans can trust that we stand united and in solidarity with the Member States impacted.
In March, Russian President Vladimir Putin said the worlds largest natural gas producer would require unfriendly countries to pay for fuel in roubles.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Russias action was unjustified and unacceptable and accused Moscow of using its gas as an instrument of blackmail.
