Get a boost
20220329
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/get-a-boost/ar-AAVDJGX
President Joe Biden has yet to act on a key campaign promise to cancel at least $10,000 of each Americans student debt.But its not clear whethera bill to forgive student loans would pass Congress as Democrats are working with thin margins in the House and a split Senate. The Biden administration has given some relief by extending the freeze on student loan repayments through May 1. The White House has indicated another extension is likely, but progressive advocates say even that is notenough to overhaul the vast burden of debtso many Americans bear.Pressure on Bidento forgivestudent loans is expected to mount ahead of the midterm elections in November.
The Food and Drug Administration OK'd asecond COVID-19 boosterfor people 50 years old or older. Ukraine and Russia began talks today in Turkey. What is  or isn't  informer President Donald Trumps phone logs?
Russia and Ukraine commenced face-to-face talksTuesday as the United Nations pushed for a cease-fire in Russias deadly invasion. The talks occurred in the Turkish presidential office in Istanbul and lasted more than three hours,Russian media reported. Russian officials said Tuesday that the Russian military had drastically cut back activity near the Ukraine capital of Kyiv as talks entered the practical stage. The reductions in military actions were meant to foster trust and further negotiations, Russian officials said, while the Ukrainian delegation presented a new system of security guarantees. Russias chief negotiator said a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenksyy could occur as soon as a framework for a peace deal is established.
But first,how stressed are you? A new report suggests the state where you live might have to do with how much you worry. Louisiana had the highest stress rates, while Utah hadthe lowest.
The Short List is free, but several stories we link toare subscriber-only. Consider supportingour journalism andbecome a USA TODAY digital subscriber today.
This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. Want this news roundup in your inbox every night?Sign up for The Short List newsletter here.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
The special House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol received former President Donald Trumps phone log from that day  but the records show a gap of more than seven hours, according to reports. The lag in phone activity specifically occurs during the period of time during which the Capitol was ambushed, leaving the committee with no documentation of the former presidents calls during the attack. The National Archives provided the records to the committee earlier this year, and the investigators are determining whether Trump used burner phones or aides phones amid the attack. A spokesperson for the former president said he had nothing to do with the records.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
Part of a highway in Pennsylvania remained closed Tuesday as cleanup efforts continued following a deadly pileup. More than 50 vehicles were involved in the crash on Interstate 81 Monday that killed at least three people and injured dozens moreabout 100 miles northwest of Philadelphia. One local official told USA TODAY the collision was probably the most significant crash on I-81 in years. Police said the cause of the crash was unclear, but the highway was already covered in snow when a snow squall, or sudden heavy snowfall, came through and hampered visibility. As road conditions rapidly worsened, the blockage sent cars and trailers spinning out of control. Three tractor trailers caught fire and at least two other small fires were reported. Flames and snowy conditions made it difficult for emergency personnel to reach the scene.
The Short List is a snappy USA TODAY news roundup.Subscribe to the newsletter hereortext messages here.
The Food and Drug Administration said Tuesday that people ages 50 and up are eligible to get a second booster shot of the COVID-19 vaccine at least four months after their first booster. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has to approve the additional booster dose before it becomes available, and its not yet clear how soon that may happen. FDA officials said analysis of recent data shows a second booster of either the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna vaccines improves protection against severe COVID-19, although some experts question the necessity of a fourth dose.Whether or not to get another booster shot is up to individuals and should be calculated based onage, health status and the state of the pandemic, experts said.
