Ghost drones helicopters and howitzers Heres a look at the weapons the US is sending Ukraine
20220422
https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/companies/ghost-drones-helicopters-and-howitzers-heres-a-look-at-the-weapons-the-us-is-sending-ukraine/ar-AAWuWuN
High on the wishlists of Ukrainian forces are the Javelin portable anti-armor weapons. To date, the U.S. has transferred nearly 6,000 Javelins, which are co-produced by defense giants Lockheed Martin and Raytheon, to the Ukrainian government.
Ferguson: The Fed's focus should be on the labor market, that's where the risk is
The Pentagon confirmed that Ukraine forces will have to train alongside U.S. troops before operating the howitzers. The Pentagon said earlier this week that the training had already begun and was taking place in a location outside of Ukraine but in the region.
The U.S. has also committed at least 300 Switchblade drones manufactured by U.S.-based firm AeroVironment. There are two variants of the weapon, the Switchblade 300 and the 600. It was not immediately clear which version the U.S. deployed to Ukraine.
A hard landing will change public policy and turn stock outlooks, says economist Hugh Johnson
The U.S. has also included medical supplies as well as equipment used to aid in combat evacuations. In addition, hundreds of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear protective equipment have also left U.S. stockpiles for Ukraine.
A ban on TikTok is more likely as bipartisan support grows, says Platformer's Casey Newton
The drones are manufactured by Aevex Aerospace in Solana Beach, Calif., and are currently in the U.S. Air Force arsenal. Once the drones are in the region, U.S. troops will have to train Ukrainian forces on how to operate them, Kirby told reporters during a daily press briefing. He did not provide a timeline for when the drones would arrive in the region.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Thursday that the drones were "rapidly developed by the Air Force, in response, specifically to Ukrainian requirements."
The Pentagon has sent nearly 40 million rounds of small arms ammunition and more than 5,000 rifles, 1,000 pistols, 400 machine guns and 400 shotguns to Ukraine.
The U.S. military has also committed 10 of the highly mobile ANTPQ-36 counter-artillery radars. This radar system is capable of locating mortars, artillery and rockets within a short-range.
Two Raytheon ANMPQ-64 Sentinel air surveillance radars have also joined the fight in Ukraine. The Sentinel system is designed to alert front-line air-defense weapons whenever it catches a glimpse of hostile planes, helicopters, drones or missiles.
Here's a look at the weapons the U.S. has committed to the fight thus far.
The U.S. has agreed to send at least 11 Mi-17 Russian military helicopters that were once slated to join Afghanistan's military fleet before the stunning Taliban takeover of the country.
WASHINGTON From heavy artillery to tactical drones to armored vehicles, the U.S. has provided $3.4 billion in weapons to Ukraine since Russia's invasion two months ago.
Included in the latest security package, are 121 tactical unmanned aerial systems dubbed "Phoenix Ghost" drones.
China's new foreign minister says relations with U.S. have 'entirely deviated' from a rational path
In addition, the U.S. has committed nearly 2,000 Stinger anti-aircraft missile systems to Ukraine, 6,000 portable AT-4 anti-armor systems as well as other laser-guided rocket systems.
The 300 variant is designed to strike small targets. It can fit in a rucksack, weighs a little over 5 pounds and has a range of 10 miles. The 600 version of the weapon is designed to destroy tanks and other armored vehicles. It weighs slightly more than 120 pounds and has a range of more than 40 miles.
Some buildings post-pandemic are 'not going to be competitive as office buildings anymore' says RXR's Rechler
The last two U.S. weapons packages for Ukraine have included a total of 90 howitzer artillerysystems. These are the first-known heavy artillery platforms to be transferred from U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps stockpiles to Ukrainian forces.
The Mi-17s are personnel transport helicopters that can be armed with cannons and rockets, to perform attack or close air support roles.
The U.S. has committed hundreds of armored vehicles to Ukrainian forces, including 200 M113 armored vehicles and 100 armored high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles.
French pension reform bill won't face backlash in parliament, but will among the population, professor says
In addition, the U.S. has also equipped Ukrainian troops with night vision devices, thermal imagery systems and other forms of militarized optics.
The U.S. military has also allocated at least 72 tactical vehicles for the purpose of towing U.S Army and U.S. Marine Corps 155mm howitzers around the battlefield.
To date, the U.S. has sent more than 30,000 sets of body armor and helmets to Ukrainian forces, according to figures provided by the Pentagon.
The latest military aid package of $800 million, which is the eighth installment of aid, comes after eight weeks of war and as Russian forces prepare for a renewed fight in the east and south of Ukraine.
"It provides similar capabilities to the Switchblade series of unmanned systems, similar capabilities but not exact. There are other differences in the scope of capability for the Phoenix Ghosts, but I'm just not going to be able to get into more detail about those capabilities right now," Kirby said.
