Heres How Putin Is Squeezing Europe by the Balls
20220711
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/here-s-how-putin-is-squeezing-europe-by-the-balls/ar-AAZrQaL
Repairs on the Nord Stream 1 pipelinewhich carries 55 billion cubic meters of gas each year from Russia across the Baltic Sea into Germanyare expected to give the Kremlin an opportunity to show just how reliant Europe is on Russian gas. An extended closure will undoubtedly also underscore the hypocrisy of sanctionswhich exempt Russian gasthat have for the most part meant Russia is actually earning more on fuel exports than in the last decade.
French pension reform bill won't face backlash in parliament, but will among the population, professor says
Canada, which has not yet returned a Nord Stream turbine it was repairing before Russias invasion, angered Ukraine over the weekend when it said it would exempt the repair and return it to help keep Europes gas online. Jonathan Wilkinson, Canadas minister of natural resources, said over the weekend that it issued a time-limited and revocable permit to return the turbine to further bolster Europes ability to access reliable and affordable energy as they continue to transition away from Russian oil and gas. Ukraines defense minister on Sunday condemned the decision to return the turbine, saying Canada is adjusting the sanctions regime to the whims of Russia.
China's new foreign minister says relations with U.S. have 'entirely deviated' from a rational path
Ferguson: The Fed's focus should be on the labor market, that's where the risk is
Russias Gazprom also suddenly reduced gas flow by a third into Italy on Monday, citing unplanned repair work, which means one of the backup pipelines for Nord Streams scheduled maintenance is also drying up.
Some buildings post-pandemic are 'not going to be competitive as office buildings anymore' says RXR's Rechler
The spigot on Europes largest gas pipeline funneling Russian gas into the bloc closed at 6 a.m. Monday for a ten-day maintenance, and almost no one believes it will be turned back on as scheduled.
A hard landing will change public policy and turn stock outlooks, says economist Hugh Johnson
Energy experts across Europe have warned for weeks that sanctions give the Kremlin incentive to further weaponize Europes unbalanced dependence on Russian fuel. The blocs largest importers Germany and Italy have launched plans to reduce their dependence on Russian gas, but neither country can effectively do so before 2023.
All eyes will be on the Nord Stream pipeline on July 21 when it is supposed to come back online, but Germanys economy minister Robert Habeck said they were preparing for the possibility that Russia will find excuses to keep the flow stopped. We are confronted by an unprecedented situation, he said over the weekend. Anything is possible.
The summer gas flows are largely used to fill reservoirs for the winter months, which were depleted after Russia reduced exports when the war in Ukraine broke out. Russia also cut off Poland, Bulgaria, Finland and the Netherlands entirely after those countries refused to pay for the gas in rubles.
A ban on TikTok is more likely as bipartisan support grows, says Platformer's Casey Newton
