Here are the eight Republicans who voted against ending normal trade relations with Russia
20220318
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/here-are-the-eight-republicans-who-voted-against-ending-normal-trade-relations-with-russia/ar-AAVf9bf
The eight were on the other end of a lopsided 424-8 vote to punish Moscow with the removal of normal trade relations. The legislation would raise tariffs on imports from Russia and Belarus, which has backed Moscow's bombardment of Ukraine.
"If we truly care about suffering and death on our television screens, we cannot fund more of it by sending money and weaponry to Ukraine to fight a war they cannot possibly win," she said. "The only effect, more arms and more money from America will be to prolong the war and magnify human suffering."
Greene, in a video posted online, said she couldn't support the U.S. intervention in the war because Americans have more pressing issues.
The eight GOP "no" votes were Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene Ga., Matt Gaetz Fla., Lauren Boebert Colo., Thomas Massie Ky., Andy Biggs Ariz., Dan Bishop N.C., Glenn Grothman Wis. and Chip Roy Texas.
The vote came just after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made a virtual plea to Congress for more assistance, as thousands have died in the ongoing war.
Eight Republicans voted against legislation to revoke normal trade relations with Russia over its invasion of Ukraine in a Thursday vote.
Massie said on Twitter that he thought the legislation granted too much power to the president to sanction other countries.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
"All we're hearing is potential war with Russia over Ukraine," she said on the House floor. "Ukraine is not a NATO member ally and President Biden had told them we would only be standing with our NATO member allies."
It would also give President Biden power to impose even stricter taxes on their goods.
"Why should Americans have to pay the costs for freedom elsewhere when our own leaders won't stand up for our freedom here?" Gaetz said during the Conservative Political Action Conference in Orlando, Fla.
All eight Republicans in the House who voted against the anti-war measure have made it a point to stand out in the far-right wing of the GOP and have been holding tight to former President Trump as he plots a potential run for president in 2024.
