Hong Kong should keep faith in rule of law despite departure of judges
20220401
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/hong-kong-should-keep-faith-in-rule-of-law-despite-departure-of-judges/ar-AAVJDdi
The question of whether foreign judges will stay has been the subject of debate since Beijing passed the national security law in 2020.
Robert Reed, president of the UK's Supreme Court, in announcing his resignation and that of his deputy Patrick Hodge, stated: "The courts in Hong Kong continue to be internationally respected for their commitment to the rule of law."
Reed and Hodge have faced a campaign from British politicians for them to withdraw and their decision was made "in agreement with the British government".
But this should not mark the end of foreign judges in Hong Kong. There are still 10 retired judges, from Britain, Australia and Canada, on the top court's list. They will, no doubt, come under pressure to withdraw now. But it is to be hoped they will stay.
Who is Iman Vellani, Marvels first Muslim superhero? Disneys Ms. Marvel is set to star alongside Brie Larson in The Marvels too  but her fave superhero is actually Iron Man
Beijing's agreement was seen as a sign of its commitment to Hong Kong's common law system. That commitment was recently affirmed by senior official Xia Baolong.
The presence of overseas judges on the Court of Final Appeal is a key feature of arrangements Britain and China put in place for the 1997 handover. It is underpinned by the Basic Law, the city's mini-constitution.
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with SCMP Knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.
But the role of eminent judges from overseas is unique. They are leading figures in the legal world and have helped build the reputation of the court.
The presence of foreign judges is not part of the problem, but it might be part of the solution. They have a valuable role to play in helping ensure the courts decide cases fairly, protect rights and keep the city in step with the common law world. Long may that continue.
Britain's withdrawal of two leading judges from Hong Kong's top court marks the end of an era. Judges from the United Kingdom have served with distinction in the city for almost 25 years.
The decision has also needlessly provoked Beijing at a time when the West is seeking its support over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Their departure is a cause of sadness and regret. This drastic move was driven by politics rather than legal considerations, and it will not help the city's independent judiciary or rule of law and may be counterproductive.
That vote of confidence in the judiciary should be noted. He said the resignations were, instead, driven by a concern the judges' presence appeared to endorse an administration he believes to have departed from values of political freedom and free expression.
Hong Kong's legal system would not collapse without them. As former chief justice Andrew Li Kwok-nang, who signed the 1997 agreement with Britain, has pointed out, the city has its own talented judges and high standards will be maintained.
Hong Kongs political, legal system has deteriorated beyond acceptable point for British judges to serve in top court: UK foreign minister
This article originally appeared on the South China Morning Post www.scmp.com, the leading news media reporting on China and Asia.
The move has been condemned by officials. The Bar Association and Law Society have expressed their regret. It is a blow to the city's legal community, which welcomes the presence of overseas judges.
