How Kaliningrad Russian land ringed by NATO is tangled in Ukraine war
20220622
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/newsworld/how-kaliningrad-russian-land-ringed-by-nato-is-tangled-in-ukraine-war/ar-AAYGSue
Tension along the Suwalki Gap, named after a nearby Polish village, flared in 2016 when NATO defense ministers decided to send 4,000 troops to Poland and the Baltic countries, with many on either side of the gap. On the same day, Russia kicked off a week-long military exercise.
The Russian Baltic Sea Fleet is headquartered in Kaliningrad, and the Kremlin has placed nuclear weapons in the exclave, according to Lithuania. Moscow announced in spring it had carried out simulated launches of its nuclear-capable Iskander missile system there.
The three Baltic states were once ruled by Moscow, but they rushed into NATO after the end of the Cold War. They are concerned that the war could broaden and that an emboldened Russia might try to seize a strategically key stretch of land along the Polish-Lithuanian border. The roughly 40-mile Suwalki Gap connects Kaliningrad to the Russian client state of Belarus, and Kremlin control could deny the Baltic nations a land corridor to the rest of NATO.
Heres what to know about this Russian exclave and how it is tangled up in the war in Ukraine.
The Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, hundreds of miles west of the rest of the country, is the latest flash point between Moscow and the rest of Europe as the fallout from Russian President Vladimir Putins war reverberates beyond Ukraine.
Kaliningrad is strategically and militarily important to Russia. It has long been referred to as the Kremlins unsinkable aircraft carrier on the Baltic Sea, where weapons can be positioned within easy striking distance of Western Europe.
The rhetoric today is sharp and uncompromising. The Lithuanians interpret the situation as Russia is threatening Lithuania with war,  Alikhanov said. As if they did not start this round.
LTG told The Washington Post that land transit between Kaliningrad and other Russian territory is not suspended or banned because flows of passengers and cargo that are not subject to E.U sanctions would continue.
Given its geography, Kaliningrad had relatively close economic ties with European states in the years after the collapse of the Soviet Union. But relations have faded during Putins tenure, particularly after Russias 2014 attack on Ukraine and annexation of Crimea drew E.U. sanctions and condemnation.
Sandwiched between Lithuania and Poland  both of which are European Union and NATO members  Kaliningrad sits on the southern coast of the Baltic Sea. It receives much of its supplies via routes through Lithuania and Belarus.
After the Cold War, Kaliningrad was envisioned as a Baltic Hong Kong. It operates as a special economic zone with low taxes and almost no import duties to stimulate investment, although the economy has faltered, particularly after Western sanctions were first imposed.
Formerly known as Knigsberg, Kaliningrad was part of Germany until the Red Army seized control of it from the Nazis in 1945. It was ceded to the Soviet Union after the war in Europe ended. The city and seaport is now an exclave of the Russian Federation, detached by land from the rest of Russia.
Russia renamed the city Kaliningrad in 1946, and the German population was evicted, with the city resettled by people from Russia and Belarus. It was closed to foreigners until 1991.
The three Baltic states  Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia  are among Ukraines loudest supporters. Lithuanian state rail operator LTG said Friday the company would no longer allow Russian goods sanctioned by the E.U. to transit through Lithuanian territory. According to Kaliningrad Gov. Anton Alikhanov, around half the items imported by his region would be affected. The exclave still has maritime connections to Russia.
The rail operators decision went into effect Saturday. While stores and gas stations in Kaliningrad are stocked, people rushed to building supply stores because construction materials are now prohibited from railway transport, Alikhanov wrote on Telegram on Monday. Goods including fuel and cement could still be shipped to Kaliningrad from Russia by sea, he added.
Where Will Prince Harry Stay in the UK Now That Frogmore Cottage Is Not an Option
Lithuania said in mid-June that it would bar the transit through its territory of Kaliningrad-bound goods sanctioned by the E.U., including coal, metals and construction materials. The Kremlin called the move unprecedented and illegal and summoned the European Unions top diplomat in Moscow to complain. Nikolai Patrushev, the secretary of the Russian Security Council, said the response would have a serious impact on the Lithuanian people.
