How foreign fighters may further complicate RussiaUkraine war
20220325
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/how-foreign-fighters-may-further-complicate-russia-ukraine-war/ar-AAVtPHf
On February 27, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for foreign volunteers to join Ukraine's forces and, the next day, waved visas for men who could apply based on details on a government website. But there are fears that many have joined the war without following the due process as some countries, including the UK, have warned their citizens fighting in Ukraine could be prosecuted under anti-terror legislation.
Kyiv has said Moscow is using members of the notoriously private security company the Wagner Group in the war. Zelenskyy has been accusing the Wagner Group of fighting at Kremlin's behest in eastern Ukraine's Luhansk and Donetsk even before the invasion. Like the Chechens, the Wagner Group has also fought in Putin's earlier wars.
According to multiple estimates, thousands of foreigners may be fighting Russia's forces in Ukraine, though there is no independent verification as in the case of Russia's claims. Some experts say these numbers are also part of a PR exercise.
Paid foreign fighters don't bother about the rules of conventional warfare and military structures. They operate with impunity, are more destructive as many don't take assigned duties from commanders on the ground. Their movement and actions, primarily urban guerrilla tactics, are challenging to control for conventional militaries.
Russia wants Ukraine to acknowledge Crimea that Putin annexed in 2014 in response to Ukrainians ousting their pro-Russian president through mass protests as Russian territory, and recognise Donetsk and Lugansk, controlled by Putin-backed rebels, as independent states.
Russia has indicated that these fighters are coming from Putin's ally Syria where a large number of men are eager to freelance because of the country's shattered economic condition after 11 years of war. 
On the other hand, quite a few don't have training or fighting experience and cannot speak the local language. This might lead to them being captured and executed. The Geneva Convention does not protect paid foreign fighters.
Even if it wasn't likely to be an in-and-out invasion, many believe a month later that things haven't gone as planned. So, mounting casualties and costs are a decisive factor for Putin to hire freelancers. Foreign fighters come cheap and hardly mean any accountability.
ALSO READ  Rishi Sunak, UK's Indian-origin minister, grilled over wife's Infosys link with Russi
What's also important is that it's difficult to demobilise and pull out such unstructured forces even after the actual war is over, as they often resort to blackmailing to squeeze out that much more from whoever gets to control the conflict zone. The presence of foreign fighters shows both Russia and Ukraine are bracing for a long haul.
ALSO READ  Ukrainian Army claims Russia wants to end war by May 9: Report
Putin's push to have foreign fighters was prompted by a similar Ukrainian move. But the decision seems to have been guided more by the fact that Russia's forces in Ukraine haven't been able to achieve the objectives as swiftly as expected because of stiff Ukrainian resistance, with weapons convoys from the West moving in via Poland.
ALSO READ  At arm's length: Why India is shying away from directly criticising Russia
Ramzan Kadyrov, president of Russia's Chechen Republic, has also announced that his forces are stationed in the battlefield. He has posted on social media updates and videos of Chechen soldiers involved in military and humanitarian operations in Ukrainian.
Chechen forces also participated in the 2008 war in Georgia, the first phase of the conflict in Ukraine in 2014-15, and the Syrian war. There are also opposing Chechen forces fighting for the Ukrainian side.
Let's first look at how calls were made for these forces to join the war that has led to the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II, with more than 3.6 million people having fled the country so far.
Ukraine had to make the call because the West has poured military and humanitarian aid for Zelenskyy to take on Russia's clearly superior military but so far avoided a direct conflict in the war. The reason: Ukraine is not a Nato member. But it wanted to be part of the US-dominated and Putin's rival military alliance that has expanded in eastern Europe by making many erstwhile Soviet constituents its member.
On March 11, Russia's President Vladimir Putin pushed a plan to recruit "eager foreign volunteer fighters" to join his forces in Ukraine. Russia's defence minister Sergei Shoigu said 16,000 troops were ready to assist Russia in Ukraine that Putin invaded on February 24 to "stop genocides" by Zelenskyy's regime backed externally by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Nato.
But this is not happening for the first time. The first modern war that witnessed high levels of participation of foreign fighters was the "anti-Soviet jihad" in Afghanistan in the 1980s. This happened again in Bosnia and Chechnya. Then a similar trend was seen in the Syrian war. And the world saw the complicatedly disastrous outcomes.
Also, using mercenaries helps because news and images of more and more dead soldiers can hurt Putin's image back home where protests against the war are already spiralling.
Several estimates from Kyiv and Moscow of foreign fighters joining the Russia-Ukraine war may be part of a PR exercise, experts have suggested. But their presence in the month-long conflict is established, and the numbers are growing. And this may make matters worse.
