I wanted to take off my skin Ukrainian women recount rape by Russian soldiers
20220812
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/i-wanted-to-take-off-my-skin-ukrainian-women-recount-rape-by-russian-soldiers/ar-AA10BIYk
Communication with residents inside Russian-occupied territories is extremely difficult, making the investigation and prosecution of these cases nearly impossible, Duchenko said.
The United Nations reported in June it had collected 124 reports of alleged acts of conflict-related sexual violence but qualified that number as "the tip of the iceberg" and added that it did "not reflect the scale of sexual violence in the context of Russia's war against Ukraine."
Two of the soldiers took the women to a house converted into headquarters for the Russian occupiers and raped them, they say.
"I wanted to take off my skin and throw it away," Victoria says. "The person I was before the war is no longer there. I became more aggressive. I began to fight more for my own."
In June, Ukrainian authorities said they opened the first trial on sexual violence committed by a Russian soldier, according to the Kyiv Post. The suspect will be tried in absentia.
"We know she is alive and that she had medical treatment and those details are all we've got," Duchenko said on the limited information in the case in Zaporizhzhia.
Duchenko's office says it is working on prosecuting two other cases of sexual violence committed by Russian soldiers in addition to the case opened in June. The suspects will also be tried in absentia, since they are not in Ukrainian custody.
The two Russian soldiers the women say raped them have not yet been identified but face international arrest warrants, according to Kateryna Duchenko, the Ukrainian prosecutor in charge of sexual violence cases committed by Russian soldiers. Both cases are being investigated with slim chances of the suspects being taken under custody or doing any prison time, she said.
Victoria, a 42-year-old Ukrainian woman, told ABC News she and another woman, a neighbor, were raped by two of the Russian soldiers occupying her village near Kyiv in March.
"He looked at me and said, 'You see, our boys have had a drink and want to have fun,'" Victoria recounts. "I understood that something terrible would happen."
"Many people have asked me, why aren't you crying, why haven't you gone crazy?" she said.
ABC News spoke to the two women who agreed to talk about what they say happened to them, on condition that their location and last names not be revealed.
"He says, 'do you want everything to be fine with your son? So get upstairs and do as I tell you,'" Natalya recalled, describing her encounter with one of the Russian soldiers she says raped her. "He was like an animalAnd that rifle was hanging around and swinging."
"The last case we identified was in occupied territory of Zaporizhzhia region, where allegedly 10 Russian soldiers raped a woman," Duchenko said.
The three Russian soldiers arrived at Victoria's house claiming they needed to seize her cell phone. But they weren't looking for phones.
Natalya says she later learned the soldiers killed her husband after she was taken away. Its unclear how many soldiers or which ones were involved in the killing. The family buried her husband the next day.
Victoria and Natalya say they are now undergoing counseling with a psychologist about their trauma.
Stories of rape and other atrocities at the hands of Russian troops are not unheard of in small towns and suburbs of Kyiv. Residents of Bucha and Borodyanka have reported human rights violations including rape, murder and torture by Russian forces during the invasion.
Another soldier, a commanding officer who was not involved in the assault, threatened Victoria, she says.
