Inside Ukraines underground city No showers no sunlight and no peace from Putins rockets
20220421
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/australia/inside-ukraine-s-underground-city-no-showers-no-sunlight-and-no-peace-from-putin-s-rockets/ar-AAWsFv7
"Where should we run? She doesn't walk. I can't go abroad with her, so I only pray for peace," Alla Oleksiivna told the ABC.
Once it was safe to load the wounded into ambulances and evacuate, he drove with the Red Cross onward to its destination: Adevastated neighbourhood near Heroiv Pratsi Station in which scores of tenants were holed up in public housing.
"As we ran here, they were shelling right above our heads. It was very frightening."
Now the fate of the city and the ambitions of Russian President Vladimir Putin are in the hands oftroops positioned just outside Kharkiv.
Even with a war raging above them, seven-year-old Veronika Voronkina and her mother Natalia keep up with maths lessons.
Once he reached the neighbourhood, a cool Denis Potrenko calmed down desperate residents pleading for food.
"Most of the people who are left are in poverty and are holed up in basements or hiding in their still-intact flats," he said.
"She's scared of course, and her seizures have become more frequent. She has five to seven a day," MsOleksiivna said of her daughter.
"But we don't give up hope. Whatever time we have left, we support her and hope for the better."
The new offensive is his latest brutal gamble aftertheembarrassing defeat by an outnumbered Ukrainian army three weeks ago of Russian forces fighting to seize the capital,Kyiv.
These days, they calculate sums underground at aportable tablein a dark subway carriageparked ina metro station in Ukraine's second-biggest city, Kharkiv.
En route through downtown Kharkiv, missiles struck a building just blocks ahead of the Red Cross team, sending out a cloud of black smoke.
As Russia and Ukraine engage in a new grinding battle of attrition, this could be childhood in Kharkiv for a very long time.
It was one of a series of indiscriminate attacks that caused scores of civilian casualties in days of intensifying shelling on downtown Kharkiv.
They are trapped by the persistent Russian attacks, which are worsening Viktoria's condition, according to her mother.
"We stay close because all of a sudden there are explosions again and panic," she said.
"The people left in Kharkiv were already the most vulnerable people," saidMr Lebediev, a 24-year-old political scientist who now witnesses daily horrors.
The lucky few live in tiny tents for privacy or inside the subway cars, where blankets hang as walls from railings, which double as drying racks for clothes.
The Red Cross team gave first aid while soldiers and paramedics arrived, but then several deafening roars signalled a second round of shelling.
Heroiv Pratsi Station, near the heavily hit northern Kharkiv suburb of Saltivka, is packed around the clock, but there is no rush hour. The trains don't move anymore.
As soldiers, medics, the ABC and other media scrambled through a shattered shopfront window to take shelter, a lone Red Cross volunteer named Denis Potrenko braved the shelling to protect a wounded woman.
Natalia and Veronika share the station's stuffy, stale air with hundreds of families and the elderly, most of whom spend their days horizontal on mattresses in a grinding monotony on the platform.
Many on the platform are transfixed by their phones, their only contact with the outside world, other than a few minutes above ground each day for fresh air and some quiet, until it's punctured by the heart-stopping roars of shelling.
For now, all Alla and Viktoria can do is wait in their flat and hope nothing hurtles towards them through the air.
"We woke up from the sounds of explosions, quickly got ready, took our documents, our cat, and ran to the metro station," Natalia Voronkina told the ABC.
"We hear this every day, throughout the day," Liudmyla Borysivna, 74, told the ABC after hiding in the doorway.
"When we hear it far away, we don't run. When we hear it right here, flying above our heads, then we hide."
"It's hard for them to reach anyone because it's dangerous to move through the streets. They are constantly shelled," he said.
Mr Potrenko attempted to shield the woman, as he yelled to the wounded man out of reach to stay down, while soldiers ran past them to take shelter.
Each day, his father braves shelling and air strikes to bring the boy and his mother food.
The booms were a common occurrence for these locals, already war-weary after just eight weeks.
The residents are among hundreds of thousands of civilians who remain in Kharkiv in an increasingly catastrophic humanitarian situation, according to local Red Cross coordinator Oleksander Lebediev.
Most live on mattresses on the small patches of platform space they have staked as theirs, beside their most treasured belongings and pets.
Now Vladimir Putin wants Kharkiv as a prize in his attempt to capture eastern Ukraine.
The attack was a so-called double tap: Asecond hit just minutes after the first, putting first responders at significant risk of harm.
The ABC joined them as they found a man and woman bleeding on the ground, surrounded by shattered glass.
Families have set up makeshift homes in the darkness of its carriages. Their walls are blankets hung from railings, which double as drying racks for clothes.
"Most are too old or sick to move somewhere else or too attached to their families, so they have to stay in a very dangerous area.
Ms Oleksiivna sharesthe apartment with herdaughter Viktoria, 46, a former children's librarian who canno longer walk or talk due to a severe, degenerative form of epilepsy.
The ABC followed a local Red Cross team on an urgent mission to deliver food to scores of tenants stuck in a public housing block amid the relentless, earth-shuddering booms of shelling nearby.
The lucky few live in tiny tents for privacy, or inside a train that sits parked at the platform.
He said it was "impossible" to establish evacuation routes for residents close to the frontline.
Within hours, as the vision of Mr Potrenko's heroism went viral on Twitter, the young Red Cross medic pushed on with his duties.
"It's hard to clean your body. I can wash my head in the sink at the station, but not my body."
A 480-kilometre front line that stretches south of Kharkiv through eastern Ukraine could change the course of this war.
Until recently, it was a youthful and picturesque university city and cultural hub with gleaming gold-domed churches and a population of 1.4 million.
MsVoronkina takes her daughter above ground occasionally to get some fresh air, but the possibility of shelling always looms.
Bodies of civilians liein the streets of neighbourhoods where residents are trapped without power and running water, and with little food.
