Israeli prime minister rejects Zelensky comparison of Russias invasion to Nazi genocide
20220321
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/israeli-prime-minister-rejects-zelensky-comparison-of-russia-s-invasion-to-nazi-genocide/ar-AAVjXqg
"We will continue to assist the Ukrainian people as much as we can and we will never turn our backs to the plight of people who know the horrors of war," Lapid said.
Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid said after Zelensky's speech that it will not become a "route to bypass sanctions imposed on Russia by the United States and other Western countries."
Russian President Vladimir Putin has attempted to justify his invasion by saying that Moscow must intervene to "denazify" Ukraine.
Video: Ukrainian President Zelenskyy speaks with press as Russian invasion enters second week FOX News
While the country has delivered aid to Ukraine, it has rejected requests to provide arms or impose sanctions against Russia or its oligarchs, The Associated Press noted.
He also asked Israel to send its Iron Dome missile defense system to Ukraine to help protect its citizens from Russian shelling that has devastated parts of the country.
"Why has Israel refrained from sanctions on Russia? Israel needs to give answers to these questions and after that, live with them," Zelensky said.
Israel's government has remained cautious as it tries to serve as mediator in the Russia-Ukraine war.
His comments came a day after the Ukrainian president, who is also Jewish, implored Israeli lawmakers to step up efforts to help his country fight back against Russia.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett rejected Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's comparison of the Russian invasion to the Nazi genocide.
When asked at a Monday news conference to react to Zelensky's comments, Bennett said that he understood that Zelensky is "a leader who is fighting for the life of his country" but that "I personally believe that it is forbidden to equate the Holocaust to anything," Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported.
Zelensky suggested on Sunday that Jerusalem could be the site of future peace talks with Russia.
"There's still a long way to go, because ... there are several issues in dispute, some of them fundamental," Bennet said during a speech, according to Reuters.
