John Ivison Ottawas bureaucratic machine wants a vacation Ukraine still needs us
20220707
https://www.msn.com/en-ca/news/world/john-ivison-ottawas-bureaucratic-machine-wants-to-take-a-vacation-but-ukraine-still-needs-us/ar-AAZkIXx
There seems to be a sense in government that Canada has done its bit and can now rest on its laurels.
However, that is all in the future. The most immediate concern is winning the battle on the ground.
For Kovaliv, who was Zelenskyys deputy head of office before arriving in Canada in late March, it is as much about timing. She is currently involved in discussions on getting the 39 General Dynamics Land Systems armoured vehicles to Ukraine before Ottawa effectively closes down for the summer. Timing is crucial for us, she said. If it comes by the year end I would not say it is unacceptable but it is less useful. We need to hold the line today and tomorrow.
Something needs to be done urgently because if it is not done within the next few months, the harvest will be left in the fields and many countries will suffer a lack of food supply, said Kovaliv.
Another urgent need is to move some of the 20 million tonnes of cereals and oilseed being held in storage before this years harvest is brought in. Ukraine is one of the top five global grain exporters but has found ports on the Black Sea blockaded by the Russians. It was able to export about 18 million tonnes by road, river and rail, but within months there will be an additional 60 million tonnes and only two thirds of its granary capacity is available. This is not just an economic crisis for Ukraine  36 out of 55 countries with food security problems rely on Ukraine and Russia for more than 10 per cent of their wheat imports.
As an example of the maliciousness of the Russian invaders, the ambassador cited the fact that 90 per cent of Ukraines wind farms have been destroyed and solar farms were stolen to denude a renewable energy source and keep Ukraine dependent on Russian fossil fuels.
Yulia Kovaliv, Ukraines new ambassador to Canada, is not a career diplomat but she is learning quickly. She said she is grateful for the military and humanitarian support extended to her embattled country. But she noted that the war in Ukraine will not take a vacation  unlike the bureaucracy in Ottawa.
We have the support of people throughout the world. But people have a quicker response than the bureaucracy. They feel the war is today and the bureaucratic machine needs to feel this urgency, she said.
The message from Lugano was that Russia will pay for the destruction it has wrought. Kovaliv said Ukraine is grateful for the legislation that passed through the Canadian Parliament last month that granted new powers to seize and sell sanctioned Russian assets to fund reconstruction in Ukraine. Experts counsel that Canada may be on shaky legal ground but the U.K. and the European Commission say they are exploring similar moves.
The Ukrainian government said it needs $60 billion immediately to cover a $5 billion a month budget deficit and emergency infrastructure repairs to replace housing, roads, bridges and water mains destroyed by the Russians, before winter comes.
There is an urgent need for additional financing, for example, in the liberated territories around the capital, suburbs where bridges were destroyed, where the primary health-care system was destroyed  we need to quickly address these challenges just so the country can meet its basic needs, she said.
Jens Stoltenberg, NATOs secretary general, said at last months leaders summit in Madrid that the alliance would help Ukraine transition from Soviet-era equipment to modern NATO equipment, and strengthen its defence institutions. A strong, independent Ukraine is vital for the stability of the Euro-Atlantic area, he said.
That is not Kovalivs view. The scale of Ukraines needs were revealed at conference in Lugano, Switzerland, this week, where Volodymyr Zelenskyys government released a recovery plan that will require $750 billion over the next decade. Global development media platform Devex estimates $100 billion has already been committed by the international community, although that includes military contributions.
Kovaliv said Ukraine needs more military support, including from Canada. There have been media reports in South Korea that Canada is negotiating to buy 100,000 155mm artillery rounds, which would add several hundred million dollars to Canadas tab.
That did not satisfy President Zelenskyy, who offered a stinging rebuke in a video address. Has Ukraine not paid enough to join the alliance? he asked, rhetorically.
Defence Minister Anita Anand recently announced Canada will send 39 armoured combat support vehicles and six additional surveillance cameras for Bayraktar drones. That will exhaust the $500 million of military aid from the 2022 budget. In addition, Canada has provided around $1.8 billion in financial support  one of the biggest bilateral contributors of loans and humanitarian assistance.
In an interview at the embassy, Kovaliv noted a story from Lithuania, where a local journalist launched a                                     crowd-funding campaign to buy a Bayraktar TB2 drone                                     to donate to the war effort in Ukraine. The campaign raised US$6 million in a matter of days, persuading the Turkish manufacturer to provide it for free.
Longer term, housing costs are expected to take up around one third of the $750 billion, such has been the savage and indiscriminate nature of the Russian bombardment on civilian areas of Ukrainian cities. Mariupol does not exist in terms of availability to live there, said Kovaliv.
Sources on the front lines speak about the need to undertake risky reconnaissance missions on Russian positions because drones are being shot out of the sky quicker than they can be supplied. We cant wait for the ammo and the big guns, said Canadian Forces veteran, James Challice in an email. Timing is everything.
