Jordan Peterson Says Russian Invasion of Ukraine Fueled by Degenerate Wests Culture Wars
20220711
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/jordan-peterson-says-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-fueled-by-degenerate-west-s-culture-wars/ar-AAZsRYA
NBCs Ben Collins, added, The generous reading of what this guys up to recently is that hes getting a lot meaner and vicious.
Peterson then adds, To answer that question Ill turn to the analysis of a recent sequence of significant events in the U.S. with broader ramifications for the development of political thought in the West.
If in 2022 you still think of Jordan Peterson as an intellectual youre probably beyond the point of rational thought, but Russia needed to invade Ukraine to stop it from becoming trans is an amazing nail in the coffin.
Jordan Peterson wants people to think hes an expert on Ukraine, doesnt know basic geography. pic.twitter.com6AfZFNJIhK
The controversial best-selling author then went on a long rant against Joe Biden and his decision to nominate a Black woman to the Supreme Court.
If in 2022 you still think of Jordan Peterson as an intellectual youre probably beyond the point of rational thought, but Russia needed to invade Ukraine to stop it from becoming trans is an amazing nail in the coffin. https:t.coNDLCcW3QDG
And are we degenerate in a profoundly threatening manner? I think the answer to that may well be yes, Peterson begins in the clip.
2 To explain why Russia is attacking Ukraine, he goes on a long diatribe about Ketanji Brown Jackson. He complains about Biden looking for a black woman and that she wouldnt answer the question what is a woman. pic.twitter.comiELASsYJKC
The idea that we are ensconced in a culture war has become a rhetorical commonplace. How serious is that war? he then asks.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
His latest analysis claiming that Western culture wars have fueled Russian aggression was widely denounced online and he was called out for making multiple errors in his analysis.
Is it serious enough to increase the probability that Russia, say, will be motivated to invade and potentially incapacitate Ukraine merely to keep the pathological west out of that country, which is a key part of the historically Russian sphere of influence? Peterson then asks, setting up the topic for his Daily Wire podcast.
Jordan Peterson went viral on Monday for all the wrong reasons as he suggested on the latest episode of his podcast that Russia invaded Ukraine because the West is degenerate.
Peterson, who the Daily Wire hypes as one of the most important minds in history, has long stirred controversy for his opinions about the role of women in society and his claims of a crisis of masculinity in the West  which have won him many fans on the far-right.
I watched the most bizarre rant by Jordan Peterson about Putins invasion of Ukraine. Repeating what he says will kill brain cells, but a classic moment: He preens about his brilliance  sneers at others because they dont know about the Holomodor. Its Holodomor, Einstein.
Video: Jordan Peterson on why people have a 'responsibility to speak the truth' FOX News
Peterson, who in 2020 sought emergency drug detox treatment in Russia, was called out for mispronouncing the Holodomor, a Soviet-era famine that killed millions of Ukrainians in the 1930s, as Holomodor. He also appeared to flub the regions geography, apparently confusing the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea when discussing Ukraines energy reserves.
The generous reading of what this guys up to recently is that hes getting a lot meaner and vicious.
Hes part of a much larger far-right that is becoming more draconian and angry in the last year. Hes the only part of it who is on the endcaps at Barnes  Noble, though, Collins concluded.
Hes part of a much larger far-right that is becoming more draconian and angry in the last year. Hes the only part of it who is on the endcaps at Barnes  Noble, though. https:t.coWG7wJVDcKn
