Kiwi nurse heading to Ukraine as frontline medic undeterred by Arderns warning the Govt cant bring bodies home if they die
20220829
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/kiwi-nurse-heading-to-ukraine-as-frontline-medic-undeterred-by-ardern-s-warning-the-govt-can-t-bring-bodies-home-if-they-die/ar-AA11dwpV
"That is not something we are able to establish nor can we be certain that that will be possible," Ardern said.
"A combat nurse is just my lifelong dream. And now I have the opportunity to go over, so yeah, I'm going to take that opportunity," she told Newshub.
Homes evacuated in south Auckland after chemical truck fire, residents told to close windows, doors
New Zealand Defence Force soldier Dominic Abelen was killed fighting Russian forces while on unpaid leave in Ukraine. How or when his body will be recovered is unknown.
Ardern said the Government can't guarantee it can help in returning Kiwis' bodies home if they're killed, but Taylor is undeterred.
Shannon Taylor's career has taken her far from home. The 25-year-old nurse from Kawerau has volunteered in Tanzania and India - but she's never worked in a warzone.
The Prime Minister said she understands the urge of trained medics to go to Ukraine, but wants them to stay at home.
'Given me so much faith': Dai Henwood thanks Kiwis for 'outpouring of love' after revealing stage 4 bowel cancer diagnosis
"I don't feel overwhelmed by fear or anything. I have a lot of trust in my team over there who have been working hard for the last few months," Taylor said.
"Because the devastating issue for us is that should you need us, we can't get to you," she said.
She has managed to get insurance and said this is why she became a nurse.
When MFAT issues a "do not travel" warning, it means the Government cannot provide any support to a Kiwi in that country.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade MFAT, there are three Kiwis registered as being in Ukraine but the actual number is likely to be higher. It adds that it has no information on how many New Zealanders are fighting in Ukraine.
In two months she's travelling to Ukraine to work in a small team helping on the ground. She'll replace a Kiwi medic who was injured by artillery.
"If I did happen to not come home, then I will be at peace because I've done what I love to do," she said.
So while people may travel there with the best intentions, if they get into trouble, it puts the Government in an impossible position.
'I turned and ran': Muriwai firefighter says he only survived landslip because he was fetching shovel from truck
'I'm still Labour': Third senior public servant in the gun over political comments, admits not reading code of conduct
'It was our paradise': Esk Valley residents clearing silt out of written-off homes to help with grieving process
A New Zealand nurse who is heading to Ukraine to work as a medic on the frontline is undeterred by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern's warning that the Government can't help bring Kiwis' bodies home if they're killed.
