Kremlin set to run out of steam giving Kyiv chance to strike says MI6 chief
20220721
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-end-the-war-to-prevent-nuclear-abyss-warns-lukashenko/ar-AAZO4C7
The package will include 50,000 artillery shells,counter-battery radar systems and hundreds of dronesover the coming weeks, the defence secretary Ben Wallace said.
"This is not enough," he said. "And I frankly tell my partners about it. Russia must feel a much higher price for the war so that it forces it to seek peace."
"In those conflicts, the West had all the advantages, with air support and superior artillery," says Mamuka Mamulashvili, commander of the Georgian Legion, which has around 1,000 volunteer fighters supporting the Ukrainian army.
Boris Johnson, the Prime Minister,last month promised another 1 billion of military support to bolster Kyiv, bringing the UK's total to 2.3bn since the war broke out.
Ukraine's central bank kept its key interest rate unchanged at a seven-year-high of 25 per centon Thursday and raised its 2022 inflation forecast to more than 30 per cent.
Vladimir Putin is too healthy, CIA has said,dismissing media speculation that the Russian president is suffering from ill health.
The disruption linked to Russia's invasion ofUkraine has made the transition to renewable energy more urgent, Murton added.
That's it from us until the morning, so here's a summary of the latest developments.
Thursday's flows were back at that 40 per centcapacity level, Nord Stream figures showed, a day after Russian President Vladimir Putin warned that supplies could be cut further or even stop.
Peskov claimed that Russian state energy giant Gazprom was ready to "fulfil its responsibilities in full" but that Western sanctions "do not allow the repair of equipment" critical for its work.
Russia's military is likely to begin an operational pause in Ukraine in the coming weeks, giving Kyiv a key opportunity to strike back, the MI6 chief has revealed.
The Tory leadership hopeful told BBC Radio 4's Today programme she would not support sending UK troops to help combat Russian forces.
Colin Freemanmeets the war veterans from the ex-Soviet state of Georgia who are spearheading Ukraine's foreign volunteer force.
Belarus's president Alexander Lukashenko has claimed that the West wanted to start a conflict with Russia and "fomented this war" inUkraine.
"The enemy is firing chaotically and brutally at the city. Stay in shelters!" the governor, Oleg Synegubov, wrote on social media.
"We have seen the reasons for this war," he added. "If Russia had not got ahead of you, members of NATO, you would have organised and struck a blow against it."
The crisis has sent global food prices soaring and pushed millions of people in the world's poorest countries to the edge of starvation.
"It was very hot in Tehran yesterday, plus 38 degrees Celsius, and the air conditioning was very strong there. So I apologise," Putin, 69, was quoted as saying.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova says there hasbeen no contact with the United States over peace talks with Ukraine.
It warned that a long war with Russia was the key risk to its forecast.
The latest uplift comes a day after Vladimir Putin's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov warned that Russia would expand its troops furtherif the West continued to supply weapons.
On Wednesday, the minister said her government would oppose a European Union proposal to cut gas usage as the country does not depend on Russian gas after it has made efforts to invest in gas storage and gas liquefaction infrastructure in the past.
Three combat drones launched a massive strike on the territory of the Zaporizhzhia power station, said Vladimir Rogov, one of the occupation officials, estimating the payload of the drones to be equivalent to several kilos of TNT.
Mevlut Cavusoglu's comments come less than a day after Russian President Vladimir Putin set an unexpected new condition for resuming the blocked deliveries.
Sergei Lavrov said Russia was no longer focused only on eastern Ukraine and that Western military support for Kyiv had changed Moscows strategy.
This could include, for the first time, shipments of Nato-standard fighter jets as Ukrainian pilots continue to defy the odds and stay airborne in their fight against Russias invasion.
Europe's gas delivery problems were due to "technical difficulties" caused by economic sanctions, the Kremlin has said, as the Nord Stream pipeline reopened after maintenance but with a reduced flow.
Turkey's foreign minister says he is "optimistic" a deal canbe reached soon that addressesRussian concerns and allowed Ukrainian grain to flow across the Black Sea.
William Burns, director of the CIA, said there was no intelligence to suggest the Russian leader was sick.
He posted a video on Instagram from his office on Thursday after a Ukrainian media company said hackers had broadcast a false report about Zelensky's health on one of its radio stations following a cyber attack.
Ravaged by Russia's Feb24 invasion,Ukraine's economy fell by around 40 per centyear on year in the second quarter of this year, the central bank said, floating the possibility it could keep its key rate at 25 per centuntil the second quarter of 2024.
Speaking in his nightly video address on Wednesday, Mr Zelensky said the European Union's seventh sanctions package was in the final stage of approval, which includes a ban on the import of Russian gold, but it did not go far enough.
Britain will send scores of artillery guns and more than 1,600 anti-tank weapons toUkraine,in the latest supply of Western arms to the fury of the Kremlin.
"If these countries are not implementing the points included in the memorandum that we signed, we will not ratify the accession protocol," Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu reaffirmed in a televised interview.
Hungary, aEuropean Union member, has controversiallymaintained close relations with Russia since the invasion ofUkraine, opposing EU plans to reduce dependency on Russian oil and gas imports.
"Nineteen people have been injured, including one child. Unfortunately, four people are in a serious condition. Two people died," Oleg Synegubov said on social media after the bombardment.
Ukrainehas requested its creditors for a two-year payment freeze on its international bonds so it can focus its dwindling financial resources on repelling Russia.
The assault is part of a wider tactic of small scale assaults all the way along the Donbas front line.
If you're just joining us this lunchtime, here's the latest battlefield news from the war in Ukraine.
"We will not introduce in a law an obligation to set the temperature of homes' thermostats," she said in an interview on local radio Cadena SER.
"You have fomented this war. You have fomented the war and are continuing it," Lukashenko told AFP in an interview.
"Here, it's the Russians who have those advantages instead. It is your choice if you want to come here to defend democracy and freedom - but you may end up sacrificing your life."
Russian forces are likely closing in on Ukraine's second biggest power plant at Vuhlehirska, 31 miles north-east of Donetsk, the Ministry of Defence has said.
High-powered Western fighter jets could be sent to Ukraine to bolster its forces in thebattle against the Russian invasion, the head of the United States Air Force has said.
Ukrainian forcessaid on Thursday they had killed 111 Russian soldiers in the south and east over the past day and destroyed 17 vehicles.
"These are poor kids from rural parts of Russia. They're from blue-collar towns in Siberia. They are disproportionately from ethnic minorities. These are his cannon fodder."
Europe was on edge during the 10-day Nord Stream repair works, fearing that Moscow would not reopen the taps in retaliation for Western sanctions.
The Kremlin has insisted that Russian President Vladimir Putin was in good health, dismissing rumours that he is unwell.
The head of Ukraine's largest foreign volunteer unit has a blunt message for any Britons still wanting to jointhe fight against Russia.
"The American administration forbids its wards in Kyiv to even think about talks with us, and evidently forces them to fight to the last Ukrainian," Ms Zakharova told reporters.
The UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will travel to Istanbul later on Thursday, a UN spokesman said as United Nations and Turkish officials seek to get a deal with Russia andUkrainein writing to resumeUkraine's Black Sea grain exports.
The ministry also added that Russia is probably attempting to break through at Vuhlehirska, as part of its efforts to regain momentum on the southern pincer of its advance towards the key cities of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has played down the prospect of peace talks while Russian troops still occupy Ukrainian territory. On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that peace talks with Ukraine made "no sense".
Dmitry Peskov, its spokesman,told reporters there was speculation in the West about the president's health in recent months, but reports he was ill were "nothing but fakes".
War inUkrainewill in the longer term accelerate Europe's shift to renewable energy from fossil fuel, Britain's climate envoy said on Thursday, even as it prompts nations to burn more coal over the coming months to offset reduced Russian gas supplies.
"They will have to pause in some way, and that will give the Ukrainians opportunities to strike back."
The Ukrainian economy could shrink by a third in 2022 before recovering next year, and is expected to grow between 5 per centand 6 per centin 2023 and 2024, the central bank said.
Supplies via Nord Stream 1, which runs under the Baltic Sea to Germany, were halted for maintenance on July 11 but, even before that outage, flows had been cut to 40 per cent of the pipeline's capacity in a dispute sparked by Russia's invasion ofUkraine.
The EU must immediately start working on an eighth package of sanctions once the seventh is approved, Mr Zelensky said, while calling for an increase in the supply of modern weapons to Ukraine.
Russia has abandoned its initial military "tasks" and will expand further into Ukraine if the West continues to send more weapons, Vladimir Putin's foreign minister warned on Wednesday.
Sign up to the Front Page newsletter for free: Your essential guide to the day's agenda from The Telegraph - direct to your inbox seven days a week.
"So, here I am in my office, and I have never felt as good as now," he said, sitting as a desk and wearing a khaki t-shirt.
Lavrov was speaking during a visit to Moscow by the Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto.
At 4am, the Nord Stream 1 pipeline sending gas under the Baltic Sea from Russia to Germany was to crank back into life following 10 days of maintenance.
"Today, Russia launched more fake news that the Ukrainian state is not controlled by President Zelensky as he is in hospital, or rather, in intensive care because of a 'serious health condition'," Mr Zelensky said.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has said harsher sanctions must be imposed on Russia if there is any chance of reaching peace.
It is the most senior acknowledgment yet that Russia is no longer fighting a limited war to defend the Donbas.
It comes as Russian forces poundedUkraine's second largest city Kharkivand closed in on the country's second largest power plant atVuhlehirska, while the UK pledged another major arms package.
The Ukrainian military reported heavy and sometimes fatal Russian shelling during what they claimed were largely failed attempts by Russian ground forces to advance.
Scutiny of Putin's health has intensified since he has sat at long tables and appeared to walk stiffly.
Russia resumed pumping gas via its biggest pipeline to Europe on Thursday after a 10-day outage, allaying some of Europe's immediate supply fears but not enough to end the threat of rationing to cope with potential winter shortages.
VladimirPutin's willingness to weaponise energy supplies means EU will struggle to fill storage, saysRachel Millard.
In a veiled nod to Putin's advancing years, he added: "And with all due respect to old age, 44 is not almost 70."
"We are doing all we can to support Ukraine," she said. "We've led the international coalition on sending weapons, we're putting the sanctions in place.
Richard Moore, the head of Britain's MI6, said Thursday that the 15,000 dead was "probably a conservative estimate" and marked a "very bloody nose" for Putin who expected quick victory.
Liz Truss has ruled out sending British forces to Ukraine if she becomes prime minister.
Putin coughed during a public appearance on Wednesday, when Interfax news agency quoted him as saying he had caught a slight cold during a visit to Iran the previous day.
Peace talks between Russia and Ukraine have been frozen since early April, when ceasefire talks brokered by Turkey in Istanbul collapsed.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has threatened to "freeze" the process over Sweden and Finland's failure to extradite the suspects.
"There are lots ofrumours about President Putin's healthand as far as we can tell he's entirely too healthy," Mr Burns told the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado.
The group, including Canada, France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States, said they would provide a coordinated suspension of debt servicing from August 1 until the end of 2023 and potentially for an additional year.
Official creditors have already said they would suspend payments owed to them and urged bondholders to accept the country's request for the freeze.Creditors have until August9 to vote on the proposal.
In a call with reporters, Peskov said: "Even the harshest sanctions have never made countries change their position."
The early hours of the morning, as most of Europe was sleeping, marked a key moment in the battle over energy supplies waged alongside Russias war on Ukraine.
"We have hope for grain," Mr Cavusoglu said in a televised interview. "We hope to give good news in the coming days."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has reassured citizens that he is well after what he said was a fake news report about his health by Russian hackers.
Turkey has said a new "permanent committee" would meet Finnish and Swedish officials in August to assess if the two nations are complying with Ankara's conditions to ratify their Nato membership bids.
"I think they're about to run out of steam. I think our assessment is that the Russians will increasingly find it difficult to supply manpower material over the next few weeks," Richard Moore, head of the UK's Secret Intelligence Service, said.
Prosecutors said three people had been killed and 23 more injured in Kharkiv, where some semblance of normal life had been returning after Ukrainian forces pushed back Russian troops from the city limits.
John Murton was addressing journalists in South Africa, alongside delegates from the United States and European Union countries France and Germany.
The Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Thursday that Russia would consider a Hungarian request to increase gas purchases from Russia.
The first direct talks between the warring sides' military delegations since March - attended in Istanbul last week by Turkish and UN officials - came up with an initial draft for resolving the impasse.
"Any technical difficulties linked to this are caused by those restrictions that European countries introduced themselves," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
Mr Zelensky, 44, made his remarks on the same day as the Kremlin dismissed what it said were false reports that Russian President Vladimir Putin was unwell.
In a Facebook post, the Ukrainian forces said they saw no signs the Russians were creating special strike groups to push a new offensive.
Finland and Sweden dropped their history of military non-alignment and announced plans to join Natoafter Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February. All 30 members must ratify the accession.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on July 7 that his country had not "started anything yet in earnest" in Ukraine, and dared the West to try to defeat it on the battlefield.
The president said Europe had fallen hostage to gas supplies from Russia, as European countries face a crisis in the wake of Russia cutting off gas to six member countries and reducing supplies to six more.
"Russia is prioritising the capture of critical national infrastructure, such as power plants," the MoD tweeted.
"Let's stop and then we will figure out how to go on living... There's no need to go further. Further lies the abyss of nuclear war. There's no need to go there."
According to World Bank data,Ukrainehad $130 billion in external debt outstanding at the end of 2020.
Three Ukrainian kamikaze drones reportedly struck Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station on Wednesday, injuring a dozen employees and causing powerful explosions that were heard across the city.
"That's probably a conservative estimate. That is the same number, roughly, as they lost in 10 years in Afghanistan in the 1980s," he told the Aspen Security Forum in the US Rocky Mountains.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has said that Western sanctions imposed on Russia over its actions in Ukraine would not cause it to change course.
"The situation remains a little bit fluid, so I can't really say when something will be signed," deputy UN spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters in New York. "We're not quite there yet."
General Charles Brown, the US Air Force Chief of Staff, said US officials are pondering training Ukrainian pilots as part of a future package of support.
"We must stop, reach an agreement, end this mess, operation and war in Ukraine," he told AFP in an interview on Thursday.
Up to 25 million tonnes of wheat and other grain have been blocked in Ukrainian ports by Russian warships and landmines Kyiv has laid to avert a feared amphibious assault.
The attacks on the eastern city - scarred by weeks of Russian shelling - came after 10 days of scheduled work ended on the Nord Stream gas pipeline that had spurred fears of a permanent cut-off.
"The baseline scenario of the macroeconomic forecast envisages that the key policy rate will be maintained at 25 per centat least until Q2 2024," the National Bank ofUkraineNBU said in a statement.
He said accusations that Moscow was using gas deliveries as political blackmail were "completely" unfounded.
Russian artillery poundedUkraine's second largest city Kharkiv on Thursday after Moscow announced it was expanding its war aims, even as Russian gas flows to Europe resumed through the Nord Stream pipeline.
Some 15,000 Russians have died in the five-month-old invasion ofUkraine, the US and British spy chiefs said, as they assessed that President Vladimir Putin was suffering far greater losses than expected.
Whether the pipeline would come back online, and at what rate, have been crucial questions in trying to determine how far Russia is willing to go in withdrawing energy suppliesto turn the screws on Europein retaliation for sanctions.
The West, Ukraine and Russia must all agree to halt the conflict in Ukraine to avoid the "abyss of nuclear war", the Belarus president AlexanderLukashenkohas warned.
The Spanish government will not order consumers to limit their gas consumption, Energy Minister Teresa Ribera said.
The resumption of Nord Stream supplies at levels that remain well below the pipeline's capacity means Germany, which is particularly reliant on Russian fuel, and other European economies are still struggling to find enough gas for winter.
Nato member Turkey has demanded the extradition of dozens of suspected "terrorists" from both countries under an accession deal the three signed last month.
Russia's defence ministry said on Thursday its forces had shot down a Ukrainian SU-25 military plane near Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine.
Rumours have circulated for months that the 69-year-old has a cancer diagnosis or Parkinson's Disease after appearing unsteady in numerous public appearances.
First, don't even think about it unless you have combat experience from Iraq or Afghanistan. And then, imagine what it would have been like to be fighting on the insurgents' side.
The latest barrage of Russian shelling on Ukraine's second city of Kharkiv has killed at least two people and wounded 19 others, the regional governor said.
The military chief said Washington and other Western governments are in discussion over Ukraines long-term plan on how to build their air force and the air force that theyre going to need for the future.
"It's true that, as a result of pressures arising from Russia's illegal invasion ofUkraine, some of us anticipate using a little more coal over the next few months than we previously planned," the UK Climate Envoy said.
The sides were meant to have met again this week for the possible signature of a formal agreement. But no talks had been confirmed by Thursday and new demands from Moscow put the prospects of an imminent deal in doubt.
