Kyiv recaptures 53 settlements in Kherson as fightback grows
20220802
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-three-britons-to-stand-trial-in-russian-proxy-court/ar-AA10cFxk
The logistics and procurement officer for the Halo Trust, supports the Scottish charity's team of 400 Ukrainian deminers by overseeing the supply of vital equipment including metal detectors, bullet-proof vests, and armoured vehicles.
John Harding, Cambridgeshire aid worker Dylan Healy, 22, and military volunteer Andrew Hill will be tried in the Russian-backed Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic, according to Russian state news agency Tass.
The 25 Airbus A320, A321 and A330 airplanes are operated by Ural Airlines, S7 Airlines, Red Wings, Yamal Airlines, Nordwind, and I-Fly.
The United States has accused Russia of usingUkraine's biggest nuclear power plant as a "nuclear shield" by stationing troops there, preventing Ukrainian forces from returning fire and risking a terrible nuclear accident.
The Razoniis now set to arrive early Wednesday in Istanbul, a Turkish official has said.
"If you make one mistake in goals then your team is 1-0 down and there's absolutely no hiding place.
Ukrainian servicemen are pictured firing a Soviet BM21 Grad multiple rocket system in the north-eastern region of Kharkiv whichhas faced relentless bombardment during the war.
A notice published on the US Treasury website announced a fresh round of sanctions today.
The ship, the Laodicea, however, remains unable to sail for the time being due to another seizure order issued by a judge in the northern city of Tripoli, where the ship is docked, the source added.
She said a dormitory, two food stores, two multi-storey buildings, a medical clinic and a school were damaged.
Medvedev, now deputy head of the Security Council, served one term as president between 2008 and 2012. Hehas called those who "hate" Russia "degenerates" and invoked the possibility of a nuclear war.
Didier Casimiro and Zeljko Runje arenow subject to an asset freeze for "obtaining a benefit from or supporting the government of Russia by working as a manager of a government of Russia-affiliated entity".
The FTSE 100 global oil and gas producer posted profits of $8.4bn 6.8bn for the second quarter of 2022, three times as high as the same period last year and more than $2bn higher than the previous quarter.
The Sierra Leone-flagged, which set sail from the Ukrainian port of Odesa on Monday,will be inspected by Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and UN officials after it anchors.
The Institute for the Study of War ISW also found Russian forces are reportedly moving more troops from northern Donetsk Oblast to support defensive positions in southern Ukraine.
Its analysts warned the multi-headed crisis is reversing years of development gains and threatens to hit low and middle-income countries particularly hard.
"The plan is for a ship to leave...every day," the senior Turkish official told Reuters, referring to Odesa and two other Ukrainian ports covered by the deal. "If nothing goes wrong, exports will be made via one ship a day for a while."
The message, on popular Russian social network VKontakte, was taken down shortly after it was posted to Medvedev's 2.2 million followers.
The conflict and the fallout from the pandemic have created an entrenched supply chain crisis that will drive millions more into extreme poverty, magnifying hunger and malnutrition, while threatening to erase hard-won gains in development, the Washington, D.C.-based organisation said.
The inspection of the ship by the joint inspection team will begin Wednesday morning, the Turkish defence ministry said.
They warned seven countries  Afghanistan, Eritrea, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan, Tajikistan, and Yemen  have been put at the greatest risk of facing overlapping food and debt crises thanks to the war.
At a briefing held at the JCC, general Ozcan Altunbudak said the course of the ship was going as planned.
The United States and our partners applied sweeping, powerful export controls to industry sectors  such as aerospace  that Russia leverages to sustain its military aggression, said Commerce Department Export Enforcement chief Matthew Axelrod.
It has increased its dividend by 10pc to six US cents per share and has raised its share buyback programme to $3.5bn for the quarter, writesRachel Millard.
Snipers of the 79th separate amphibious assault brigade of Mykolaiv aimtheir guns in a forest area in the eastern Donetsk region of Ukraine.
In a statement, foreign ministers of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the US said they were considering "a comprehensive prohibition of all services that enable transportation of Russian seaborne crude oil and petroleum products globally, unless the oil is purchased at or below a price to be agreed in consultation with international partners.
"All this undeniably proves that Washington, contrary to White House and Pentagon claims, is directly involved in the conflict in Ukraine," it said.
Russian forces have been systematically stealing sunflower seeds from local farmers in occupied areas of Ukraine, a BBC investigation has suggested.
There was a lack of collateral damage expected from a Ukrainian strike with satellite imagerysuggesting that the destruction of the prison was the result of either a precision strike or an internally planted incendiary or explosive.
In it, Andrey Sihuta called himself "the head of the Russian-imposed military-civilian administration of the Melitopol region" and announcedit had createdthe State Grain Company, which would set prices for sunflower seeds.
However, Putin appeared to roll back on his nuclear warning in a message of greetings to NPT participants posted on his website Monday.
Farmer accounts and messages in private and public social media groups reportedly show how the seeds are transported from southern and eastern occupied parts of Ukraine to Russia.
Washington is "deeply concerned" that Moscow was now using the plant as a military base and firing on Ukrainian forces from around it, Mr Blinken told reporters after nuclear nonproliferation talks at the United Nations in New York.
"Today's identification of 25 foreign-produced aircraft further degrades Russian airlines ability to operate their fleets of both U.S. and EU airplanes."
Dmytro Lubinetstold The Associated Press he has tried to establish a direct link with his Russian counterpart in order to arrange a joint visit to the site but added: "Dialogue is when there is a conversation between two parties. At this moment, this is an official request from me, which remains unanswered.
Global hunger levels remain alarmingly high nearly six months on from Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the World Bank has warned.
The orders aim to deny the airlines access to refueling, spare parts and maintenance servicesand they arethe first foreign airplanes to be added to the US's export control list.
"Of course the Ukrainians cannot fire back lest there be a terrible accident involving the nuclear plant," he said.
"The administrators of Vkontakte and the relevant authorities will deal with those who hacked the page, wrote and published the deleted post," Medvedev's aide Oleg Osipov told the RIA Novosti news agency.
Moscow's defence ministry claimed our interview with theacting head of Kyiv's military intelligence Vadym Skibitsky amounted to him admitting that Washington coordinates Himars missile strikes.
"As a goalkeeper, your job is to get in the way of shots, but when I'm out working with Halo in places like Ukraine, it's the total opposite."
A dormitory destroyed, 2 food stores, 2 multi-storey buildings, medical clinic  school damaged. russiaisateroriststate pic.twitter.comDfAsKaJjJI
It came asthe website of Taiwan's presidential office received an overseas cyber attack and was at one point malfunctioning, a source briefed on the matter said.
Russian forces are responsible for killing 53 prisoners of war in Olenivka prison in an eastern separatist region of Donetsk, according to US sources.
Jeremy Corbyn has criticised the UK and the West for supplying Ukraine with weapons as he said pouring arms in will only prolong and exaggerate the war.
Moscow and Kyiv exchanged blame for the attack at the Olenivka prison camp which is controlled by the Russian-backed self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic DNR.
He said it is disappointing that hardly any of the worlds leaders use the word peace when discussing the war and claimed too many use the language of more war and more bellicose war, writesJack Maidment.
The incident happened on Monday as the bus was heading from the village of Starosilya, which is under Russian control, to the Ukrainian-held city of Kryvyi Rih.
The first ship, Razoni, carrying 26,527 tonnes of corn to Lebanon, was crossing the western Black Sea off Romania's Danube Delta this morning, nearly halfway to Turkish waters, where it will be inspected on Wednesday, Refinitiv Eikon data showed.
Since February 24, at least 140,000 residential buildings have been destroyed or damaged. The number of Ukrainians left homeless already exceeds 3.5 million.russiaisaterroriststate
The Sierra Leone-flagged Razoni was reportedly slowed down by bad weather in the Black Sea en route to Istanbul.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken saidthat Washington has made a "substantial offer" to Moscow to release American citizens held in Russia.
Ms Pelosi's visit to Taiwan is causing a serious diplomatic ruckus that could destabilise the security situation in East Asia.
The US Commerce Department has sanctioned 25 Airbus airplanes run by Russian airlines believed to violate America's export controls.
US officials are not providing direct targeting information, which would potentially undermine their case for not being direct participants in the war.
Kieran McCulloch, 30, missed the end of last season with West of Scotland League side Threave Rovers to fly off to war-torn country.
On Monday, the first shipment of Ukrainian grain departed from the Port of Odesa via the Sierra Leone-flagged ship Razoni, marking the first time in months that Kyiv has transported its goods to purchasing nations.
At least 140,000 residential buildings in Ukraine have been destroyed or damaged since Russia's invasion began, leaving 3.5 million citizens homeless, according to Ukraine's defence ministry.
Canada'sMinister of Foreign AffairsMlanie Joly today announced sanctions on 43 military officials and 17 entities that are "complicit" in Russia's "senseless bloodshed" in Ukraine, including the Bucha massacre.
Russia has carried out deadly strikes against Ukrainian forces in the Mykolaiv and Kharkiv regions of Ukraine, its defence ministry has said.
The tweet came after 53 Ukrainian POWs were killed after a prison in an eastern separatist region of Donetsk was shelled.
"Boats will not be authorised to approach the ship. The command of the coastguard will take the appropriate measures in this respect," the defence ministry said.
"We have very good cooperation with our partners in the UK in this field. We have very good communication with all the sister intelligence agencies."
Finding and destroying military aid flowing into Ukraine from Western countries is goal number one for Russian agents, according to Major General Vadym Skibitsky.
Some 1,300 bodies were recovered from the city and surrounding areas after Russians forces withdrew from the city west of Kyiv in March.
The vessel made its way along the Romanian coast overnight, but switched off its automatic identification system AIS at around midnight UK, meaning it could no longer be tracked, according to the Marine Traffic website.
Two former board members of oil company Rosneft have been added to the UK's sanctions list.
"Of course the Ukrainians cannot fire back lest there be a terrible accident involving the nuclear plant," Mr Blinken said.
"We repeatedly stated that actions of our armed forces in no way undermineUkraine's nuclear security or impede routine operation of the NPP nuclear power plant," the Russian UNmission said in a statement.
A British goalkeeper who missed games to save lives in Ukraine found airstrikes "a lot" less stressful than making a mistake on the pitch.
The former Labour leadersaid sending weapons to Kyiv as it tries to defend itself againstthe Russian invasionwill not bring about an end to the conflict.
Long-range artillery pieces, such as the US-supplied Himars system, have brought Moscows advance almost to a halt and in recent days have rendered bridges in the Kherson region impassable to Russian vehicles, cutting off troops as Ukraine prepares a counter offensive.
However, he suggested there was a level of consultation between intelligence officials of both countries prior to launching missiles that would allow Washington to stop attacks if they were unhappy with the intended target.
Sign up to the Front Page newsletter for free: Your essential guide to the day's agenda from The Telegraph - direct to your inbox seven days a week.
USSecretary of State Antony Blinken said North Korea was preparing to conduct its seventh nuclear test, Iran "has either been unwilling or unable" to accept a deal to return to the 2015 nuclear agreement aimed at reining in its nuclear programand Russia is "engaged in reckless, dangerous nuclear saber-rattling" inUkraine.
Ukrainian government official Emine Dzheppar has tweeted footage of the destruction in the southern city of Mykolaiv.
Turkey expects roughly one grain ship to leave Ukrainian ports each day as long as an agreement that ensures safe passage holds, a senior Turkish official said after the first wartime vessel safely departed Odesa on Monday.
"I can't tell you whether we are directly tasking British and American satellites, but we have very good satellite imagery," he told The Telegraph.
The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 02 August 2022
Tass reported all three men were refusing to cooperate with investigators. They will be tried alongside two other men from Croatia and Sweden as "foreign citizens accused of mercenarism", a court representative told the agency.
It is expected to reach the entrance to the Istanbul straits at around 9pm local time 7pm BST whereRussian, Ukrainian, Turkish, and UN officials are to inspect the ship after it anchors in the city.
The first grain ship to leave Ukraine since the war began has been sighted off the Turkish coast, according to the Reuters news agency.
"Megaphone diplomacy" would collapse any talks on a possible prisoner exchange between US basketball starBrittney Griner, Kremlin spokesmanDmitry Peskov has said.
The Russian mission to the United Nations in New York strongly rejected Mr Blinken's accusations.
USSecretary of State Antony Blinken has called Russia's actions aroundUkraine's largest nuclear power plant "the height of irresponsibility," accusing Moscow of using it as a "nuclear shield" in attacks on Ukrainian forces.
That figure was nine settlements more than the number he gave on 1 August, which appeared to indicate a quickening tempo of Ukrainian gains in the region.
The Kremlin has alleged that Ukraine fired HIMARS and precision-guided rockets to kill Ukrainian POWs and deter Ukrainian defectors.
Former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev's social media account was hacked when it called ex-Soviet Kazakhstan an "artificial state" that committed "genocide" on its Russian population, his aide has said.
But two US officials told Politico that no traces of US-provided High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS were found at the prison site.One said that "the evidence showed the attack was not conducted by Kyiv".
A total of 10,107,957 border crossings from Ukraine have been recorded since February 24, the agency's tally showed.
The first grain ship to leave Ukraine since the war began has reached Turkish territorial waters, AFP reports.
"If you've got the manager or the crowd screaming and bawling at you because you've not caught the ball properly, I find that more stressful than when an airstrike is coming.
Judge Ghada Aounallowed it to sail after finding "no criminal offence committed", a senior judicial source told Reuters.
Moscow and Kyiv have exchanged blame and both opened investigations into the shelling of theprison in Olenivka, a town in eastern Ukraine held by Russian-backed separatists.
The US iswilling to exchange convicted arms trafficker Viktor Bout, known as the "Merchant of Death", for the drug charge accused star, according to a source.
Three British men accused of being mercenaries will stand trial in a Russian proxy court in eastern Ukraine.
He cited Russian President Vladimir Putin's warning after its invasion that any attempt to interfere would lead to "consequences you have never seen," emphasising that his country is "one of the most potent nuclear powers".
Ukraine has recaptured 53 settlements in the southern region of Kherson since the start of Moscow's invasion, the regional governor has said.
Ukraine has pledged to conduct a major counter-offensive to retake the swathes of land Russia captured early in the war, using Western-made long-range weapons to hit Russian supply lines.
Asked how the US-provided Himars multiple launch rocket systems have targeted Russian fuel and ammunition depots and battlefield headquarters in eastern Ukraine so precisely, Maj Gen Skibitskysaid "in this case in particular, we use real-time information".
Spain's Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs Margarita Robles has said the country will not send its Leopard tanks to Ukraine after a review found they were in an "absolutely lamentable" state.
The Sierra Leone-registered ship, Razoni, set sail for Tripoli in Lebanon from Odessa just after 7am UKon Monday carrying 26,000 tonnes of maize.
Russia's foreign ministry on Tuesday accused Washington of destabilising the world after the potential visit of US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan sparked rage in Moscow's ally Beijing.
It said the sole purpose of Russian forces' taking over Zaporizhzhia was to "prevent Ukrainian nationalist formations and foreign mercenaries from making use of the current situation inUkrainein order to carry out a nuclear provocation with most unpredictable consequences."
Ukraine has recaptured 53 settlements in the southern region of Kherson as its fightback in the largely Russianoccupied region mounts, the regional governor has said.
The exports from one of the world's top producers are intended to help ease a global food crisis.
The sailing was made possible after Turkey and the United Nations brokered a grain and fertiliser export agreement between Russia and Ukraine last month - a rare diplomatic breakthrough in a conflict that has become a drawn-out war of attrition.
The Foreign Office said it condemned the "exploitation of prisoners of war and civilians for political purposes."
"It is the Biden administration that is directly responsible for all Kiev-approved rocket attacks on residential areas and civilian infrastructure in populated areas of Donbas and other regions, which have resulted in mass deaths of civilians."
Lebanon's top prosecutor has lifted his seizure order on a ship docked in the Middle Eastern country accused by Ukraine of carrying stolen flour and barley.
She said: We will not allow Vladimir Putin and his enablers to act with impunity. The Russian war machines egregious actions will not be forgotten, and Canada will continue to work with its partners in the international community to hold it to account. Canada stands with Ukraine.
Last week Ukraine called Russia a "terrorist state" after Moscow's UK embassy tweeted soldiers inthe former volunteer battalion that was incorporated into Ukraine's army deserved a "humiliating death" by hanging.
Separatist authorities and Russian officials say 53 Ukrainian POWs were killed and a further 75 were wounded Friday in the blast that ripped through a building at the prison.
"As strange as it sounds, I actually find football's probably a lot more stressful," Mr McCulloch said, who had never been in a live war-zone until this year.
Three people were killed and five others were wounded after an evacuation bus in the southern Kherson region was hit by Russian mortar fire, a Ukrainian military spokesperson has said.
In a press briefing, Zakharova said that Russia supports Beijing's One China principle, and opposes Taiwanese independence "in any form".
Turkey's representative at the Joint Coordination Centre JCC in Istanbul hassaid that the first ship carrying Ukrainian grain to world markets was expected to anchor at Istanbul on Tuesday night.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington was "deeply concerned" that the Zaporizhzhia plant, which Russia was accused of firing shells dangerously close to in March, was now a Russian military base used to fire on nearby Ukrainian forces.
Margarita Robles confirma que finalmente Espaa no enviar a Ucrania los carros de combate Leopard ya que al revisarlos se ha comprobado que "estn en una situacin absolutamente lamentable" pic.twitter.comTeMgpvRCAh
"As of now, 53 settlements have been confirmed as liberated," acting governor Dmytro Butriy said on national television.
"We believe that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought, and we stand for equal and indivisible security for all members of the world community," hesaid.
Russia's Supreme Court has designated the Azov regiment a "terrorist" group, allowing for lengthy jail terms for its members with immediate effect, the Russian news agency TASS reported.
"As of now, 53 settlements have been confirmed as liberated," Dmytro Butriy, the acting governor,said on national television.
A video of a meeting between Moscow-installed officials and local farmers in the southern occupied city ofMelitopol has been sharedin a local pro-Kremlin Telegram channel.
Russia has accused the US of direct involvement in the Ukrainian war after reading about Kyiv's cooperation with Western intelligence in the Telegraph.
The Razoni had initially progressed very slowly at just seven knots in Ukrainian waters due to possible mines but was then able to pick up speed, Marine Traffic said.
More than 26,000 tonnes of corn are on board the Razoni, which set sail from the Ukrainian port of Odesa on Monday, destined for Lebanon.
Ukraine's human rights chief investigating the deaths of 53 Ukrainian POWs in a prison said he has been met with silence from his Russian counterpart.
BP has posted its biggest profits in 14 years after "exceptional' oil trading amid months of high energy prices as Russia's war on Ukraine worsens global shortages.
US President Joe Biden has said he wants Ukraine to defeat Russia but US officials do not want a direct confrontation between US and Russian soldiers.
Russia's actions went beyond using a "human shield," Mr Blinken said, calling it a "nuclear shield."
That figure was nine settlements more than the number he gave on Monday, which appeared to indicate a quickening tempo of Ukrainian gains in the region.
"In considering this and other options, we will also consider mitigation mechanisms alongside our restrictive measures to ensure the most vulnerable and impacted countries maintain access to energy markets including from Russia."
"Washington is bringing destabilisation to the world. Not a single resolved conflict in recent decades, but many provoked ones," foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on social media, after China warned against the visit to the island that it considers its territory.
Russia in March was accused of firing shells dangerously close to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant as its forces took it over in the first weeks of the invasion ofUkraine.
General Secretary of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE Helga Maria Schmid and Chairman-in-Office and Polish Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau visit a site of a mass grave in the town of Bucha.
Britain is helping Ukraine hunt Russian spies targeting Western-supplied weapons, the acting head of Kyivs military intelligence has said.
The first shipment of Ukrainian grain to leave Odesa under a landmark deal to lift Moscow's naval blockade in the Black Sea is expected in Istanbul "after midnight" on Tuesday, the Turkish defence ministry said.
The United Nations chief warned on Monday that "humanity is just one misunderstanding, one miscalculation away from nuclear annihilation," citing the war inUkraine, nuclear threats in Asia and the Middle East and many other factors.
Prosecutors allege all five men were members of the Azov battalion and other military units captured in Mariupol.
The first grains shipment to leave Ukraine since the war began has been delayedby bad weather in the Black Sea.
It also said that the Caucasus nation of Georgia "didn't exist" before becoming part of the Russian empire in the 19th century.
Finland and Sweden are a step closer to joining Nato after Italy's Chamber of Deputies ratified a bill approving their accession, whichneeds to be voted for bythe parliaments ofall 30 of its members.
Ukraine has pledged to conduct a major counter-offensive to retake the swathes of land Russia captured early in the war, usingWestern-made long-range weapons to hit Russian supply lines.
Russian President VladimirPutin's reported ex-gymnast lover Alina Kabaeva and metals company MMK havebeen sanctioned by the US.
Russian decission to treat Ukrainian army Azov Regiment as terrorists is explicit break with HR and international law. It will make Russian war against Ukraine even more bloody. Among others it is another humiliation to Western Russian understanders who favour appeasement.
Natalia Humeniuk, a spokesperson for the southern command of Ukraine's military, said the vehicle came under mortar fire near the village of Dovhove.
Russia shelled residential areas of Mykolayiv from BM-30 Smerch heavy self-propelled 300 mm multiple rocket launcher  S-300 surface-to-air missile systems.
The Commerce Department previously identified two airplanes owned by businessman Roman Abramovich as having likely violated export controls, including a 787 Dreamliner.
Beijing sees Taiwan as a renegade province to be annexed by force if necessary and warned its military will "never sit idly by" if Ms Pelosi pushes ahead with the visit and becomes the highest-ranking elected US official to go there in more than 25 years.
Russia has backed China's claim over Taiwan and branded US House of Representatives speaker Nancy Pelosi's expectedvisit as a "provocation" aimed at pressuring Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova has said.
The number of border crossings from Ukraine has surpassed 10 million for the first time since Russia invaded the country, the UN Refugee Agency reported on Tuesday.
