Laughably Bad Zelensky Deepfakes Could Take a Dangerous Turn for the Worse
20220214
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/laughably-bad-zelensky-deepfakes-could-take-a-dangerous-turn-for-the-worse/ar-AAVa4ab
The faked video comes just as Russia's foreign minister has suggested publicly that a deal with Ukraine may be on the horizon soon enough.
It is not clear exactly how a potential deal would play out, but it should involve Russian forces leaving Ukrainian territories taken since the invasion began, a Zelensky adviser, Mykhailo Podolyak, said.
Videos made through such technologies are almost impossible to distinguish from the real ones, Ukraines Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security under the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, designed to call out misinformation, said in a statement. Be awarethis is a fake! His goal is to disorient, sow panic, disbelieve citizens and incite our troops to retreat. Rest assuredUkraine will not capitulate!
Combing through the disinformation about Russias invasion in Ukraine has been a daily battle since even before Russian President Vladimir Putin made the move to attack Ukraine last month. The Biden Administration warned Putin may work to create false flag attacks against his own forces in order to claim a justification for attacking Ukraine.
Could this be random people throwing spaghetti at the wall, or is it a state backed actor? It could be any of the above. That underscores the issue image deception, whether it is wholly synthetic or rudimentary, is now so democratized that anybody in theory could begin putting out either crappy deceptive media or really sophisticated deceptive media, Ibrahim said.
Experts have quickly debunked the apparent deepfakein part because its almost laughable how badly made the video is, according to Mounir Ibrahim, vice president of impact at Truepic, a company with backing from Microsofts venture capital arm to help root out deepfakes or manipulated media online.
And though this case of the apparent Zelensky deepfake has been quickly clarified, it may not be the last time bad actors will take advantage of Ukraine, or other conflict zones for that matter, by creating deepfakes or manipulated media meant to cause confusion or spread fake information.
Earlier today, our teams identified and removed a deepfake video claiming to show President Zelensky issuing a statement he never did. It appeared on a reportedly compromised website and then started showing across the internet, Nathanial Gleicher, Facebook or Metas head of security policy said in a statement.
Confusion about the alleged deepfake has spread as false claims that Zelensky is surrendering also appeared on Ukraine's 24 TV channel. The channel said in a post on Facebook the chyron was fake, claiming it had been hacked by enemy hackers.
Zelensky himself came out after the video began circulating with his own signature self-shot video reminding Ukrainians that if he were to tell anyone to lay down their arms, it would be the Russians.
As we start seeing more and more cheap fakes, deepfakes flood the zone, its going to desensitize people and allow bad actors to allege nothing is real on the ground, you cant trust anything, Ibrahim told The Daily Beast. And the existence of these fakes help amplify bad actors calls.
A deepfake of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky calling on his soldiers to lay down their weapons was reportedly uploaded to a hacked Ukrainian news website today, per Shayan86 pic.twitter.comtXLrYECGY4
And Russia has been claiming, without evidence, for months that the United States might be preparing a chemical weapons attack.
Zelensky has said in recent days, after multiple meetings aimed at negotiating peace failed to lead to successful cease fires, that Ukraine has begun to recognize that joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization may not be a realistic goala move that may be easing negotiations with the Russians.
Three weeks into the war, though, Russian forces continue to hit civilians and civilian infrastructures. Just Wednesday, Russian forces reportedly attacked a theater in Mariupol.
But the most problematic part of this whole episode is not that the video existsat least it has been called out quicklybut that bad actors, whether its government-backed activity or regular old tricksters, will increasingly be interested in taking advantage of using manipulated media to spread lies.
Facebook took down a fake Zelensky video Wednesday for violating its policy on manipulated media.
More recently, Russia has been digging in on its false claims that the United States or Ukraine might use chemical or biological weapons against Russian forcesa web of disinformation that Zelensky has said could be a signal Putin himself plans to use chemical or biological weapons against Ukraine.
Ukraine warned early this month that Russia might seek to spread disinformation about its invasion in Ukraine by using manipulated videos of Zelensky appearing to announce surrender.
The fact that its so poorly done is a bit of a headscratcher, Ibrahim told The Daily Beast. You can clearly see the difference this is not the best deepfake weve seennot even close. Ibrahim cautioned that he had not analyzed the apparent deepfake to verify exactly what kind of manipulated media it was, and whether it could be classified as a deepfakemedia that had been manipulated using machine learningor a cheap fakealtered media changed with cheap technologyor other synthetic media.
A fake video of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky appearing to tell his soldiers to lay down their weapons began circulating online this week, raising questions about just how easy it is for bad actors to influence the information flooding the zone as Russia continues to invade Ukraine.
