Lithuania fears being cut off by Kaliningrad if Ukraine war expands into Nato territory
20220314
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/lithuania-fears-being-cut-off-by-kaliningrad-if-ukraine-war-expands-into-nato-territory/ar-AAV2WsN
The draft budget, to be discussed in the German parliament this week, earmarks a record 42bn on military spending this year, a government source said.
Nato has repeatedly refused to establish a no-fly zone in Ukraine. US President Joe Biden said on Saturday that clashes between Nato and Russian jets over Ukraine would lead to World War Three.
Weve made it very clear to the Russians even before the start of this conflict, Mr Javid told the BBCs Today programme.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky warned it was only a matter of time before Nato countries were drawn into the conflict after the attack near Poland.
In the wake of the attack near the Polish border, diplomats from frontline states said concern was rising that they could be the next to suffer Russian aggression.
One worry we have is that if this war expands, then Russia might try to cut us off if they attack through Belarus and Kaliningrad, a spokesman for the Lithuanian foreign ministry told i.
Ukraine said 35 people were killed at the Yavoriv military facility, which has in the past been used by Nato instructors to train Ukrainian troops.
In the clearest indication yet that Russia may be prepared to broaden the conflict, it shelled a military base less than 12 miles from the border with Poland, a Nato member state.
Meanwhile, Germany, which agreed to export of military equipment to Ukraine for the first time since the Second World War, will raise its defence spending to a record level in 2022 in response to the war in Ukraine, according to a draft budget unveiled on Monday.
Three Baltic states, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, were the only former Soviet states which joined Nato and the EU.
Russian deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov warned on Saturday that arms shipments to Ukraine from Nato countries including the UK were legitimate targets for military action in an escalation of tensions.
Russia said one of the reasons for the Ukrainian invasion was to dissuade Kyiv from joining Nato and the European Union.
Cold Response 2022, planned long before Moscows invasion of Ukraine, aims to test how Norway would manage Allied reinforcements on its soil, in line with Article 5 of Natos charter, which requires member states to come to the aid of another member state under attack.
Even if a single Russian toecap steps into Nato territory, then it will be considered an act of war.
Any build-up of Nato military capabilities near Russias borders does not help to strengthen security in the region, a spokesman for Russias Embassy in Oslo told AFP last week.
Mr Javid said he believed a direct attack on a Nato member state was still very unlikely but warned it would trigger a response from the alliance, which has a policy of mutual defence.
These Baltic states rely on other Nato members to police their air space on a rotation basis.
As tensions mounted, major Nato military exercises involving 30,000 troops and partner countries started in Norway on Monday.
Lithuania fears being cut off by Russia in the case of the Ukraine invasion expanding into Nato territory, its officials after warned as bombs approached the EU border on Sunday
Health Secretary Sajid Javid admitted on Monday that it was not impossible that Moscow will launch an attack which could hit Nato territory.
The 40-mile Poland-Lithuania border stretch between Belarus, which is an ally of Russia, and the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad, is a Nato weak point.
The country, which borders the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad as well as a large stretch of Belarus, is among the European countries most exposed to Vladimir Putins aggression, with the Ukrainian President warning that it was a matter of time before an attack spilled out beyond the borders of his country.
