Live updates  RussiaUkraine War
20220426
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/live-updates-uk-doesn-t-want-war-escalating-beyond-ukraine/ar-AAWCCpz
State Department spokesman Ned Price said the agency has accelerated its review of re-opening the U.S. embassy in Kyiv, which was closed shortly before Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. He said operations at the embassy would resume as soon as possible depending on the security situation in the capital.
In the three-minute video in Russian with the subtitles in Slovak, Caputova condemned war crimes against women, children and civilians.
Russian speakers of the strip of land with about 470,000 people between Moldova and Ukraine nominally seceded from Moldova in 1990, one year before the dissolution of the Soviet Union, fearing the country might shortly merge with Romania, whose language and culture it broadly shares.
You justify your invasion by talking about liberation, Caputova told them. How were you intending to liberate Tatiana from Irpin, killed by a Russian grenade together with her two children? Or Olena from Hostomel, raped by one of you in a car? she asked.
He said that they are, in fact, in terms of military capability, weaker than when they started, and  itll be harder for them to replace some of this capability as they go forward because of the sanctions and the trade restrictions that have been placed on them.
Speaking on a visit to the former nuclear power plant Tuesday on the 36th anniversary of the meltdown, Rafael Mariano Grossi said the situation in 1986 was completely different. In this case, what we had was a nuclear safety situation which was not normal, and could have developed into an accident.
MOSCOW  Russias President Vladimir Putin says Moscow still hopes to negotiate a peaceful settlement with Ukraine, even as the fighting has continued.
It directly pointed at U.K. Minister for the Armed Forces James Heappey, who told Times Radio that it was not necessarily a problem if Ukraine British-donated weapons were used to hit sites on Russian soil.
Trans-Dniester, a strip of land in Moldova, has been under the control of separatists since a 1992 war with Moldova. Russia bases about 1,500 troops there. The United States has warned that Russia could launch false-flag attacks in nearby nations as a pretext for sending in troops to those nations.
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, Germany  U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin says the war in Ukraine has already weakened Russias military capability.
Putin has demanded that Ukraine recognize Russias sovereignty over Crimea and recognize independence of separatist regions in eastern Ukraine as part of a future agreement on ending the hostilities. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that those issues could only be decided by a future nationwide vote.
CHERNOBYL, Ukraine  The director-general of the International Atomic Energy Agency says it was possible that an accident could have occurred when Russian troops seized control of the site of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster during the war in Ukraine.
The Russian military has warned it could strike Ukrainian decision-making centers in the Ukrainian capital and said wouldnt be stopped by the possible presence of Western advisers there.
LONDON  Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Britain does not want war to escalate beyond Ukraines borders, and rejected an allegation by Moscow that the West is fighting a proxy conflict with Russia.
The separatist region fought a brief war with Moldova in 1992 and declared itself an independent state, though it remains unrecognized by any country, including Russia which bases about 1,500 troops there, calling them peacekeepers. Concerns are high that those forces could be used to invade Ukraine from the west.
It said in a Tuesday statement that Ukraine resolutely supports Moldovas territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders and condemn attempts to draw the Trans-Dniester region of Moldova into the full-fledged war unleashed by Russia against Ukraine and call for deescalating tensions.
Austin said after meeting allies and partners at the United States Ramstein Air Base in Germany on Tuesday that, since Russia began the invasion, its land forces have sustained pretty substantial casualties, as well as lost a lot of equipment and used a lot of precision-guided munitions.
Russian troops moved into the radiation-contaminated Chernobyl exclusion zone in February on their way toward the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and withdrew late last month as Russia switched its focus to fighting in eastern Ukraine. The site is now back in Ukrainian hands and communications which were disrupted have been restored.
Clearly, the physical integrity of one nuclear power plant, Zaporizhzhia, was compromised, we also had situations where the external power was interrupted including here Chernobyl so there were a number of events that were compromising the normal operations of any nuclear power facility, Grossi said.
BERLIN  Germanys vice chancellor says his country has come very, very close to independence from Russian oil and an embargo on deliveries would now be manageable.
In an interview with British station Talk TV, Johnson said its very, very important that we dont accept the way that the Russians are trying to frame what is happening in Ukraine.
Trans-Dniester, a strip of land with about 470,000 people, has been under the control of separatist authorities since a 1992 war with Moldova. Russia bases about 1,500 troops in the breakaway region, nominally as peacekeepers.
WARSAW, Poland  The Polish climate minister gave assurances on Tuesday that the country has plenty of natural gas on reserve, following reports that Russia has suspended gas supplies to Poland.
Her tweet followed reports by the Onet news portal that Russia has suspended gas supplies to Poland under the Yamal contract. Onet reported that a crisis team had gathered at the Ministry of Climate to deal with the matter. Onet said, citing unnamed sources, that Russia had insisted on a Friday deadline for payment in rubles and that Poland has said it would not pay in rubles.
Police in Trans-Dniester say two explosions Tuesday in a radio facility close to the Ukrainian border knocked two antennas out of service. On Monday, several explosions were reported to have hit the Ministry of State Security in Tiraspol, the regions capital.
But Johnson said Ukrainians are being attacked from within Russian territory and have a right to protect and defend themselves by striking inside Russia.
Blinken did not name other nations that might be considering following Russias lead but his comment was seen as a veiled reference to China, which has sided with Russia in the Ukraine conflict and has made no secret of its desire to re-unify the island of Taiwan with the mainland.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia  Slovakias President Zuzana Caputova released a video addressing the invading Russian soldiers, their commanders and all whom it may concern, urging them to stop the war in Ukraine.
WASHINGTON  Secretary of State Antony Blinken is urging Congress to fully fund the Biden administrations proposed budget for the State Department, telling lawmakers the spending is critical to ensuring that the war in Ukraine is a strategic failure for Russia and a message to other countries that might invade their neighbors.
The ministry noted that an attack on an administrative building in Tiraspol, the center of the separatist Trans-Dniester province of Moldova, along with explosions that hit broadcast antennas and other facilities in the region follow a Russian officers statement about Moscows intention to fully take control of Ukraines south and build a land corridor to Trans-Dniester.
Last week, a senior Russian military officer said that along with taking control over Donbas, Russia also wants to overtake southern Ukraine, saying such a move would also open a land corridor between Russia and the separatist Trans-Dniester region of Moldova.
Im very worried about the current trend in Trans-Dniester because that resembles a little bit that pattern that we have seen, he added.
The Russian Defense Ministry on Tuesday accused the U.K. of making statements encouraging Ukraine to use Western weapons to carry out strikes on the Russian territory, warning that if it happens the Russian military could retaliate by hitting government structures in Kyiv.
The department said the first group of diplomats crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border and traveled to Lviv on Tuesday morning before returning to Poland later in the day.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has expressed concern about the tensions in a Moscow-backed separatist region of Moldova.
POKROVSK, Ukraine  As Russian forces intensify their shelling of eastern Ukraine, more people are leaving their homes in search of safety.
Austin reiterated that we would like to make sure, again, that they dont have the same type of capability to bully their neighbors that we saw at the outset of this conflict.
The step came just two days after Secretary of State Antony Blinken informed Ukrainian leaders during a secrecy-shrouded visit to Kyiv that the U.S. would start restaffing its diplomatic facilities in Ukraine this week.
UNITED NATIONS  The U.N. says Secretary-General Antnio Guterres is concerned about reports of new security incidents in a Russian-backed separatist region of Moldova and urges all concerned to refrain from any statements or actions that could escalate tensions.
I remember before Feb. 21, there have been some series of false-flag operations in Donbas region, so called people republics, that were used as the pretext by Russia to recognize and then to sign the so-called friendship and assistance treaties and then to start the military operation, Rinkevics told reporters in Madrid.
Austin said that its unhelpful and dangerous to rattle sabers and speculate about the use of nuclear weapons.
He criticized Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrovs warning that the threat of a nuclear conflict should not be underestimated.
He said his village, Vremivka, about 70 kilometers 40 miles from Pokrovsk, was under heavy fire for four days and everything was destroyed. With tears in his eyes, Kharchenko said he somehow held himself together at home, but once he reached the train station he fell apart.
UNITED NATIONS  The U.N. says Secretary-General Antnio Guterres and Russian President Vladimir Putin have agreed in principle that the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross should be involved in the evacuation of civilians from a besieged steel plant in Ukraines southeastern city of Mariupol.
Habeck said the situation is such that an embargo has become manageable for Germany. He added that the problem that just a few weeks ago seemed very big for Germany has become significantly smaller  so that independence from Russian oil imports has come very, very close.
In Pokrovsk, a town in the Donetsk region, people lined up Tuesday to board a train headed to the far west of the country along the border with Hungary and Slovakia. One person was lifted onto the train in a wheelchair, another on a stretcher.
Referring to testimonies of women who have survived, Caputova says they find that words are not enough when they try to describe the pain you have made a part of their lives simply because Well, why even? None of us knows Do you?
The sprawling Azovstal steel plant has been almost completely destroyed by Russian attacks but it is the last pocket of organized Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol.
Germany, which has Europes biggest economy, has said so far that it aims to end Russian oil imports by the end of this year.
Anna Moskwa, minister for climate and environment, tweeted: Poland has the necessary gas reserves and sources of supply that protect our security  we have been effectively independent from Russia for years. Our warehouses are 76 full. There will be no shortage of gas in Polish homes.
We were in the basement, but my daughter didnt make it and was hit with shrapnel on the doorstep during shelling on Monday, said Mykola Kharchenko, 74. We had to bury her in the garden near the pear tree.
U.N. deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said Tuesday that Guterres has called for efforts to lower tensions throughout Trans-Dniester. Explosions rocked the region for the second day in a row, knocking out two powerful radio antennas close to the Ukrainian border. No one claimed responsibility for the attacks, but Ukraine all but blamed Russia.
She says with each passing day, you are only increasing the army of wounded souls and bodies of women, children and innocent people.
Russian forces continue to hold a working nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine, the Zaporizhzhia plant, where there was fighting nearby in early March which damaged the plants training facility.
MADRID  Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said Tuesday he was very worried by the explosions this week in the separatist region of Trans-Dniester, adding that they reminded him too much of occurrences in the Donbas region immediately prior to Russias invasion of Ukraine late February.
Dujarric said that following the Guterres-Putin agreement in principle, discussions will be held with the U.N. humanitarian office and the Russian Defense Ministry on the evacuation.
Poland has been working to wean itself off of Russian energy sources and was due to end its reliance on Russian gas this year.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has accused NATO of pouring oil on the fire with its support for Ukraine, and said the risk of World War III should not be underestimated. Russia has singled Britain out for criticism after a U.K. government minister said it was legitimate for Ukraine to hit fuel depots in Russia with U.K.-supplied weapons.
In particular, Putin said Ukrainian negotiators have changed their position on the issue of the status of Crimea and separatist territories in eastern Ukraine, offering to leave it for the countries presidents to discuss. Putin charged that the shift in the Ukrainian stand makes it hard to negotiate a future deal. Ukrainian officials have been evasive about the details of talks and the Russian claims of Ukraine walking back from its earlier proposals.
Speaking at a Kremlin meeting Tuesday with U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres, Putin noted that Russian and Ukrainian negotiators made what he described as a serious breakthrough in their talks in Istanbul, Turkey, last month. He claimed, however, that the Ukrainian side later walked back on some of the tentative agreements reached in Istanbul.
Russian gas imports, however, are a bigger issue for Germany. Berlin has said that it will need longer to do without gas supplies from Russia.
The Russian military so far has avoided striking presidential, government and military headquarters in Kyiv during its campaign in Ukraine that has entered a third month.
Blinken said his weekend visit to Kyiv with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin had left him with the indelible impression that Ukraine is winning, particularly in the capital. It was right in front of us: the Ukrainians have won the battle for Kyiv, he said.
The passengers took with them cats, dogs, a few bags and boxes, and the memory of those who did not flee in time.
WASHINGTON  The State Department says U.S. diplomats have begun returning to Ukraine by making day trips to temporary offices in the western city of Lviv from neighboring Poland.
Nikolai Patrushev, the secretary of the Russian Security Council, said in remarks published Tuesday that the policies of the West and the Kyiv regime controlled by it would only be the breakup of Ukraine into several states.
Putin responded by claiming that the Russian forces have offered humanitarian corridors to civilians holed up at the Azovstal steel plant, charging that the Ukrainian defenders of the plant were using civilians as shields and not allowing them to leave.
Moscow launched military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24, days after recognizing the separatist regions independence.
Blinken told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday that the U.S.-led global response to Russias invasion had underscored the power and purpose of American diplomacy. He said the $60.4 billion budget proposal for the next fiscal year was needed to continue to rally partners and allies in the cause.
U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said that during their one-on-one meeting Tuesday, Guterres and Putin discussed the proposals for humanitarian assistance and evacuation of civilians from conflict zones, namely in relation to the situation in Mariupol.
We will, we have to continue to drive that diplomacy forward to seize what I believe are the strategic opportunities and address risks presented by Russias overreach, as countries reconsider their policies, priorities, their relationships, Blinken said. The budget request before you predated this crisis, but fully funding it is critical in my judgment to ensuring Russias war in Ukraine is a strategic failure for the Kremlin and serves as a powerful lesson to those who might consider following its path.
Haq said the U.N. continues to fully support efforts by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to reach a political settlement of the Trans-Dniester conflict in the so-called 52 process which comprises Trans-Dniester, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia and the OSCE with the United States and the European Union as observers. The aim is to strengthen Moldovas independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, with a special status for Trans-Dniester.
During Tuesdays Kremlin meeting, Guterres criticized Russias military action in Ukraine as a flagrant violation of its neighbors territorial integrity. He also urged Russia to allow the evacuation of civilians trapped at a giant steel mill in Mariupol surrounded by the Russian forces.
The ministry said in a statement that the Russian armed forces are ready to deal retaliatory strikes with long-range precision guided weapons on Kyiv centers that would make such decisions. It noted that the presence of citizens of one of Western countries in the Ukrainian decision-making centers wont necessarily pose a problem for Russia in making a decision to launch retaliatory action.
If you still feel any leftover of humanity in you, bring it to life and end this horrible war.
Rinkevics was in Madrid to meet his Spanish counterpart and discuss the Ukraine war and the upcoming NATO summit in the Spanish capital.
An estimated 2,000 troops and 1,000 civilians are said to be holed up in bunkers underneath the wrecked structure.
Those were avoided but of course, as I was saying, the situation was not stable and we have to stay on alert.
Speaking Tuesday during a visit to Poland, Economy Minister Robert Habeck  who is also the vice chancellor and responsible for energy  said that his country has cut Russias share of its oil supply from 35 before the war in Ukraine to about 12.
The statement comes as Russia says it has focused on expanding control over Ukraines eastern industrial heartland called Donbas. Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian troops there since 2014 when conflict erupted following Russias annexation of the Ukrainian Crimean Peninsula.
He said: They are trying to frame this as a conflict between Russia and the West, or Russia and NATO. Thats not what is going on.
