Many Moldovans are wary of their proximity to the conflict in Ukraine
20220318
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/many-moldovans-are-wary-of-their-proximity-to-the-conflict-in-ukraine/ar-AAVf7Fg
Im pretty sure that these messages are being paid for and spread by Russian propaganda, Matusenco said. Its super powerful.
Moldova has seen part of its territory occupied by Russian troops since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Now, many Moldovans are wary that they may be Russian President Vladimir Putins next target.
On a central boulevard leaving for downtown Chisinau, Anton Matusenco was part of a cohort of a dozen protesting outside the Russian Embassy. One held a sign reading: Honk if youre against the war.
Grama lives in Moldova, a Western-leaning, former Soviet country slightly larger than Maryland  with a population of around 2.5 million  that borders Ukraine.
In fact, its so near that since the invasion of Russian forces next door, the country has kept its airspace closed.
A lot of people are honking!Theres a lot of waving, thumbs-up, and one lady made a sign to signify shes crying because of this situation. The response has been overwhelmingly positive.
Matusenco, 35, who was draped in a Ukrainian flag, also left Moldova in the early days of the war.
Radu Prisac was a 21-year-old policeman when he was sent to fight for Moldova. The countrys army had barely been formed and all the tanks and heavy weaponry went back to Russia after the Soviet Union fell, leaving him and his police comrades with only small arms.
But Moldova is not a member of NATO and joining the EU is still a distant prospect. That may explain why many Moldovans express their wish that Ukraine prevail not just for their sake but for Moldovas survival.
Odessa, an important port city in Ukraine that is only a few hours drive from Moldova, could be vulnerable to Russian forces by land or sea, according to experts.
Out of his 13-man platoon, only six survived. Three decades on, Prisac still wakes up with nightmares.
Grama spent three weeks staying with family in western Romania  he was avoiding conscription to fight a Russian invasion that, so far, hasnt happened.
We are in this ready mode, ready to go in 20 minutes. If something happens, were all out of here. I think we wouldnt get any help because were not a member of NATO. So, who would defend Moldova? Grama wondered aloud, adding, Probably nobody.
Grama, 20, was coming back home on Friday and to get into the country, he was forced to take a marshrutka, a small bus, bouncing along winding roads from Romania.
The thing that scared me the most that day was when my mum told me that she had heard the bombings, said Grama, who studies construction at Chisinaus technical university and hasnt been back home since the first day of war, Feb. 24.
A lot of people are honking! Matusenco said. Theres a lot of waving, thumbs-up, and one lady made a sign to signify shes crying because of this situation. The response has been overwhelmingly positive.
I dont feel safe, Prisac said. I dont think the Russian army will come here but then I was sure that Russia would never attack Ukraine. I wouldnt defend Transnistria now if they invaded, but Im certainly ready to defend my city, my house, and my people. I know my fellow veterans feel the same.
Some defense analysts have suggested that Russian forces are currently far too engaged across Ukraine to open a new front in Moldova assuming they even want to.
Related:I have a need: How Zelenskiys plea to Congress emphasized shared identity with the US
An estimated 1,500 troops of the 14th Russian army have been stationed in Transnistria since the Soviet days. Moldovans now fear that if Putins forces take the strategic Ukrainian port of Odessa, just a two-hour drive from here, they could connect with these units.
The sounds of explosions and gunfire are now all too common in Ukraine, but 30 years ago it was happening here. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the mainly Russian-speaking population of Transnistria  a sliver of land on Moldovas eastern border with Ukraine  declared independence.
This triggered a five-month war against the central Moldovan government, claiming nearly a thousand lives. A ceasefire was signed in 1992, but a resolution to the conflict has proved elusive.
I was absolutely sure that Putin would take Odessa and in half a day, hed be here, he admitted.
Some Ukrainian politicians have said that now is the time to take back our lands back but that means another war and more death, Prisac, 51, said. People lost their homes, families were destroyed, refugees fled. And in the end, we won nothing.
That morning the first day of war, my dad called me and said, Pack your bag and leave, Grama recalled.
The official language of Moldova is Romanian, though most understand Russian and a sizable percentage of the country are native speakers. There have been persistent reports that Moscow has tried to aggravate tensions within Moldova through its media outlets, most recently against its taking in of 350,000 Ukrainian refugees.
