Mark Levin ashamed of US response to Ukraine invasion urges Biden to start muscling up US military
20220411
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/mark-levin-ashamed-of-us-response-to-ukraine-invasion-urges-biden-to-start-muscling-up-us-military/ar-AAW4HUI
New College student pushes back against DeSantis: 'they can't change the culture of this school'
"Of course,"Levin continued, " this all involves American national security, wecant pretend it doesnt. You think they will leave usalone?That this will not affect us economicallygeopolitically and every other way?Of course, it is.When bullies see weakness,they attack.These genocidal massmurderers in China, andRussia and the Middle East, they see weakness."
"I amsick and tired of the Putin wingof media, the Putin wing ofthe Republican Party, the Putin wing of the DemocratParty, I am sick of them," Levin began. "They have been lying forweeks if not months.Im tired of isolationistsand those that say, 'what doyou want to do, drag us intoa war?' Did you not see thepictures?" he asserted. "There is a war going on. World War III has begun."
Levin said foreign enemies will interpret the United States' lack of involvement as weakness on the part of President Joe Biden.
Mark Levin said Sunday that he is "ashamed" of the United States' response to Russia's deadly invasion of Ukraine, adding that the country will look back with regret and wonder "why didn't we do more" to stop the bloodshed of innocent civilians.
Jill Biden declares her love for Hunter Biden amid GOP probe: 'I'll support him any way I can'
James Comer warns against Mexican cartels as border crisis rages on: Can't 'turn a blind eye'
"These are grave times," he warned. "Nowis not the time to hide, now is notthe time to be quiet.Now is not the time topretend that your ideologywill keep us safe when it won't. We should be muscling upthe U.S. military just in case.We should be muscling upNATO just in case.We should be arming theTaiwanese before they are attacked by the Communist Chinese,give them harpoon missiles and otherheavy weapons, so they can defend themselves and their freedom.
The conservative radio host also urged the Biden administration to stop their negotiations with Iran because it will only lead to them getting access to a nuclear weapon that will be able to target the United States along with Europe and the Middle East.
Should be Hall of Famer Curt Schilling reveals what makes new OutKick baseball podcast different
"I am ashamed at the response ofour government," he continued. "Fifty years from nowpeople willlook back, and they will say,why didnt we do more?"
The "Life, Liberty  Levin" host delivered an impassioned monologue on his show over the weekend, where he spoke out against Putin defenders and isolationistswho've warned the U.S. against taking action to defend the Ukrainian people.
