Modi Xi Putin to come together for Brics on June 24
20220528
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/modi-xi-putin-to-come-together-for-brics-on-june-24/ar-AAXOgPE
The summit will also take place days before the G7 meeting in Germany on June 26-28 that will further discuss measures to prevent Putin from having his way in Ukraine and will also see participation by Modi.
He is likely to use the summit to seek support for his new Global Security Initiative that apparently promotes common security in the world. While he didnt mention the crisis in Ukraine, Xi had said in remarks aimed at the US and Europe that seeking ones own security at the expense of others will only create new tensions and risks.
Xi had on May 19 addressed a meeting of the Brics foreign ministers and called for accommodating each others core interests and major concerns, respecting each others sovereignty, security and development interests and opposing hegemonism and power politics.
As the foreign ministers said in a joint statement after the meeting earlier this month, Brics countries support dialogue between Russia and Ukraine and also share concerns over the humanitarian situation in and around Ukraine. The joint statement separately also called for respecting sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, equality, legitimate interests and concerns of different countries. Foreign minister S Jaishankar used the meeting though to give vent to some of Indias own concerns related to the border situation in Ladakh as he said, with both Wang Yi and Sergey Lavrov watching, that while BRICS has repeatedly affirmed respect for sovereign equality, territorial integrity and international law, it must live up to these commitments. India has used similar language  respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, UN Charter and international law  on the Ukraine issue to suggest that while it hasnt condemned Russias action, it doesnt endorse the invasion either.
NEW DELHI: The Brics 2022 summit that will be hosted by Chinese President Xi Jinping will take place on June 24, official sources said. While the meeting will take place virtually, it will still be followed closely as it will bring Xi, PM Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin together for the first time since Russia launched its "special military operation" in Ukraine.
Despite the unresolved border standoff with India in eastern Ladakh, which continues to block any forward movement in bilateral ties, Beijing has sought to give the impression that on major regional and international issues both countries share similar positions. China has been more supportive of Russia than India on the Ukraine issue but India too hasnt condemned Moscow and its neutrality has been taken to mean tacit support for Russia by some in the West.
