More leaders visit Ukraine
20220414
https://www.msn.com/en-ph/news/world/more-leaders-visit-ukraine/ar-AAWe3xr
Appearing alongside Zelenskyy in an ornate room in Kyiv's historic Mariinskyi Palace on Wednesday, Nauseda, Estonian President Alar Karis, Poland's Andrzej Duda and Latvia's Egils Levits reiterated their commitment to supporting Ukraine politically and with military aid.
"If someone sends aircraft, if someone sends troops to shell residential districts, kill civilians, murder them  this is not war," he said. "This is cruelty, this is banditry, this is terrorism."
The visit by the presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia was a strong show of solidarity from the countries on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's NATO eastern flank, with three of them once part of the Soviet Union, like Ukraine.
"It is inevitable that the Russian troops will be held responsible. We will drag everyone to a tribunal, and not only for what was done in Bucha," Zelenskyy said on Wednesday night.
KYIV: The presidents of four countries on Russia's doorstep visited Ukraine on Wednesday and underscored their support for the embattled country, where they saw heavily damaged buildings and demanded accountability for what they called war crimes carried out by Russian forces.
"The fight for Europe's future is happening here," Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda said, calling for tougher sanctions, including against Russia's oil and gas shipments and all the country's banks.
He also said work was continuing to clear tens of thousands of unexploded shells, mines and trip wires left behind in northern Ukraine by the departing Russians. He urged people returning to homes to be wary of any unfamiliar objects and report them to the police.
The leaders traveled by train to the capital Kyiv to meet with their counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy, and visited Borodyanka, one of the nearby towns where evidence of atrocities was found after Russian troops withdrew to focus on the country's east.
Elsewhere, in one of the most crucial battles of the war, Russia said more than 1,000 Ukrainian troops had surrendered in the besieged southern port of Mariupol, where Ukrainian forces have been holding out in pockets of the city. A Ukrainian official denied the claim, which could not be verified.
And in the Odesa region, Gov. Maksym Marchenko said Ukrainian forces struck the guided-missile cruiser Moskva  the flagship of Russia's Black Sea Fleet  with two missiles and caused "serious damage." The Russian Defense Ministry confirmed the ship was damaged, but not that it was hit by Ukraine  it said ammunition on board detonated as a result of a fire, the causes of which "were being established." The entire crew was evacuated, it added. The cruiser usually has about 500 officers and crew.
"We know this history. We know what Russian occupation means. We know what Russian terrorism means," Duda said. He added that both those who committed war crimes and those who gave the orders should be held accountable. AP
In his daily late-night address, Zelenskyy said the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court ICC, Karim Khan, visited the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where more than 400 bodies were found, on Wednesday as an ICC investigation gets underway. Evidence of mass killings of civilians was found there after the Russian retreat.
