Moscow turned out to be very bad at cyber Fareed Zakaria on RussiaUkraine war
20220527
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/other/russia-turned-out-to-be-very-bad-at-cyber-fareed-zakaria-on-russia-ukraine-war/ar-AAXNOl4
EXCLUSIVE  'The Ukrainians jammed all Russian cyber efforts and the Russians turned out to be very bad at Cyber': Fareed Zakaria FareedZakaria, Journalist  Author also says China has only given rhetorical support to Russia IndiaTodayatDavos Newstrack  rahulkanwal pic.twitter.comBf1najYe9g
"The Chinese have twice given the Ukrainians aid and no Chinese banks or firms have violated any of the sanctions. China realised it is not in a good place," he said.
Speaking exclusively to India Today's News Director Rahul Kanwal, Fareed Zakaria said, "The Ukrainian counterattack backed by the US was much more effective than what they expected. Ukrainians jammed all Russian cyber efforts and the Russians turned out to be very bad at cyber."
According to reports, when the war broke out, Ukraine called on hacktivists to help the country defend itself from Russia. Since then, a steady stream of unnamed, anonymous hacktivists from both sides have taken to social media claiming to have conducted successful intrusions into either Russian or Ukrainian targets.
The Indian-American journalist further claimed that Russia hasn't deployed sophisticated missile systems as it might cross the line, prompting Nato and the US to get involved directly in the war.
"Russian soldiers are bringing mobile phones into battle zones and Ukrainians have jammed those SIM cards. Russians are then buying new SIM cards from Ukraine, enabling the Ukrainian army to target them precisely. Which is why Russia lost 10 generals," he added.
Zakaria said that China's support for Russia has been rhetorical. They have not given military and non-military assistance to Russia, he said.
After three months into the war, Russia has abandoned its assault on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv and is fully focused on capturing the industrial eastern region of Donbas. Veteran journalist and geopolitical expert Fareed Zakaria said that Ukrainian resistance was effective as Russians turned out to be very bad at cyber.
Meanwhile, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged the West to stop playing around with Russia and impose tougher sanctions to end its "senseless war".
