Move Hypersonic Weapons Within Striking Distance of US Russian MP Says
20220704
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/move-hypersonic-weapons-within-striking-distance-of-us-russian-mp-says/ar-AAZbr7H
A video of a Russian politician calling for a new Cuban missile crisis over the Ukraine conflict has gone viral on social media.
However, journalist Nadana Fridriksson, who spoke after Gurulyov, hinted that Russia could invade other nations after the Ukraine conflict is concluded.
"That is the only scenario for us to be able to denazify and demilitarize Ukraine."
The Daily Beast's Julia Davis shared the video to her Twitter page. The video has so far been viewed over 130,000 times.
Related Articles Russian Lawmaker Proposes Declaring U.S. 'Terrorist State'Ukrainian Artillery Reportedly Destroy Russian Anti-Aircraft System Worth $15MRussia Ready for Direct Confrontation With All of NATO, State TV Host Says Start your unlimited Newsweek trial
"Those countries in the post-Soviet space, that decided to play with Westernness, neutrality, they should understand that they're next," she said. "Sooner or later, the Ukrainian campaign will conclude, after Ukraine, another country's turn will come."
"Any dtente happens after a good crisis, like dtente that followed the Cuban Missile Crisis," he continued.
"With a flight time of five minutes, maximum, Biden will keep sitting there and stuttering but the rest will think about how to negotiate.
"Why? Because during the Cuban Missile Crisis, there was a direct threat to the territory of the U.S. to which they had no immediate response.
Gurulyov went on to describe how Russia could succeed in the "denazification and demilitarization of Ukraine."
Gurulyov then hinted that Russia had a desire to come to the negotiating table in order to resolve the conflict.
"Right now, they're delivering MLRS Multiple Launch Rocket System, howitzers, they'll deliver anything therein Ukraine, up to a nuclear bomb just not to let us win," he said, referencing Western countries' commitment to supplying Ukraine with weapons.
The U.S, Russia as well as China have all been racing to develop hypersonic missiles. A hypersonic missile can travel at speeds of Mach 5 or higherfive times faster than the speed of sound. On Thursday, June 30, the Pentagon announced the failure of the Common Hypersonic Glide Body CHGB test amid concerns that the U.S. was falling behind Russia and China in developing these types of weapons. As the war has raged on in Ukraine, Vladimir Putin has repeatedly boasted about his country's hypersonic weapons prowess.
Propagandists on Russian state TV advocate creating another Cuban Missile Crisis this time, with hypersonic missiles in order to extract concessions out of the U.S. They also propose total destruction of Ukraine's critical infrastructure and warn other countries: "You're next." pic.twitter.com6j6D0zKIwV
"Propagandists on Russian state TV advocate creating another Cuban Missile Crisis this time, with hypersonic missiles in order to extract concessions out of the U.S."
"We should create similar circumstances since the U.S. is behind all this and others are on their leash.
In the clip, Gurulyov speaks in Russian but an English translation runs along the bottom of the screen. It is unclear when the footage was recorded.
Gurulyov said moving Russia's hypersonic weapons within striking distance of U.S. territory would force President Joe Biden to come to the negotiating table with Russia and stop supplying Ukraine with weapons for the conflict.
"They also propose total destruction of Ukraine's critical infrastructure and warn other countries: 'You're next.'"
"Next, they'll send planes, anti-aircraft systems, then anti-missile systems and so on and so forth, they will not calm down."
"We're ahead of everyone with hypersonic weapons, our hypersonic weapons should be, not only aboard traditional carriers, but brought near to the vicinity of the United States.
Russian Duma member Andrei Gurulyov was speaking on Russian state TV and discussing the need for a resolution to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
He emphasized that in "any war, you can't always keep winning," and admitted that there must be defeats eventually.
