MSNBC analyst joins fight in Ukraine I am done talking
20220419
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/msnbc-analyst-joins-fight-in-ukraine-i-am-done-talking/ar-AAWlYJf
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
During his interview, the former analyst, in fact, also made an appeal to president Joe Biden for heavy weapons.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
He added: I was very touched when I met the first platoon and saw they were here for the right reasons. They were not here just to get guns.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Thats the story. They were higher-level people than I am. Most journalists have never seen an actual member or been following freelancers all over the battlefield. I really cant tell you how diverse a group it really is. It is literally a multinational force of men and women who are here to defend Ukraine.
Former MSNBC foreign policy analyst Malcolm Nance has joined the Ukrainian forces to help them fight the Russian invasion, he revealed on Monday.
He said: The more I saw of the war going on, the more I thought, Im done talking, all right? Its time to take action here. I am here to help this country fight  what essentially is a war of extermination. This is an existential war and Russia has brought it to these people and they are mass murdering civilians, and there are people here like me who are here to do something about it.
A retired Naval intelligence officer, Mr Nance told Joy Reid on The Reid Out that he joined Ukraines international legion about a month ago.
Nance: The more I saw of the war going on, the more I thought Im done talking So about a month ago I joined the international legion here in Ukraine pic.twitter.comzviTHUm2a0
An MSNBC spokesperson confirmed that Mr Nance was no longer the foreign policy analyst with the network.
Mr Nance  who was also the executive director of the Terror Asymmetrics Project on Strategy, Tactics and Radical Ideologies  appeared on Reids programme on Monday from a secure location and revealed that he had joined the International Legion of Territorial Defense of Ukraine.
Russia has one advantage on the battlefield and that is long-range artillery. Let me say something to the president of the United States: Give Ukraine counter-battery long-range artillerymultiple rocket launch systems to out-range the artillery. If you do that, you stop the attacks on civilians because thats what theyre doing with the artillery, Mr Nance said.
