NATO will strike back if Russia attacks a member country White House says
20220313
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/nato-will-strike-back-if-russia-attacks-a-member-country-white-house-says/ar-AAV0vub
Destroyed cars on a road being used as an evacuation route out of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, March 13, 2022. AP PhotoFelipe Dana
NBC News Correspondent Tom Costello joins Andrea Mitchell to break down a series of runway scares, turbulence troubles, and passenger problems ahead of an emergency FAA meeting to address these safety concerns. We've had all of these instances and we need to address it as a country or something bad could happen, says Costello. Regarding the death of a Clinton White House aide on a private flight due to turbulence, Costello notes: This is incredibly rare. In fact, I don't think I've heard of somebody dying of turbulence in a plane, be it a private plane or a commercial plane.
Video: Lt. Col Ret. Alexander Vindman: pressure is building on eastern Europe to act outside NATO MSNBC
White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan. AP PhotoManuel Balce Ceneta Manuel Balce CenetaThats an indicator that in fact, the Russians are getting ready to do it and try and pin the blame elsewhere, and nobody should fall for that.With News Wire Services
Two of the four Americans who were shot at by gunmen and kidnapped in Mexico are now back in the U.S,. according to officials. We are in the process of working to repatriate the remains of the two Americans who were killed in this incident, said State Department spokesman Ned Price.
Under Article 5 of NATOs founding treaty, members are required to come to the defense of another member if it is attacked. The alliance has 30 member countries.
Jeremy Bash: Lethal aid from China could thaw 'frozen conflict' in Ukraine, giving edge to Russia
Sullivan also voiced concern that Russian forces, which launched their unprovoked and brutal invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, could use chemical weapons.
Thats an indicator that in fact, the Russians are getting ready to do it and try and pin the blame elsewhere, and nobody should fall for that.
As Russian troops attacked western Ukraine, just miles from the Polish border, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said NATO would respond to an intentional or accidental attack on one of its members.
There is an escalating level of rhetoric on the Russian side trying to accuse the Ukrainians and the United States of potentially using chemical or biological weapons, he said. And thats a tell.
Marc Morial: We have to make the continuing moral case for democracy and voting rights
The United States will work with our allies to defend every inch of NATO territory, and that means every inch, he told CBS Face the Nation. And if there is a military attack on NATO territory, it would cause the invocation of Article 5, and we would bring the full force of the NATO alliance to bear in responding to it.
Three Republican-led states on Monday pulled out of a bipartisan effort among states to ensure accurate voter lists, undermining a system with a demonstrated record of combating voter fraud, according to new reporting. The Morning Joe panel discusses.
Lt. Col Ret. Alexander Vindman: pressure is building on eastern Europe to act outside NATO
If Russia attacks a NATO member country during its invasion of Ukraine, the military alliance will respond with full force, a top White House official said Sunday.As Russian troops attacked western Ukraine, just miles from the Polish border, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said NATO would respond to an intentional or accidental attack on one of its members.The United States will work with our allies to defend every inch of NATO territory, and that means every inch, he told CBS Face the Nation. And if there is a military attack on NATO territory, it would cause the invocation of Article 5, and we would bring the full force of the NATO alliance to bear in responding to it.
Tom Costello: We need to address air safety concerns as a country or something bad could happen
Under Article 5 of NATOs founding treaty, members are required to come to the defense of another member if it is attacked. The alliance has 30 member countries.Sullivan also voiced concern that Russian forces, which launched their unprovoked and brutal invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, could use chemical weapons.There is an escalating level of rhetoric on the Russian side trying to accuse the Ukrainians and the United States of potentially using chemical or biological weapons, he said. And thats a tell.
Destroyed cars on a road being used as an evacuation route out of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, March 13, 2022. AP PhotoFelipe Dana Felipe Dana Video: Lt. Col Ret. Alexander Vindman: pressure is building on eastern Europe to act outside NATO MSNBC
If Russia attacks a NATO member country during its invasion of Ukraine, the military alliance will respond with full force, a top White House official said Sunday.
