NATO defense ministers to discuss Russian security threat
20220615
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/nato-defense-ministers-to-discuss-russian-security-threat/ar-AAYurxb
A separate meeting being held by the US and the Ukraine Defense Contact Group is also being held on Wednesday, although NATO is not officially taking part in discussions.
Stoltenberg also said that he expected consensus on a new package of assistance at the upcoming NATO leaders' summit in Madrid later this month.
Heads of NATO defense are meeting ahead of the alliance's summit in Madrid later in June. NATO Chief Jens Stoltenberg said the Ukraine war posed the "biggest threat to Euro-Atlantic security in decades."The ministers of defense of NATO member states on Wednesday are holding a round of talks in Brussels to deal with the response to security threats posed by Russia in the medium to long term.
Finland, Georgia, Sweden and Ukraine and the European Union have been invited to the session which Stoltenberg said would be an opportunity to assess Ukraine's urgent needs, while also affording NATO allies the opportunity to pledge more support.
As Russia's invasion of Ukraine heads towards the four month mark, Baltic states bordering Russia want a stronger military presence in the region.Last week German Chancellor Olaf Scholz pledged to bolster the alliance's eastern flank with a E100 billion $106 billion special fund that would reinforce German forces in the area.
Stoltenberg will be chairing the talks which begin with a working dinner on Wednesday evening and will continue with an allied ministers' meeting on Thursday.
Ahead of talks NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said "Russia's war against Ukraine is posing the biggest threat to Euro-Atlantic security in decades."
With that in mind, the security alliance's summit in Madrid is expected to determine what the future of the NATO deployment in eastern Europe will look like.
"Allies are committed to continue providing the military equipment that Ukraine needs to prevail, including heavy weapons and long range systems," the NATO chief said.
"I welcome Germany's intension to strengthen its engagement in Lithuania, which leads our NATO battlegroup and develop it towards a more robust combat brigade," Stoltenberg said.
The Ukrainian leadership has made repeated appeals for more military assistance in the form of heavy weaponry, since the Russian invasion on February 24. While various pledges have been made, there has been a level of criticism that support has been slow in coming.
