New biosecurity powers enacted in airports to stop foot and mouth disease
20220722
https://www.msn.com/en-au/news/australia/new-biosecurity-powers-enacted-in-airports-to-stop-foot-and-mouth-disease/ar-AAZRNbj
From Saturday, all returning travellers from Indonesia must clean their shoes and walk over sanitation mats to prevent an outbreak that would decimate Australia's livestock.
Australia has launched its biggest biosecurity response in history to stop foot and mouth disease which is circulating in Indonesia from wiping out the nation's livestock industry.
While Australia remains virus-free, concerns are heightened after virus fragments were detected in pork in Melbourne and beef seized at Adelaide airport.
Shadow Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews is among those calling for the borders to be closed.
"Obviously indicated I'd arrived from Indonesia and then went through, declared my footwear and they were taken, sterilised, returned to me and I was able to go on my way," one traveller said.
But the National Farmers' Federation CEO Tony Mahar said an unnecessary border closure could hurt an important trade relationship despite concerns over the disease decimating the nation's livestock sector.
"We don't want to do anything that would unnecessarily damage the relationship with them," he said.
The creation of "biosecurity response zones" means biosecurity officers are now empowered to direct entire planeloads of people to undergo the sanitation measures.
Agriculture Minister Murray Watt announced late on Friday the new biosecurity powers that "compel" travellers to sanitise their shoes when arriving at airports across Australia.
"I had been concerned about some rare reports that some return travellers were not doing the right thing when returning from Indonesia," Watt said in a statement.
"These zones strengthen and widen the powers of biosecurity officers to direct passengers to use foot mats and other biosecurity control measures such as the cleaning of shoes."
The federal government is facing growing pressure to slam the border shut to Indonesia to prevent the spread of foot and mouth disease which could cost the economy up to $80 billion if there were to be an outbreak.
