Nuclear plant opens in Finland amid chaos in Ukraine
20220315
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/nuclear-plant-opens-in-finland-amid-chaos-in-ukraine/ar-AAV3K2u
The power plant is on Finland's west coast and is the country's first new nuclear facility in more than four decades.
According to the 2019 World Nuclear Industry Report, the project's initial estimated cost of 3 billion euros $3.3 billion ended up being closer to 11 billion euros.
The reactor, built by the French-led consortium Areva-Siemens, was originally supposed to open in 2009, but the project was halted after technical problems led to legal disputes.
"We congratulate the staff of TVO, the Finnish regulator STUK and all the companies involved for this great achievement," she said.
Against a backdrop of soaring fuel prices worldwide and growing concern about the extent and impact of the conflict in Ukraine, Europe's first new nuclear power plant in 15 years officially began operations in Finland over the weekend.
The Ukraine conflict has increased the push in Europe to reduce dependence on fuel imports from Russia amid the uncertainty and economic consequences.
Though the power plant's combination of French and German technical expertise was supposed to offer higher safety standards and increased production power, the disputes involved technical issues that Finland's nuclear regulator attributed to poor management and workmanship.
Around 40 percent of Europe's natural gas and more than one-fourth of its crude oil comes from Russia, and steps have already been taken to reduce dependence. For example, Germany, which gets around half of its coal and oil from Russia, has said it wants to end those imports by the end of the year.
"OL3 significantly improves Finland's electricity self-sufficiency and helps in achieving carbon neutrality goals," said the operating company, Teollisuuden Voima, also known as TVO.
"When Olkiluoto 3 reaches full output, around 90 percent of Finland's electricity generation will come from clean, low-carbon electricity sources, with nuclear generation supplying around half of that," said World Nuclear Association Director General Sama Bilbao y Leon.
The Olkiluoto 3 facility has started test production for Finland's national grid and is expected to reach full capacity by the end of July. That will put it on course to meet 14 percent of the country's demand for electricity, allowing it to ease off imports from Norway, Sweden and Russia.
