Oil falls more than 4 for the week as traders weigh prospects for Russian crude supplies
20220318
https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/markets/oil-edges-higher-as-traders-monitor-russia-ukraine-developments/ar-AAVehCQ
Wednesdays forecast from the International Energy Agency also had an impact, he said, warning that the market could end up missing 3 million barrels a day of crude and oil products from Russia beginning in April.
Read: Commodities offer traders a wild ride, but some are drawn to volatility like flies to a light bulb
In a press release Friday, the IEA said there are measures that advanced economies can take to achieve significant reductions in oil demand in a matter of months to reduce the risk of a major supply crunch. It said its 10-Point Plan to Cut Oil Use would lower oil demand by 2.7 million barrels a day within four months.
He told MarketWatch that all eyes are on Russia oil export volumes for April and May bookings, which so far have yielded few buyers.
The news from Russia and Ukraine with respect to the peace talks no longer sounded nearly as optimistic as it did before, which has doubtless prompted the market to reassess the situation, said Carsten Fritsch, commodity analyst at Commerzbank, in a note.
Meanwhile, world leaders are pushing for an investigation of Russias repeated attacks on civilian targets, including airstrikes on schools, hospitals and residential areas.
The Kremlin on Friday said Russian President Vladimir Putin told German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, in a phone call, that Ukraine was stalling talks with unrealistic proposals, according to news reports. Separately, U.S. President Joe Biden and Chinese leader Xi Jinping held talks Friday, with the U.S. threatening action if China backs Russia in its war with Ukraine.
This weeks volatility dances around the confusion on what to make of the Russian oil exports, said Manish Raj, chief financial officer at Velandera Energy Partners.
Also see: Why Russias invasion of Ukraine lifted uranium prices to their highest in over a decade
Oil futures settled higher Friday after talks between Moscow and Kyiv made little progress, but prices still registered a loss of more than 4 for the week.
Still, unless Russians find a way to skirt around the sanctions, oil prices are poised to test new highs, said Raj.
Talks between Moscow and Kyiv stalled after signs of optimism earlier this week that fueled a reversal to the downside by crude futures, which had hit nearly 14-year highs last week.
The U.S. and its allies have hit Russia with severe sanctions, with Washington also banning imports of Russian crude. Western sanctions have largely attempted to exempt Russian energy flows, but analysts and others have warned that Russian supply is likely to be sharply curtailed in the months ahead.
