Only China can stop Russia now Heres why it makes sense for Xi to help Putin get out of Ukraine
20220308
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/only-china-can-stop-russia-now-heres-why-it-makes-sense-for-xi-to-help-putin-get-out-of-ukraine/ar-AAUMAZ1
Yes, there was a widely noted tweak to the economic forecastwith a2022 growth targetof around 5.5 that, while weak by Chinese standards, was actually slightlystronger than expectedand some hints of likely policy support from fiscal, monetary, and regulatory authorities. But this work report was notable in saying as little as possible about a world in turmoil.
This outcome, of course, is completely at odds with Chinas development goals just enunciated by Li. But it is a very real risk if China maintains unlimited support for Russia, includingtempering the impact of Western sanctions, as a literal reading of the Feb. 4 agreement implies.
Russias prospects are bleak, at best without China, it has none at all. China holds the trump card in the ultimate survival of Putins Russia.
Yet a mere 29 days later, it was largely business as usual for Premier Li, who presented what is by now the annual Chinese boilerplate prescription for development and prosperity. A familiar list of reforms stressed Chinas ongoing commitments to poverty reduction, job creation, digitization, environmental protection, meeting demographic challenges, disease prevention, and a wide range of economic and financial issues.
Yet in the span of just one month, Putins horrific war against Ukraine has turned this concept on its head. If China remains committed to its new partnership with Russia, it faces guilt by association. Just as Russia has been isolated by draconian Western sanctions that could devastate its economy for decades, the same fate awaits China if it deepens its new partnership.
Later this year, the20th Party Congresswill convene in Beijing. Themajor item on the agendais hardly a secret: Xis appointment to an unprecedented third five-year term as the Partys general secretary. China watchers, including me, have long presumed that nothing would stand in the way of this well-telegraphed outcome.
Stephen S. Roach, a faculty member at Yale University and former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, is the author of Unbalanced: The Codependency of America and ChinaYale University Press, 2014and the forthcomingAccidental Conflict.
Many believed that Russia and China had come together in shaping a grand strategy for a new Cold War. I called itChinas triangulation gambit: joining with Russia to corner the United States, just as the Sino-American rapprochement 50 years ago successfully cornered the former Soviet Union. The U.S., the architect of that earlier triangulation, was now being triangulated.
The choice for Xi is clear: He can stay the course set by his Feb. 4 agreement with Russia, and be forever tainted with the sanctions, isolation, and excruciating economic and financial pressures that come with that stance. Or he can broker the peace that will save the world and cement Chinas status as a great power led by a great statesman.
The Chinese leadership appears to sense this untenable dilemma. After Russias invasion of Ukraine was met byuncharacteristic silencefrom the Standing Committee of the Politburo, the top seven leaders of the Party, China has since underscored its time-honored fallback principle of respect for national sovereignty. At the Munich Security Conference last month, Foreign Minister Wang Yistressed this point, along with Chinas longstanding insistence on nonintervention in other states internal affairsan argument that bears directly on Taiwan.
Lukas Alpert: After years of living in Moscow, I have bad news: No one should expect the Russian people to suddenly rise up against Putin now
NEW HAVEN, Conn. Project SyndicateWith war raging in Ukraine, Chinas annual Two Sessions convey an image of a country in denial. As the Communist Party and its advisory body gather in Beijing this month, there has been little or no mention of a seismic disruption in the world orderan omission that is all the more glaring in view of Chinas deep-rooted sense of its unique place in history.
The wide-ranging statement on Sino-Russian cooperation spoke of a friendship between the two States that has no limits. It featured an almost breathless accounting of common interests, as well as commitments to addressing climate change, global health, economic cooperation, trade policy, and regional and geostrategic ambitions. The West was put on notice that it faced a powerful combination as a new adversary in the East.
Two documentsthe jointSino-Russian cooperation agreement, signed on Feb. 4 at the opening of the Beijing Winter Olympics, and theWork Report, delivered on March 5 by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang to the National Peoples Congressencapsulate Chinas disconnect.
With its unabashed great power aspirations, modern China may well be at a decisive juncture.
But, at the National Peoples Congress on March 7,Wang dug in his heels, insisting that China and Russia willsteadily advance our comprehensive strategic partnership. It is as if Putinknew full well when he went to Beijingin early February that he was setting a trap for China.
He has the greatest leverage of any world leader to broker a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine. To do that, he needs to send a strong message to Putin that Russias brutal invasion crosses Chinas own principled red line on territorial sovereignty.
Yet China cant have it both ways. There is no way it can stay the course, as Li suggests, while adhering to the partnership agreement with Russia announced by Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin.
But history, and the current events that shape it, have an uncanny knack of shifting the leadership calculus in any country. That is true not only in democracies like the U.S. but also in autocracies like Russia and China.
That means he will need to register a strong objection to Putins efforts torewrite post-Cold War historyand resurrect Imperial Russia. To negotiate an end to the devastating conflict that Putin unleashed, Xi will need to put his Feb. 4 partnership commitment back on the table as a decisive bargaining chip.
As the architect of the Chinese dream and what he believes is a great nations even greater rejuvenation, Xi has no choice. My bet is that Xi will do the unthinkabledefuse the Russia threat, before it is too late.
