Pelosi Ukrainian ambassador to unveil Capitol photo exhibit of Russian invasion
20220427
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/pelosi-ukrainian-ambassador-to-unveil-capitol-photo-exhibit-of-russian-invasion/ar-AAWCo5l
Video: Rep Himes: Pelosi believes Russia should be designated as state sponsors of terror MSNBC
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi D-Calif. and Ukrainian Ambassador Oksana Markarova are set to unveil a Capitol photo exhibit of Russias invasion of Ukraine, Pelosis office announced on Tuesday.
Earlier this week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Russia has sought as its principal aim to totally subjugate Ukraine, to take away its sovereignty, to take away its independence. That has failed. Its sought to assert the power of its military and its economy, Blinken said alongside Austin on Monday.
In partnership with the Embassy of Ukraine, images capturing the horror of the Russian invasion and the heroism of the Ukrainian people will be showcased in this exhibit for six weeks, her office said in a release.
It is real. It should not be underestimated, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told Russian state media late Monday regarding the threat of nuclear war.
The photo exhibit will be unveiled at 4 p.m. on Thursday and will be open for viewing on days when the House is in session between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
Those officials, the highest-ranking U.S. officials to meet with Zelensky yet, offered bleak assessments of how Russia was faring during the conflict, both economically and militarily.
The development comes more than two months into Russias invasion of Ukraine, which has remained unsuccessful at taking Ukraines capital and has since launched a renewed offensive in eastern Ukraine.
We of course are seeing just the opposite: a military that is dramatically underperforming, an economy, as a result of sanctions, as a result of a mass exodus from Russia, that is in shambles, he continued. And its sought to divide the West and NATO. Of course, were seeing exactly the opposite.
