Poland could invoke NATO Article 4 after Russianmade missiles reportedly struck a Polish village Heres what that means
20220226
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/multiple-eastern-european-countries-triggered-nato-s-article-4-here-s-what-that-means/ar-AAUk8bN
Russia's ongoing assault on Ukraine has forced the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and its 30 member countries to continually grapple with the role they should play in the nearly nine-month conflict, but the Tuesday incident seemingly marks the first time Russian President Vladimir Putin's war has directly impacted a NATO member.
The decision marked the first time in NATO's seven-decade history that the body's combat-ready response force has been activated as a defensive measure, CNN reported.
Its most recent use was in February 2020, when Turkey, which has invoked consultations more than any other country, invoked the article after Syrian government forces killed dozens of Turkish soldiers in an attack in opposition-held regions in northern Syria.
US officials have not yet confirmed the reports, but the Pentagon on Tuesday reiterated President Joe Biden's previous declaration that the US would "defend every inch of NATO territory."
Invoking the article does not guarantee that the alliance will take action, but it is a significant step in intensifying discussions between members. Article 4 starts formal communications on behalf of the threatened member.
Ukraine, though not a member of NATO, has been designated one of the alliance's "enhanced opportunity partners," a title granted to nonmember countries that have contributed to NATO-led operations and missions.
Discussions within the alliance then focus on whether the threat exists and how to counter it. NATO employs consensus decision-making, meaning there is no voting within the alliance. Consultations continue until a unanimous decision is reached, NATO's website says.
Poland's use of the tenet in 2014 led to a member meeting that resulted in stronger NATO efforts to defend the alliance.
World leaders attended an emergency virtual NATO summit on February 25, 2022 following the invocation of Article 4. The meeting followed a separate emergency NATO summit on the previous day, where members also discussed the Ukraine situation.
NATO serves as a collective security system, wherein its member states agree to mutually defend any attack on a member party  a pledge enshrined in the treaty's most famous tenet, Article 5.
Two people were killed after Russian missiles landed in an eastern Polish village on Tuesday, a US intelligence official told the Associated Press.
As such, NATO and its members have no binding obligation to defend Ukraine against Russia's attacks.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky thanked NATO for its help but called on the alliance to do more.
Immediately following Russia's invasion in February, a group of Eastern European countries, including Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia requested discussions under NATO Article 4.
"We are alone in defending our country. Who is ready to defend us together with us? Honestly, I don't see any," Zelensky said, according to CNN. "Who is ready to give Ukraine a guarantee of joining NATO? Honestly, everyone is afraid."
Following the Friday meeting, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told journalists the alliance would deploy parts of its response force and continue sending weapons to Ukraine, including air defenses.
Such defiant language ostensibly appeals to the collective defense principle at the heart of NATO Article 5. But Article 5's lesser-known predecessor may be the more likely response.
If Russia was behind the strike, "I'm quite sure Article 4  which is sort of the conference article  would be invoked, because Poland was attacked," Simon Miles, an assistant professor at Duke University's Sanford School of Public Policy and a historian of the Soviet Union and US-Soviet relations, told Insider.
On two of those occasions, NATO responded with military assistance, aiding Turkey with Patriot missile batteries to combat Syrian attacks in 2012 and providing aircraft and missile batteries along Turkey's border with Iraq in 2003.
Biden has made clear that US troops thus far deployed to Eastern Europe are there to bolster NATO member countries wary of nearby Russian aggression.
The alliance contained just 12 countries when it was founded but has more than doubled in size in the years since. The body now consists of two countries in North America and 28 European countries, including several former Soviet nations.
TheNorth Atlantic Treaty Organization is a military alliance created in 1949 to provide collective security against Soviet expansionism and to encourage European political integration in the aftermath of World War II.
Article 4 of the treaty allows any member nation to call for a consultation of the organization's governing bodywhen "the territorial integrity, political independence, or security of any of the parties is threatened," according to the treaty.
The force includes land, air, sea, and special operations forces from the alliance's member nations ready for rapid deployment.
In NATO's 73-year existence, Article 4 had only been invoked six times prior to the start of the war in Ukraine, according to the alliance's website.
"This is an historic moment and the very first time the Alliance has employed these high readiness forces in a deterrence and defense role," NATO Supreme Allied Commander Gen. Tod Wolters said in a statement to the outlet.
