Pregnant Ukrainian woman who survived Russian attack on maternity ward gives birth to baby girl
20220312
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/pregnant-ukrainian-woman-who-survived-russian-attack-on-maternity-ward-gives-birth-to-baby-girl/ar-AAUXEKJ
Mariana Vishegirskaya lies in a hospital bed after giving birth to her daughter Veronika on Friday. Evgeniy MaloletkaAt least three people, including a child, were killed in the attack, and 17 were injured. Vishegirskaya became a symbol of Ukrainians suffering and determination in the face of the Russian onslaught.Russia bombs maternity ward in southern Ukraine as Putin scales up attacksBut Russia attempted to throw a wrench in the story, with the countrys U.K. embassy claiming on Twitter that Vishegirskaya was an actor and the photographs were staged. They were not Twitter removed the posts.Vishegirskaya has chronicled her pregnancy for months on her popular Instagram page. The account even includes photos of her wearing the same pajamas she was wearing while escaping the hospital.
Vishegirskaya has chronicled her pregnancy for months on her popular Instagram page. The account even includes photos of her wearing the same pajamas she was wearing while escaping the hospital.
Photographers with the Associated Press captured Vishegirskayas entire journey, providing first-hand evidence to rebut the Russian disinformation claims.
A Ukrainian woman who became internationally famous after photos captured her escape from a Russian-bombed maternity ward while very pregnant gave birth Friday to a baby girl.Mariana Vishegirskaya was spotted with blood on her face descending the steps of the bombed-out childrens hospital Wednesday after Russian missile strikes destroyed the building in Mariupol.
Vishegirskaya and other expectant mothers were transported to another hospital in Mariupol. The second hospital was in an even more dangerous location, but she gave birth to baby Veronika on Friday.
Mariana Vishegirskaya lies in a hospital bed after giving birth to her daughter Veronika on Friday.
In recent days, Russia has expanded its air attacks across Ukraine, striking deeper into the battered nation and further west.
Mariana Vishegirskaya was spotted with blood on her face descending the steps of the bombed-out childrens hospital Wednesday after Russian missile strikes destroyed the building in Mariupol.
Mariana Vishegirskaya lies in a hospital bed after giving birth to her daughter Veronika, held by her husband Yuri, in Mariupol on Friday.
A Ukrainian woman who became internationally famous after photos captured her escape from a Russian-bombed maternity ward while very pregnant gave birth Friday to a baby girl.
Mariana Vishegirskaya walks downstairs in a maternity hospital damaged by shelling in Mariupol on Wednesday. Evgeniy Maloletka Video: Pregnant Ukrainian sheltering in basement: I want my child born in 'our land' FOX News Vishegirskaya and other expectant mothers were transported to another hospital in Mariupol. The second hospital was in an even more dangerous location, but she gave birth to baby Veronika on Friday.Photographers with the Associated Press captured Vishegirskayas entire journey, providing first-hand evidence to rebut the Russian disinformation claims.Her husband, Yuri, was pictured holding their new daughter and staring lovingly into her eyes.
Video: Pregnant Ukrainian sheltering in basement: I want my child born in 'our land' FOX News
But Russia attempted to throw a wrench in the story, with the countrys U.K. embassy claiming on Twitter that Vishegirskaya was an actor and the photographs were staged. They were not Twitter removed the posts.
At least three people, including a child, were killed in the attack, and 17 were injured. Vishegirskaya became a symbol of Ukrainians suffering and determination in the face of the Russian onslaught.
Mariana Vishegirskaya walks downstairs in a maternity hospital damaged by shelling in Mariupol on Wednesday.
Attempts to establish humanitarian corridors for residents to escape Mariupol have been thwarted by Russian forces who fired on the Ukrainian aid convoy.
Mariana Vishegirskaya lies in a hospital bed after giving birth to her daughter Veronika, held by her husband Yuri, in Mariupol on Friday. Evgeniy MaloletkaIn recent days, Russia has expanded its air attacks across Ukraine, striking deeper into the battered nation and further west.Russia broadens air assaults in Ukraine, splits up convoy outside KyivMariupol sits in Ukraines southeast corner and has been surrounded by Russian forces. City leadership said more than 1,500 civilians have been killed in the city since Vladimir Putin ordered Russian forces to invade on Feb. 24.Attempts to establish humanitarian corridors for residents to escape Mariupol have been thwarted by Russian forces who fired on the Ukrainian aid convoy.With News Wire Services
Her husband, Yuri, was pictured holding their new daughter and staring lovingly into her eyes.
Mariupol sits in Ukraines southeast corner and has been surrounded by Russian forces. City leadership said more than 1,500 civilians have been killed in the city since Vladimir Putin ordered Russian forces to invade on Feb. 24.
