President Zelenskyy meets toplevel US delegation Ukraine
20220425
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/president-zelenskyy-meets-top-level-us-delegation-ukraine/ar-AAWyg0u
Most of Sunday's fighting focused on the Donbas region, where Ukrainian forces are concentrated and where Moscow-backed separatists controlled some territory before the war. Since failing to capture Kyiv, the Russians are aiming to gain full control over the eastern industrial heartland.
Zelenskyy's meeting with US officials was set to take place as Ukrainians and Russians observed Orthodox Easter, when the faithful celebrate the resurrection of Jesus. Speaking from Kyiv's ancient St. Sophia Cathedral, Zelenskyy, who is Jewish, highlighted its significance to a nation wracked by nearly two months of war.
While the West has funneled military equipment to Ukraine, Zelenskyy has stressed repeatedly it needs more heavy weapons, including long-range air defense systems, as well as warplanes.
"Why? To hand over signals from Russia? What should we look for?" Zelenskyy said Saturday. "There are no corpses scattered on the Kutuzovsky Prospect," he said, referring to one of Moscow's main avenues.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres Guterres is scheduled to travel to Turkey on Monday and then Moscow and Kyiv. Zelenskyy said it was a mistake for Guterres to visit Russia before Ukraine.
"The great holiday today gives us great hope and unwavering faith that light will overcome darkness, good will overcome evil, life will overcome death, and therefore Ukraine will surely win!" he said.
The meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin was confirmed by presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych in an interview on Ukrainian TV.
The Russian military reported hitting 423 Ukrainian targets overnight, including fortified positions and troop concentrations, while its warplanes destroyed 26 Ukrainian military sites, including an explosives factory and several artillery depots.
Victor Lobush of Kyiv said Ukraine needs more weapons and financial support, and for Western nations "not to buy even a drop of the Russian oil."
Still, the war cast a shadow over celebrations. In the northern village of Ivanivka, where Russian tanks still littered the roads, Olena Koptyl said "the Easter holiday doesn't bring any joy. I'm crying a lot. We cannot forget how we lived."
It came as Ukraine pressed the West for more powerful weapons against Russia's campaign in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, where Moscow's forces sought to dislodge the last Ukrainian troops in the battered port of Mariupol.
Before the session, Zelenskyy said he was looking for the Americans to produce results, both in arms and security guarantees.
"You can't come to us empty-handed today, and we are expecting not just presents or some kind of cakes, we are expecting specific things and specific weapons,'' he said.
The spiritual leaders of the world's Orthodox Christians and Roman Catholics appealed for relief for Ukraine's suffering population.
Pope Francis renewed his call for an Easter truce, calling it "a minimal and tangible sign of a desire for peace."
Ukraine's national police said two girls, aged 5 and 14, died in shelling in the town of Ocheretyne, part of the industrial region.
ALSO READ: This is my home now: 13-year-old's life in subway-turned-bomb shelter in Kharkiv  Ground Report
ALSO READ: 'I want to see the sun,' begs child in Mariupol steel plant under Russian attack
The US secretaries of state and defense met Sunday night with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the highest-level visit to the war-torn country's capital by an American delegation since the start of Russia's invasion.
Zelenskyy adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said Ukraine has proposed talks with Russia next to the sprawling steel mill. Arestovych said on the Telegram messaging app that Russia has not responded to the proposal that would include establishing humanitarian corridors and the exchange of Russian war prisoners for the fighters still in the plant.
From Istanbul, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I said a "human tragedy" was unfolding. Bartholomew, considered the first among his Eastern Orthodox patriarch equals, cited in particular "the thousands of people surrounded in Mariupol, civilians, among them the wounded, the elderly, women and many children."
In an apparent boost for Ukraine, polling agencies said French President Emmanuel Macron would win reelection over far right candidate Marine Le Pen. The result was hailed by France's allies in the European Union as a reassuring sign of stability and continued support for Ukraine. France has played a leading role in international efforts to punish Russia with sanctions and is supplying weapons systems to Ukraine.
"Yes, they're meeting with the president. Let's hope something will be decided on further help," Arestovych said in an interview on Ukrainian TV.
Russian forces launched fresh airstrikes on a Mariupol steel plant where an estimated 1,000 civilians are sheltering along with about 2,000 Ukrainian fighters. The Azovstal steel mill where the defenders are holed up is the last corner of resistance in the city, which the Russians have otherwise occupied.
Zelenskyy said he stressed the need to evacuate civilians from Mariupol, including from the steel plant, in a Sunday call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is scheduled to speak later with Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
The visit would be the first by senior US officials since Russia invaded 60 days ago. Blinken stepped briefly onto Ukrainian soil in March to meet with the country's foreign minister during a visit to Poland. Zelenskyy's last face-to-face meeting with a top US official was February 19 in Munich with Vice President Kamala Harris.
