Putins Lap Dog Humiliated by FedUp Guest on His Own Show
20220603
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/putin-s-lap-dog-humiliated-by-fed-up-guest-on-his-own-show/ar-AAY3erS
Solovyov had claimed that Russia could spit on the weapons provided for Ukraines self-defense against Russian aggression, boasting about more advanced arms that have been manufactured specifically for a future confrontation with NATO. Weve been anticipating this, Solovyov said. Everyone understood that after we destroy all of Ukraines weaponswhich happened long ago, we destroyed all Soviet-made armsthe time would come to demilitarize NATO.
I dont mind it when inept people try to rule the world, but it irritates me when theyre so nervous. If you want war with us, then declare war, so we can start swinging!, he bellowed. Threatening retaliation for the anticipated damage that might be caused to Russian assets by the advanced weapons systems set to be delivered to Ukraine, the host quoted statements by Russian President Vladimir Putin and Security Council Deputy Chairman Dmitry Medvedev. Solovyov recounted, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin clearly said and Dmitry Anatolyevich Medvedev clearly said, well strike the decision-making centersand those are not in Kyiv. Solovyovs message was on par with the common theme on Russian state television: nuclear war is imminent, but dying for the Motherland is the best way to go.
Sec. Austin says US will increase deployment of strategic weapons to South Korea during visit to region
Mikheyev challenged the host on that point, too. Complaining about the messaging employed by many prominent state media mouthpieces, the pundit noted with visible aggravation: Its rolling in: those will send weapons and so will others, on and on they will most likely try to use them. The common man asks: What happens next? and the answer is, Be calm, comrades. Next comes WWIII. Keep on working, dont worry about a thing, keep minding your business. The nuclear war is coming. Thats all.
Staring at Solovyov, Mikheyev asked: What is that? Is that a normal approach? Is that the way to work with public opinion? I think this is something to think about... People are getting worried. Realistically, we have a huge number of people who are extremely concerned about this.
But there was one pundit in the studio who was clearly fed up with the fear-mongeringand he made it known. When it was his turn to speak, political scientist Sergey Mikheyev couldnt contain his rage. There is a flood of information, including our mainstream media, about how scary and terrible everything is. About 500 times per day, on every channel, every talk show, theyre talking about how many more weapons are being sent, how frightening they are, he fumed.
Thursdays state TV program, The Evening With Vladimir Solovyov, began with familiar rhetoric, but was met with some unexpected resistance. The host, Vladimir Solovyov, ranted and threatened the West with gusto: Im so sick of them! Constantly reading about whatever they will come up with next, like their new lists of sanctions, and thinking, Guys, Im sick of you!
In a rare instance of transparency on Russian state TV, Mikheyev acknowledged that he thinks the changes in public opinion have been destabilizing the entire country. Working with public opinion is crucially important, because the stability inside of the country depends on the stability of public opinion. The public opinion, day to night, only hears about the characteristics of foreign weapons, they dont understand what happens next, he said, They tell us, Terrible weapons are arriving over there, they keep coming and coming. They Ukraine promised not to utilize them a certain way, but most likely will do it anywayand that will lead to World War III. Then were being told, Calm down, comrades, everything will be alright. Dont you worry, theres nothing to worry about.
The host flippantly told the audience: Just calm down. Our guys are doing their job. Theyre doing it correctly. All the hysteria in the West confirms that were moving towards our goal. Of course, wed like it to go faster, but how could we leave our flanks unprotected? We cant expose Kaliningrad or the border with Finland. We understand: our next operation may be war with NATO.
Unpersuaded, the host immediately dismissed the political scientists concerns about maintaining some measure of sanity in order to safeguard the public opinion. Instead, Solovyov opted to follow the official guidance on messaging to the masses. He defiantly replied: And after we think about it, then there will be nuclear war.
Determined to quash support for Ukraine in its ongoing self-defense against Russian aggression, the Kremlin has issued a slew of threats against the West, magnified and echoed by the pliant state media. But instead of scaring NATO into backing off, that strategy seems to be causing something of a domestic fallout, with masses of everyday Russians fearing the idea of an imminent nuclear war that has been pushed by propagandists. It seems that now, even the most dedicated propagandists are becoming alarmed by the side effects of the Kremlins fear tactics.
Solovyov, who lost his multimillion-dollar villas in Italy because of Western sanctions, bitterly complained about the increasing cost of Putins invasion of Ukraine. Instead of suggesting Russian troops pull out from their neighbors territory, the state TV host followed what appears to be the officially approved line of rhetoric, promoting the idea of unprecedented escalation.
Video: Radio Svoboda reacts to the destruction in Ukraine and the Kremlin's threat against journalists FOX News
