Putins Rasputin watches wreckage of car bomb that killed his daughter
20220821
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/daughter-of-key-putin-ally-killed-in-suspected-car-bomb-attack-near-moscow/ar-AA10TtYq
In a statement in March, the US Treasury said Ms Dugina, the chief editor of the United World International website, which has suggested Ukraine would perish if admitted to the NATO military alliance, had been put on a US sanctions list.
Got a story? Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnewsmetro.co.uk. Or you can submit your videos and pictures here.
Ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue Alexander Dugin is thought to be the man seen in video footage with his head in his hands grieving shortly after the attack.
He has been described as Putins brain and his beard and position have led some to dub compare him to the famous mystic Grigori Rasputin.
The incident comes amid a host of Ukrainian attacks on Russian-occupied territory amid the war, but it is unclear if Ukraines forces are behind this attack.
Father and daughter had been attending a festival outside Moscow but Mr Dugin had decided to switch cars at the last minute, Russian government newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta claimed.
The influence of Mr Dugin, who is on a US sanctions list, over the Russian President has been a subject to differing speculation, with some Russia watchers claiming that his sway is significant and others suggesting it is minimal.
Russias TASS state news agency quoted Andrei Krasnov, someone who knew prominent ideologue Mr Dugina, as saying the vehicle belonged to the father and that he was probably being targeted.
Mr Dugin has long advocated the unification of Russian-speaking and other territories in a vast new Russian empire.
Instead Darya Dasha Dugina was killed after a suspected explosive device went off in a Toyota Land Cruiser, according to state investigators. It is not clear if anyone else was hurt in the incident.
But Denis Pushilin, president of the separatist Donetsk Peoples Republic, blamed it on terrorists of the Ukrainian regime, trying to kill Alexander Dugin.
TV footage accompanying the statement shows investigators collecting debris and fragments from the explosion site.
Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more by signing up to Metro's News Updates newsletter
Follow Metro.co.uk on Twitter and Facebook for the latest news updates. You can now also get Metro.co.uk articles sent straight to your device. Sign up for our daily push alerts here.
They added that they had opened a murder case and would be carrying out forensic examinations in an effort to work out exactly what had happened.
A bearded man is seen with his head in hands next to what appears to be the blurred remains of a victim, with a fireball in the background.
Mr Dugin who advocates Russia absorbing Ukraine, was due to travel in the vehicle and may have been the target of the Saturday evening explosion, reports suggest.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, denied Ukrainian involvement, claiming: We are not a criminal state, unlike Russia, and definitely not a terrorist state.
A key Vladimir Putin backer appears to be in shock at the scene of a suspected car bombing outside Moscow, which left his daughter dead.
Nationalist TV channel Tsargrad said today: Dasha, like her father, has always been at the forefront of confrontation with the West.
Ms Dugina, who also went by the surname Platonova and was reported by Russian state media to be 30 years old, broadly supported her fathers ideas and appeared on state TV in her own right to offer support for Russias actions in Ukraine.
