Putin Says Ukraine Peace Talks Hit Dead End Vows to Continue Fight
20220313
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-unleashes-new-attacks-overnight-on-ukraines-eastern-region/ar-AAW7SHx
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Tuesday that high-precision air- and sea-based missiles launched overnight destroyed an ammunition depot and a hangar with Ukrainian aircraft at the Starokostiantyniv military airfield in the western Khmelnytskyi region, as well as an ammunition depot near Havrylivka in the Kyiv region. He added that Russian strikes had targeted Ukrainian positions in Donbas, claiming they had destroyed six strongholds of Ukraines 24th Separate Mechanized Brigade.
Mr. Putin said that peace talks had stalled after what he called a fake situation in Bucha, a town outside of Kyiv where Ukrainian officials reported the discovery of several hundred dead civilians this month after Russian troops retreated. Ukrainian and Western officials are pursuing investigations into potential war crimes committed there and in other formerly Russian-held towns in northern Ukraine before Moscows withdrawal at the end of March.
In his first extended comments on the war since last month, Mr. Putin said that without an agreement acceptable to the Kremlin, Russian forces would continue their offensive.
The Ukrainian unit deployed in Mariupol, the Azov regiment, said Russian forces dropped an unknown chemical substance from a drone, causing respiratory and nervous-system symptoms among its troops and civilians. No independent evidence of the attack has emerged from Mariupol.
The Russian government hasnt commented publicly about the alleged use of chemical weapons in Mariupol.
Write to Evan Gershkovich at evan.gershkovichwsj.com, Thomas Grove at thomas.grovewsj.com and Brett Forrest at brett.forrestwsj.com
Ukrainian authorities are investigating allegations by Ukrainian forces that they came under a Russian chemical attack in Mariupol, where Russia is still fighting to consolidate gains. Moscow sees the city as crucial to its efforts in taking over eastern Ukraine and pushing westward.
Ukraines General Staff said Russians were boosting air-defense capabilities near Melitopol and Ilovaisk and added that it had repulsed six enemy attacks in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, destroying four Russian tanks and eight artillery systems. The Ukrainian Air Force said it had downed a Russian plane, two helicopters and four drones.
Railway connections were disrupted overnight in the town of Shebekino in Russias Belgorod region, near the Ukrainian border northeast of Kharkiv, the regional governor told Russias RIA news agency. There were no casualties, he said, and the cause of the disruption was being investigated. Russias Investigative Committee said it is looking into the disruption.
Russia heavily uses the railways to reinforce and resupply its troops preparing the Donbas offensive, and Shebekino sits on one of its main rail connections to the area. Russia last month said two Ukrainian helicopters launched an airstrike on a fuel depot in Belgorod, a claim Kyiv didnt confirm or deny.
We have again returned to a dead-end situation, Mr. Putin said. Inconsistency about essential matters has been creating well-known difficulties in achieving final agreements on the negotiating track which would be acceptable to us. Unless that happens, the military operation will continue until it concludes and the objectives set at the beginning of this operation are achieved.
The Russian president also said Ukrainian negotiators had deviated from agreements reached in Istanbul. Kyiv had late last month presented its proposal for a neutral status and international security guarantees, but the sides haven't moved closer toward a potential cease-fire.
More than 4.6 million refugees have fled Ukraine since the start of the war in February, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
Ukrainian authorities said they are investigating a claim by their troops in the port city of Mariupol that they came under a Russian chemical weapons attack Monday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said peace talks with Kyiv had reached a dead end, as Moscows forces on Tuesday bombarded Ukrainian military positions and residential areas in the countrys east and unleashed new rocket attacks.
Mr. Putin said the main goal of the offensive was to help people in Donbas, in another sign that his forces would launch an assault on the eastern region. He added that there is no doubt the goal will be achieved, speaking during a visit to the Vostochny Cosmodrome, a Russian spaceport in the countrys Far East, along with his Belarusian counterpart, Alexander Lukashenko.
A majority of the refugees are landing in Poland, with more than 2.65 million making the bordering country their final destination. Refugees are also heading to Romania, Hungary and Moldova. Most are women and children, as Ukrainian law prevents men of fighting age from leaving the country.
The U.K. Defense Ministry said fighting was continuing in Ukraines south near the cities of Kherson and Mykolayiv and that Russia is emphasizing Donbas in a shifting war effort. British intelligence said Russia would continue to redeploy its troops from Belarus to the Ukrainian east and likely try to take the eastern city of Kramatorsk, the site of a deadly missile attack last week.
