Putin playing smoke and mirrors game in Ukraine peace talks Liz Truss suggests
20220316
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/putin-playing-smoke-and-mirrors-game-in-ukraine-peace-talks-liz-truss-suggests/ar-AAV81Lc
I am very, very concerned that Putin is playing a smoke and mirrors game of trying to claim that he is seeking peace whilst at the same time continuing with this appalling war that he instigated and is not making the progress he thought he would, she said.
And everybody has always said  and weve made it clear to Putin  that there is no way Ukraine is going to join Nato any time soon.
He also appeared to hint at a concession to Moscow, saying the country should accept it will not become a member of Nato  which Russia had demanded pre-invasion.
Vladimir Putin is playing a smoke and mirrors game by attempting to claim he is seeking peace while waging war on Ukraine, Liz Truss has suggested.
Ive always thought that isnt the real issue, that it is a smokescreen. If you look at all of Putins public statements, his Munich security conference speech in 2007, his essay of last year, this is about recreating a greater Russia.
Earlier, Mr Johnson, who is visiting the Gulf as he tries to wean the West off Russian energy, said he understood the reality of the position expressed by Mr Zelensky during his address.
Mr Johnson, speaking to broadcasters at the Emirates Palace hotel in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday, said: I talked to Volodymyr Zelensky again yesterday and of course I understand what he is saying about Nato and the reality of the position.
On Wednesday, Russia claimed that a peace deal with Ukraine could be possible with some parts close to agreement, adding that neutral status was now being seriously discussed along, of course, with security guarantees.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Appearing cautious about the progress of peace talks, Ms Truss told BBC Radio 4s Today: Its very, very difficult for the Ukrainians to negotiate with a gun against their heads.
And the most important thing is that Putins aggression, his absolutely barbaric attacks on Ukraine should stop and they should not be seen to have succeeded, and they wont succeed, the PM added.
And essentially subordinating Ukraine under Russian authority as well as extending more broadly to east European states.
But Mr Johnson said decisions about the future of the country had to be for the Ukrainian people and their elected leader to make, as he vowed Britain would continue to back Mr Zelensky.
The foreign secretarys comments came as Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelensky, suggested Russias demands in peace talks were becoming more realistic  but stressed he would not surrender to the Kremlins ultimatums.
As the Russian invasion entered its 21st day, the foreign secretary insisted there first needed to be a ceasefire and withdrawal of the Kremlins troops for negotiations between Kyiv and the Moscow to work.
Asked about president Zelenskys remarks on Nato and wether he was attempting to signal to Moscow the basis of a peace deal, Ms Truss added: Its a matter for Ukraine whether they decide to join Nato and of course a matter for Nato members.
In a video call to Boris Johnson and representatives from Baltic and Northern European countries on Tuesday, Mr Zelensky expressed his frustration that Ukraine had not been allowed to join Nato, but said: This is the truth and we have simply to accept it as it is.
