QAnon Followers Head Way Down Rabbit Hole With Latest Theory on Trump
20220314
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/qanon-followers-head-way-down-rabbit-hole-with-latest-theory-on-trump/ar-AAV3kih
Related Articles Trump Accused of Violating Campaign Finance Law by Not Declaring 2024 RunDonald Trump Deepfake Shows Ex-President Joining Russia's Version of YouTubeWhat Trump Has Said About Putin Since Russian Invasion of Ukraine BeganUkraine War Day 19: White House Considers Biden Trip to Europe Start your unlimited Newsweek trial
Some QAnon followers now reportedly believe that Trump's pronunciation is purposeful, according to a Monday Vice News report. The pronunciation, these followers allegedly think, is actually a codeword that Trump is using to refer not to China, but to Ukraine.
As a result of the biolab conspiracy, QAnon followers now reportedly believe that Trump's pronunciation of China is a deliberate effort to tell people that COVID-19 began in Ukraine, not China.
This theory, too, was debunked after it was noted that the term has a number of meanings in Ukrainian. While "price" is one of these words, the term can also be applied to translations meaning "tire" and "rank."
Other QAnon conspiracy theories involve former President Barack Obama and 2020 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. These theories typically concern a reported cabal of liberal elites that QAnon believers say are working behind the scenes.
As Russia's invasion of Ukraine nears the end of week three, the eyes of QAnon conspirators have now turned to Ukraine. The latest QAnon theory concerns the uncommon way in which former President Trump pronounces "China," often emphasizing the word so that it sounds more like "chy-na."
This was further debunked by Vice, which reported that the use of "Chyna" was indeed just a mistranslation.
Tom Costello: We need to address air safety concerns as a country or something bad could happen
Marc Morial: We have to make the continuing moral case for democracy and voting rights
While this conspiracy theory can be disproven, it is just one of many alleged hypotheses from QAnon that relates to China and Ukraine. In recent weeks, it has been reported that the group is moving away from conspiracies against China after the country pledged support to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Jones said on Twitter that the conspiracy began when a QAnon member on the social media site Reddit reportedly found a place called "Chyna" in Ukraine. Jones noted that while there is a town in Ukraine called Shypl'chyna, "it's clearly immaterial, since 1 even if there was a place called Chyna, - wait do I actually need to explain this - it's a misspelled coincidence 2 it's obviously a suffix of some sort."
While scientists have commonly traced the origins of the COVID-19 virus back to China, QAnon's conspiracy holds that the virus actually originated in Ukraine. Vice reported that the theory is tied in to an additional debunked conspiracy regarding "biolabs" being used in Ukraine, which, despite being disproven, continues to be seen among Russian far-right news outlets as well as American conservative media.
This is in part due to QAnon's ongoing support of Russia, which had been seen even prior to the war in Ukraine.
Another piece of the puzzle reportedly concerns the meaning of the term "chy-na," which in Ukrainian translates to "price." This was reportedly taken by QAnon to be a connection to former President Trump once telling China that they would "pay a big price" for COVID-19.
Jeremy Bash: Lethal aid from China could thaw 'frozen conflict' in Ukraine, giving edge to Russia
A bizarre new theory is making its way through the ranks of QAnon, with some followers now reportedly believing that former President Donald Trump's unusual pronunciation of "China" is actually a secret message referring to Ukraine.
"The Ukrainian 'chy-na' is in fact just part of the name of what appears to be a village on the outskirts of Lviv," Vice reporter David Gilbert said. "In Ukrainian, it is called ',' but on Google Maps, it's referred to as 'Shpyl'chyna.' Unfortunately, this is a bad transliteration: The 'y' is meant to represent a very soft 'i' sound that's hard to transliterate, because it's rarely used in English."
QAnon, a far-right political movement, has become well known in the past few years for their numerous conspiracy theories. Many of these theories revolve around liberal politicians, including the disproven idea that President Joe Biden stole the 2020 election as a result of widespread voter fraud.
