Queen Elizabeth Wishes Ukraine a Happy Independence Day amid Most Challenging Year
20220824
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/queen-elizabeth-wishes-ukraine-a-happy-independence-day-amid-most-challenging-year/ar-AA113AOy
The Russian attack on Ukraine is an evolving story, with information changing quickly. Follow PEOPLE's complete coverage of the war here, including stories from citizens on the ground and ways to help.
Queen Elizabeth is thinking of Ukraine. The 96-year-old monarch wished the Eastern European country well on their Independence Day Wednesday, over three decades since the nation broke from the Soviet Union in 1991. "On their 31st anniversary of Independence, Her Majesty The Queen congratulates Ukrainians," the British Embassy Kyiv wrote on Twitter, quoting the two following messages as an "address to the President of Ukraine." According to the embassy, Queen Elizabeth said, "It gives me great pleasure to send Your Excellency and the people of Ukraine my warmest greetings on the celebration of your Independence Day. "In this most challenging year, I hope that today will be a time for the Ukrainian people, both in Ukraine and around the world, to celebrate their culture, history and identity," she continued. "May we look to better times in the future," she said, signing off on a personal note as "Elizabeth R."
The 96-year-old monarch wished the Eastern European country well on their Independence Day Wednesday, over three decades since the nation broke from the Soviet Union in 1991.
"In this most challenging year, I hope that today will be a time for the Ukrainian people, both in Ukraine and around the world, to celebrate their culture, history and identity," she continued. "May we look to better times in the future," she said, signing off on a personal note as "Elizabeth R."
Like the Queen, Prince Charles,Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, Prince William,Kate Middleton, Prince Harry andMeghan Markle have all backed Ukraine in the war. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge said theystood with Ukrainein a statement to their jointKensingtonRoyalTwitter account in March, echoing similar sentiments Prince Harry and Meghan shared to their Archewell site days before.
Also in March, Charles and Camilla had anemotional meetingwith Ukrainians in London. The duchess, 75, appeared tearful, but comforted the wife of Ukraine's Ambassador to the U.K. Vadym Prystaiko, hugging her and telling her, "We are praying for you."
"On their 31st anniversary of Independence, Her Majesty The Queen congratulates Ukrainians," the British Embassy Kyiv wrote on Twitter, quoting the two following messages as an "address to the President of Ukraine."
The monarch has previously shared support for Ukraine amidthe Russian invasion. In March, the Disasters Emergency Committee announced she made a "generous donation" to its Ukraine Humanitarian Appeal.
According to the embassy, Queen Elizabeth said, "It gives me great pleasure to send Your Excellency and the people of Ukraine my warmest greetings on the celebration of your Independence Day.
Two months later, the Prince of Wales, 73, made a surprise trip to Bucharest, Romania, to see firsthand the efforts being made for the refugees who crossed the border from neighboring Ukraine.
"We must all be aware that this week Russia could try to do something particularly ugly, something particularly vicious," the president said in a video message, per CNN.
Russia first launched the military attack on Ukraineon the morning of Feb. 24, six months since Wednesday.
The city military administration in Kyiv banned all big gatherings between Monday and Thursday. "It is forbidden to hold mass events, peaceful meetings, rallies and other events related to a large gathering of people," the administration said, per the network.
RELATED: Prince Charles Makes Surprise Trip to Romania to Meet Ukrainian Refugees The monarch has previously shared support for Ukraine amidthe Russian invasion. In March, the Disasters Emergency Committee announced she made a "generous donation" to its Ukraine Humanitarian Appeal. Like the Queen, Prince Charles,Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, Prince William,Kate Middleton, Prince Harry andMeghan Markle have all backed Ukraine in the war. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge said theystood with Ukrainein a statement to their jointKensingtonRoyalTwitter account in March, echoing similar sentiments Prince Harry and Meghan shared to their Archewell site days before. Also in March, Charles and Camilla had anemotional meetingwith Ukrainians in London. The duchess, 75, appeared tearful, but comforted the wife of Ukraine's Ambassador to the U.K. Vadym Prystaiko, hugging her and telling her, "We are praying for you." Can't get enough of PEOPLE's Royals coverage? Sign up for our free Royals newsletter to get the latest updates on Kate Middleton, Meghan Markle and more!
Can't get enough of PEOPLE's Royals coverage? Sign up for our free Royals newsletter to get the latest updates on Kate Middleton, Meghan Markle and more!
Ahead of the Independence Day holiday this year, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyyand other officials urged against celebrations in the country's capital, Kyiv, and second-largest city, Kharkiv,CNNreported.
Two months later, the Prince of Wales, 73, made a surprise trip to Bucharest, Romania, to see firsthand the efforts being made for the refugees who crossed the border from neighboring Ukraine. Ahead of the Independence Day holiday this year, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyyand other officials urged against celebrations in the country's capital, Kyiv, and second-largest city, Kharkiv,CNNreported. "We must all be aware that this week Russia could try to do something particularly ugly, something particularly vicious," the president said in a video message, per CNN. The city military administration in Kyiv banned all big gatherings between Monday and Thursday. "It is forbidden to hold mass events, peaceful meetings, rallies and other events related to a large gathering of people," the administration said, per the network. Russia first launched the military attack on Ukraineon the morning of Feb. 24, six months since Wednesday. The Russian attack on Ukraine is an evolving story, with information changing quickly. Follow PEOPLE's complete coverage of the war here, including stories from citizens on the ground and ways to help.
