Robbed of the most precious thing Russian missile attack kills Liza 4
20220715
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/robbed-of-the-most-precious-thing-russian-missile-attack-kills-liza-4/ar-AAZCS3D
After the explosion, the mother and daughter went in different directions. Iryna, 33, went into a hospital's intensive care unit while Liza went to a morgue.
After the Russian missile strike, Ukraine's emergency services shared photos showing her lifeless body on the ground next to her blood-stained stroller. The videos and photos have gone viral, the latest images and stories from the brutal war in Ukraine to horrify the world.
She is a fighter. She will get out. We are all praying for her, her aunt says.
Shortly before the strike, Dmytrieva had posted a video on social media showing her daughter reaching to grasp the handlebars to push her own stroller, happily walking through Vinnytsia wearing the denim jacket and white pants, her hair decorated with a barrette. Another video on social media showed the little girl twirling in a lavender dress in a field of lavender.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys wife posted that she had met this wonderful girl while filming a Christmas video with a group of children who were given oversized ornaments to paint.
Dmytrieva gave birth to her only daughter when she was 29. The girl was born with a heart defect but doctors saved her. She also suffered from Down syndrome.
She never made it to the appointment. Now the images that tell the story of her life and its end are touching hearts worldwide.
She remembered that she was reaching for her daughter, and Liza was already dead," Iryna's aunt, Tetiana Dmytrysyna, told the Associated Press on Friday. "The mother was robbed of the most precious thing she had.
The explosion site is now cordoned off. People come to leave flowers, candles and teddy bears. Another item at a makeshift shrine is a page from a children's lesson book. Among the mourners are mothers deeply touched by the story of Iryna and Liza Dmytrieva.
Liza, a 4-year-old girl with Down syndrome, was en route to see a speech therapist with her mother in central Ukraine when a Russian missile rained down from the sky.
Liza was a sunny baby," her great-aunt recalled. They say that these children do not understand or know how to do everything. But this is not true. She was a very bright child. She knew how to draw, spoke, always helped adults and always smiled. Always cheerful.
Wearing a blue denim jacket with flowers, Liza was among 23 people killed, including two boys ages 7 and 8, in Thursday's missile strike in Vinnytsia. Her mother, Iryna Dmytrieva, was among the scores injured.
When the war started, Dmytrieva and her family fled Kyiv, the capital, for Vinnytsia, a city 167 miles to the southwest. Until Thursday, Vinnytsia was considered relatively safe.
Lizas father was at the morgue Friday, completing the paperwork to receive his daughter's body for burial.
The little mischievous girl then managed in a half an hour to paint not only herself, her holiday dress, but also all the other children, me, the cameramen and the director ... Look at her alive, please, Olena Zelenska wrote in a note accompanying the video.
