RussiaUkraine war live updates Severodonetsk faces humanitarian disaster UN warns of hunger catastrophe
20220708
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-moscow-pauses-ahead-of-more-intense-attacks-putin-dares-west-to-fight/ar-AAZlmAm
Id like to plead guilty, Your Honor, Griner said Thursday, according to a Reuters reporter in the courtroom. But there was no intent. I didnt want to break the law. She then asked to give her testimony at a later date, saying she needed time to prepare, and the court adjourned.
3:23 AM: Updates from key battlefields: Ukrainian officials urge evacuation as more attacks hit Donetsk
Questions about Ukrainian concessions have swirled since the conflicts early days, when analysts and officials expected Russia to swiftly take over the country. But Ukraines fierce resistance has emboldened Zelensky, who has since repeatedly disparaged the idea of allowing Moscow to redraw its border and subsume land it has captured during the fighting.
NATOs 30 members this week signed formal accession protocols for Finland and neighboring Sweden to join the alliance. The two Nordic countries must now await approval from the legislatures of all NATO members. Lawmakers in Canada, Denmark, Norway, Iceland, Estonia and Albania have so far endorsed their applications, the Associated Press reported.
The blocs 30 members signed accession protocols for the two Nordic countries on Tuesday, but the decision needs to be ratified by each state.
He urged that a political solution be found for the blockade of ports in Ukraine and also called on governments to avoid stockpiling to protect the most vulnerable from starvation.
The red splashes on white dresses symbolized the killings of innocent people, especially women and children. They held hands to send a message to Ukrainians that we want to hold the hands of everyone who is there and who is in trouble now,Annenkova said.
Gorinovs case, the first in which a significant prison sentence was imposed for opposing the war, is likely to send the message that no dissent will be tolerated.
Slovyansk: This city just north of Kramatorsk is expected to become the new focal point of Russias grinding offensive. Russian troops shelled a handful of villages to Slovyansks northwest Thursday and attempted to mount an attack on a village some 12 miles away, analysts at the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War ISW said.
Russias antiwar movement has found creative ways to express dissent despite President Vladimir Putins hard line crackdown. Protesters are arrested for crimes as trivial as holding up a blank sheet of paper, merely implying opposition to the war.
Countries around the world rely on grain grown in Ukraine, but the problem of war-restricted exports has been worsened by global shortages and higher prices for fuel and fertilizer, he said.
Pinchas Goldschmidt wrote on Twitter that he had decided to leave the position after almost three decades to avoid endangering the local Jewish community.
Blinkens remarks came after President Biden said he had responded to a letter from the basketball player this week pleading for his administrations help in securing her release. The presidents reply was delivered to the detained Olympic gold medalist on Thursday, the U.S. Embassy in Russia said.
Its not in the hands of only the United States unfortunately, because otherwise, shed already be home, he said.
That happened in the winter of 2015-2016 when Russia let more than 1,700 third-country refugees and asylum seekers flooded the crossing points at Russias borders with Finland and Norway.
RIGA, Latvia  American WNBA star Brittney Griner pleaded guilty to carrying cannabis oil on the second day of her closely watched trial in Russia, where she faces up to 10 years in prison. The question now is whether Washington and Moscow will be able to reach a deal on her release, and that of other American detainees in the country, amid a deep diplomatic chill over the Kremlins brutal war in Ukraine.
In a statement, the U.S. space agency said that it strongly rebukes using the International Space Station for political purposes to support the war against Ukraine, which is fundamentally inconsistent with the stations primary function among the 15 international participating countries to advance science and develop technology for peaceful purposes.
With performances, you can get into peoples minds and you can inform them, Perova said. Otherwise if you dont show them through actions like this they will continue to live in their propaganda bubble without any understanding and any desire to understand.
The sewage is accumulating. Add to that the current air temperature outside. And the stench from the dead - those who were buried in yards, and many remain in apartments and entrances, such as in one of the high-rise buildings in the new districts, he said. Severodonetsk is witnessing a humanitarian disaster.
Germanys parliament voted overwhelmingly Friday in support of Swedens and Finlands bids to join the NATO military alliance.
It was 4 a.m. on Moscows second ring road. Early light bathed the empty street.
We did our best to navigate and build the community through the tulmoutous sic 1990s and in the increasingly authoritarian Russia under the current president, Goldschmidt wrote.
They always found reasons behind not accepting Ukraine, Zelensky said. I only can say that accepting Finland and Sweden, this is the right decision. Not accepting Ukraine, this is the wrong decision.
They flung off the blankets, posed, held hands and gazed into a smartphone lens. Snap, snap, snap. Three photos and they fled. The images went viral on independent and activist Telegram channels and social media pages.
Germany becomes the fifth country to do so, after Canada, Estonia, Denmark and Norway gave their approval.
As time progressed, despite re-electing me to the position of Chief Rabbi last month, it became clear that the Jewish community of Moscow would be endangered by me remaining in my position.
Russia has charged thousands of people with administrative offenses for antiwar protests or posts on social media, but a smaller number face large fines or long prison terms on criminal charges of spreading disinformation about the military or the war. The maximum penalty is 15 years. Dozens of people are in detention pending trial.
On Monday, the Russian space agency posted photos of its three cosmonauts posing with the flags of the Luhansk Peoples Republic and the Donetsk Peoples Republic  self-proclaimed republics in breakaway regions of Ukraine that are only recognized as independent states by Russia and Syria  and said the capture of the region was a liberation day to celebrate both on Earth and in space.
Last week at the NATO summit in Madrid, President Biden extolled the unity of the moment. Russian President Vladimir Putin thought he could break the transatlantic alliance, Biden told reporters, before pointing to how the Russian invasion of Ukraine had only galvanized the West and led to NATOs imminent expansion with two new Nordic entrants.
Ukrainians are not ready to give up their lands as new territories of the Russian Federation, Zelensky said, shaking his head as he replied. This is our land. We have always said this, and we will never give it up.
We are going to stick with Ukraine, he added, and all of the alliance is going to stick with Ukraine as long as it takes to, in fact, make sure that they are not defeated.
Both Boris and all our friends in the United Kingdom assured me of this, he said.
Speaking before the verdict in court Friday, Gorinov said the war in Ukraine was the last most vile and dirty thing.
It has been 19 weeks since Russia invaded Ukraine, initiating a full-scale war with its neighbor, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has the same answer for those asking whether he would consider ceding territory in a potential peace deal: no  emphatically.
The Biden administration and its European allies have already poured billions of dollars worth of military aid into Ukraine. They have sourced Soviet-era munitions and equipment best suited for Ukrainian capabilities, flooded the nation with vital tactical arms like antitank Javelin missiles and fast-tracked Ukraines military modernization with top-of-the-line artillery and rocket launchers. They have also placed tremendous new pressures on the Russian economy through sanctions.
As starvation tightens its grip on dozens of nations, we must not allow the war in Ukraine to overwhelm millions of families already trapped in a deadly struggle against hunger, he said. They are relying on us for survival, and we must not let them down.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Thursday the United States would not relent until Brittney Griner, Paul Whelan, and all other wrongfully detained Americans are freed. WNBA star Brittney Griner pleaded guilty the same day in a Russian court to carrying cannabis oil.
Kramatorsk: A Russian missile struck the city center on Thursday and damaged six buildings, including a hotel and a high-rise, according to a Donetsk military official. At least one person was killed and six others wounded, he wrote on Telegram, pleading with residents to swiftly evacuate the city.
Last month, Goldschmidts daughter-in-law said the rabbi had left Russia after refusing to publicly support the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky opened his nightly video address with kind words for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who stepped down as leader of his Conservative Party on Thursday. Few leaders have tied themselves to Ukraine the way Johnson has in recent months. Through Johnsons multiple visits and several phone conversations, the two leaders have forged a close bond during the war, and Britain has been a reliable supplier of weapons and financial assistance for Kyiv. Using Johnsons first name, Zelensky said Britain will continue to support Ukraine no matter who lives at 10 Downing Street.
Haidai also noted that 80 percent of homes in the city had been damaged or destroyed and accused Russian forces of looting property.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that the war is just getting started, as he dared Ukraines Western partners to fight his troops on the battlefield. Despite Putins bravado, the Russian military faces significant long-term challenges: International sanctions are hurting Moscows ability to replenish its arsenal, and the Kremlin is scrambling to find experienced fighters after losing many troops earlier in the invasion.
They took away my spring, they took away my summer, and now theyve taken away seven more years of my life, Alexei Gorinov, 60, said after the verdict. He said his only offense was to express his opinion in a meeting of the Krasnoselsky municipal council, according to Russian media present in the court.
3:56 AM: NASA issues rare rebuke to Russia for using the ISS as war propaganda
We are promised victory and glory. Why, then, do so many of my fellow citizens feel shame and guilt? Why have so many people left Russia and continue to do so? And why does our country suddenly have so many enemies?
You have about 30 seconds to show what you want and then you will be arrested, said Annenkova, a photographer.
This time, the person asking was CNNs Wolf Blitzer, whose interview with Zelensky aired Thursday evening.
Snake Island: The Ukrainian national flag is flying over this strategic Black Sea island, President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his nightly address Thursday, highlighting a months-long effort to recapture it from Russian forces.
He faced the aggravated charge that he used his position to discredit the military. Under President Vladimir Putins sweeping crackdown on dissent, any criticism of the war or the military is a criminal offense.
It also noted that Russian forces appear to be pausing to rest and resupply before undertaking new offensive operations in Donetsk. That assessment aligns with that of the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War, which said Friday that the operational pause is setting the stage for a more significant offensive in the coming weeks.
Moscows chief rabbi, who left Russia after voicing his opposition to the war in Ukraine, announced late Thursday that he was stepping down from the post.
Ukraine is a critically important breadbasket for the world, exporting tens of millions of tonnes of wheat, maize and barley each year, as well as sunflower seeds used to make vegetable oil, David Beasely wrote in the foreword of a report published Friday by the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change. But these commodities have been wiped from food stocks overnight by the blockade of the Odesa-area ports in southern Ukraine.
I am convinced of this: War is the fastest means of dehumanization, when the line between good and evil is erased. War is always violence and blood, torn bodies and severed limbs. It is always death. I do not accept it, and I reject it.
3:02 AM: Zelensky says Ukraine is unwilling to cede territory to Russia in peace deal
Luhansk: Regional governor Serhiy Haidai told a Ukrainian media outlet Thursday that Luhansk has not completely fallen under Russian control, even though Kyivs forces retreated from their last stronghold in the region this week. Haidai said Ukrainian fighters are actively engaged in combat in Verkhnokamyanka, a small parcel of land bordering Donetsk.
NASA on Thursday issued a rare condemnation of the Russian space agency, its main partner on the International Space Station, after its cosmonauts celebrated Russias capture of a region of eastern Ukraine.
The strikes came as Russian defense officials claimed their troops would pause their offensive to regroup and repair vehicles. The Institute for the Study of War, a Washington-based think tank, said Moscow appeared to be undertaking an operational pause to prepare for a larger assault, but probably will continue limited attacks in the meantime.
Sad as I am, in the circumstances, it is clearly in the interest of the future of the community that I now leave my post, he said.
Continued shelling since late February has almost destroyed critical infrastructure, he said, with sewage facilities particularly affected.
Russian forces will likely continue to confine themselves to small-scale offensive actions as they rebuild forces and set conditions for a more significant offensive in the coming weeks or months, the institute said in its latest assessment.
That was a statement of intent and commitment to the government in Kyiv, one echoed by Bidens European counterparts. Yet nestled within his remarks was an open question: The United States and its allies may be doing what they can to prevent Ukrainian defeat, but what about facilitating Ukrainian victory?
Earlier, a top Russian official indicated that no steps could be taken on a prisoner swap until the case was complete.
The worst strikes were reported in Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, where missiles killed at least three and wounded five, regional governor Oleh Synyehubov said in a Telegram post. In the nearby Donetsk region, rockets struck the city of Kramatorsk and left at least one dead and six injured, governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said. On Wednesday, he said, attacks across the region killed at least seven.
The new law allows authorities to restrict movement at border crossings in exceptional situations, according to the Finnish legislatures website. The bill, which looks to limit immigration under the influence of a foreign state, was prompted by Helsinkis concerns that Russia could abruptly allow hundreds of immigrants or asylum seekers to show up at the Finnish border, and disrupt public order or undermine public health.
As the terrible war against Ukraine unfolded over the last few months I could not remain silent, viewing so much human suffering, I went to assist the refugees in Eastern Europe and spoke out against the war.
Rep. Colin Allred D-Tex., the congressman representing Griner at the Capitol, called the legal proceedings in Russia a sham trial but said on CNN that everything possible that can be done to bring her home is being done, citing discussions with the State Department.
The world could face multiple famines over the next two years if urgent action is not taken to end the blockade in Ukraine, the head of the U.N. World Food Program has warned.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged Russia to end its blockade of Ukrainian grain exports in a contentious closed-door session of Group of 20 foreign ministers in Indonesia on Friday. It is the first time top Russian diplomat Sergei Lavrov has been face to face with many of his Western counterparts since the war began, though many have refused to meet with him alone. Meanwhile, the U.N. World Food Program warned of a looming hunger catastrophe because of the war.
Ukrainian forces announced their withdrawal from Severodonetsk on June 25. Russian forces then captured the sister city of Lysychansk last week, consolidating their control of the entire Luhansk region.
There is no centralized water, gas or electricity supply, Luhansk regional governor Serhiy Haidai wrote on Telegram, almost two weeks after Russian forces seized control of the city.
The eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk is on the brink of a humanitarian crisis, a local official said Friday, after much of the city was destroyed in fighting.
Could it be that there is something wrong with us? Lets think about it. At least give us a chance to discuss what is going on. Exchange opinions. After all, its our constitutional right, he told the court.
Were trying to get her out, and were working with a hostile government, Allred said, adding that it was up to the Russian Federation and what theyre going to do.
Russias military looks to be concentrating equipment in the direction of the Ukrainian city of Siversk, about five miles from the front line in the eastern region of Donetsk, according to an intelligence update from the British Defense Ministry on Friday. There is a realistic possibility that Russias immediate tactical objective will be Siversk, the ministry said.
Finnish lawmakers on Thursday approved legal amendments aimed at tightening border security, primarily along its 830-mile border with Russia, as it continues the process of joining the NATO military alliance  a move that has irked Moscow.
There are constantly efforts by the Russians to move forward they are throwing in new units, especially tank ones, Luhansk governor Serhiy Haidai told Ukrainian television Friday, noting that there had been no pause in the Russian shelling.
Finland and Sweden have traditionally been nonaligned militarily but voiced their intention to join NATO following Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. Initial opposition by Turkey was overcome through an agreement in which Sweden and Finland said they would address Ankaras concerns over what it viewed as their support for Kurdish militant groups.
Last week, Ukrainian forces withdrew from the city of Lysychansk, their final major stronghold in the region.
Lyudmila Annenkova and Natalia Perova remember stepping out of a taxi, draped in blankets to hide white dresses splashed with red paint, like blood. They were terrified of arrest, they said, so worked quickly.
The Russian Defense Ministry said Thursday that troops fighting in Ukraines Donbas area will temporarily halt their military operations to replenish their combat capabilities. Yet the same day, a hail of Russian rockets fell on cities and villages across Ukraine, killing several civilians and injuring many more, local leaders said.
He said fighting was now mainly confined to one or two settlements, after Russian forces seized most of the rest of the region: But if even 100 square meters in the Luhansk region remain, and Russian invaders are being killed there and Russian equipment is destroyed there, we can say that the Luhansk region is still holding on.
In the CNN interview, however, Zelensky acknowledged that Russia controls almost all of Ukraines Luhansk province and that his troops were forced to retreat to avoid catastrophic losses.
RIGA, Latvia  A municipal lawmaker in northeastern Moscow was sentenced Friday to seven years in prison for calling Russias attacks on Ukraine a war, a term banned in references to the invasion, and for expressing his opposition to the war during a municipal council meeting in March.
He also reiterated his lament that Ukraine is not a part of the NATO military alliance.
Griner has been detained in Russia since February on drug charges. U.S. officials and Griners family members have repeatedly said she is being wrongfully detained on political grounds.
The governor of Ukraines Luhansk region, which is now almost completely under Russian control, said Friday that the city of Severodonetsk is facing a humanitarian disaster. Critical infrastructure, including the sewage system, had been badly damaged by months of fighting, and there is no centralized water, gas or electricity supply, he said, adding that 80 percent of homes in the city had been damaged.
Without urgent action, food production and crop yields will be slashed, Beasely wrote. This raises the frightening possibility that on top of todays food-pricing crisis, the world will also face a genuine crisis of food availability over the next 12 to 24 months  and with it, the specter of multiple famines.
Whelan, a former U.S. Marine, has been detained in Russia since December 2018. In 2020, he was convicted of espionage charges in a Russian court and sentenced to 16 years of hard labor.
Kharkiv: At least three people were killed and five injured in a Russian attack early Thursday on a district in Kharkiv, according to the regional governor. The official said that two Russian rockets hit a boarding school in the city, and that other populated areas near the region were bombarded. But ISW analysts pointed out that Moscow has not been able to gain more ground against Ukraines defense.
Russian forces are continuing to shell the Luhansk region in eastern Ukraine, the regions governor said Friday, as they attempt to gain complete control of the area.
Haidai said 100 percent of Luhansks critical infrastructure had been damaged by fighting, adding that he had no idea how Russia would be able to prepare the area for the winter season.
