Russian convoy near Kyiv suffering continued losses and Putin forced to use conscript troops UK claims
20220310
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russian-convoy-near-kyiv-suffering-continued-losses-and-putin-forced-to-use-conscript-troops-uk-claims/ar-AAURXC6
Mr Putin has said the advance by his forces in Ukraine is going according to plan, despite few major cities having been captured after more than two weeks of fighting.
The UK MoDs daily update, released on Thursday morning, also said there had been a notable decrease in overall Russian air activity over Ukraine in recent days, likely due to the unexpected effectiveness and endurance of Kyivs air defences.
The weather and lack of progress will make for miserable conditions for the Russian army, whose troops are also believed to be suffering from shortages of food and fuel.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Vladimir Putin had vowed thatconscriptswould not be used and that Russian forces would rely on professional troops.
Russian soldiers stranded in the 40-mile-long armoured military column could soonface freezing conditions, with temperatures forecast to dip to -20C because of easterly wind combining with arctic air.
Boris Johnson sings Augustus Gloop song in defence of free speech at soft power summit
The Ministry of Defence MoD also accused Russia of deploying conscript troops to Ukraine and said Vladimir Putin will have to draw from across his forces and other sources to replace his losses.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign,click here. To sign the petitionclick here. If you would like to donate then pleaseclick herefor our GoFundMe page.
But the UK and EU have promised to provide more weapons, including anti-tank andairdefense missiles, and there are signs that Russia is not completely in control of the skies over Ukraine.
Kyiv has been calling for Nato to impose a no-fly zone over the country to prevent Russian war planes from bombing targets, something western leaders have ruled out because of the potential for war to spill over into a global conflict.
Russian forces massed in a column north-west of Kyiv have made little progress and are suffering continued losses at the hands of Ukraines military, a UK intelligence update has claimed.
But Moscows defence ministry spokesman, Major General Igor Konashenkov, said that unfortunately there have been detected several instances of the presence of conscript-service military personnel with units in Ukraine but that almost all of them had been recalled to Russia.
Photos released by the state emergency service of Ukraine have shown debris from a Russian fighter jet shot by Ukrainian forces in Chernihiv. Ukraine claims to have downed at least 47 planes and 68 helicopters.
Russia has admitted that conscript soldiers have been sent into Ukraine and that some have been captured by Ukrainian troops.
Ukrainian forces have mounted a strong resistance around the nearby towns of Hostomel, Bucha, Vorzel and Irpin.
He added that someconscriptswere taken prisoner by Ukrainian forces while serving in a logistics unit and efforts are under way to free them.
