Russia now occupies 20 of Ukraine Zelensky says as invasion reaches 100day mark
20220603
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russia-now-occupies-20-of-ukraine-zelensky-says-as-invasion-reaches-100-day-mark/ar-AAY1Mxn
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
Updating about the situation at the massive Azov chemical plant, Mr Zelensky said some 15,000 civilians were trapped in the city and many have taken shelter at the plant where officials raised fears of dangerous chemical leaks.
The British defense ministry also said Ukraine is suffering significant setbacks in parts of the east amid reports of street combats between soldiers in Sievierodonetsk.
The UK will send sophisticated medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine, a decision coordinated closely with a US decision to send Himars to Ukraine, said UK defence secretary Ben Wallace.
The US and its allies want to hold Russia accountable for war crimes its forces have been accused of committing in Ukraine.
The remarks came after UK defence officials confirmed Russia had captured most of Sievierodonetsk and made steady local gains, enabled by a heavy concentration of artillery.
He said nearly 300,000 square km of Ukraine was riddled with landmines and unexploded ordnances and nearly 12 million people were internally displaced.
In his address, Mr Zelensky said Ukrainian forces have had some success in the battles in Sievierodonetsk in the eastern Donbas region.
Russia has occupied 20 per cent of Ukraine, said the countrys president Volodymyr Zelensky, speaking as the invasion entered its 100th day.
The overall military situation in the region where Russian forces have been intensifying attacks, however, has not changed, he said.
The US has agreed to send advanced rocket launch systems to Ukraine after an initial reluctance to send advanced medium-range missile systems amid warnings from Russia against provoking it by such deliveries.
We have to defend ourselves against almost the entire Russian army, Mr Zelensky told lawmakers in Luxembourgs parliament in a video conference on Thursday. All combat-ready Russian military formations are involved in this aggression.
Given the presence of large-scale chemical production in Sievierodonetsk, the Russian armys strikes there, including blind air bombing, are just crazy, Mr Zelensky had said in an earlier video message.
The missiles, known as High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems Himars, can hit targets at distances of up to 80km 50 miles.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
He added that the country will send an unspecified number of M270 launchers, which can send precision-guided rockets up to 80km 50 miles.
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
He told lawmakers that the frontlines in the conflict now extended to more than 1,000km, and urged them to imagine what could be unfolding there.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, however, accused the US and its allies of intentionally prolonging the war. He said the countries helping Ukraine are adding fuel to the fire with such deliveries.
Mr Zelensky thanked the US for agreeing to send advanced rocket systems to Ukraine and said it expected to receive more weapons from the country and its allies in the future.
The sanctions targeted officials and business leaders and involve the luxury property of elites, including some of Vladimir Putins close associates and the money manager of his offshore wealth.
These weapons really can save the lives of our people and defend our land, the Ukrainian president said.
At least five Russian businessmen who have links to Mr Putin and foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova will have their assets in the US frozen and will be barred from doing business with US companies.
