Russian soldiers raping women in Ukraine MP says
20220327
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russian-soldiers-raping-women-in-ukraine-mp-says/ar-AAVyENi
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
She said: There are many more victims rather than just this one case which has been made public by the prosecutor general.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Ms Mezentseva said there had also been two incidents reported in the past week where Russian soldiers are accused of shooting at civilians queuing for humanitarian aid.
She referred to a case which Ukraines prosecutor is investigating, where a woman was allegedly sexually assaulted in front of her child.
She told Skys Sophy Ridge On Sunday programme: There is one case which was very widely discussed recently because its been recorded and proceeded with by the prosecutors office, and were not going into details, but its quite a scary scene when a civilian was shot dead in his house in a small town next to Kyiv.
Ms Mezentseva, who is head of the permanent delegation of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, said details of incidents must be recorded as they happen because justice has to prevail.
And of course, we are expecting many more of them, which will be public once victims will be ready to talk about that.
She said: This is just an absolute fact of a war crime against the Ukrainian civilian population.
Russian soldiers have been raping Ukraines women as they wage war on the country, an MP has said, with one victim allegedly repeatedly attacked in front of her child after her partner was shot dead.
The Ukrainian MP said while one particularly shocking case had been publicly talked about, there are many more victims who will need support in the future.
His wife was  Im sorry but I have to say it  raped several times in front of her underage child.
Ukraine will not be silent about the horror of rapes being committed against women during the Russian invasion, Maria Mezentseva said.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
This is definitely not soldiers against soldiers. This is something which is going beyond the normal understanding of war conduct.
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Ms Mezentseva, who was speaking to Sky from western Ukraine, said the country could benefit from the experience of other countries, such as the UK, in how to help victims in the aftermath of war.
She described war as violence, but added that this particular incident is horror, questioning how a child will cope after seeing something so distressing.
She added: Of course justice has to prevail, thats why these cases are taken very seriously.
The MP added: Thats why you know, when weve been talking to Boris Johnson, when we will be talking to your Home Office, when weve been talking to MPs of UK, weve also raised this issue that this aftermath, which we are dealing with right now, the aftermath of war, has to be taken very cautiously, very seriously, and to take into account the UK experience and experience of other countries, which can help us in dealing with psychologists, and how to help these people to actually live over these cases, to keep going afterwards, to keep living.
