RussiaUkraine conflict highlights As Russian troops withdraw India releases FAQs for citizens in Ukraine
20220216
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/other/russia-ukraine-conflict-live-updates-nato-chief-accuses-russia-of-continuing-military-build-up-ukraine-defence-ministry-claim-cyberattack-still-ongoing/ar-AATOMOn
Our specialists, supporting all entities involved in cybersecurity, carried out additional security settings and separate technical work for restoring the regular functioning of the web portal.
Amid the de-escalation of tensions with Russia pulling back its troops from the border, all eyes are once again on the issue that is at the heart of what led to a war-like situation in the region- Ukraine has been pining for a NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization membership for the past 14 years, like it's other former Soviet Union cousins- Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania.
- The Indian embassy in Kyiv yesterday issued an advisory for its citizens, especially students, to consider temporarily leaving Ukraine as tensions were beginning to rise. However, there hasn't been any other communication since the initial reports emerged of Russia calling back some of its forces.
A number of combat training measures, including exercises, have been carried out in accordance with the plan. As the combat training measures are completed, troops will, as always, march in a combined manner to permanent deployment points.
In a televised statement,Ukraine's Defence Minister,Oleksii Reznikov saidthe latest threat assessments did not contain "anything unexpected" and were consistent with earlier views.
Asian stock markets rose todayafter Moscow indicated it was returning some troops to base from exercises, delivering investors a measure of relief.
Russia has denied having any invasion plans. It wants the West to keep Ukraine and other former Soviet nations out of NATO, halt weapons deployments near Russian borders and roll back forces from Eastern Europe.
- U.S. President Joe Bidenstressed on a diplomatic solution to the Russia-Ukraine crisis in hisWhite House address today, saying that the best way forward for all partiesis only through diplomacy and deescalation.He however also issued a warning to Russiathat an invasion would be met with "overwhelming international condemnation."
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:The news of Russian forces leaving Crimea falls in line with Moscow's official stance on the ongoing conflict with Ukraine.
"There are approximately 20,000 Indian students stranded waiting for further concrete instructions from the Indian embassy. While the US has started to evacuate its people, there is no clarity coming from the Indian Embassy or GoI regarding evacuation protocol."
But another future is possible. A future in which Russia and Europe cooperate on shared interests. A future where free counties work together in peace. A future of prosperity built on the fundamental principles enshrined in the UN charter and the European security architecture since the Helsinki final act.This is my aspiration and I am sure the Russian people share this aspiration too. It is now up to the Kremlin to decide but whatever path they decide to take we will stand our ground. Europe will be united on the side of Ukraine, united on the side of peace and on the side of Europes people. Long live Europe."
Britain says thatthus far it has not seen any evidence that Russia is withdrawing troops from positions near the Ukrainian border. Speaking to Times Radio,Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said, We havent seen any evidence at the moment of that withdrawal.Well take Russia at its word, but we will judge them on their actions.
Ukraine Defence Ministry have issued a statement saying theunprecedented DoSattack on the official web portal of the Ministry is still ongoing
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:"Do we want it war or not? Or course not! That is exactly why we have made our proposals to start negotiations, the results of which should be an agreement on providing equal for everyone, including our country." said Russian President Vladimir Putin during German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's innaugural visit to Moscow.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:Russia-Ukraine tensions de-escalate experts weigh in on geopolitical implications and road ahead
In a series of tweets she said, "Indian students are facing difficulties in leaving the country following the Indian governments advisory to return to India, temporarily. Flights booked are being cancelled while many others are unable to afford tickets back home as the air tickets prices are soaring."
On the Kremlins apparent announcement of a withdrawal of troops and hardware from the Ukrainian border, and the vote in the Duma in support of recognition of Russian-controlled separatist states of Donetsk and Luhansk, Von der Leyen said: "I truly hope that the Kremlin will decide not to unleash further violence in Europe but yesterday russia was certainly sending conflicting signals.We are hoping for the best but we are prepared for the worst. We now have two distinct futures ahead of us: in one the Kremlin decides to wage war against Ukraine with massive human costs, something we thought we had left behind after the tragedies of the 20th century. Moscows relations with us would be severely damaged, tough sanctions would kick in with dire consequences on the Russian economy and its prospects of modernisation.
Speaking exclusively to CNBC-TV18, Roman Babushkin, Charg D'affaires at the Russian Embassy, explained Russia's official stance on the crisis saying,"Russia has no logical reason to invade Ukraine. It is the US and its western allies that need to explain the hysteria."
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:The situation so far asRussia makes moves to ease Ukraine tensions butWest still remain skeptical
The affected sites included the Oschadbank state savings bank and Privat - two of the countrys largest financial institutions.
The attackers probably knew the site was protected from classic DDoS attacks, so they managed to find vulnerable locations in the site code itself. We can note that they, unfortunately, managed to do it.
RussianDefense ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov added, "Units of the Southern and Western military districts, which have completed the task, have already started loading on rail and road transport and will start moving to their military garrisons today. Some units will march on their own as part of military columns.
Chief cabinet secretary Hirokazu Matsuno told a news conference on Wednesday, "USPresident Biden has said the possibility of an invasion of Russian forces into Ukraine clearly remains. The Japanese government sees that the situation remains unpredictable, and we will keep a close eye on the situation with high alert and grave concern.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:Where things stand at the moment - U.S. President Joe Bidenstressed on a diplomatic solution to the Russia-Ukraine crisis in hisWhite House address today, saying that the best way forward for all partiesis only through diplomacy and deescalation.He however also issued a warning to Russiathat an invasion would be met with "overwhelming international condemnation." - Biden warned that a Russian invasion still "remains distinctly possible" while highlighting that the US has not yet verified Russian claims that some of its troops were returning to base - Russia yesterday announced that it was recalling some of its troops back to their bases after completing their recent 'drills'. However, they also stressed that other majormilitary exercises would continue. The Ukrainian Foreign Minister responded to this news by saying, "We in Ukraine have a rule: we dont believe what we hear, we believe what we see." - The Indian embassy in Kyiv yesterday issued an advisory for its citizens, especially students, to consider temporarily leaving Ukraine as tensions were beginning to rise. However, there hasn't been any other communication since the initial reports emerged of Russia calling back some of its forces.
- Biden warned that a Russian invasion still "remains distinctly possible" while highlighting that the US has not yet verified Russian claims that some of its troops were returning to base
Speaking after meeting with German Chancellor OlafScholz, Putin said the West agreed to discuss a ban on missile deployment to Europe, restrictions on military drills and other confidence-building measures issues that Moscow put on the table years ago.He said,"Russia is open to discuss some of those elements," but added that it would do so only in combination "with the main issues that are of primary importance for us."
Speaking in the European parliament, the European commission president Ursula von der Leyensaid, "I think diplomacy has not yet spoken its last words and we saw signs of hope yesterday but now deeds have to follow those spoken words."
The tension between world powers over the Ukraine situation, which has developed into one of the deepest crises in East-West relations for decades, has been front-and-centre of investors' minds.
Despite the worst East-West tensions in decades, few Russians expect a war. In a village inRussia'sBelgorod region, about 30 kilometers 18 miles fromUkraine'sborder, residents carried on with life as usual, even as more military personnel have been passing through village streets. "We are really on the border, we really have relatives here and there, everyone has somebody on the Ukrainian side,"villagerLyudmilaNechvolodsaid. "No one wants war."
Unconvincing and Unconfirmed - Australian PM Scott Morrison on Russia's claims of troop pull back
Scholzalso said diplomatic options are far from exhausted, and he praised the announcement of a troop withdrawal as a good signal, adding: "We hope that more will follow."
- Russia yesterday announced that it was recalling some of its troops back to their bases after completing their recent 'drills'. However, they also stressed that other majormilitary exercises would continue. The Ukrainian Foreign Minister responded to this news by saying, "We in Ukraine have a rule: we dont believe what we hear, we believe what we see."
Before resuming the site, our specialists found out the reasons for its functioning breach, coordinated their actions with the NCCC RNBO, SBU, State Special Union, as well as with specialists of other structures who also suffered attacks. We have an understanding of the nature of the attack: the invaders did not break anything, did not try to download the channel or stop the provider, but sent many specific requests to the site to overload the available server capacity.
"Units of the Southern Military District AFD, which have completed participation in tactical exercises at the Crimean peninsula, are marching to permanent locations by rail.Military echelons will deliver military equipment and servicemen to the permanent deployment points of military units." the statement from the Russian Defence Ministryreads.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:UK Defense Secretary sayshe has not seenevidence yet of Russian withdrawal from Ukraines border
But the tenor changed this week. President Vladimir Putin said onTuesday that Russia does not want war and would rely on negotiations in its efforts to eliminate any chance that Ukraine could one day join NATO his key demand in the crisis. At the same time, he did not commit to a full pullback, sayingRussiasnext moves in the standoff will depend on how the situation evolves.Russia also offered few details of the pullback, and President Joe Biden said American officials had not verifiedRussiasclaim. He promised that the U.S. would give diplomacy every chance, but he struck a skeptical tone about Moscow's intentions.
Rajya Sabha MP andand Deputy Leader of Shiv Sena, Priyanka Chaturvedi has urged the Ministry of External Affairs to facilitate the evacuation of Indians, especially students stranded in Ukraine.
Embassy of India in Kyiv issued an advisory on February 15 for Indian nationals in Ukraine.
With that it's a wrap to the LIVE updates on the Russia-Ukraine conflict for today. For more top stories from India and around the world, stay logged on to CNBCTV18.com.
Ukraine-Russia Conflict LIVE Updates:NATO says Russia is increasing troop numbers at Ukrainian border, calls for talks
"Two paths are still open," Biden said in remarks at the White House. "But let there be no doubt: If Russia commits this breach by invading Ukraine, responsible nations around the world will not hesitate to respond. If we do not stand for freedom where it is at risk today, well surely pay a steeper price tomorrow.
Russia made two overtures to ease tensions around Ukraine reporting a pullback of troops near its neighbor and welcoming talks with the West. But the United States and its allies said they needed evidence of the troop movements and that the threat of a Russian invasion still loomed. On Tuesday, there were signs of hope that Europe might avoid war following weeks of escalating East-West tensions as Moscow massed around 150,000 troops on three sides of Ukraine and held massive military drills. Those moves led to dire warnings from Washington, London and other European capitals that Russia was preparing to roll into Ukraine.
WhileScholzreiterated that NATO's eastward expansion is not on the agenda everyone knows that very well, Putin retorted that Moscow will not be assuaged by such assurances. "They are telling us it won't happen tomorrow,"Putin said. "Well, when will it happen? The day after tomorrow? What does it change for us in the historic perspective? Nothing."
Russia-Ukraine conflict LIVE updates: As Russian troops withdraw, India releases FAQs for citizens in Ukraine
Discussions underway to increase number of flights to India Control Rooms setup to respond to queries in the Indian Embassy in Kyiv
Speaking to reporters ahead of the meeting on Wednesday, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said it remains to be seen whether there is a Russian withdrawal. So far, we have not seen any de-escalation on the ground. On the contrary it appears that Russia continues their military buildup, he said.
The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has no excessive tragism, but it is keenly aware that the attacks will continue and will sometimes lead to a temporary violation of its work, at least until the website is professionally updated.
Such a cyber attack on the website of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine gave us the opportunity to strengthen the cyberzahist site and improve close cooperation both with foreign partners and between colleagues from different Ukrainian agencies.
He said Ukrainian armed forces were keeping up a nationwide military drill, one of which would be attended by the military attach of Belarus.
"We have a proactive meaindia as well as VM DrSJaishankar ji, hence I urge them to provide concrete instructions and facilitate the process of evacuation of Indian citizens, especially students from Ukraine before the situations takes a turn for worse."
Despite Russian claims that it has been calling back troops, NATO hasaccused Russia of increasing the number of troops at the Ukrainian border.
We were also immediately offered support to US partners, providing technical consultations and additional security services, which once again confirm political agreements for cybersecurity cooperation reached back in November and in 2021.
Japan's top government spokesperson has said that the nationcontinues to keep an eye on the situation in Ukraine with grave concern,as reported by Reuters.
The Embassy continues to monitor developments.We are aware that many Indian students are presently in Ukraine, and their families are anxious about their wards, particularly about getting flights to India.Discussions are underway with civil aviation authorities and various airlines on how to increase the number of flights between India and Ukraine. Control Rooms in the Embassy as well as in the Ministry of External Affairs are being setup to respond to queries of Indian nationals in Ukraine and their families in India.
Russian lawmakers urged Putin to recognize rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine as independent states. The State Duma,Russia'slower house, voted to submit an appeal to Putin to that effect.Putin said the request reflects the Russian public's sympathy for the suffering of people trapped in the conflict in eastern Ukraine that has killed over 14,000 since 2014. He noted, however, that Russia continues to believe a 2015 peace deal brokered by France and Germany should serve as the main vehicle for a settlement of the separatist conflict.
The Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has responded to Russian claims that it has pulled back some troops from the Ukrainian border saying that the reports areunconvincing and unconfirmed.
Our experts, understanding that the site could not only be subjected to other similar DoS attacks, but also DDoS attacks, have directed all site traffic through an additional security service located in the United States. It is due to the need for global access infrastructure updates, the Ministry of Defense website may seem unavailable for some time, but after a final DNS server update, it will be functioning steadily.
Stoltenberg added that Russia has always moved forces back and forth, so footage that shows movement of forces and tanks does not confirm a real withdrawal. He alsosaid NATO allies remain ready to engage with Russia.
According to Babushkin, the Russian troops on the Ukrainian border are not there to invade but for protection. "The presence of the Russian troops on the border are for defensive purposes. The deployment is there on account of NATO troops being deployed there," he said.
Meanwhile, a series ofcyberattacksknocked out the websites of the Ukrainian army, the defense ministry and major banks. There was no indication that the relatively low-level denial-of-service attacks might be a smoke screen for more serious cyber mischief. White House press secretary JenPsakisaid the U.S. has not yet determined who was behind the attacks.
Even amid the glimmers of hope, Biden said 150,000 Russian forces are now massed near Ukraine and in neighboring Belarus an increase from an earlier U.S. estimate of 130,000 troops.Russia's claim that it pulled back troops "would be good, but we have not yet verified that,"Biden said.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:Here's the video that accompanied the RussianDefence Ministrystatement on State Television that troops are now leaving Crimea after completing military drills.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict:Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyand his wife shared this 'message of love' with his people on Valentine's Day, urging them to be united.
The U.S. and its allies have roundly rejected those demands, but they offered to engage in talks with Russia on ways to bolster security in Europe.
The statement issued on Facebook reads, "The official web portal of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has suffered an unprecedented DoS attack, which is still ongoing. The attack is aimed at the maximum load of server powers on which the site works.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index jumped 1.1 percent early in the session, and China's CSI300 Index was up 0.4 percent.
"The ideas of spheres of influence are ghosts of the last century. This crisis is about Ukraine but it is also about much, much more. It is about what it means to be an independent free nation in the 21st century."
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE Updates:Ukraines Interfax news agency reports that the Russian defence ministry released a statement on troop withdrawal from Crimea
Ukraine's neighbour has assured Kyiv there is no military threat from its territory. Reznikovalso said he would participate in a "virtual meeting" of all NATO defense ministers set for Thursday.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan surged 0.9 percent in early regional trade on Wednesday, playing catch-up with a rally in US and European stocks on Tuesday.Japan's Nikkei soared 1.9 percent to rebound from two days of falls, while Australia's SPASX200 gained half a percent.
Ukraine expressed skepticism. "We wont believe when we hear, well believe when we see,"Ukrainian Foreign MinisterDmytroKulebasaid.And NATO Secretary-General JensStoltenbergsaid that there have been no signs, so far, of a reduced military presence on Ukraine's borders.
As Russia is withdrawing it forces surrounding Ukraine, the Indian Embassy in Kyiv said that it was monitoring the situation and issued some FAQs for Indian citizens. Reports suggest that the Indian government was planning to increase the number of flights from the country to ensure that safety of its citizens. Meanwhile, NATO has urged Moscow to prove it was pulling back its forces and claimed that there were signs of more troops being on their way to the Ukrainian border. Britain joined the United States in saying it had yet to be convinced the pullout was real, while in Ukraine, the defence ministry said an unprecedented cyberattack was into its second day. Russia said it had nothing to do with any attack.
Von der Leyen, a former German defence minister, said Russia was threatening Ukraine because it was today a free, independent and sovereign state.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict LIVE updates:European commission president Ursula von der Leyen says Kremlin needs to show on the ground that it is withdrawing troops
The Australian Associated Press reportthat the PM in parliament pointed tothe cyber attacks in Ukraine saying that they counter reports that Russia is serious about pulling back its troops. He said, "Russia must unconditionally withdraw. If Russia attacks Ukraine, it will be met with overwhelming international condemnation. The world will not forget that Russia chose needless death and destruction.
NATO defense ministers are due to meet in Brussels today to discuss what the military alliance has called the most serious security crisis we have faced in Europe for decades.
The Kremlin had denied it had anything to do with Tuesdays cyberattack on Ukraine, which hit websites at the countrys defence ministry and armed forces as well as two state banks. Ukraineblamed Russia for the attack butKremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov denied those claims. Speaking toreporters, Peskov said,We do not know anything. As expected, Ukraine continues blaming Russia for everything. Russia has nothing to do with any DDOS attacks."
But for Russia, Ukraine is different as it has been a part of the Russian empire for the better part of its existence and it became independent only in 1991 when USSR itself broke up.
The Russian Defense Ministry released images of tanks and howitzers rolling onto railway platforms and more tanks rolling across snowy fields. It did not disclose where or when the images were taken, or where the vehicles were headed, other than to places of permanent deployment.
Moscow's defence ministry issued a statement via state television to say that troops are now leaving Crimea after finishing their military drills and were returning to their garrisons. The statement by Russia'sdefence ministry read,"Units of the Southern Military District, having completed their participation in tactical exercises, are moving to their permanent deployment points," and was accompanied by images of military units crossing a bridgelinking the Russian-controlled peninsula to the mainland
Both resumed service later on Tuesday but the military sites remained inaccessible hours after the initial reports of the attack emerged.
To understand if the reported de-escalation can bring peace, CNBC-TV18 spoke to Anil Trigunayat, Former Indian Ambassador to Russia, and Sudhir Devare, Former first Indian Ambassador to Ukraine.
