RussiaUkraine war highlights US warns Moscow against use of chemical weapons White House to send hundreds of antiaircraft systems to Ukraine
20220316
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-live-kremlin-kyiv-close-to-deal-on-neutral-status-zelenskyy-recalls-911-attack-while-addressing-us-congress/ar-AAV6R5C
USnational security adviser Jake Sullivan spoke on Wednesday with Nikolay Patrushev, the secretary of Russia's Security Council, and warned him about the consequences "of any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine," the White House said. Sullivan told Patrushev that if Russia was serious about diplomacy, then it should stop attacking Ukrainian cities and towns, the White House said in a statement.
Shelling by Russian forces caused a fire and damaged private homes and a gas line in Kyiv's Podil district on Wednesday evening, mayor Vitali Klitschko said.The fire has been contained and emergency and rescue workers at the scene have not identified any casualties, he said in an online post.
US Attorney General Merrick Garland and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen met with counterparts in Europe and Asia today to formally launch a multilateral task force that seeks to take action against the assets of Russian oligarchs.The task force, which will draw upon the ministries of justice, home or finance in member jurisdiction, will work to collect and share information to take concrete actions, including sanctions, asset freezing, civil and criminal asset seizure, and criminal prosecution, the Justice Department said in a release Wednesday.
The International Court of Justice ICJ ordered Russia on Wednesday to stop the military actions it started in Ukraine on February24. "The Russian Federation shall immediately suspend the military operations that it commenced on February 24, 2022 in the territory of Ukraine," the judges said.
USwarns Russia of consequences of any possible Russian use of chemical weapons - White House USnational security adviser Jake Sullivan spoke on Wednesday with Nikolay Patrushev, the secretary of Russia's Security Council, and warned him about the consequences "of any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine," the White House said. Sullivan told Patrushev that if Russia was serious about diplomacy, then it should stop attacking Ukrainian cities and towns, the White House said in a statement.
Europeans are stocking up on survival gear like sleeping bags and camping cookers, as well as canned and dried food, in part to donate to refugees arriving from Ukraine and also due to fears of supplies being disrupted and conflict spreading. Sales of products such as plastic cans, camping gear, batteries, flashlights and cell phone solar chargers jumped as much as sixfold in the past two weeks at Swedish hardware store chain Clas Ohlsson, a spokesperson said.
US President Joe Bidens national security adviser Jake Sullivan warned his Russian counterpart on Wednesday against any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, the White House said in a statement,The NewTimes reported.The explicit warning to Nikolai P. Patrushev, President Vladimir Putins main national security adviser, reflected escalating concerns in Washington that the Russians, stymied in their hopes of a quick takeover of the country, could resort to weapons of mass destruction.
USPresident Joe Biden on Wednesday said the United States was offering an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine to combat Russia's invasion, with the new package including drones and anti-aircraft systems."It includes 800 anti-aircraft systems to make sure that the Ukrainian military can continue to stop the planes and helicopters that have been attacking their people," Biden said.
Reasonable grounds to believe war crime were committed in Ukraine, ICC chief prosecutor tells CNN
Both Russia and Ukraine projected optimism ahead of another scheduled round of talks Wednesday, even as Moscow's forces rained fire on Kyiv and other major cities in a bid to crush the resistance that has frustrated Kremlin hopes for a lightning victory.
The United States Federal Reserve on Wednesday announced that it approved its first interest rate hike -- 0.23 percent or 25 basis points -- in over three years. The announcement came at the end of the two-day meeting of the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee FOMC. The FOMC also penciled in rate hikes at each of the six remaining meetings, adding up to a consolidated rate of 1.9 percent by the end of 2022. The committee sees three more hikes in 2023 then none of the following year. The move, aimed at addressing increasing inflation without affecting economic growth, will bring lending rate into the 0.25-0.5 percent range and will have an immediate effect on consumer borrowing and credit.
The chief prosecutor at the International Criminal Court ICC has told CNNthat he has come to Ukraine because he has reasonable grounds to believe that war crimes have been committed in the conflict between Russia and its southern neighbour.The law is clear on this. It is a crime to intentionally target civilians. It is a crime to intentionally target civilian objects. Now, of course, there has to be further investigation. Were those civilian objects being used to launch attacks that make them a legitimate target? But even then, there is no license to use cluster bombs or use disproportionate attacks in concentrated civilian areas. Theres a duty of distinction, Karim Khan said.
USwarns Russia of consequences of any possible Russian use of chemical weapons - White House
The judges added Russia must also ensure that other forces under its control or supported by Moscow should not continue the military operation.
USnational security adviser Jake Sullivan spoke on Wednesday with Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of Russia's Security Council, warning him of the consequences "of any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine".A White House statement after the call, the first high-level contact publicly disclosed between the two countries since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, did not specify what those consequences would be.Washington and its allies have accused Russia of spreading an unproven claim that Ukraine had a biological weapons program as a possible prelude to potentially launching its own biological or chemical attacks.Russia's defence ministry Tuesday accused Kyiv, without providing evidence, of planning a chemical attack against its own people in order to accuse Moscow of using chemical weapons in its three-week-old conflict with Ukraine."We know for certain that, with the support of Western countries, the SBU Ukrainian Security Service is preparing a provocation using poisonous substances against civilians in order to accuse Russia of using chemical weapons against the Ukrainian population," the ministry said in a statement carried by the RIA news agency.
India is rolling out measures to help the country become a major exporter of high-quality wheat as importers scramble for supplies after Russia's invasion of Ukraine
It is too early disclose any set of potential agreements between Moscow and Kyiv on resolving the conflict in Ukraine, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Psekov said on Wednesday according to the RIA news agency. The comment came after the Financial Times earlier on Wednesday reported that Ukraine and Russia had made significant progress on a tentative 15-point peace plan. The newspaper cited three people involved in the talks as saying the plan included a ceasefire and Russian withdrawal if Kyiv declares neutrality and accepts limits on its armed forces.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that the operation in Ukraine is unfolding successfully, in strict accordance with pre-approved plans and decried Western sanctions against Russia, describing them as aggression and war with economic, political, information means. At the same time, Putin said that the West has failed to wage an economic blitzkrieg against Russia. In effect these steps are aimed at worsening the lives of millions of people, Putin said of the sanctions that have delivered a crippling blow to Russia's economy. One should clearly understand that the new set of sanctions and restrictions against us would have followed in any case, I want to emphasize this. Our military operation in Ukraine is just a pretext for the next sanctions, Putin told a government meeting Wednesday.
The UK wants every country to move away from using Russian oil and gas because it directly funds President Vladimir Putin's war machine, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesperson said on Wednesday. Asked about India's proposed move to purchase crude oil from Russia, the spokesperson said the UK Prime Minister respects every country's individual position but wants to broaden the coalition of countries against the Russian President's actions in Ukraine. The Indian Parliament was informed this week of ongoing talks "at the appropriate level of the Russian Federation" over the potential purchase of crude oil. The Prime Minister would want every country to move away from using Russian oil and gas, the spokesperson said.
"It's clear that people want to be prepared for crises. The biggest increase is for products recommended to have at home during a crisis, for example, radios," he said. Sales of milk powder, pasta, grains, and canned foods rose by up to 20 in the past four weeks, according to Swedish grocery retailer Ica Gruppen. Consumers are stocking up for themselves while humanitarian organizations are also buying products to send to Ukraine, according to Ica Sweden purchasing director Andreas Sbrodigliga.
US President Joe Biden is is expected to announce an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine, a White House official told CNN, bringing the total to $1 billion announced in just the last week.This comes shortly after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky appealed to Congress for help directly Wednesday, telling US lawmakers "we need you right now" as he invoked tragedies in American history like the attack on Pearl Harbor and the September 11 terrorist attack.
With that it's a wrap to the LIVE updates on the Russia-Ukraine war for today. Do join us tomorrow for the top developmentsas tensions continue to rise between Moscow and rest of the Western world. Until then, stay tuned to CNBCTV18.com for more news, views and other updates.
Britain is supplying starstreak anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine, defence minister Ben Wallace told the BBC on Wednesday. "We are supplying them - they will go into theatre," the BBC quoted Wallace as saying. Last week Wallace said a decision in principle had been taken to supply the weapons system.
Russia-Ukraine news LIVE updates: USwarns Russia, says any use of chemical weapons would have consequences
President Joe Biden announced an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine on Wednesday, even as his position on a no-fly zone did not change after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's urgent appeal to the U.S. Congress for military help to fend off a Russian invasion. Addressing Zelenskiy's remarks in his speech, Biden said the United States has offered Ukraine $1 billion in security aid, adding America will continue to give Ukraine weapons to fight and defend themselves, offer humanitarian relief and support Ukraine's economy with additional financial assistance."This new package on its own is going to provide unprecedented assistance to Ukraine, and includes 800 anti-aircraft systems," Biden said, to stop Russian planes and helicopters attacking Ukrainians.At Zelenskiy's request, Washington will help Ukraine acquire additional long-range missile anti-aircraft systems, Biden said. It will also supply 9,000 anti-armor systems, drones and 7,000 small arms such as machine guns, shotguns and grenade launchers that will help civilians fighting to defend their country.
Russian President Vladimir Putin's comments that Moscow's nuclear deterrent is on high alert had already prompted people in Central Europe to rush to buy iodine which they believe may protect them from radiation.
Thousands more refugees from Ukraine crossed into Eastern Europe on Wednesday, where authorities are providing food, social services and school places to help people rebuild their lives away from war.
The International Court of Justice ICJ ordered Russia on Wednesday to stop the military actions it started in Ukraine on Feb. 24. "The Russian Federation shall immediately suspend the military operations that it commenced on Feb 24, 2022 in the territory of Ukraine," the judges said. The judges added Russia must also ensure that other forces under its control or supported by Moscow should not continue the military operation.
More than 3 million people have left Ukraine so far, data from the U.N. Refugee Agency UNHCR showed. The frontline states - Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and Moldova - have been providing help to drive, feed or house refugees.
In the Netherlands, Jimmy Bakker at outdoor supplier Dumpstore Amsterdam has seen brisk trade since the war started. "When the war broke out people were buying emergency blankets, emergency food rations, radios and stoves. Last week, people rented vehicles and they were going to drive to Ukraine to hand out there," he said.
Russian forces bombed a theatre where civilians were sheltering in the encircled port city of Mariupol on Wednesday, the city council said.It said the number of casualties was not yet known. Reuters could not independently verify the information. Russia denies targeting civilians.
A Ukrainian TV channel says it was hacked after a fake statement from President Volodymyr Zelenskiy asking the people of Ukraine to surrender to Russia was broadcast on the channel.Ukraine 24, a 24-hour news channel, said it was the victim of a hack after an alleged statement from Zelenskiy was shown in a live TV broadcast.In the written statement that was broadcast, Zelenskiy allegedly said he was capitulating and would surrender and give up arms.Zelenskiy responded with a video address from Kyiv, calling the provocation childish. He said he never made any such statement and promised that the only ones who should give up arms are Russian soldiers.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy has welcomed an order by the International Court of Justice ICJ for Russia to stop its military actions in Ukraine.
French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire on Wednesday put at between 25 billion euros and 26 billlion euros the total cost of measures to help mitigate the impact on the French economy of sanctions against Russia.Le Maire made the estimation at a news conference.
Three weeks into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, there are some signs the exodus is slowing although tens of thousands of people are arriving daily in what has become Europe's fastest-growing refugee crisis since World War Two.
