Russian warship sinks in the Black Sea after Ukraine claims it was hit by a missile
20220414
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-warship-sinks-in-the-black-sea-after-ukraine-claims-it-was-hit-by-a-missile/ar-AAWcxvt
Two sources familiar with US and Western intelligence told CNN on Thursday that Ukraine's claim is believed to be credible, although US officials do not yet have definitive proof.
The 611-foot-long 186 meters Moskva, with a crew of almost 500, is the pride of the Russian naval fleet in the Black Sea. Originally commissioned into the Soviet navy as the Slava in the 1980s, it was renamed Moskva in 1995 and after a refit reentered service in 1998, according to military site Naval-Technology.com.
Russian "ships will operate in ways to minimize the risk of detection and maximize their chances to defend themselves," Lancaster wrote. "These behavioral changes limit Russia's ability to utilize their fleet to their advantage. The added stress of sudden combat increases fatigue and can lead to mistakes."
Alessio Patalano, professor of war and strategy at King's College in London, said losing the warship would be a "massive blow" for Russia.
CNN has not been able to independently verify what caused the damage to the ship.
"Only the loss of a ballistic missile submarine or the Kutznetsov Russia's lone aircraft carrier would inflict a more serious blow to Russian morale and the navy's reputation with the Russian public," said Carl Schuster, a retired US Navy captain and former director of operations at the US Pacific Command's Joint Intelligence Center.
In the CIMSEC post, Lancaster notes the British Royal Navy lost several ships to missiles fired by Argentina during the 1982 Falklands War.
All those represent massive amounts of explosive ordnance in its ammunition magazines. Any fire nearing them would have given the crew limited options to deal with the threat, Schuster said.
The Neptune is a Ukrainian weapon, developed domestically based on the Soviet KH-35 cruise missile. It became operational in the Ukrainian forces just last year, according to Ukrainian media reports.
Whatever happened to the Moskva, analysts say its loss would strike hard at the heart of the Russian navy as well as national pride, comparable to the US Navy losing a battleship during World War II or an aircraft carrier today.
Ukraine's Operational Command South claimed earlier on Thursday that the Moskva had begun to sink after it was hit Ukrainian Neptune anti-ship missiles.
"When a fire reaches your ammunition magazines, you have two choices 1 flood them or 2 abandon ship," Schuster said. "Otherwise your crew is onboard to be wiped out by the catastrophic explosion that follows a fire reaching several hundred tons of ordnance."
Russian state news agency TASS reported Thursday evening that the guided-missile cruiser Moskva had sunk, citing a statement from the Russian Ministry of Defense.
"In the Black Sea operational zone, Neptune anti-ship cruise missiles hit the cruiser Moskva, the flagship of the Russian Black Sea Fleet -- it received significant damage," the statement said. "A fire broke out. Other units of the ship's group tried to help, but a storm and a powerful explosion of ammunition overturned the cruiser and it began to sink."
According to Patalano, the war professor: "It would appear the Russians have learned that the hard way today."
During that war, a British submarine sank the Argentine cruiser General Belgrano, a former World War II US Navy ship similar in size to the Moskva.
In late March, Ukraine said a missile strike had destroyed a Russian landing ship at the port of Berdiansk.
If it was used to attack the Moskva, it would be the first known use of the Neptune during the war, according to a post on the website of the Center for International Maritime Security CIMSEC from Lt. Cmdr. Jason Lancaster, a US Navy surface warfare officer.
"Ships operate away from public attention and their activities are rarely the subject of news. But they are large floating pieces of national territory, and when you lose one, a flagship no less, the political and symbolic message -- in addition to the military loss -- stands out precisely because of it," he said.
His post for the CIMSEC on Tuesday said the threat posed by mobile shore-based cruise missiles like the Neptune "changes operational behavior" of an enemy.
Russia said a fire broke out on the guided-missile cruiser, causing munitions aboard to explode, inflicting serious damage to the vessel, and forcing the crew of the warship to be evacuated.
One source familiar with the latest intelligence said that the US believes with "medium confidence" that Ukraine's version of events is accurate.
"It is a very important mission for us. The Moskva was there near the Snake Island and was hit yesterday by two powerful Ukrainian-made missiles," Danilov said. "Putin came to kill our children, our women, our civilians. That is our gift to him. And this is just the beginning. There will be more than one Moskva."
Earlier in the day Russia's defense ministry had said that the Moskva "remains afloat" and that measures were being taken to tow it to port. The ministry said the crew had been evacuated to other Black Sea Fleet ships in the area.
This is the second large-sized Russian naval vessel to suffer that fate during Moscow's war with Ukraine.
"We're not in a position to officially confirm independently what exactly led to the ship's now sinking," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told CNN's Jake Tapper on Thursday. "But we're also not in any position to refute the Ukrainian side of this. It's certainly plausible and possible that they did in fact hit this with a Neptune missile or maybe more."
Alessio Patalano, professor of war and strategy at King's College in London, said losing the warship would be a "massive blow" for Russia."Ships operate away from public attention and their activities are rarely the subject of news. But they are large floating pieces of national territory, and when you lose one, a flagship no less, the political and symbolic message -- in addition to the military loss -- stands out precisely because of it," he said.The 611-foot-long 186 meters Moskva, with a crew of almost 500, is the pride of the Russian naval fleet in the Black Sea. Originally commissioned into the Soviet navy as the Slava in the 1980s, it was renamed Moskva in 1995 and after a refit reentered service in 1998, according to military site Naval-Technology.com.The Moskva is armed with a range of anti-ship and anti-aircraft missiles as well as torpedoes and naval guns and close-in missile defense systems.All those represent massive amounts of explosive ordnance in its ammunition magazines. Any fire nearing them would have given the crew limited options to deal with the threat, Schuster said."When a fire reaches your ammunition magazines, you have two choices 1 flood them or 2 abandon ship," Schuster said. "Otherwise your crew is onboard to be wiped out by the catastrophic explosion that follows a fire reaching several hundred tons of ordnance."Odesa state regional administrator Maxim Marchenko claimed in a post on Telegram that Ukrainian forces had used Neptune cruises missiles to attack the Moskva. If that's true, the Moskva would potentially be the largest warship ever taken out of action by a missile, Schuster said.Such an achievement would represent a big advance for Kyiv's forces.The Neptune is a Ukrainian weapon, developed domestically based on the Soviet KH-35 cruise missile. It became operational in the Ukrainian forces just last year, according to Ukrainian media reports.If it was used to attack the Moskva, it would be the first known use of the Neptune during the war, according to a post on the website of the Center for International Maritime Security CIMSEC from Lt. Cmdr. Jason Lancaster, a US Navy surface warfare officer. His post for the CIMSEC on Tuesday said the threat posed by mobile shore-based cruise missiles like the Neptune "changes operational behavior" of an enemy.Russian "ships will operate in ways to minimize the risk of detection and maximize their chances to defend themselves," Lancaster wrote. "These behavioral changes limit Russia's ability to utilize their fleet to their advantage. The added stress of sudden combat increases fatigue and can lead to mistakes."According to Patalano, the war professor: "It would appear the Russians have learned that the hard way today."In the CIMSEC post, Lancaster notes the British Royal Navy lost several ships to missiles fired by Argentina during the 1982 Falklands War.During that war, a British submarine sank the Argentine cruiser General Belgrano, a former World War II US Navy ship similar in size to the Moskva.The Moskva also poses symbolic significance to Ukraine as it was one of the ships involved in the famous exchange at Snake Island in February, according to Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.According to a purported audio exchange in late February, as the Russians approached the Ukrainian garrison on Snake Island, also known as Zmiinyi Island, in the Black Sea, a Russian officer said: "This is a military warship. This is a Russian military warship. I suggest you lay down your weapons and surrender to avoid bloodshed and needless casualties. Otherwise, you will be bombed."A Ukrainian soldier responded: "Russian warship, go f yourself."On Thursday, Ukrainian National Security Advisor Oleksiy Danilov told CNN that the strike on the Moskva was a very important mission for his country's military and vowed there would be more such dramatic actions."It is a very important mission for us. The Moskva was there near the Snake Island and was hit yesterday by two powerful Ukrainian-made missiles," Danilov said. "Putin came to kill our children, our women, our civilians. That is our gift to him. And this is just the beginning. There will be more than one Moskva."This is the second large-sized Russian naval vessel to suffer that fate during Moscow's war with Ukraine.In late March, Ukraine said a missile strike had destroyed a Russian landing ship at the port of Berdiansk.
On Thursday, Ukrainian National Security Advisor Oleksiy Danilov told CNN that the strike on the Moskva was a very important mission for his country's military and vowed there would be more such dramatic actions.
One of the Russian Navy's most important warships has sunk in the Black Sea, a massive blow to a military struggling against Ukrainian resistance 50 days into Vladimir Putin's invasion of his neighbor.
According to a purported audio exchange in late February, as the Russians approached the Ukrainian garrison on Snake Island, also known as Zmiinyi Island, in the Black Sea, a Russian officer said: "This is a military warship. This is a Russian military warship. I suggest you lay down your weapons and surrender to avoid bloodshed and needless casualties. Otherwise, you will be bombed."
The Moskva is armed with a range of anti-ship and anti-aircraft missiles as well as torpedoes and naval guns and close-in missile defense systems.
"During the towing of the cruiser Moskva to the port of destination, the ship lost its stability due to hull damage received during a fire from the detonation of ammunition. In the conditions of stormy seas, the ship sank," the statement said, according to TASS.
Odesa state regional administrator Maxim Marchenko claimed in a post on Telegram that Ukrainian forces had used Neptune cruises missiles to attack the Moskva. If that's true, the Moskva would potentially be the largest warship ever taken out of action by a missile, Schuster said.
The Moskva also poses symbolic significance to Ukraine as it was one of the ships involved in the famous exchange at Snake Island in February, according to Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
