RussiaUkraine War Updates NATO Chief Says Putin Made Big Mistake Invading Ukraine
20220324
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-updates-ukraines-port-of-berdyansk-on-fire-after-russian-occupiers-blow-up-fuel-tanks-say-reports/ar-AAVqrZw
In a passionate speech on the eve of a one-month anniversary of Russias invasion, Zelenskyy urged citizens around the world to take to the streets to stop Russias invasion of his country. Come with Ukrainian symbols to support Ukraine, to support freedom, to support life, Zelenskyy said in a video address in English, adding: Come to your squares, to your streets, make yourselves visible and heard.
To the northwest, theyre basically digging in and they are establishing defensive positions, the official adds. So its not that theyre not advancing. Theyre actually not trying to advance right now.
While Russian troops quickly pushed to the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraines capital, after invading the country on February 24, Ukraine has claimed to have kept the neighbour from encircling and entering the city. On Wednesday, Kyiv mayor said Ukrainian forces have pushed back Russian troops in several areas around the city and vowed to defend every building rather than surrender the capital.
The US side has been given firm notice that any hostile action by the United States against Russia will be met with a resolute and appropriate response, the ministry says in a statement.
Biden will attend an emergency NATO Summit, joined by the leaders of the other 29 NATO Allies. He will join the G7 leaders. And he will address the 27 leaders of the European Union at a session of the European Council. He will have the opportunity to coordinate on the next phase of military assistance to Ukraine, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said.
In another news, a Russian journalist for the investigative news outlet The Insider was killed when Russian troops shelled a residential neighbourhood in the Ukrainian capital, the outlet said Wednesday, the latest reporter to die in war.
The group, said to be called The Tiger Team, is also examining responses if Putin reaches into NATO territory to attack convoys bringing weapons and aid to Ukraine, according to several officials involved in the process, the New York Times reported. The team is meeting three times a week in classified sessions, the report said. The team is also looking at responses if Russia seeks to extend the war to neighboring nations, including Moldova and Georgia, and how to prepare European countries for the refugees flowing in on a scale not seen in decades.
A veteran envoy of President Vladimir Putin has resigned over the Ukraine war and left Russia with no intention to return, two sources said on Wednesday, the first senior official to break with the Kremlin since Putin launched his invasion a month ago.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg on Thursday said Putin of making a big mistake by invading Ukraine, as leaders gathered to discuss overhauling the alliances eastern defences.
US President Joe Biden is in Brussels for meetings of the NATO alliance, G7 and EU over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Its been a month since Russias invasion against Ukraine that has so far seen hundreds of civilians have been killed, hundreds more being injured and over lakhs of Ukrainians fleeing the country since being invaded by its neighbour on February 24 with the goal of thwarting its pro-Western course.
Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russia on Thursday of deploying phosphorus weapons in his country and urged NATO to provide military support. This morning, by the way, phosphorus bombs were used. Russian phosphorus bombs. Adults were killed again and children were killed again, Zelensky said during a video address to the US-led military alliance.
Accusing it of providing access to false information about the offensive in Ukraine, Russias media regulator has restricted access to the Google News service, Russian news agencies reported.
The Kremlin confirmed that Anatoly Chubais had resigned of his own accord. Chubais was one of the principal architects of Boris Yeltsins economic reforms of the 1990s and was Putins boss in the future presidents first Kremlin job. He held senior business and political jobs under Putin, lately serving as Kremlin special envoy to international organisations.
Reports said that The port of Berdyansk in Ukraine is on fire, presumably, after Russian occupiers blew up fuel tanks.
President Putin has made a big mistake and that is to launch a war against an independent sovereign nation. He has underestimated the strength of the Ukrainian people, the bravery of the Ukrainian people and their armed forces, news agency AFP quoted Stoltenberg as saying ahead of a NATO summit in Brussels.
Google confirmed that some people are having difficulty accessing the Google News app and website in Russia and that this is not due to any technical issues on our end, a company spokesperson said.Weve worked hard to keep information services like News accessible to people in Russia for as long as possible, the Google spokesperson added.
On the one-month anniversary of the Russian invasion, Ukraine President VolodymyrZelenskyy called for solidarity, and, in a warning of sorts, said he would see who sells out at summits in Europe where bolstering sanctions and NATO is planned but restrictions on energy could prove divisive. The Ukrainian president alsourged citizens around the world to take to the streets to stop Russias invasion. US President Joe Biden, meanwhile, is in Brussels for meetings of NATO, G7 and EU over the Russia-Ukraine war.
The decision was reportedly taken at the request of the Russian General Prosecutors Office, according to a statement by the countrys media regulator Roskomnadzor cited by the agencies.A statement said that the online news service provided access to numerous publications and materials that contain false information about the course of the special military operation on Ukrainian territory,.
It was on February 24 when Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a military operation against Ukraine, claiming that it is intended to protect civilians. The invasion has so far taken hundreds of lives and led to damages of unmeasurable scale.
Russias foreign ministry says it is expelling US diplomats in retaliation for Washingtons step to remove 12 of Moscows representatives at the United Nations in New York.
The Russian army has retreated more than 30 kilometres 18 miles east of Kyiv and has begun to establish defensive positions on several fronts in Ukraine, a senior Pentagon official said.
Reports said that the White House has formed a team of national security officials to chalk out scenarios of how the United States and its allies should respond if Russian President Vladimir Putin unleashes his stockpiles of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons.
