Russians still backing government but that could change expert says
20220318
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russians-still-backing-government-but-that-could-change-expert-says/ar-AAVf93x
Dartmouth College professor William Wohlforth said that reading between the lines of comments made by Russian government officials, there is an acknowledgment that the war against Ukraine isn't going well.
"That they are deliberately putting their military forces among civilians and that they are using civilians as shields," he said.
The professor said there are increasing signs that support for the war within Russia is not rock solid, and sanctions will eventually have an impact.
The Latest: Putin praises troops at rally as strikes hit outskirts of Ukrainian capital and Lviv
Wohlforth said he believes that a peace deal might be possible at some point, but given the current situation on the ground, now is not that time.
As Russia continues its invasion of Ukraine, one expert in New Hampshire says Russians are more focused on domestic issues than international ones, but that could change.
Russian President Vladimir Putin appeared Friday at a large rally praising the actions of Russian troops, who have been targeting evacuating civilians and hospitals, according to Ukrainian officials and journalists in the war zone. Wohlforth said that before the invasion, the Russian rhetoric was about the need for regime change in Ukraine.
CHECK OUT WMUR:Get the top New Hampshire news of the day. With the latest Manchester news, weather and sports, WMUR is your local news leader.
"With elite conversations, with continued brave Russians who are demonstrating and with an exodus of highly educated Russians," Wohlforth said. "Ultimately, if this war continues and if these sanctions continue, I think it will percolate into the Russian population at large."
The West has levied economic sanctions on Russia, including the seizure of assets owned by Russian oligarchs. But Wohlforth said he believes their influence on Putin when it comes to the war is minimal.
While much of the world has been horrified by Russian attacks on civilian targets, the professor said Russians are being told the blame lies with Ukraine.
"He is willing to do what is not good for business for this geopolitical, world-historical, Russian historical kind of mission that he has set himself on," Wohlforth said.
"Now you're really tending to see a rhetoric that's really more about protecting the residents of eastern Ukraine who identify with Russia, kind of a defensive operation," Wohlforth said.
