RussiaUkraine war live updates Evacuation of Ukrainian soldiers underway at Mariupol steel plant
20220516
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-sweden-finland-take-key-steps-toward-nato-senate-nears-vote-on-ukraine-aid/ar-AAXjEh3
6:55 PM: On state TV, a retired Russian colonel gives frank assessment of war, isolation
The hacks, conducted by partisans for both Russia and Ukraine, essentially borrow a page from hacktivist collectives such as Anonymous. They are aimed more at making a splash and stoking anger and anxiety than at causing real damage.
The chamber invoked cloture, capping further debate on the bill and setting up a final vote that will likely be scheduled for later this week. Both Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer D-N.Y. and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell R-Ky. have stressed the importance of securing the aid this week, given that Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin warned that the remaining funds the U.S. has sent Ukraine will run out by Thursday.
Sen. Marco Rubio R-Fla. and a bipartisan group of nine other senators on Monday introduced a resolution urging the United States and its allies to secure the immediate release of Vladimir Kara-Murza, a Russian dissident who had denounced the Kremlins invasion of Ukraine.
We need to take that into account in our own operational and strategic calculations, that the situation in this regard for us will frankly get worse, he said on state TV.
While I deeply regret the reason we are embarking on this journey today, it is nevertheless a big day. We are finally coming home, he said.
In one key finding, public opinion has turned slightly more negative on President Bidens handling of the war, with 43 percent of Americans approving  down from 46 percent found in a Monmouths poll two months ago  and half of them disapproving his actions.
Kharkiv: Russian troops are trying to hold the border after withdrawing from areas around Ukraines second-largest city. The Institute for the Study of War, a Washington think tank, said this activity is different from previous Russian withdrawals from around Kyiv, Chernihiv, and Sumy earlier in the war when they pulled all the way back into Russian territory. In this case, they may seek to retain positions in Ukraine  and keep up the battery of artillery strikes  to prevent Ukrainian forces from getting within striking range of the Russian city of Belgorod, a key supply hub for Russias military.
He continued: Life must go on despite the fact that in some of our communities death is reigning. Life in our country must go on, and shall go on, and the students will study, Im sure.
BRUSSELS  Almost two weeks after it was announced, a proposal to phase out European Union members imports of Russian oil by the end of the year remains stalled because of opposition from Hungary.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has not worked out as planned, according to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, who argued Sunday that the war is uniting the West and could lead to NATOs expansion  the opposite of what Russian President Vladimir Putin intended.
Ukraine and Japan have signed an agreement on a $100 million loan intended to support Ukraines most vulnerable population, including those whove been displaced during the Russian invasion, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance announced Monday.
Ukrainian officials have been coordinating the complex operation with the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross, and they reached a cease-fire agreement with the Russian military, which said it would allow the fighters to be transported from the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works facility to Russian-held territory.
Their membership in NATO would increase our shared security, demonstrate that NATOs door is open, and that aggression does not pay, he said.
In a separate post, Synyehubov warned that people in Kharkiv are still in danger even though Russian shelling has been significantly reduced.
Also on Monday, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov warned of unspecified consequences if Finland and Sweden joined NATO.
Finnish President Sauli Niinisto tweeted a photo with the senators and wrote that he was grateful to have their support for his countrys admission to NATO.
Odessa: Russian airstrikes hit tourist infrastructure and buildings in the Odessa region, its military administration said Monday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin  whose Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine was cited by Helsinki and Stockholm as motivation to join NATO  said Russia has no problems with Sweden and Finland and that their accession to the defense alliance would not pose a direct threat to his country.
Psiuk and his bandmates received special permission to travel to Italy for the Eurovision Song Contest Ukraine has banned most men between the ages of 18 and 60 from leaving the country in case they are called to fight.
They should not have any illusions that we will simply put up with this, Ryabkov said.
Cornyn tweeted his support early Monday, writing that Finlands accession will have the biggest impact on Russia, serving to double the size of Russias land border with NATO and entirely encircle its three ports on the Baltic Sea.
An evacuation of at least some Ukrainian soldiers from the encircled Azovstal steel plant in Russian-controlled Mariupol appeared to be underway Monday, signaling the start of a new and perhaps final phase of one of the wars bloodiest and most high-profile battles.
I think the United States ought to be first in line to ratify the treaty for both these countries to join, he said.
Russias response will depend on what, in practical terms, will be the result of the expected accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, Ryabkov said. The Russian official offered no details, but some commentators speculated on whether NATO would install military infrastructure in Sweden or in Finland, a country that shares an 830-mile border with Russia.
The concessional loan of 13 billion yen, which is the first part of the agreed financial assistance between Ukraine and Japan, will be directed to the state budget to finance priority expenses. First of all, to support the most unprotected population of Ukraine, Marchenko said in the statement.
Rubios resolution is co-sponsored by Republicans Charles E. Grassley Iowa, Ron Johnson Wis., James E. Risch Idaho, Dan Sullivan Alaska, and Roger Wicker Miss.. Democrats Ben Cardin Md., Richard J. Durbin Ill., Robert Menendez N.J. and Jeanne Shaheen N.H. are also sponsors. The resolution also urges the U.S. government to seek the release of Alexei Navalny, another prominent Putin critic who survived an apparent assassination attempt in 2020.
Speaking from Moscow at a summit of the Collective Security Treaty Organization started by Russia and other states 30 years ago, Putin said the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO would trigger a response from Russia if it meant more NATO military infrastructure in the Nordic nations.
Renaults ties to Russia date to a $1 billion deal in 2007, and the country has since become the companys second-largest market, Bloomberg News reported. In March, de Meo warned that a Renault retreat in Russia would create a very complex situation by eating into the companys profits and sales, Reuters reported.
In a statement, NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said, Exercises like these show that NATO stands strong and ready to protect our nations and defend against any threat.
Earlier Monday, the military unit posted a statement acknowledging the move, saying that, In order to save lives, the entire Mariupol garrison is implementing the approved decision of the Supreme Military Command and hopes for the support of the Ukrainian people.
The number of Ukrainian troops to be evacuated was not immediately clear  nor was their fate.
They failed to take Kyiv. They are pulling back from around Kharkiv. Their major offensive in the Donbas has stalled, he said.
Among the justifications for his invasion of Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin cited the possibility of a NATO expansion, which he perceives as a threat toward Moscow. The war, however, has brought the alliance closer to his door.
E.U. officials and diplomats have been negotiating with Budapest and proposed that the country, with Slovakia and the Czech Republic, would be able to continue importing Russian oil until 2024.
Mariupol: An evacuation of at least some Ukrainian soldiers from an encircled steel plant in this Russian-controlled city appeared to be underway Monday. The number of Ukrainian troops to be evacuated was not immediately clear  nor was their fate. Mass graves have been discovered to the west of the shattered southern port city, officials said. Ukraines military command said late Monday that it would end combat operations in Mariupol and focus on the evacuations.
Kristersson said the decision transcends bipartisan divides, as Sweden prepares for a general election in September.
The presence of Belarusian forces near the border with Ukraine is likely to tie up Ukrainian troops so they are unable to support operations in Donbas, British defense officials said Monday.
For two centuries, Sweden has claimed military neutrality, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has prompted Sweden and neighboring Finland to rethink their nonalignment. In Sweden, there is growing public support for joining NATO to protect against any Russian aggression.
Family members and residents of the area are searching for their loved ones and erecting makeshift grave markers to attempt to lend some sanctity to the dead. Ukrainian Orthodox burial traditions typically include an open-casket funeral, in which the deceased is blessed with holy water and loved ones are invited to give a final kiss goodbye.
Kristersson chided Russian leaders for thinking that they could bully Ukraine. They thought they could scare Sweden and Finland and drive a wedge between us and our neighbors and allies, he said. They were wrong.
Earlier this month, Sweden said the United States promised security assistance during the period after the country applies for NATO membership and before its official entry.
The Association of American Universities AAU  which includes 63 schools in the United States and two in Canada  is hosting Zelensky for a talk Monday on the future of Ukrainian higher education. Zelensky said in a video address Sunday that he also plans to speak with Ukrainian university students.
Reuters journalists saw about a dozen buses leaving Azovstal on Monday, the outlet reported, but could not determine how many people were aboard.
As the devastation starts to come into focus in Mariupol, the seaside port city in southeastern Ukraine where Moscow has taken near-total control, mass graves have been discovered.
In the Kharkiv direction, the Russian enemy focused its main efforts on maintaining the occupied positions and preventing the advance of our troops to the State Border of Ukraine, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine wrote in a Facebook post Sunday. Kharkiv is Ukraines second-largest city and an early Russian target given its location near the northeastern border.
As the steady flow of Ukrainians fleeing war-torn areas for neighboring countries in Europe continues, an increasing number are making the journey home, officials say.
4:43 PM: European Union still unclear when unanimous vote on Russian oil ban could come
Soldiers from Finland and Sweden have joined the exercises taking place in May and June, including a massive drill in Estonia called Hedgehog. Leaders of the two nations, currently nonaligned militarily, are seeking membership in NATO, citing Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The president almost certainly sees this as an opportune moment to air his grievances about existing NATO members, especially with the Biden administration, which has kept the Turkish leader at arms length, Asli Aydintasbas, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in an analysis published Monday.
After all, the main deficiency of our military-political position is that, in a way, we are in full geopolitical isolation, and that, however much we would hate to admit this, virtually the entire world is against us, Mikhail Khodaryonok said, according to a video translated by the BBCs Francis Scarr. And its that situation that we need to get out of.
We hope that we will be able to save the lives of our guys, Zelensky said in a video address. Among them are the seriously wounded, they are being provided with medical aid.  To bring the boys home, the work continues, and this work needs delicacy. And time.
Even as Russia came away with an apparent victory in Mariupol, it suffered another setback on the global stage, as Sweden ended 200 years of military nonalignment to join Finland in applying for NATO membership. The Western military alliance is now considering its largest expansion in decades, and the Nordic countries neighbors have pledged protection through the accession process in the event of Russian retaliation.
McDonalds priorities include seeking to ensure the employees of McDonalds Russia continue to be paid until the close of any transaction and that employees have future employment with any potential buyer, Chris Kempczinski, McDonalds president and chief executive, said in a statement.
Whoever buys its Russian restaurants will no longer be allowed to use the McDonalds golden arches logo or brand, the company said, adding that it wants to protect its 62,000 employees in Russia.
Ukrainian Finance Minister Sergii Marchenko said that he and the president of Japans International Cooperation Agency, Akihiko Tanaka, signed the loan agreement Monday in hope of supporting the most unprotected population of Ukraine in the aftermath of the invasion.
This is another serious mistake with far-reaching consequences, Ryabkov said of Swedish and Finnish debates on joining the U.S.-led alliance and abandoning their long-held stances of military nonalignment.
Similar assurances have come from others as well: Last week, the United Kingdom signed a mutual security agreement with Sweden and Finland, vowing to defend the nations if they come under attack.
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell Ky. was joined by Sens. Susan Collins Maine, John Barrasso Wyo. and John Cornyn Texas on the surprise overseas trip. The Senate is poised to vote Monday to advance a $40 billion aid bill for Ukraine, with a final vote coming as soon as Wednesday.
We got the critically needed time to build reserves, regroup forces and get help from partners, Ukraines military command said in a Monday update.
The D.C.-based Institute for the Study of War said in an analysis Sunday evening that Russia was denaturing elite airborne units with mercenaries, calling the move shocking. The analysts said it was the clearest indication yet that Russia has exhausted its available combat-ready manpower reserves.
Eighty-one Democrats and Republicans voted in favor of advancing the measure. Eleven Republicans, including Sens. Josh Hawley Mo., Marsha Blackburn Tenn. and John Boozman Ark., voted against it.
Zelensky said Monday that Ukraine is facing great challenges to maintaining university education systems amid the ongoing war with Russia, with widespread destruction of infrastructure and displacement of countless students.
Ukrainian forces who beat back Russian forces in the area around Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, were able to reach the border with Russia, the regions governor said.
Stoltenberg said NATO members would continue to support Ukraines war effort and make important decisions as a group at an upcoming summit in Madrid, including on how to reinforce NATOs deterrence and defense to reflect the new security reality in Europe.
Americas support for Ukraine remains steadfast even in the face of economic concerns at home, said Patrick Murray, director of the independent Monmouth University Polling Institute in a statement released Monday.
In early March, McDonalds temporarily closed its restaurants in Russia in response to the countrys invasion of Ukraine.
The prime ministers of Norway, Iceland and Denmark released a joint statement praising Sweden and Finlands bid to apply for NATO membership, and pledging to assist the neighbor nations should they face any aggression before gaining membership in the Western military bloc.
Now, unfortunately, the whole E.U. is being held hostage by one member state who cannot help to find a consensus, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said at a meeting of E.U. foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday.
More than 6 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, according to the U.N. refugee agency. Poland has taken in the majority, with more than 3 million entering the country, according to a count released by the Polish border guard.
A large part of Russias invasion force crossed into Ukraine from Belarus, which borders Ukraine to its south, Poland to its west, Lithuania and Latvia to its northwest and Russia to its east. Russia has also launched air sorties and missile strikes from Belarus, the British Defense Ministry said early Monday, although Belarusian forces so far have not been directly involved in the conflict.
The Kharkiv Region Defense Forces continue to hold their ground and carry out successful counteroffensive operations, he wrote. Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reached the state border in the north of Kharkiv region. The enemy is trying to focus most of its efforts on maintaining its positions and is preparing an offensive in the area of Izyum
The thing is that the level of any armys professionalism is determined not by the number of those recruited for professional service but by the level of the personnels training, and its morale and readiness to shed blood for the homeland, he said.
More than a dozen countries, including the United States, are participating in large-scale NATO military exercises across Europe, including one that began Monday in Estonia with 15,000 troops.
They are going to come here on Monday to try and convince us? Excuse us but there is no need for them to tire themselves, Erdogan said during a news conference in Ankara, referring to an announcement that senior diplomats from the two countries were scheduled to travel to Turkey to discuss Ankaras opposition to their membership in the alliance.
The military also said Russian forces are attacking and seeking full control in Donetsk and Luhansk  two eastern regions with pro-Russian separatists  as well as the region around Kherson, the southern city that Russia captured early in its invasion.
The bands frontman was photographed Sunday kissing his girlfriend outside a Turin hotel before returning to Ukraine, where he helps run a volunteer group providing food, accommodation and medicine to people displaced by the conflict.
Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said Swedens government formally decided to apply for NATO membership following a debate in parliament.
Hultqvist will meet with Austin on Wednesday to discuss Russias aggression against Ukraine and Swedens forthcoming application for NATO membership, the Defense Ministry said in a statement.
Putin hoped a war would defeat Ukraine, weaken NATO  whose eastward expansion he views as a threat to Russias security  and divide Europe and North America, Stoltenberg said. But Ukraine stands. NATO is stronger than ever. Europe and North America are solidly united.
Bloomberg News reported that the move to sell the $2.3 billion Russian auto business amounts to a nationalization, sparked by Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Pro-Russian hackers tried  but failed  to disrupt the Eurovision Song Contest over the weekend in an effort to mar a runaway victory by the Ukrainian band Kalush Orchestra.
It was like having an oligarch state right here in Sardinia, said Mauro Pili, a journalist who was once this islands governor.
U.S. officials have downplayed Erdogans objections, saying it is not clear whether Turkey is intending to torpedo the membership bids.
Ukrainian folk-rap group Kalush Orchestra plans to put its Eurovision statuette up for auction, with the proceeds going toward a charity fund to support Ukraine and its military.
ROMAZZINO, Italy  Even among the billionaires who flock to this vacation enclave, the Russian oligarchs stood out.
Ukraines deputy defense minister, Anna Malyar, said 53 seriously wounded soldiers were taken to a hospital in the town of Novoazovsk, less than 30 miles east of Mariupol. Another 211 were transported to another Russian-backed village, she said, and Moscow and Kyiv will broker a prisoner swap to secure their release. Malyar said officials were still working to rescue the remaining soldiers, though it is unclear how many are still inside. Ukrainian authorities said last week there were nearly 1,000 holdout fighters in the plant.
Mariupol defenders are heroes of our time, the command wrote. They are forever in history.
The announcement came the same day as Russias defense ministry said it had agreed to a cease-fire and a so-called humanitarian corridor that would allow wounded fighters trapped in Azovstal Iron and Steel Works to be transported to a hospital in the Russian-held town of Novoazovsk, less than 30 miles east of Mariupol.
POLTAVKA, Ukraine  There was an air of levity on the firing range as Ukrainian Territorial Defense soldiers took their first breather from the war in weeks. One by one, they took a knee to test their rocket-propelled grenades as watching comrades cracked jokes. Others turned their faces to the sun and enjoyed a moment of calm between explosions.
According to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Canada, a disruption such as a closed-casket funeral would impoverish our faith.
Kempczinski continued: We have a commitment to our global community and must remain steadfast in our values. And our commitment to our values means that we can no longer keep the Arches shining there.
8:41 AM: Why Turkey dissents on Finland and Sweden joining NATO and why it matters
Theyll eventually pass the spending without me, as they always do, but at the very least they need to include oversight, he wrote.
6:00 PM: Ukraine, Japan sign $100 million loan agreement to help those displaced by war
Its the latest in a spate of recent hacks aimed at undermining or embarrassing geopolitical adversaries under a media spotlight.
Hedgehog will simulate an attack by Russia on Estonia, taking place some 40 miles from the nearest Russian military base.
Russia is seeking to gain control of southern and eastern Ukraine. It abandoned attempts to seize the capital, Kyiv, and other parts of the country after its efforts there stalled. Ukrainian and Western officials have said the coming weeks will be critical in staving off the Russian assault.
Life in parts of Ukraine is returning to some semblance of normalcy after Moscow withdrew from areas surrounding the capital, Kyiv, and refocused its assault on the countrys east. Kyivs mayor, Vitali Klitschko, announced over the weekend that a wartime curfew in the city would start an hour later as of Sunday, running from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m.
Then, as Skabeyeva attempted to equate Ukrainian forces desire to die to professionalism, Khodaryonok shot down the state media hosts assertion, saying its a component of an armys high combat readiness.
The Ukrainian military also reported Russian shelling in the Kharkiv area, while Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video address that Russian missiles hit the western Lviv region as well as cities in the east.
The exercises were planned well before Russias brutal and unjustified invasion of Ukraine, she said, but they help to remove any room for miscalculation or misunderstanding about our resolve to protect and defend every inch of Allied territory. NATO exercises are defensive, transparent, and in line with our international commitments.
We thank everyone who risks their lives to liberate Ukraine from Russian invaders. We still have a lot of work ahead of us, together  to victory! Glory to Ukraine! he added.
Despite the challenges facing students, faculty and other members of academia, Zelensky displayed his characteristic optimism and outlined the efforts needed to rebuild education systems once the war concludes.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen toured the World Central Kitchen facility on Monday in Warsaw, where chef and humanitarian Jos Andrs has brought together cooks to make meals for Ukrainian refugees.
French automaker Renault Group is pulling out of Russia  and selling its shares there to Russian government entities.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said the addition of Finland and Sweden to the alliance would be a turning point for security in Europe.
Josep Borrell, the E.U.s high representative for foreign policy, told reporters in Brussels that Hungary continues to hold up an unanimous vote on a proposal to ban all imports of Russian crude and refined fuels. Hungarian Foreign Minister Pter Szijjrt said last week that the country would only vote on such a proposal if the E.U. develops solutions for the issues the Russian oil ban would cause for the Hungarian economy.
Psiuk has said the song Stefania was written for his mother before the war, but the band posted a music video on Sunday that features scenes of destruction filmed near Kyiv, repurposing it into a sort of tribute to Ukrainian forces. It is the latest example of Ukraines use of cultural diplomacy during the conflict with Russia.
The main thing is to understand whether all the risks have been calculated, whether plan B has been worked out, whether you have given yourself completely to this plan, which must combine the fulfillment of the task and the maximum preservation of life and health of personnel, the commander, Denys Prokopenko, said in a video that accompanied his units statement.
Russian forces have also recently bombarded western Ukraine, including with long-range missile strikes that appeared to target the Yavoriv military training center near the Polish border, the official said. That strike damaged a few buildings, but the official was not aware of any casualties.
First of all, we would not say yes to those who impose sanctions on Turkey to join NATO, which is a security organization, Erdogan said. Erdogans government has accused the two countries of harboring terrorist groups, including members of the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, which has fought a long separatist insurgency against Turkey.
The Treasury Department announced last week that Yellen would be stopping in Warsaw on her way to a Group of Seven finance ministers meeting in Germany this week.
Donbas: Despite a mostly stalled offensive in the eastern Donbas region, Russian forces have made modest gains amid heavy fighting in the Donetsk oblast, the Pentagon said Monday.
Fighting remains fluid in many areas in the east as Ukrainian and Russian forces capture and recapture territory. But Russia has been stymied in other areas, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters, speaking on the condition of anonymity under ground rules set by the Pentagon.
Speaking alongside Swedens prime minister, opposition party leader Ulf Kristersson called it a big day as the government announced its decision to apply for NATO membership.
A retired Russian colonel told state media on Monday that the invasion of Ukraine is not going the way Russia is portraying it, and that the global isolation facing the country is more daunting than Russian leaders are letting on.
The humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, and the precipitating unpredictable operating environment, have led McDonalds to conclude that continued ownership of the business in Russia is no longer tenable, nor is it consistent with McDonalds values, the company said Monday in a statement.
ISTANBUL  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Monday that diplomats from Sweden and Finland intending to visit Turkey soon should not come, since Ankara did not intend to approve their bids for NATO membership.
We have taken a difficult but necessary decision and we are making a responsible choice towards our 45,000 employees in Russia, while preserving the Groups performance and our ability to return to the country in the future, in a different context, Renault Group CEO Luca de Meo said in the news release.
Britains Defense Ministry said Lukashenko is likely balancing support for Russias invasion with a desire to avoid direct military participation with the risk of Western sanctions, Ukrainian retaliation and possible dissatisfaction in the Belarusian military.
The Republican U.S. senators who met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky over the weekend also visited Helsinki as Finland take steps toward membership in NATO over fears of Russian aggression.
One potential Russian breakout outside Donetsk may be designed to reach troops farther west that have failed to make appreciable gains, the official said.
Ahead of her visit, Treasury said in a statement that while visiting Warsaw, Yellen would discuss the wars impact on Polands economy, particularly on inflation, fiscal policy, and supply chains. It added that she will also express her gratitude for the generosity Poland has shown in welcoming refugees, address the rising threat of food insecurity, and discuss the agreement on new international tax rules, including a global minimum tax that will raise crucial revenues that will benefit the citizens of both countries.
The Senate voted 81-to-11 on Monday evening to advance a bill that would secure nearly $40 billion in additional military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine.
The bands victory over the weekend, which gives Ukraine the right to host the hugely popular spectacle in 2023, was secured by audience votes and cheered by world leaders, in a sign of the strong public support for Ukraine as the war with Russia approaches the three-month mark.
Still, the accession is not guaranteed. All NATO countries must agree on new members, and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has criticized Finland and Sweden over what he describes as their inappropriate harboring of terrorists  a reference mainly to the Kurdistan Workers Party, a militant organization known as the PKK, and other groups deemed so by Ankara.
In the southern port city of Mariupol, Zelensky said, Ukrainians continue very complicated and delicate negotiations to save our people. Civilians were recently evacuated from a steel plant where Ukrainian soldiers remain isolated and under assault, officials say. The Ukrainian military on Sunday described massive artillery and airstrikes at the plant.
Stoltenberg was speaking remotely at a news conference with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock. His comments followed a meeting of NATO foreign ministers to discuss the steps Finland and Sweden have taken in recent days toward applying for membership in the defense alliance.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was expected to address his country on Monday evening to deliver an update on the situation at the steel plant.
Oleh Synyehubov, the governor of Kharkiv, shared a video in a Telegram post of what he said were Ukrainian soldiers at the border. We are proud of the soldiers of the 227th Battalion of the 127th Brigade of the Territorial Defense Forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who restored the border sign on the state border! he wrote.
He also helped persuade the United States, Canada and the European Union to adopt the Magnitsky Act, important sanctions laws that target human rights abusers in Russia and elsewhere.
Finland on Monday is expected to submit a report to Parliament regarding its accession to NATO, while Swedens parliament and cabinet are also set to convene to discuss its desire to join the alliance.
The comments from Renaults CEO came days after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky criticized the company by name in a speech before the French Parliament, according to the Hill newspaper. Renault, Auchan, Leroy Merlin and others. They must cease to be sponsors of Russias military machine, sponsors of the killing of children and women, sponsors of rape, robbery and looting by the Russian army, Zelensky said.
You guys dont have long before you get back out there, a commander reminded the group. Rest while you can.
A commander of the Ukrainian battalion, the Azov Regiment, said, without elaborating, that there are no completely safe plans or operations in the war.
As Sweden prepares to join NATO, the countrys defense minister, Peter Hultqvist, is traveling to the United States this week to meet with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and members of Congress.
In the past 24 hours, nearly 46,000 people crossed into Ukraine over its western border, including more than 42,000 Ukrainian nationals, the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine said in a Facebook post. That is more than the 37,000 who departed during the same period for Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Moldova.
It noted that newly formed and regrouped units were unlikely to be effective in combat, and that even the first Russian units deployed to Ukraine struggled with incompetence, lack of training and low morale in the early weeks of the war.
Ukrainian troops have forced a Russian withdrawal in the northeastern city of Kharkiv and advanced as far as the Russian border, the local governor said Monday. In many areas in the east the situation is fluid, with Ukrainian and Russian forces capturing and recapturing territory.
In a statement, Norwegian Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Store called it a watershed moment for Nordic cooperation and said they will do our utmost to ensure a swift accession process.
3:12 PM: Erdogan says diplomats from Sweden, Finland should not come to Turkey for NATO talks
After the end of this war, it is of vital importance for us, for the students, for the researchers to come back, he said, referring to the internally displaced and those who were forced to flee the country. We cant lose the power of youth, the power and energy of young people, without which we can have no future and we cannot create anything.
Last month, Russia bombed a building across the street from a World Central Kitchen facility in Ukraine, injuring four of its staff members.
Ukraine has launched a delicate, multilateral effort to evacuate its last remaining soldiers from the ruined Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, President Volodymyr Zelensky announced late Monday, saying that Ukraine needs Ukrainian heroes alive.
Moscows forces are trying to stave off Ukrainian troops advance toward the Russian border and continuing attacks elsewhere in the east, Ukrainian military officials said Sunday.
It is unlikely that Erdogan had one specific policy goal in mind, but he will no doubt be expecting to be cajoled, persuaded, and eventually rewarded for his cooperation, as in the past, she wrote.
Kara-Murza, a Washington Post contributor and critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was detained by Russian authorities last month after condemning the invasionduring an interview with CNN. He has previously survived at least two poisonings that he said were orchestrated by Moscow.
One of the wars bloodiest and most high-profile battles entered its final phase on Monday, as Ukraines military command announced the end of combat operations in Mariupol and began working to evacuate the soldiers who held off Russian forces for weeks at a sprawling steel plant.
Renault announced Monday it will sell all of its shares in Renault Russia to the Moscow city government  and its nearly 68 percent stake in Russian automaker AvtoVAZ, which produces the Lada car, to a Russian federal agency, according to a news release.
They bought up the choicest villas along the coast, building de facto empires shielded behind clipped hedges and surveillance cameras. They were known among real estate agents for always wanting armed guards. One mining and metals tycoon, Alisher Usmanov, would announce his presence every summer with the arrival of one of the worlds largest yachts, which he would park in the turquoise bay, shuttling between the vessel and his villas, flying in guests on helicopters.
But the expansion of military infrastructure into this territory will certainly provoke our response, he said.
1:30 PM: It is vital for students, researchers to return to Ukraine after war, Zelensky says
It was not even in the agenda to try to get an agreement today, because we knew it was not possible, Borrell said. But we had a very constructive discussion about the reasons why some member states are reluctant  not only about oil ban but other elements of the sanctions package.
During the AAU meeting, presidents and provosts discussed how their institutions could offer aid to displaced Ukrainian students and researchers, as well as to rebuild the higher education system after the war is over.
Ukrainian officials estimate that 20,000 people have been killed in Mariupol since the start of the Russian invasion. As many as 9,000 corpses were buried in a mass grave west of the city, Ukrainian officials say. The Washington Post could not independently verify the claims.
McConnell affirmed his support, telling reporters that Finland and Sweden will be important additions to NATO, if they choose to join.
Belaruss military said last week it will deploy special operations troops near its southern border with Ukraine, after earlier launching large-scale drills to test the readiness of its armed forces to respond quickly to possible crises and counter threats from the air and ground.
A Monmouth University poll released Monday found that a majority of Americans of different political affiliations and backgrounds continue to support sanctions on Russia, including a ban on Russian oil imports, as a response to its invasion of Ukraine.
Russian forces have made modest gains west of Donetsk in recent heavy fighting, in a potential gambit to link up with stalled troops in the Donbas region, the Pentagon said Monday.
Yellen has advocated for aid to Ukraine, telling members of Congress at a hearing last month that the United States and the other G-7 nations stand united in recognizing weve got to find ways to meet Ukraines needs.
The Ukrainian military unit whose fighters were the last holdouts in the southeastern port city posted a statement on Telegram saying that, In order to save lives, the entire Mariupol garrison is implementing the approved decision of the Supreme Military Command and hopes for the support of the Ukrainian people.
Ari Chasnoff, a spokesman for Stanfords Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, confirmed in an email that Zelensky is set to address the Stanford community by video on May 27.
I urge him to drop his opposition so we can reach an agreement to get this package passed through the Senate as soon as we can, Schumer said.
Russian officials on Monday sought to play down, but also threatened consequences for, Finland and Swedens moves toward NATO membership.
As state media host Olga Skabeyeva pushed back on Khodaryonok and said that the Ukrainian forces are not such a great contingent, the retired colonel replied that the will of Ukraine mattered more than whether they are professional soldiers.
Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko has called the civilian deaths the biggest war crime of the 21st century.
The restoration of a border sign, which could not be independently confirmed by The Washington Post, would signal the gains that Ukraine has made in the area. Kharkiv, the regional capital, is about 25 miles from the Russian border.
Finlands eastern border runs against Russia, and Sweden is sandwiched between Finland and NATO-member Norway, whose northernmost point touches Russia.
About 2 in 3 Americans 66 percent are in favor of sending U.S. troops to bolster the security of European allies to deter Russia from invading those countries.
That the security of Sweden, like Finland, for that matter, will not be strengthened as a result of this decision is quite obvious to us, Ryabkov said at a news conference. He argued that the general level of military tension will increase, and there will be less predictability in this area.
Should the two countries formally seek acceptance into the group, as both have indicated they will, it would mark an abandonment of years of combat neutrality, spurred by Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Russia has probably run out of reservists to make up for heavy losses in Ukraine, leading it to use private military companies and proxy militias instead, in a sign of how severely Moscow is struggling to keep up its fight, according to military analysts.
Despite wide bipartisan support for the sanctions imposed by the Biden administration, his approval greatly differs by party, with only 12 percent of Republicans giving a positive rating for his handling of the situation compared with 78 percent of Democrats.
Although 77 percent support the sanctions, only 21 percent believe they are having a major impact on Russia, the poll found.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky praised the troops as heroes and said, We hope that we will be able to save the lives of our guys. A top Ukrainian defense official said more than 260 soldiers have been transported to Russian-controlled territory, including 53 who were seriously wounded and taken to a hospital. Moscow and Kyiv will broker a prisoner swap to secure their release, the official said, and efforts are underway to rescue the troops who remain trapped in the plant.
While most of the fighting is now contained in Ukraines south and east, Russian forces continue to mount sporadic attacks away from the front. On Sunday, a Russian airstrike hit a military facility in the western city of Lviv, regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy said in a message on Telegram. No deaths or injuries were immediately reported from the attack, he said.
Almost three months into Russias invasion of Ukraine, Moscows forces are stalled in eastern regions that President Vladimir Putin promised to liberate. In Donbas, which Russia no longer recognizes as part of Ukraine, Moscows gains have been limited. To the west near Kharkiv, it has lost territory. Here in the southeastern region of Zaporizhzhia, the front lines have almost completely frozen.
Belarusians who oppose Lukashenkos 28-year rule have joined the battle against Russian troops in Ukraine, The Washington Post previously reported.
While Paul could further delay advancing the bill this week, he will not be able to block final passage of the legislation, as he made clear in a tweet Friday.
The loan, which the ministry said was for 30 years and included a grace period of 10 years, is aimed to provide budgetary support for the stabilization of the situation in Ukraine, in particular, the provision of priority social, and humanitarian expenditures, health care, support for internally displaced persons, and other priority expenditures, according to a statement.
Russias Ministry of Industry and Trade also announced that the Russian assets of the Renault Group would become state property.
Renault has the option to buy back the AvtoVAZ shares at certain times during the next six years, according to its release.
Khodaryonok referenced how the U.S. Congress is poised to approve nearly $40 billion in additional military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, and what that could look like for Russia if Ukraine potentially employs a force of a million armed Ukrainian soldiers.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he will address leading American universities Monday and speak to Stanford University this month.
Finlands and Swedens security is important to our security, Store said. Together with Denmark and Iceland, Norway stands ready to assist its Nordic neighbours by all means necessary should they be the victim of aggression on their territory before obtaining NATO membership.
Russias war in Ukraine is not going as Moscow had planned, the NATO chief said.
Many people are already donating from abroad, and perhaps many more would like to donate. And this, in our opinion, will be the thing that motivates them, frontman Oleh Psiuk said during a Zoom call with local media after the win.
The poll, conducted by phone from May 5-9 with 807 adults interviewed across the United States by the Monmouth University Polling Institute, found that large majorities are also in favor of supplying arms to Ukraine: 77 percent support sending weapons to Ukraine, with support higher among Democrats 88 percent than among Republicans 77 percent or independents 70 percent.
President Biden had expected the measure to land on his desk last week, but the Senates move to quickly advance the bill was delayed by Sen. Rand Paul R-Ky., who demanded that a provision be added establishing an inspector general to oversee the disbursement of the funds. While Schumer and McConnell told Paul he could have a vote on the addition, Paul wanted the amendment added to the bill, which means the measure would have gone back to the House, further delaying the process.
When asked about the current state of the war, Khodaryonok, who has given frank assessments of the war on Russian airwaves in recent days, urged viewers to be cautious about any information put out by Russia on how Ukrainian forces are allegedly on the verge of some kind of crisis in morale and so on.
The oil embargo is one of the measures in the E.U.s sixth sanctions package against Russia since it invaded Ukraine. It needs the approval of all 27 members of the bloc.
Its not easy to maintain education in our state now. First we had a pandemic, and then the invasion, he said during a virtual meeting with leaders and members of the Association of American Universities AAU.
Finnish and Swedish officials have declared in recent days their intention to join NATO, citing Russias invasion of Ukraine. But their acceptance to the alliance requires unanimous consent among members, and the leader of one such state  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey  has voiced hesitation about the two nations.
On the Senate floor Monday, Schumer alluded to the Paul impasse, accusing him of needlessly delaying the help for the people of Ukraine.
The battle for Mariupol has been one of the wars bloodiest and most high-profile. Russia laid waste to the strategically important southeastern port city, which had a fast-growing preinvasion population of about 450,000. Early on, Moscows forces surrounded Mariupol, cut it off from water and electricity and bombed it ceaselessly, reducing much of the city to rubble.
The prime minister and I, we disagree on many important things, and we both plan to win the upcoming general election. But on this topic, we stand absolutely united, he said. NATO is above party politics. We are here together today because we want fellow Swedes, NATO member states and the world to know that we will lead this process together and do whats in the best interest of our nation  and that is, to defend the security and freedom of our people, as a democracy, together with other democracies.
Losing Mariupol is a significant setback for Ukraine, but its military leaders said troops there kept the Russians at bay long enough to buy crucial time for Ukrainian forces fighting elsewhere.
Borrell, who told Politico he was unsure how long it would take for the E.U. to deliver a unanimous vote on the sixth sanctions package against Russia, said at a news conference that the bloc was still facing the same difficulties about unanimity on the oil ban.
After more than three decades, McDonalds is pulling out of Russia and seeking a local buyer for its business there, which includes 850 restaurants in the country.
The main thing in our military business, its always to maintain a sense of military-political realism, he said. If you go beyond it, then sooner or later the reality of history will hit you so hard that youll regret it.
Members of the European Union were unable to unanimously agree on banning Russian oil on Monday, with the blocs foreign policy chief saying unhappily that it was not possible just yet to get an unanimous vote.
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, allowed Russian troops to assemble and conduct military drills in the Eastern European country in the run-up to Moscows invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Ankaras objections have set it apart from NATO allies that have welcomed the bids by Finland and Sweden, and raised questions about whether the Turkish leaders resistance is simply an effort to gain leverage as his government negotiates its relationship with western partners.
