RussiaUkraine war live updates Putin threatens new targets if Ukraine gets advanced rockets missiles hit Kyiv
20220605
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-ukraine-scolds-macron-kyivs-forces-say-they-have-regained-ground-in-east/ar-AAY5Yjb
The resistance from Ukrainian forces is likely blunting the operational momentum that the Russians previously achieved in the city, the British Defense Ministry said in its latest update.
The monastery is part of the Svyatogorsk Lavra, a sacred site along the Siversky Donets river. In March, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church said a bomb fell near a bridge and blasted the facility, breaking windows. Church leaders said more than 500 people were seeking refuge there at the time of the attack.
On Saturday, Haidai said in a television interview that Ukrainian forces now control about half of the city. Russias military had captured up to 70 percent of it last week.
A Russian cruise missile passed critically low over a Ukrainian nuclear plant early Sunday, according to Energoatom, the Ukrainian nuclear power operator.
The British Defense Ministry said Ukrainian operations there have blunted the momentum Russian forces had gained by concentrating combat units and firepower.
Ukrainian leaders said in a statement on Twitter that Russia bombed the All Saints Monastery, which is affiliated with Patriarch Kirill, head of the Russian Orthodox Church. Videos posted on social media showed flames engulfing the ornate building, which drew tourists and pilgrims before the war. The Ukrainian Orthodox Church said it had no information on whether Saturdays attack caused deaths or injuries.
Severodonetsk: Ukrainian forces are regaining land and now control about half of this city, according to the governor of the Luhansk region, Serhiy Haidai. Russian forces had captured about 70 percent last week. Fighting has escalated in the citys streets over the past three days under a constant barrage of artillery attacks, said the head of the citys military administration, Oleksandr Stryuk.
Pope Francis said he hopes to visit Ukraine but is waiting for the right time to do it.
Analysts from the Institute for the Study of War said Ukraine appears to be having some success slowing Russias advance, and its defenses remain strong, but its troops are likely more degraded than Haidais statements imply.
Francis added that he will meet this week with Ukrainian officials to discuss a potential visit.
The use of proxy infantry forces in urban areas is a Russian tactic previously seen in Syria, the ministry said. This approach likely indicates a desire to limit casualties suffered by regular Russian forces, it added.
The monastery is part of the Svyatogorsk Lavra, a sacred site along the Siversky Donets river. In March, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church said a bomb fell near a bridge and blasted the facility, breaking windows. Church leaders said more than 500 people were seeking refuge there at the time of the attack. UNESCO has included the Svyatogorsk Lavra on a list of cultural sites damaged during the war.
The situation is tense, but there is hope and we are sure that everything will work out, he said.
Russias Defense Ministry denied that its forces were involved in the attack. Instead, it accused Ukrainian troops of firing at the monastery and sparking the blaze.
The Russians still do not understand that even the smallest fragment of a missile that could hit a working power unit could cause a nuclear catastrophe and radiation leak, Energoatom said.
Few details were given. A military statement said two of the incoming rockets were destroyed and urged residents not to ignore air raid warnings.
The Baltic Operations exercise involves more than 40 warships and has been held annually for decades, but will shift this year to include more involvement from Finland and Sweden, said Army Gen. Mark A. Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He visited Stockholm on Saturday in a show of support for Swedens membership bid, one day after a similar stop in Finland.
We will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, which we have enough of, to strike those objects that we have not yet struck, Putin said in an interview broadcast Sunday on the state-owned Russia-1 television channel.
It said the projectile, which it described as similar to the Kalibr missile, flew over the plant in southern Ukraine at 5:30 a.m. and had probably been fired toward Kyiv, where two districts were hit by missile strikes Sunday morning. The nuclear power plant is located near Yuzhnoukrainsk in Mykolaiv province, about 220 miles south of the capital.
Photos of the trip show Brink walking in front of a destroyed building, devastation that she said strengthens my resolve to do everything we can to hold the perpetrators of these awful crimes to account, she wrote on Twitter.
Russian forces committed in this area include personnel mobilised from the reserve of Russian-led separatist forces of the self-declared Luhansk Peoples Republic, the ministry said in a post on social media. These troops are poorly equipped and trained and lack heavy equipment in comparison to regular Russian units.
The fuss around additional deliveries of weapons has only one goal  to drag out the armed conflict as far as possible, Putin said.
Elsewhere in Luhansk: Haidai countered a Friday assessment by Britains Defense Ministry that Russian forces would probably control all of the heavily contested Luhansk region in the next two weeks. He said Ukraines troops have enough reinforcements to defend their positions and launch more attacks. ISW analysts said Ukraines forces are probably more degraded than his remarks imply, but defenses remain strong. They noted that Moscows military has concentrated all of its available resources on this single battle to make only modest gains.
Kyivs regional military administration said that "an enemy missile was shot down over Obukhiv district by the air defense forces and there are no victims, according to preliminary information.
Russias Defense Ministry, meanwhile, said in a Telegram post that Ukrainian forces are suffering critical losses in the fight for Severodonetsk and are retreating. Neither sides claims could be independently verified. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said recently that Ukraine is losing up to 100 soldiers daily in the conflict.
Since Angela Merkel stepped down as German chancellor in December, Macron has presented himself as Europes de facto representative on the world stage.
During an event for children Saturday in a Vatican courtyard, a Ukrainian child refugee named Sachar asked the pontiff whether he could come to Ukraine to save all the children who are suffering there now, according to the Vatican.
But Putin appeared to play down the impact of such deliveries, saying the United States supply of such systems to Ukraine essentially does not change anything. Kyiv had missiles of this range before, and the planned deliveries make up for losses, Putin maintained.
Ukrainian forces appear to be slowing Moscows efforts to surround their troops in the eastern Luhansk region, including in Severodonetsk, through prudent and effective local counterattacks in the city and their defense of the western Siversky Donets riverbank, according to the Institute for the Study of War ISW.
The war has raised tensions between the Ukrainian and the Russian Orthodox churches Christianity is the dominant faith in both nations. Kirill has been a supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin and the invasion. Religious and secular leaders in Ukraine and other countries have called on Kirill to take a stance against the war. In May, Pope Francis warned him not to be Putins altar boy.
In his nightly address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused the Russian army of systematically destroying Ukraines cultural and historical heritage, as well as social infrastructure, housing, and everything necessary for normal life.
U.S.-delivered M777 howitzers currently in use in Ukraine have a range of about 18 miles. The version of the Multiple Launch Rocket System that the United States has decided to send, the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS, would extend that range to about 43 miles.
Russias Defense Ministry denied that its forces were involved in the attack. It accused Ukrainian troops of firing at the monastery and igniting the blaze. Zelensky late Saturday called on Russian church leaders to issue a clear condemnation of each of those who condone aggression.
Two districts in Kyiv were hit by missile strikes Sunday morning, leaving one person hospitalized, the capital citys mayor said.
Ukraine had not had a U.S. ambassador since 2019, when President Donald Trump removed Marie Yovanovitch from the position, a move scrutinized during his first impeachment inquiry.
Francis responded to Sachar that I think a lot about children in Ukraine. The pope said that he would like to go to Ukraine. But, I have to wait for the right time to do it, because it is not easy to make a decision that could do more harm to the whole world than good. I have to look for the right time to do it.
It is Russia that humiliates itself, Kuleba said on Twitter. We all better focus on how to put Russia in its place. This will bring peace and save lives.
Ukraines mission to the U.N. office in Vienna wrote, Would Patriarch Kiril finally call president putin 2 end the war or would he continue blessing russias army?
He has called for an end to the fighting but has received criticism over his refusal to condemn Russian President Vladimir Putin by name for launching the invasion.
But Ukrainian forces are pushing back, he said early Sunday. In the past 24 hours, five enemy attacks have been repulsed, and three tanks, four artillery systems, 11 armored combat vehicles and 26 vehicles have been destroyed, he said, adding that a combat helicopter and two drones were shot down.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday evening called on Russian church leaders to make a clear condemnation of each of those who condone aggression.
Kyiv has largely been spared from strikes in recent weeks as Russia focuses its military might on Ukraines east as it tries to capture the Donbas region. Russian forces pulled out of Kyiv in the early weeks of the war after failing to capture the capital.
Mykolaiv, a city of about 500,000 people, was a key front line at the start of the war. The Ukrainian military there blocked Russian forces from advancing west toward the Black Sea port of Odessa.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a television interview broadcast Sunday that if Ukraine gets advanced rocket systems from Western countries, Moscow will hit targets we have not yet struck. Ukraine has lobbied hard for such weapons and President Biden last week confirmed the U.S. would provide systems that can pinpoint an enemy target nearly 50 miles away.
A towering wooden monastery that is part of a revered centuries-old Ukrainian Orthodox Church site caught fire and sustained heavy damage, officials said Saturday.
With the support of artillery, the Russian army continues storming operations in Severodonetsk, said Serhiy Haidai, governor of the Luhansk region. It controls the eastern part of the city.
STOCKHOLM  The United States prepared Saturday to launch a sprawling naval exercise in the Baltic Sea with Sweden, Finland and 13 NATO allies, a visible sign of an expanding partnership as Stockholm and Helsinki apply to join the military alliance following Russias invasion of Ukraine.
An intense street-by-street fight continues for territory in the key eastern city of Severodonetsk and surrounding areas, where Kyivs forces said they have regained ground. While Moscow says Ukraine is suffering critical losses and retreating, the Ukrainian counterattacks are likely blunting the operational momentum Russian forces previously gained, according to the latest assessment from Britains Defense Ministry. Severodonetsk is one of the last cities standing in the way of Russian control of the entire Luhansk region.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said that if Western countries supply Ukraine with advanced rocket systems, Russia will target new areas in the conflict.
Explosions rocked Kyiv as two districts were hit by missile strikes Sunday morning, leaving one person hospitalized, its mayor said. Ukraines capital has largely been spared from strikes in recent weeks as Russia focuses its military might on Ukraines east in an effort to capture the Donbas region.
An official with the Mykolaiv regional council said on Telegram that the district of Bashtanka was among areas targeted, along with the cities of Ochakiv and Mykolaiv. Residential buildings in Mykolaiv were hit, causing deaths and injuries, the official added. The reports could not be independently verified.
He also said Russian antiaircraft forces have destroyed dozens of Ukrainian weapons, without specifying which kind. Our antiaircraft systems are crunching them like nuts, he said.
The two countries have long partnered with the U.S. military but resisted applying to join NATO until last month out of concerns that it would anger Moscow. Following Russias invasion of Ukraine, however, that changed with significant shifts in public opinion in favor of joining the military alliance in both countries.
The new U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, Bridget Brink, on Saturday visited Borodyanka, a community northwest of Kyiv hit hard by Russian forces at the start of the war.
Macron said in an interview published Saturday with French newspapers that we must not humiliate Russia, so that the day when the fighting stops, we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic channels.
The conflict has raised tensions between the Ukrainian and the Russian Orthodox churches. Christianity is the dominant faith in both nations. Kirill is a supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin and the invasion. Religious and secular leaders in Ukraine and other countries have called on Kirill to take a stance against the war. In May, Pope Francis warned him not to be Putins altar boy.
Fighting has escalated over the past three days, Oleksandr Stryuk, the head of the citys military administration, said Saturday in an interview in Ukrainian media. About half of the residential areas have been taken over by invading forces, Stryuk said, but he offered an optimistic assessment.
The statement was in response to a question about whether the desires of countries such as Sweden and Finland to join NATO risked escalating tensions.
UNESCO has included the Svyatogorsk Lavra on a list of cultural sites damaged during the war.
Kyiv region: Two districts in Kyiv were hit by missile strikes Sunday morning, leaving one person hospitalized, the capital citys mayor said. Ukrainian investigators have exhumed more than 1,300 bodies of civilians as part of the nations investigation of potential war crimes. The identities of more than 200 people found dead have not yet been determined, the Internal Affairs Ministry said in an update on Saturday.
Ukraine has said new rocket systems from Western allies are essential to repelling Russian advances in the eastern part of the country. Last week, U.S. officials said the Biden administration was preparing to send advanced medium-range Multiple Launch Rocket Systems to Ukraine, which would fulfill a top request from Ukrainian officials.
Kyiv and Moscow traded barbs on Saturday over a fire that engulfed a towering wooden monastery that is part of a revered centuries-old Ukrainian Orthodox Church site in eastern Ukraine, with each side accusing the other of sparking the blaze.
He also downplayed an earlier assessment by British defense officials that the entire Luhansk region could fall into Russian hands in the next two weeks, saying Ukrainian troops have enough reinforcements to defend their positions and launch more attacks. Severodonetsk is one of the last cities standing in the way of Russia controlling the region.
Mayor Vitali Klitschko said on Telegram that several explosions had struck the adjacent Dniprovskyi and Darnytskyi districts, in the citys east and southeast, respectively, and east of the Dnipro River.
Ukraine and Russia are locked in an intense street-by-street fight for territory in the strategic city of Severodonetsk and surrounding areas, with Ukraines forces saying they have clawed back ground under a barrage of artillery attacks in recent days.
Macron said in the interview that he has had countless conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin since December. He also said he told Putin that the Russian president had made a historic and fundamental mistake for his people, for himself and for history. Nevertheless, Russia remains a great people.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba criticized a comment by French President Emmanuel Macron that the West should not humiliate Russia, saying Saturday that such a statement can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it.
Russian is deploying poorly equipped separatist fighters in its battle for the contested eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk as it seeks to limit casualties among regular troops, Britains Defense Ministry said in an intelligence update Sunday.
Kherson region: Russian forces are also facing strong resistance in this southern region, Ukraines military said in an update on Saturday. Moscow occupied the city of Kherson in the early days of the war and has apparently started issuing Russian passports in the city and in Melitopol to the east.
The United States reopened its embassy in Kyiv in May, nearly three months after shuttering the office when Russias invasion started in February. Brink was confirmed as ambassador around the same time as operations resumed in Ukraines capital.
The Chernobyl plant, the site of a major nuclear disaster in 1986, was occupied by Russian troops for about a month after the February invasion, leading to international concerns about a possible radiation leak.
Macron said he was convinced that it is Frances role to be a mediating power.
Ukrainian forces have regained ground in Severodonetsk and now control about half of the city, said Serhiy Haidai, governor of the Luhansk region.
Washington Post reporters visited Borodyanka in April and witnessed scenes of devastation. The city is one of several where war crimes investigations are underway.
