Russian warship Admiral Makarov on fire after being hit by Ukrainian missile
20220406
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russian-warship-admiral-makarov-on-fire-after-being-hit-by-ukrainian-missile/ar-AAWYPwZ
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
Russia last month lost its Black Sea flagship Moskva in a Ukrainian cruise missile attack. On Thursday, a US official said Washington helped Ukraine to locate the warship.
The frigate would be Russias latest high-profile naval loss in a troubled campaign, coming after reports that US intelligence helped Ukraine locate and sink the Russian warship Moskva weeks ago.
Russia has blockaded Ukrainian ports on the seas coast to stop exports throughout the war.
Admiral Makarov is a modern frigate loaded with guided missiles, according to the World Directory of Modern Warships. If lost, Russias frigate fleet will be down to 10.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Since Moscow launched what it calls a special military operation in late February, Ukraine has been forced to export grain by train over is western border or from its small Danube river ports rather than by sea.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Anton Gerashchenko reported on his Telegram page that the Admiral Makarov was hit by a Ukrainian Neptune anti-ship missile. He cited Russian sources.
Though Russia was unable to replace Moskva as the Bosphorus strait was closed to military ships, the Black Sea fleet retained the ability to strike Ukrainian targets, the MoD said.
The UN said on Friday that nearly 25 million tonnes of grain were stuck in Ukraine due to the war, driving global food prices to a record high last month.
Russias Admiral Makarov warship has been hit by Ukrainian missiles and burst into flames, according to Ukrainian officials.
Dumskaya, a Ukrainian-state news website, said Russian forces had sent helicopters to rescue the crew of the ship, said to be 180-strong.
The Makarov was said to have been sailing close to Snake Island in the Black Sea south of Odesa.
Britains Ministry of Defence MoD said there were around 20 Russian navy vessels in the Black Sea after the sinking of Moskva.
It was unclear what effect the sinking of Admiral Makarov would have on Russian operations in the Black Sea.
