Russian missiles strike aircraft repair plant in Lviv but no casualties says city mayor Andriy Sadovy
20220318
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russian-missiles-strike-aircraft-repair-plant-in-lviv-but-no-casualties-says-city-mayor-andriy-sadovy/ar-AAVdSSF
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
The Ukrainian government is hoping to evacuate civilians through nine humanitarian corridors from cities and towns on the front line of fighting on Friday, deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
Lviv, located about 43 miles from the Polish border in the west, had been largely spread from the incessant shelling by the Russian troops since Vladimir Putin declared war on 24 February. The citys population, meanwhile, has swelled by nearly 200,000 as people from the eastern part of the country have sought shelter there.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
According to Ukraines military, the plant was struck by cruise missiles launched from the direction of the Black Sea. It added that the type of missile was likely Kh-555, which are launched from heavy strategic bombers.
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
In the besieged southern city of Mariupol, rescue workers searched for survivors in the ruins of a drama theatre that served as a shelter when it was blown apart by a Russian airstrike.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
The mayor added that several missiles struck the aircraft maintenance facility, destroying buildings but there were no casualties reported.
Explosions were also heard and smokes were seen in the Podil area of the capital Kyiv, according to Reuters. One person was killed when parts of a Russian missile hit a residential building. Mayor Vitaliy Klitschko said 19 people were injured including four children.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky said he was thankful to US president Joe Biden for additional military aid, but he would not get into specifics about the new package.
At least three blasts were heard near the airport during the early hours of the day. A cloud of thick grey smoke was seen billowing across the citys sky near the airport around 7.30 am local time.
Russian missiles struck an aircraft repair plant in Ukraine's western city of Lviv near the civilian airport on Friday, mayor Andriy Sadovyi said.
