Russian State Media Declares War On Arnold Schwarzenegger After He Issues Message To Putins People
20220322
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-state-media-declares-war-on-arnold-schwarzenegger-after-he-issues-message-to-putins-people/ar-AAVnqh6
Schwarzenegger put out a powerful video message to the Russian people last week that was moving for many.
Crucial words of wisdom from Arnold Schwarzenegger! The whole world needs to hear this, and Russia... I hope you're listening. SpreadTheTruth https:t.codgL8GazYvy
RELATED:11-Year-Old Ukrainian Boy Travels 600 Miles To Slovakia Alone With Relatives Phone Number Written On His Hand
Many are speculating that one of the reasons why the Kremlin took so long to respond is because they did not want to respond at all, as doing so might just bring more attention to it.
Many are praising Russians who are protesting against the war in spite of threats of imprisonment and fines. Some, like Arnold Schwarzenegger, are sending messages to the Russian people to try and tell them the truth of the conflict in Ukraine and to inspire them to action.
While there is a deluge of support for the Ukrainian people whose lives and homes are being destroyed by the Russian invaders, the Russian population is also the topic of discussion in regards to the war.
Schwartzeneggers message may have been as powerful as it was, partly because it is resistant to the Kremlins usual claims of Russophobia when addressing criticisms of Russia and the invasion Schwartzenegger expressed great affection for the Russian people and named Vlasov as one of his idols.
If this theory is true, then that would suggest that Schwartzeneggers message was so powerful that the Kremlin was forced to address it.
Attempts at witty retorts toward Schwartzeneggers message have come from a variety of sources, from Russian state officials to pro-invasion celebrities.
If you want to help the people of Ukraine, pleasedonate to United Help Ukrainewho are providing donations, food and medical supplies to displaced Ukrainians.
After trying to ignore Schwartzeneggers message for almost a week, it seems like the proliferation of the video has become too much for the Kremlin to disregard.
Schwartzeneggers message reportedly went viral on Telegram, a social media platform used by Russians, suggesting that the video was widely circulated and is at the forefront of the minds of many Russians.
Dan O'Reilly is a writer who covers news, politics, and social justice.Follow him on Twitter.
In the video, Schwarzenegger discusses issues of prejudice and his own fathers struggles as a soldier fighting for Germany during the second world war.
With the war in Ukraine raging, many are weighing in on Vladimir Putins unjustifiable invasion of Ukraine.
Most powerfully, Schwarzenegger calls upon his own past experiences with the Russian people, including one of his idols, a Russian weightlifter named Yuri Petrovich Vlasov.
In a sea of propaganda and intelligence coming out of the war, Schwartzeneggers message was powerful and moving to many in the west.
RELATED:Video Shows Ukrainian Mother Embracing A Stranger Who Brought Her Children Across The Border To Safety
One such remark came from TV host Vadim Gigin, who, in an attempt to reclaim Schwartzeneggers idol, said, Vlasov couldnt transfer any of his brainwith his handshake and the gifted cup.
Schwarzeneggers message was received extremely positively across the world, but the question of whether it had reached its intended audience remained somewhat of an open question.
RELATED:How Ukrainian Civilians Are Altering Road Signs  Making Homemade Weapons To Resist Russias Invasion
