Russians press assault on eastern Ukrainian city
20220702
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russians-press-assault-on-eastern-ukrainian-city/ar-AAZ7Lhe
Local officials stand in front of a damaged residential building in the town of Serhiivka, Ukraine, on Saturday.
In this grab taken from video and released by the Russian Defense Ministry Press Service on Saturday, a Russian tank fires at a target in an undisclosed location in Ukraine.
In this grab taken from video and released by the Russian Defense Ministry Press Service on Saturday, a Russian tank fires at a target in an undisclosed location in Ukraine. Larissa Andruchenko said she was in the kitchen making tea at about 1 a.m. when a blast blew the doors open. At first she thought the propane gas tank had exploded, and called her husband to the kitchen.And right then the lights went off and it was nightmare. The two of us are in the kitchen with glass flying, everything was flying, she said.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said three anti-ship missiles struck an ordinary residential building, a nine-story building housing about 160 people. The victims of Fridays attack also included four members of a family staying at a seaside campsite, he said.I emphasize: This is deliberate direct Russian terror, and not some mistake or an accidental missile strike, Zelenskyy said.The British Defense Ministry said Saturday that air-launched anti-ship missiles generally dont have precision accuracy against ground targets. It said Russia likely was using such missiles because of a shortage of more accurate weapons.
Over the last day, the occupiers opened fire from all available kinds of weapons, Haidai said Saturday on the Telegram messaging app.
And right then the lights went off and it was nightmare. The two of us are in the kitchen with glass flying, everything was flying, she said.
The leader of neighboring Belarus, a Russian ally, claimed Saturday that Ukraine fired missiles at military targets on Belarusian territory several days ago but all were intercepted by the air defense system. President Alexander Lukashenko described it as a provocation and noted that no Belarusian soldiers are fighting in Ukraine. There was no immediate response from the Ukrainian military.
Russian forces pounded the city of Lysychansk and its surroundings in an all-out attempt to seize the last stronghold of resistance in eastern Ukraines Luhansk province, the governor said Saturday.
Belarus hosts Russian military units and was used as a staging ground for Russias invasion. Last week, just hours before Lukashenko was to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russian long-range bombers fired missiles on Ukraine from Belarusian airspace for the first time.
Ukrainian authorities interpreted the missile attack in Odesa as payback for the withdrawal of Russian troops from a nearby Black Sea island with both symbolic and strategic significance in the war that started with Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
I emphasize: This is deliberate direct Russian terror, and not some mistake or an accidental missile strike, Zelenskyy said.
Pro-Russia separatists have held portions of both eastern provinces since 2014, and Moscow recognizes all of Luhansk and Donetsk as sovereign republics. Syrias government said Wednesday that it would also recognize the independence and sovereignty of the two areas and work to establish diplomatic relations with the separatists.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said three anti-ship missiles struck an ordinary residential building, a nine-story building housing about 160 people. The victims of Fridays attack also included four members of a family staying at a seaside campsite, he said.
Ukrainian State Emergency Service firefighters clear debris at a damaged residential building in the town of Serhiivka, located about 30 southwest of Odesa, Ukraine, on Saturday. Maxim PenkoBelarus hosts Russian military units and was used as a staging ground for Russias invasion. Last week, just hours before Lukashenko was to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russian long-range bombers fired missiles on Ukraine from Belarusian airspace for the first time. Video: Russia claims advances in Ukraine amid fierce fighting Associated Press Lukashenko has so far resisted efforts to draw his army into the war. But during their meeting, Putin announced that Russia planned to supply Belarus with the Iskander-M missile system and reminded Lukashenko of how dependent his government is on economic support from Russia.Lukashenko on Saturday also claimed that two Belarusian truck drivers were killed in Ukraine. Ukraine said the truckers were at a gas station when it was hit by a Russian airstrike in March, but Lukashenko claimed the organs were cut out of their bodies to hide evidence that they were shot.Elsewhere in Ukraine, investigators combed through the wreckage from a Russian airstrike early Friday on residential areas near the Ukrainian port of Odesa that killed 21 people.Ukrainian Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova said the investigators were recovering fragments from missiles that struck an apartment building in the small coastal town of Serhiivka. They also were taking measurements to determine the trajectory of the weapons and the specific people guilty of this terrible war crime, she said.
Local officials stand in front of a damaged residential building in the town of Serhiivka, Ukraine, on Saturday. Maxim PenkoThe Kremlin has repeatedly claimed that the Russian military is targeting fuel storage sites and military facilities, not residential areas, although missiles also recently hit an apartment building in Kyiv and a shopping mall in the central city of Kremenchuk.On Saturday, Kremenchuk Mayor Vitaliy Maletskyy said the death toll in the mall attack had risen to 21 and one person was still missing.Ukrainian authorities interpreted the missile attack in Odesa as payback for the withdrawal of Russian troops from a nearby Black Sea island with both symbolic and strategic significance in the war that started with Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.Moscow portrayed their departure from Snake Island as a goodwill gesture to help unblock exports of grain.
The Kremlin has repeatedly claimed that the Russian military is targeting fuel storage sites and military facilities, not residential areas, although missiles also recently hit an apartment building in Kyiv and a shopping mall in the central city of Kremenchuk.
In Slovyansk, a major Donetsk city still under Ukrainian control, four people died when Russian forces fired cluster munitions late Friday, Mayor Vadym Lyakh said on Facebook. He said the neighborhoods that were hit didnt contain any potential military targets.
Lukashenko has so far resisted efforts to draw his army into the war. But during their meeting, Putin announced that Russia planned to supply Belarus with the Iskander-M missile system and reminded Lukashenko of how dependent his government is on economic support from Russia.
Ukrainian soldiers attend their positions, in the Donetsk region, Ukraine on Saturday. Efrem LukatskyLuhansk and neighboring Donetsk are the two provinces that make up the Donbas region, where Russia has focused its offensive since pulling back from northern Ukraine and the capital, Kyiv, in the spring.Pro-Russia separatists have held portions of both eastern provinces since 2014, and Moscow recognizes all of Luhansk and Donetsk as sovereign republics. Syrias government said Wednesday that it would also recognize the independence and sovereignty of the two areas and work to establish diplomatic relations with the separatists.In Slovyansk, a major Donetsk city still under Ukrainian control, four people died when Russian forces fired cluster munitions late Friday, Mayor Vadym Lyakh said on Facebook. He said the neighborhoods that were hit didnt contain any potential military targets.The leader of neighboring Belarus, a Russian ally, claimed Saturday that Ukraine fired missiles at military targets on Belarusian territory several days ago but all were intercepted by the air defense system. President Alexander Lukashenko described it as a provocation and noted that no Belarusian soldiers are fighting in Ukraine. There was no immediate response from the Ukrainian military.
Lukashenko on Saturday also claimed that two Belarusian truck drivers were killed in Ukraine. Ukraine said the truckers were at a gas station when it was hit by a Russian airstrike in March, but Lukashenko claimed the organs were cut out of their bodies to hide evidence that they were shot.
Ukrainian Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova said the investigators were recovering fragments from missiles that struck an apartment building in the small coastal town of Serhiivka. They also were taking measurements to determine the trajectory of the weapons and the specific people guilty of this terrible war crime, she said.
Moscow portrayed their departure from Snake Island as a goodwill gesture to help unblock exports of grain.
Larissa Andruchenko said she was in the kitchen making tea at about 1 a.m. when a blast blew the doors open. At first she thought the propane gas tank had exploded, and called her husband to the kitchen.
Ukrainian State Emergency Service firefighters clear debris at a damaged residential building in the town of Serhiivka, located about 30 southwest of Odesa, Ukraine, on Saturday.
The British Defense Ministry said Saturday that air-launched anti-ship missiles generally dont have precision accuracy against ground targets. It said Russia likely was using such missiles because of a shortage of more accurate weapons.
Russian forces pounded the city of Lysychansk and its surroundings in an all-out attempt to seize the last stronghold of resistance in eastern Ukraines Luhansk province, the governor said Saturday.Ukrainian fighters have spent weeks trying to defend the city and to keep it from falling to Russia, as neighboring Sievierodonetsk did a week ago. The Russian Defense Ministry said its forces took control of an oil refinery on Lysychansks edge in recent days, but Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai reported Friday that fighting for the facility continued.Over the last day, the occupiers opened fire from all available kinds of weapons, Haidai said Saturday on the Telegram messaging app.
Ukrainian fighters have spent weeks trying to defend the city and to keep it from falling to Russia, as neighboring Sievierodonetsk did a week ago. The Russian Defense Ministry said its forces took control of an oil refinery on Lysychansks edge in recent days, but Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai reported Friday that fighting for the facility continued.
On Saturday, Kremenchuk Mayor Vitaliy Maletskyy said the death toll in the mall attack had risen to 21 and one person was still missing.
Luhansk and neighboring Donetsk are the two provinces that make up the Donbas region, where Russia has focused its offensive since pulling back from northern Ukraine and the capital, Kyiv, in the spring.
Elsewhere in Ukraine, investigators combed through the wreckage from a Russian airstrike early Friday on residential areas near the Ukrainian port of Odesa that killed 21 people.
