Russia Is Still Winning the Energy War
20220429
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-is-still-winning-the-energy-war/ar-AAWKXJ8
On April 26 Russia flexed these energy muscles against Poland and Bulgaria. In a Tweet, it announced that Gazprom fully halts gas supplies to Bulgarias Bulgargaz and Polands PGNiG due to their failure to pay in rubles. Nominally, the justification as claimed is that these E.U. countries refused to acquiesce to Gazproms demands that its existing contracts now be paid, in violation of those contracts terms, in Russian rubles instead of U.S. dollars. The switch is an effort by Russia to prop up its faltering currency, and economy more broadly.
Thus far, Russia is winning at this game. The war he started may not be going Putins way, but his gamble that Europe and much of the developing world would be too insecure about energy to mount a meaningful reaction when he moved into Ukraine has arguably proved true thus far. Despite Germanys April 28 announcement that it would drop its opposition to imposing an E.U. energy embargoat least on oil and natural gasagainst Russia, there remains a difficult negotiation among member states as to what form such a ban would take, and its timeline. Thus far, it therefore remains true that the E.U. has failed to follow the U.S. mostly symbolic, because it imports very little fuel from Russia lead in instituting an energy embargo against Russia.
Putins energy warfare is now spilling outside Ukraine. The late April 26 decision by Russian state-owned gas giant Gazprom to cut off natural gas supply to Poland and Bulgaria is blackmail, as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said. But the move was not unexpected for any student of recent Russian history.
Russia has always used energy as a weapon to influence, coerce, and terrorize its neighbors and perceived enemies to the West. Now, cornered but far from crippled by sanctions that initially did not include energy exports and still do not in Europe, Putin is using his colossal energy power to retaliate.
The more likely goal was scaring Europe sufficiently that the Unions current inabilitynow at least six weeks deepto agree on an embargo against Russian oil and gas would persist. Each vulnerable European country may rightly fear that it could be next. And despite some reports that Germany, Italy, and maybe even Hungary are softening in their opposition to a full-scale ban on Russian energy, no decision has been reached. Germanys April 28 agreement to an embargo remains theoretical until the details are hammered out with its fellow E.U. countries, which promises to be a very difficult negotiation. Meanwhile, gas prices rose 28 on April 27, making fears of provoking Russia into causing a catastrophic energy crisis seem all the more reasonable. Of course, such is Putins calculus.
Tom Costello: We need to address air safety concerns as a country or something bad could happen
Marc Morial: We have to make the continuing moral case for democracy and voting rights
The efficacy of energy as a foreign policy tool is something Russia grasped long ago, although it has used it more as the proverbial stick than carrot. It shut off gas to Ukraine and neighboring European countries in 2009, one of numerous such episodes, in an effort to force Ukraine to its knees in the midst of a brutal winter. It worked. Kyiv was forced to accept a deeply disadvantageous ten-year gas transit deal with Moscow, among other concessions. Russia did it again to Ukraine in 2014 over a payment dispute.
In 2021, 60 of Russias revenues were from energy exports. While, as of April 7, Europe had given Kyiv over 1 billion to support Ukraines fight against the Russian invasion, it paid Russia 35 billion for energy imports during that same period. In other words, Europe has been paying for Russias attack on its smaller, democratic neighbor with one hand because it is still buying Russian energy exports, while sanctioning other Russian activities with the other. Even while E.U. countries pour weapons and aid into Ukraine, they have not yet forced themselves to defang the Russian bear.
Russia has enjoyed this leverage because it is an energy and commodity superpower. The largest oil exporter on earth and the runner up on crude exports, it also supplies the European Union with about 40-45 of its natural gasand as much as 80 of Austrias, 55 of Germanys, and 40 of Italys, among others. It also boasts 40 of the worlds uranium enrichment capacity, 20 of class 1 nickel, 30 of global palladium, and so on.
The European struggle to end its dependence on Russian oil, gas, and coal is a sharp lesson in how vulnerable energy insecurity can leave countries. If war is the continuation of diplomacy by other means a misquote of Carl von Clausewitz, but a great one, then weaponized energy is the greatest diplomatic tool of all. Until the world proves it otherwise, Russia is still the master at wielding it.
Neither Poland nor Bulgaria has given into the blackmail, despite their dependence on Russian natural gas. Poland imports 55 of its consumption from the east for Bulgaria it is 90. Losing these imports puts the populations of both at risk of freezing this winter. Regardless, they have been defiant since Gazproms announcement. Given both countries calls for stronger sanctions against Russia and more robust military support for Ukraine, Putin cannot reasonably have believed they would make the switch to rubles.
Jeremy Bash: Lethal aid from China could thaw 'frozen conflict' in Ukraine, giving edge to Russia
The Russia-Europe-U.S. fight over Putins Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline, which Germany forswore only after Putin invaded Ukraine, is another of many examples. The 1,224 km, 55 billion cubic meter bcm capacity submarine natural gas pipeline from Ust-Luga, Russia near the Estonian border to Greifswald, Germany was never necessary for gas transit purposes. Europe already has 245 bcm pipeline capacity connecting it to Russia, with over 100 bcm unused. Rather, Russia wanted to bypass Ukraine as a gas transit country, and to deepen Germanys dependency on Russian gas so that Europe would be too paralyzed by energy fears to oppose its invasion of Ukraine.
Energy, of course, is a weapon of war. Putins army is targeting Ukrainian fuel depots, supply chains, and refineries in its brutal assault. Cutting off the other sides access to gasoline, diesel, and oil is a tried and true tactic to gain a military upper hand. Ukraine may also have targeted Russian fuel storage facilities, according to reports of a strike on an oil depot in Belgorod, Russia.
It is not only Europes failing, however. The United States, despite its own oil and gas embargo on Russia which the White House fought to avoid imposing, cannot bring itself to break off Russian uranium imports. It still imports 16 or more of its uranium from a country that over 70 of Americans believe to be an enemy. Meanwhile, India, for example, continues to buy Russian Urals crude oil that most of the world has shunned. Perhaps worst of all, Bloomberg reported that ten European countries have opened bank accounts at Gazprombank through which to comply with Russias demand to be paid in rubles, even though such payments may violate existing sanctions on financial transfers.
