Russian forces walking away from Chernobyl heading to Belarus Pentagon official
20220331
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-forces-walking-away-from-chernobyl-heading-to-belarus-pentagon-official/ar-AAVHotS
"Chernobyl is an area where they are beginning to reposition some of their troops  leaving, walking away from the Chernobyl facility and moving into Belarus," the U.S. Defense official said, according to a report.
Since its invasion began last month, Russian forces have taken control of two nuclear facilities in Ukraine  the Chernobyl site and Zaporizhzhia, Ukraines largest nuclear power plant.
They should send them home, Kirby said of the Russian troops. But thats not what theyre doing, at least not yet.
"Everyone should expect that we're going to continue to see attacks across Ukraine," Bedingfield continued.
International Atomic Energy Agency Director-General Rafael Grossitraveled to Ukraine Tuesday to launch a new safety assistance program aimed at protecting Ukraines nuclear facilities from the war.
Russian soldiers around Chernobyl have reportedly driven armored vehicles through a highly toxic zone called the Red Forest, kicking up clouds of radioactive dust as they traveled.
Russian troops are beginning to pull out of the Chernobyl nuclear facility and moving into Belarus, a Pentagon official said on Wednesday.
"We think that they are leaving, I can't tell you that they're all gone," the official cautioned.
Both the Pentagon and the White House believe that attacks will continue across Ukraine despite Russian troop movements.
Russia intends to refit these troops, resupply them and probably employ them elsewhere in Ukraine, according to Pentagon spokesman John Kirby.
In Zaporizhzhia, a fire erupted on March 3 as Russian forces shelled neared the plant before taking control.
The retreat comes a day after Russian officials said military operations in the Ukrainian cities of Kyiv and Chernihiv would scale back and over a month after Vladimir Putin's army seized the site of the catastrophic 1986 nuclear disaster.
Russian forces have stored "dozens of thousands of tons of ammunition near the Chernobyl facility, according to Ukrainian officials who say the munitions stored there are a "huge" threat to the safety of the plant.
Russian forces also held staff at the Chernobyl facility hostage for weeks, denying workers the ability to rotate out of the facility and for new staff to come in.
"No one should be fooled by Russia's announcements," White House communications director Kate Bedingfield said on Tuesday. "We believe any movement of forces from around Kyiv is a redeployment and not a withdrawal, and the world should be prepared for a major offensive against other areas of Ukraine."
