Russia brands Ukrainian steel plant defenders terrorists
20220802
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-brands-ukrainian-steel-plant-defenders-terrorists/ar-AA10eN2H
FILE - In this photo taken from video a view of a destroyed barrack at a prison in Olenivka, in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces, eastern Ukraine, on July 29, 2022. Meanwhile, the first cargo ship loaded with grain to leave Ukraine since Russia invaded more than five months ago safely crossed the Black Sea and anchored just outside Istanbul on Tuesday en route to Lebanon, under an agreement Moscow and Kyiv signed last month to unblock Ukraines agricultural exports and ease a global food crisis.An estimated 20 million tons of grain have been stuck in Ukraine since the start of war. The U.N.-brokered agreement to release the grain calls for the establishment of safe corridors through the mined waters outside Ukraines ports.The Razoni, which set sail from the port of Odesa on Monday with more than 26,000 tons of corn, was scheduled for inspection Wednesday in Istanbul by a team of Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and U.N. officials, as part of the deal.
Most of the grain stuck in Ukraine is to feed livestock, according to David Laborde, an expert at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington. Only 6 million tons is wheat, and just half of that is for human consumption, Laborde said. He said Mondays shipload is chicken feed.
While its current members reject accusations of extremism, the Kremlin has seized on the regiments right-wing origins to cast Russias invasion as a battle against Nazi influence in Ukraine. Russian state media has repeatedly shown what it claimed to be Nazi insignias, literature and tattoos associated with the regiment.
Moscow has repeatedly portrayed the Azov Regiment as a Nazi group and accused it of atrocities, but has publicly produced little evidence.
FILE - In this photo taken from video a view of a destroyed barrack at a prison in Olenivka, in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces, eastern Ukraine, on July 29, 2022.
Russia and its separatist allies are holding an estimated 1,000 Azov soldiers prisoner, many of them since their surrender at the steelworks in mid-May. Russian authorities have opened criminal cases against them, accusing them of killing civilians. The addition of terrorism charges could mean fewer rights and longer prison sentences.
A terrorist organization leader could receive 15 to 20 years, and group members could get five to 10, according to Russian state media.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russias Supreme Court declared Ukraines Azov Regiment a terrorist organization Tuesday, a move that could lead to terror charges against some of the captured fighters who made their last stand inside Mariupols shattered steel plant.
In a statement, the Azov Regiment dismissed the ruling, accusing the Kremlin of looking for new excuses and explanations for its war crimes. It urged the U.S. and other countries to declare Russia a terrorist state.
Cargo ship Razoni arrives to the entrance of the Bosphorus Strait in Istanbul, Turkey, Tuesday, Aug. 2, 2022.
Global food prices have been soaring in a crisis blamed on the war, supply chain problems and COVID-19. While Ukraine is a major global grain supplier, the agreement may not make much of a dent in world hunger.
Meanwhile, the first cargo ship loaded with grain to leave Ukraine since Russia invaded more than five months ago safely crossed the Black Sea and anchored just outside Istanbul on Tuesday en route to Lebanon, under an agreement Moscow and Kyiv signed last month to unblock Ukraines agricultural exports and ease a global food crisis.
I can testify myself that Ukrainian snipers  Azov snipers  really shot civilians trying to escape the city of Mariupol, Marina Akhmedova of the Presidential Council for the Development of Civil Society and Human Rights testified. I saw bodies lying on roads with my own eyes. There were many of them, and they were lying probably 10 meters apart from one another. There were no shell craters beside them.
The Razoni, which set sail from the port of Odesa on Monday with more than 26,000 tons of corn, was scheduled for inspection Wednesday in Istanbul by a team of Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and U.N. officials, as part of the deal.
In testimony journalists were allowed to view, witnesses appearing before the Supreme Court supported the proposed terrorism designation, but most of the proceedings were held behind closed doors, so it was not known if any opponents testified.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russias Supreme Court declared Ukraines Azov Regiment a terrorist organization Tuesday, a move that could lead to terror charges against some of the captured fighters who made their last stand inside Mariupols shattered steel plant.Russia and its separatist allies are holding an estimated 1,000 Azov soldiers prisoner, many of them since their surrender at the steelworks in mid-May. Russian authorities have opened criminal cases against them, accusing them of killing civilians. The addition of terrorism charges could mean fewer rights and longer prison sentences.A terrorist organization leader could receive 15 to 20 years, and group members could get five to 10, according to Russian state media.
Last week, dozens of Ukrainian POWs, including Azov fighters from the steel plant, were killed in an explosion at a prison barracks in Olenivka, an eastern town controlled by pro-Russian separatists. Moscow and Kyiv have blamed each other, with Kyiv saying Russia blew up the barracks to cover up torture against the POWs.
A Russian soldier stands inside the Ukraine's Azov Regiment base adorned with the unit's emblems in Yuriivka resort settlement on the coast of Azov Sea not fart from Mariupol. Alexander Zemlianichenko Video: Russia orders forces to step up Ukraine operation Reuters The regiment, a unit within Ukraines National Guard, has a checkered past. It grew out of a group called the Azov Battalion, formed in 2014 as one of many volunteer brigades created to fight Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. The battalion drew its initial fighters from far-right circles.While its current members reject accusations of extremism, the Kremlin has seized on the regiments right-wing origins to cast Russias invasion as a battle against Nazi influence in Ukraine. Russian state media has repeatedly shown what it claimed to be Nazi insignias, literature and tattoos associated with the regiment.Last week, dozens of Ukrainian POWs, including Azov fighters from the steel plant, were killed in an explosion at a prison barracks in Olenivka, an eastern town controlled by pro-Russian separatists. Moscow and Kyiv have blamed each other, with Kyiv saying Russia blew up the barracks to cover up torture against the POWs.
In this photo taken from video released by the Russian Defense Ministry on Thursday, May 19, 2022, Ukrainian servicemen, right, leave the besieged Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
More ships from Ukraine are expected to set out in the coming days. Some 27 vessels have been waiting in three Ukrainian ports with cargo and signed contracts, ready to go, said U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric.
An estimated 20 million tons of grain have been stuck in Ukraine since the start of war. The U.N.-brokered agreement to release the grain calls for the establishment of safe corridors through the mined waters outside Ukraines ports.
Still, Zelenskyy said the resumption of grain exports will reduce Russian authorities ability to extract concessions from the West. They are losing one of the opportunities to terrorize the world, he said in his nightly video address.
The ships departure came against a backdrop of continued fighting, especially in southern and eastern Ukraine. A Russian rocket hit an anti-aircraft missile system in the Lviv region of western Ukraine, near the Polish border, Ukrainian authorities said. There was no immediate word on damage or casualties.
A few ships leaving Ukraine is not going to be a game changer, he said.
In this photo taken from video released by the Russian Defense Ministry on Thursday, May 19, 2022, Ukrainian servicemen, right, leave the besieged Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol. In testimony journalists were allowed to view, witnesses appearing before the Supreme Court supported the proposed terrorism designation, but most of the proceedings were held behind closed doors, so it was not known if any opponents testified.I can testify myself that Ukrainian snipers  Azov snipers  really shot civilians trying to escape the city of Mariupol, Marina Akhmedova of the Presidential Council for the Development of Civil Society and Human Rights testified. I saw bodies lying on roads with my own eyes. There were many of them, and they were lying probably 10 meters apart from one another. There were no shell craters beside them.In a statement, the Azov Regiment dismissed the ruling, accusing the Kremlin of looking for new excuses and explanations for its war crimes. It urged the U.S. and other countries to declare Russia a terrorist state.The Azov soldiers played a key part in the defense of Mariupol, holding out for weeks at the southern port citys steel mill despite punishing attacks from Russian forces. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy hailed them and the other defenders as heroes.Moscow has repeatedly portrayed the Azov Regiment as a Nazi group and accused it of atrocities, but has publicly produced little evidence.A Russian soldier stands inside the Ukraine's Azov Regiment base adorned with the unit's emblems in Yuriivka resort settlement on the coast of Azov Sea not fart from Mariupol. Alexander Zemlianichenko Video: Russia orders forces to step up Ukraine operation Reuters The regiment, a unit within Ukraines National Guard, has a checkered past. It grew out of a group called the Azov Battalion, formed in 2014 as one of many volunteer brigades created to fight Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. The battalion drew its initial fighters from far-right circles.While its current members reject accusations of extremism, the Kremlin has seized on the regiments right-wing origins to cast Russias invasion as a battle against Nazi influence in Ukraine. Russian state media has repeatedly shown what it claimed to be Nazi insignias, literature and tattoos associated with the regiment.Last week, dozens of Ukrainian POWs, including Azov fighters from the steel plant, were killed in an explosion at a prison barracks in Olenivka, an eastern town controlled by pro-Russian separatists. Moscow and Kyiv have blamed each other, with Kyiv saying Russia blew up the barracks to cover up torture against the POWs.
Cargo ship Razoni arrives to the entrance of the Bosphorus Strait in Istanbul, Turkey, Tuesday, Aug. 2, 2022. Khalil HamraMore ships from Ukraine are expected to set out in the coming days. Some 27 vessels have been waiting in three Ukrainian ports with cargo and signed contracts, ready to go, said U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric.Global food prices have been soaring in a crisis blamed on the war, supply chain problems and COVID-19. While Ukraine is a major global grain supplier, the agreement may not make much of a dent in world hunger.Most of the grain stuck in Ukraine is to feed livestock, according to David Laborde, an expert at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington. Only 6 million tons is wheat, and just half of that is for human consumption, Laborde said. He said Mondays shipload is chicken feed.A few ships leaving Ukraine is not going to be a game changer, he said.Still, Zelenskyy said the resumption of grain exports will reduce Russian authorities ability to extract concessions from the West. They are losing one of the opportunities to terrorize the world, he said in his nightly video address.The ships departure came against a backdrop of continued fighting, especially in southern and eastern Ukraine. A Russian rocket hit an anti-aircraft missile system in the Lviv region of western Ukraine, near the Polish border, Ukrainian authorities said. There was no immediate word on damage or casualties.
The Azov soldiers played a key part in the defense of Mariupol, holding out for weeks at the southern port citys steel mill despite punishing attacks from Russian forces. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy hailed them and the other defenders as heroes.
The regiment, a unit within Ukraines National Guard, has a checkered past. It grew out of a group called the Azov Battalion, formed in 2014 as one of many volunteer brigades created to fight Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. The battalion drew its initial fighters from far-right circles.
