Russian commander killed deliberately by his own troops in Ukraine Western officials say
20220325
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russian-commander-killed-deliberately-by-his-own-troops-in-ukraine-western-officials-say/ar-AAVuTQq
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
If confirmed, the commanders death is one of the most compelling pieces of evidence yet that Russian president Vladimir Putins war is not going to plan.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
After a month of operations to have somewhere in the region of a sixth, maybe even a fifth, of the forces being no longer effective, that is a pretty remarkable set of statistics, they added.
The Independent has a proud history of campaigning for the rights of the most vulnerable, and we first ran our Refugees Welcome campaign during the war in Syria in 2015. Now, as we renew our campaign and launch this petition in the wake of the unfolding Ukrainian crisis, we are calling on the government to go further and faster to ensure help is delivered. To find out more about our Refugees Welcome campaign, click here. To sign the petition click here. If you would like to donate then please click here for our GoFundMe page.
Nato has estimated that in four weeks of fighting, between 7,000 and 15,000 Russia troops have been killed. Though Russias latest death toll had the number of its soldiers killed at 1,351, according to Sergei Rudskoi, head of the Russian General Staffs Main Operational Directorate, and 3,825 injured.
Colonel Medvechek, commanding the 37th Motor Rifle Brigade, is believed to have been deliberately run down over anger at the number of casualties his unit was taking.
The official added: That just gives an insight into some of the challenges that Russian forces are having.
The same official said that a lieutenant general commanding the 49th Combined Arms Army also recently died in the fighting. It makes him the seventh Russian general to be killed in combat since Russias war on Ukraine began  more than a third of those deployed at the start of the operation.
Colonel Medvechek was allegedly targeted after Russian soldiers morale plummeted to an all time low, with the official noting Moscows forces had unexpectedly found themselves in a hornets nest and are suffering really badly due to ongoing logistical and military issues.
While the advance faltered, though, men are said to have become angry at the number of deaths being recorded in a war that has so far not been successful, according to officials.
The news came as Putin decided to pause his multiple attempts to take Kyiv in order to concentrate his forces on the Donbas region in the east of Ukraine.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
A Russian brigade commander fighting in Ukraine has been killed by his own troops, according to Western officials.
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
The brigade commander was killed by his own troops and killed by his own troops, we believe, as a consequence of the scale of losses that have been taken by his brigade, one official said. We believe that he was run over by his own troops.
Its clear Russia is recognising that it cant pursue its options on multiple axis simultaneously, one official noted.
However, they warned the West should not be getting ahead of ourselves in believing Russia will not come back harder.
One Western official said that of the 115 to 120 battalion tactical groups the Russians had at the start of the war, 20 were no longer combat effective.
