RussiaUkraine War LIVE Updates 35 killed in Russian strikes in military base US filmmaker  journalist Brent Renaud killed by Russian forces say authorities
20220312
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/other/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-explosions-heard-in-three-cities-dnipro-repels-air-attack-chernobyl-repairs-begin/ar-AAUXJCP
Fighting raged near Kyiv on Saturday and heavy shelling in other areas threatened new attempts to evacuate trapped civilians as France said Russian President Vladimir Putin showed no readiness to end the war in Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Moscow was sending in new troops after Ukrainian forces put 31 of Russia's battalion tactical groups out of action in what he called Russia's largest army losses in decades. It was not possible to verify his statements. He also said about 1,300 Ukrainian troops had been killed so far and urged the West to get more involved in peace negotiations. The president suggested Russian forces would face a fight to the death if they sought to enter the capital.
"In view of rapidly deteriorating security situation in Ukraine,including attacks in western parts of the country, it has been decided that the Indian Embassy in Ukraine will be temporarily relocated in Poland. The situation will be reassessed in light of further developments," MEA said in a statement.
Taiwan's president says Russia's war on Ukraine shows the island would need the unity of all the citizens to defend itself if it were attacked. Training for military veterans in Taiwan was doubled in length to two weeks this year amid increased efforts by China's ruling Communist Party to intimidate the self-ruled island democracy, which Beijing claims as part of its territory.
US President Joe Biden on Saturday authorized $200 million in weapons and other assistance for Ukraine, the White House said, as Ukrainian officials said heavy shelling by Russian forces were endangering attempted evacuations. The decision brings total US security aid provided to Ukraine over the past year to $1.2 billion, a senior administration official said. In a memorandum to Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Biden directed that up to $200 million allocated through the Foreign Assistance Act be designated for Ukraine's defense. The funds can be used for weapons and other defense articles from the Defense Department's stock, as well as military education and training to help Ukraine.
An airstrike was launched on a Ukrainian military base Yavoriv in the west of the country near the Polish border, the Lviv regional military administration said on Sunday. "The occupiers launched an air strike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security. According to preliminary data, they fired eight missiles," the administration said in a statement. The centre, less than 25 km 15 miles from the Polish border, did not say whether it had been hit. It said it would release details later.
Ukraine accused Russian forces on Saturday of killing seven civilians in an attack on women and children trying to flee fighting near Kyiv, and France said Russian President Vladimir Putin had shown he was not ready to make peace. The Ukrainian intelligence service said the seven, including one child, were killed as they fled the village of Peremoha and that "the occupiers forced the remnants of the column to turn back." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said earlier that Moscow was sending in new troops after Ukrainian forces put 31 of Russia's battalion tactical groups out of action in what he called Russia's largest army losses in decades. It was not possible to verify his statements.
Ukraine is working with Israel and Turkey to set up talks with Russia, says negotiator
Russia is trying to create new pseudo-republics in Ukraine to break his country apart, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address to the nation Saturday. Zelenskyy called on Ukraine's regions, including Kherson, which was captured by Russian forces, not to repeat the experience of Donetsk and Luhansk. Pro-Russian separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in those eastern regions in 2014. The occupiers on the territory of the Kherson region are trying to repeat the sad experience of the formation of pseudo-republics, Zelenskyy said. They are blackmailing local leaders, putting pressure on deputies, looking for someone to bribe. City council members in Kherson, a southern city of 290,000, on Saturday rejected plans for a new pseudo-republic, Zelenskyy said.
Foreign military instructors worked at the Yavoriv military facility near the Polish border that was hit by a Russian air strike on Sunday, Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said, but it was not clear if any were present at the time. A ministry representative told Reuters the ministry was still trying to establish if any of the instructors were at the centre at the time of the attack. "Russia has attacked the International Center for Peacekeeping  Security near Lviv. Foreign instructors work here. Information about the victims is being clarified," Reznikov said in an online post.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he's open for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Israel, but only if there is ceasefire in place, reports AP.
On her first Shabbat away from the fighting in Ukraine, Rabbi Julia Gris twice led services to welcome the Jewish holy day. A week earlier, Ukraine's only woman rabbi had been fleeing the war that scattered her Odesa congregation from Moldova to Romania and Israel. Some stayed behind, braving the Russian shelling. She first led an online service for those congregants scattered abroad. Then, she officiated one in person for a small group in Poland, taken in by a Christian couple near Warsaw. Gris lit sabbath candles that she had carried from Ukraine, while her 19-year-old daughter Izolda played the guitar and sang, just as she had during services back home in the her Reform community, Shirat ha-Yam.
Nearly 125,000 people have been evacuated via humanitarian corridors from conflict zones in Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said in a video address on Sunday."Today the key task is Mariupol," he said, adding that a humanitarian supply convoy was now only 80 kilometres 50 miles away from the besieged port city where more than 400,000 people are trapped. Reuters
A petition has been filed before the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Centre to facilitate the continuation of studies of Indian medical students who have returned fromwar-hit Ukraine in domestic colleges. The petition byPravasiLegal Cell, likely to be listed for hearing on March 21, has demanded that the central government should permit such students to complete their education in Indian medical colleges as an emergency and one-time measure.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Sunday that Russia might use chemical weapons following its invasion of Ukraine and that such a move would be a war crime, according to an interview in German newspaper Welt am Sonntag. "In recent days, we have heard absurd claims about chemical and biological weapons laboratories," Stoltenberg was quoted by Welt am Sonntag as saying, adding that the Kremlin was inventing false pretexts to justify what could not be justified. "Now that these false claims have been made, we must remain vigilant because it is possible that Russia itself could plan chemical weapons operations under this fabrication of lies. That would be a war crime," Stoltenberg was quoted as saying. He added that although the Ukrainian people were resisting the Russian invasion with courage, the coming days are likely to bring even greater hardship.
Russian forces are attempting to surround Ukrainian forces in the east of the country as they advance from the direction of Kharkiv in the north and Mariupol in the south, Britain's defence ministry said on Sunday. "Russian forces advancing from Crimea are attempting to circumvent Mykolaiv as they look to drive west towards Odesa," the ministry said in an intelligence update posted on Twitter.
Britain will pay people to open their homes to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion as the government moves to deflect anger over its response to the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War Two. The new scheme called "Homes for Ukraine" will let refugees from the war come to Britain even if they do not have family ties, the government said on Sunday. Britain will pay people 350 pounds $456 a month if they can offer refugees a spare room or property for a minimum period of six months. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has sought to portray Britain as helping lead the global response to the Russian invasion - which Moscow calls a "special operation" - but his government has faced criticism over delays in accepting refugees.
President Tsai Ing-wen said Saturday that the recent situation in Ukraine once again proved that to protect the country, not only the assistance from the international society is necessary, but also the unity of all the citizens. Tsai said that educational mobilisation is an implementation of the spirit of all-out defense with the principle of local mobilisation and local engagement of the enemy." Taiwan and the mainland split in 1949 following a civil war. They have no official relations but multibillion-dollar ties of trade and investment.
A body of tea planters on Saturday said exports of the commodity will be adversely impacted due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The shipment of Indian tea has already been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the geopolitical situation after Russia's invasion of Ukraine would aggravate it further, Tea Association of India TAI president Ajay Jalan said. The payment issue with Iran, one of the largest importers of Indian tea, is also another challenge for tea exporters, he said. Addressing the 35th biennial general meeting of TAI, Assam Branch, Jalan said, "I stand before you at a critical juncture when the world is witnessing a major war in Europe wherein the Western countries have swiftly introduced draconian economic measures." The volume of India's tea export to countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS, including Russia, is 58-65 million kgs, he said, adding that "the war is bound to affect trade in this region".
The governor of Ukraine's Lviv region says a Russian airstrike on a military range killed nine people, wounded 57
Italian paper mills that make everything from pizza boxes to furniture packaging ground to a halt as Russia's war in Ukraine has sent natural gas prices skyrocketing. And it's not just paper. Italian steel mills, likewise, turned off electric furnaces last week. And fishermen, facing huge spikes in oil prices, stayed in port, mending nets instead of casting them. Nowhere more than in Italy, the European Unions third-largest economy, is dependence on Russian energy taking a higher toll on industry. Some 40 of electricity is generated from natural gas that largely comes from Russia, compared with roughly one-quarter in Germany, another major importer and the continent's largest economy.
The petition has submitted that presently, there are no norms and regulations in place to accommodate these rescued medical students in Indian medical colleges and the ongoing crisis in Ukraine has the potential of disrupting the careers of Indian students who have already gone through the trauma of being in the war zone. There are around 20,000 Indian students who were studying in Ukraine, and in the present situation, there is no end in sight to the miseries of such students making their life uncertain, the petition filed through lawyer M PSrivigneshsaid.
About 1 12 months after the last match of Sergiy Stakhovskys professional tennis career, the 36-year-old Ukrainian left his wife and three young children in Hungary and went back to his birthplace to help however he could during Russias invasion. I dont have the words to describe it. I would never imagine in my life that it would come to this that I would be in my home city ... with a gun in my hands, Stakhovsky said Saturday, rubbing his left cheek with his palm during a video interview with The Associated Press from what he said was a residential building in Kyiv, Ukraines beleaguered capital. A lot of people are saying that theyre waking up and hoping ... it was just a bad dream. But, you know, on Day 16, that doesnt work anymore, he said. First couple of days, its surreal. You dont believe that its actually happening. And the next thing you know, you get used to it, and youre just trying to find a way of helping your country to actually survive.
A Russian missile attack on a large Ukrainian military facility near the border with NATO member Poland on Sunday killed 35 people and wounded 134, a Ukrainian official said. Ukraine said foreign military instructors have previously worked at the base, but a NATO official said there were no personnel from the alliance at the base. It was not immediately clear whether any non-NATO states might have representatives there. Regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy said Russian planes fired around 30 rockets at the Yavoriv International Center for Peacekeeping and Security, adding that some were intercepted before they hit. At least 35 people were killed and 134 wounded, he said. Reuters was not able to verify his statement.
A bus carrying around 50 Ukrainians went off the road in Italy, leaving one dead and several injured, fire fighters said on Sunday. The accident occurred on the highway between Cesena and Rimini, on the north eastern coast. Pictures posted by the fire fighters on Twitter show the bus had overturned. Rescue operations are still underway, fire fighters said.
"Today, Russian war criminals abducted another Ukrainian mayor, head of Dniprorudne Yevhen Matveyev. Getting zero local support, invaders turn to terror. I call on all states  international organizations to stop Russian terror against Ukraine and democracy," says Ukraine's Foreign Minister
Across the border from war-engulfed Ukraine, tiny, impoverished Moldova an ex-Soviet republic now looking eagerly Westward has watched with trepidation as the Russian invasion unfolds. In Gagauzia, a small, autonomous part of the country that's traditionally felt closer to the Kremlin than the West, people would normally back Russia, which they never wanted to leave when Moldova gained independence. But this time, most have trouble identifying with either side in the war. Anna Koejoglo says she's deeply conflicted. I have sisters in Ukraine, I have nephews there, my own son is in Kyiv, the 52-year-old said, quickly adding that her other, younger, son is studying in Russia. My heart is broken, my insides are burning, she told The Associated Press. Koejoglo is one of Moldovas 160,000 Gagauz, an Orthodox Christian people of Turkic origin who were settled there by the Russian Empire in the 19th century. They make up over 80 of Gagauzia's population, but only 5 of Moldovas 2.6 million people. In the early 1990s, when landlocked Moldova voted to leave the Soviet Union, its Gagauz and Russian minorities wanted to stay. But unlike Russian-backed separatists in eastern Moldova who took up arms in 1992 to establish the unrecognized, breakaway Trans-Dniester area which Russia essentially controls, maintaining some 1,500 troops there the Gagauz in the south chose to compromise. In 1994, they reached an agreement with the government in Moldovas capital, Chisinau, settling for a high degree of autonomy. Still, Gagauzia has maintained a strong relationship with Russia, where many Gagauz find education and job opportunities. Its population generally opposes the pro-Western shift embraced by ethnic Moldovans who account for 75 of the countrys people. For Peotr Sarangi, a 25-year-old Gagauz, the old ties still hold strong.
The Russia-Ukraine issue, the US Fed interest rate decision and release of domestic inflation data are some of the major factors that will drive the stock markets in a holiday-shortened week, analysts said. Market experts believe that stock markets are likely to stay volatile until the existing headwinds subside. "FOMC meeting and Russia-Ukraine issue will be key global factors this week. There are still uncertainties on the Russia-Ukraine issue while we will have an important FOMC Federal Open Market Committee meeting outcome on 16th March. "Amid all, crude oil prices and FIIs' behaviour will be important triggers to drive the Indian market in a truncated week. On the domestic front, we will have our inflation numbers that will be announced on 14th March," said Santosh Meena, Head of Research, Swastika Investmart Ltd.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will host leaders from countries along Russia's northwestern flank next week to discuss ways they can respond to President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, including finding new ways to isolate Russia's economy. The leaders from countries in the Joint Expeditionary Force, a British-led grouping made up of Denmark, Estonia, Finland and Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden will meet for talks in London on Tuesday. The leaders are expected to agree to more military exercises in the North Atlantic and Baltic Sea and will discuss the war in Ukraine and energy security, Johnson's office said.
Plea in HC for allowing med students who have returned from Ukraine to continue education in Indian colleges
As many as 179 students who were trapped in war-torn Ukraine, have reached Jharkhand, State Migrant Control Room officials said on Sunday. Of the 179 students, 34 were from Ranchi district followed by East Singhbhum 26, Dhanbad 18, Godda 15, Palamu 14, Hazaribag 13 and Bokaro 10. Control Room head, Johnson Topno, told PTI, "We had identified 184 Jharkhand students stranded in different locations of Ukraine, of which 179 have returned till Saturday evening. Two students have been traced in Budapest and Russia respectively, and they are not willing to return. Contacts of three remaining could not be established." Topno said, "We are expecting that the remaining three might have reached India or Jharkhand.
Ukraine is working with Israel and Turkey as mediators to finalise a location and framework for peace negotiations with Russia, Ukrainian presidential adviser and negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak said on Sunday. "When it is worked out, there will be a meeting. I think it won't take long for us to get there," he said on national television.
Ukraine's government will introduce a plan to support the crop sowing campaign in an effort to safeguard food supplies amid Russia's invasion, Prime Minister Denys Shmygal said on Sunday. He said Ukraine had sufficient volumes of basic food products for the next few months. "But we must also think about the future. Therefore the government is implementing a plan to support the sowing campaign, which should start soon where possible," he said in a statement.
Indian Embassy in Ukraine will be temporarily relocated to Poland due to security situation, says MEA
Russian forces fired eight missiles at a Ukrainian military facility near the Polish border on Sunday, officials said, in what appeared to be the westernmost attack of the war, and air raid sirens again woke residents in the capital Kyiv. "The occupiers launched an air strike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security" in Yavoriv, the Lviv regional military administration said in a statement. "According to preliminary data, they fired eight missiles." The administration did not say whether the training facility was hit or offer further details. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has warned Russian forces they face a fight to the death if they try to occupy the capital Kyiv, as air raid sirens again woke residents on Sunday morning.
Plea in HC for allowing med students who have returned from Ukraine to continue education in Indian colleges A petition has been filed before the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Centre to facilitate the continuation of studies of Indian medical students who have returned fromwar-hit Ukraine in domestic colleges. The petition byPravasiLegal Cell, likely to be listed for hearing on March 21, has demanded that the central government should permit such students to complete their education in Indian medical colleges as an emergency and one-time measure. The petition has submitted that presently, there are no norms and regulations in place to accommodate these rescued medical students in Indian medical colleges and the ongoing crisis in Ukraine has the potential of disrupting the careers of Indian students who have already gone through the trauma of being in the war zone. There are around 20,000 Indian students who were studying in Ukraine, and in the present situation, there is no end in sight to the miseries of such students making their life uncertain, the petition filed through lawyer M PSrivigneshsaid.
