Russia Implores Ukraine to Stop Senseless Resistance in Severodonetsk
20220616
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-implores-ukraine-to-stop-senseless-resistance-in-severodonetsk/ar-AAYwoql
"Once again we urge the authorities in Kyiv to display prudence, to give the appropriate instructions to the militants to end senseless resistance and leave the territory of the Azot plant," Mizintsev said.
Related Articles Watch: Bombs Dropped By Drone Makes Russian Troops ScamperWatch: Ukrainian Forces Destroy Russian Armored TracklayerPro-Russia Militia Says It's Knocking Ukrainian Forces Out of Severodonetsk Industrial Zone Start your unlimited Newsweek trial
Mizintsev said the Russian army along with a militia from Luhansk would open a humanitarian corridor on Wednesday to allow civilians from the Azot plant to evacuate. However, he said the humanitarian corridor would lead toward Svatovo in an area held by separatists.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has continued to lobby Western leaders for more military aid. In a speech Wednesday, Zelensky said President Joe Biden had announced a new $1 billion support package including coastal defense, artillery and modern rocket systems, which he called "especially important for our defense in Donbas."
Mikhail Mizintsev, chief of Russia's National Defense Management Center, on Tuesday appealed to Ukraine to surrender as fighting continues in Severodonetsk, while also promising to allow civilians to evacuate. Mizintsev's statement comes as hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians have taken refuge in the city's Azot chemical plant.
"Severodonetsk is a key point in the defense operation system of Luhansk region," he said. "The city can not be considered otherwise. Everyone who is in line today is a hero."
Mizintsev told the Russian TASS news agency that Russia promised prisoners of war they would be kept alive and in compliance with international standards set by the Geneva Convention.
Severodonetsk is seen as a potentially decisive battleground in Russia's aim to establish dominance in the eastern Ukrainian Donbas region, home to a large population of Russian speakers and Moscow-friendly separatists.
Speaking to TASS on Wednesday, Mizintsev said Ukrainian forces "cynically disrupted the humanitarian operation," halting the evacuation of civilians from the Azot plant and violating a ceasefire."
A representative of the Luhansk People's Republic, a Moscow-backed breakaway region in eastern Ukraine, said last week that about 300 to 400 Ukrainian soldiers were blocked at the Azot chemical facility in Severodonetsk along with nearly 500 civilians taking refuge in its bomb shelter.
A Russian military official is urging Ukraine's government to give up its fight for an eastern Ukrainian city critical to Moscow's war effort.
Serhiy Haidai, a Ukrainian regional governor, said earlier this week that Russian forces had destroyed the last bridge out of Severodonetsk as they took control of 70 to 80 percent of the city.
