RussiaUkraine war new highlights West remains wary of Russias scale down claim Moscow has repeatedly fired hypersonic missiles says US General
20220329
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/other/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-russia-backed-donetsk-peoples-republic-will-consider-joining-russia-leader-russia-has-repeatedly-fired-hypersonic-missiles-at-ukraine/ar-AAVBLPu
Britain does not want to see anything less than a complete withdrawal of Russian forces from the Ukrainian territory and will judge Russia by its actions rather than words, Prime Minister Boris Johnsons spokesperson said Tuesday. Earlier Tuesday, Moscow said it will drastically reduce military activity on two fronts  Kyiv and Chernihiv. The British government acknowledged that there has been a reduction in Russian bombardment around Kyiv, the spokesperson added. CNN
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will meet the de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates in Morocco on Tuesday in a bid to ease disagreements with Washington's traditional Gulf allies over oil, Iran and the Ukraine crisis. The meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan will be his most important during a regional trip that unusually for a secretary of state did not include any stops in Gulf monarchies or talks with Saudi officials.
Ukraine and a number of non-NATO countries have been invited to attend part of a two-day meeting of NATO foreign ministers next week, according to a statement from the military alliance headquartered in Brussels. NATO said the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Australia, Finland, Georgia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Sweden and Ukraine, as well as the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs will attend one session of the meeting on April 7. CNN
Information technology companies are focused on providing reliable information and stymying Russian propaganda about the invasion of Ukraine, the CEO of Google and Alphabet Inc. said Tuesday. Sundar Pichai met with Polands Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Warsaw to discuss ways of aiding the people of war-torn Ukraine. We are also working to make sure that trustworthy and helpful information gets to people through our products, Pichai said after the meeting. That includes air raid alerts to Ukrainians as well as information about shelters and humanitarian aid. We are also blocking channels and apps associated with Russias state-funded media, Pichai said.
Russia's promise to scale down military operations around Kyiv and northern Ukraine does not represent a ceasefire, Moscow's lead negotiator in talks with Ukraine said on Tuesday. "This is not a ceasefire but this is our aspiration, gradually to reach a de-escalation of the conflict at least on these fronts," Vladimir Medinsky said in an interview with the TASS news agency, referring to the promise to scale down operations near the cities of Kyiv and Chernihiv.
US general says there "could be" an intel gap that caused the US to overestimate Russia's capabilities
Belgium has decided to expel 21 Russian diplomats for activities related to espionage or unlawful influence peddling. The diplomats were given two weeks to leave the country, foreign affairs spokeswoman Elke Pattyn told The Associated Press on Tuesday.
A superyacht named Phi' owned by a Russian billionaire became the first-ever vessel to be detained in London on Tuesday under the UK government's sanctions over the ongoing war in Ukraine. Officers from the National Crime Agency's NCA new Combatting Kleptocracy Cell said they served a detention notice on the 38-million pounds superyacht docked at Canary Wharf. Following what the agency said was fast-paced work by intelligence officers in the cell, supported by the Border Force Maritime Intelligence Bureau, the ultimate owner of the vessel was identified and the yacht recommended for sanction. Today we've detained a 38-million pounds superyacht and turned an icon of Russia's power and wealth into a clear and stark warning to Russian President Putin and his cronies, said UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps.Detaining the 'Phi' proves, yet again, that we can and will take the strongest possible action against those seeking to benefit from Russian connections, he said. Owned by an unnamed Russian businessman, Phi' is the third biggest yacht built by prestigious shipbuilders Royal Huisman and includes what the builders call an infinite wine cellar and "patented fresh-water swimming pool".
Russia has repeatedly fired hypersonic missiles at Ukrainian military targets, the top U.S. military commander in Europe, Air Force General Tod Wolters, told a Senate hearing on Tuesday. "Most of those strikes have been designated at specific military targets," Wolters said. Russia announced on March 19 that it used hypersonic Kinzhal Dagger missiles to destroy a large weapons depot in Ukraine's western Ivano-Frankivsk region.
Gold prices fell to a near two-week low on Tuesday as elevated U.S. Treasury yields continued to impede zero-yield bullion's appeal, with investors also tracking key talks between Russia and Ukraine.Spot gold had dipped 0.5 to $1,914.52 per ounce by 1046 GMT, touching $1,908.91, its lowest since March 16, earlier in the session. USgold futures GCv1 dropped 1.5 to $1,910.10."$1,900 is probably a good support line, regardless of what happens today." ActivTrades senior analyst Ricardo Evangelista said, adding only a concrete de-escalation on the ground in Ukraine would trigger a sharp fall in prices.Ukrainian and Russian negotiators met in Turkey on Tuesday for face-to-face talks, with Kyiv seeking a ceasefire without compromising on territory or sovereignty. Russia's invasion of its neighbour has gone on for over a month, albeit stalled on several fronts.
The spiritual leader of the world's Orthodox Christians on Tuesday denounced Russia's invasion of Ukraine as an atrocious" act that is causing enormous suffering. Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I didn't mention Russia by name in comments made during a visit to Warsaw after meeting with Ukrainian refugees. Poland has accepted the largest number of people fleeing the war in Ukraine.
With more than 1,000 seafarers stranded on ships in Ukrainian ports and food supplies running low, the United Nations is pressing for their safe passage out of danger but security risks and disagreements are hobbling those efforts, maritime sources say. Russia's military took control of waterways when it invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, in what Moscow calls a "special operation". Since then at least 100 foreign-flagged ships with over 1,000 seafarers have been stuck inside Ukrainian ports with food supplies running low, shipping officials say.
Gujarat's electricity generation costs went up significantly due to the Russia-Ukraine war and rise in coal prices but the financial burden was borne by the state government and was not passed on to citizens, state energy minister Kanubhai Desai told the Assembly on Tuesday. Desai was addressing the House on the budgetary demands of the state's energy department. "Due to the Ukraine war and rising cost of coal in recent times, our electricity generation cost went up to Rs 3,000 crore. However, the entire cost was borne by the government without increasing power tariffs of citizens, farmers etc," he said.
The US president is holding a phone call with the leaders of France, Germany, Italy and the UK to discuss the latest developments in the Ukraine crisis. Joe Biden was in Brussels and Poland last week where he took part in a Nato summit and met the leaders in person. BBC
The UN nuclear watchdogs director-general arrived in Ukraine on Tuesday for talks with senior government officials on delivering urgent technical assistance to ensure the safety of the countrys nuclear facilities, the agency said. The International Atomic Energy Agency said Rafael Mariano Grossis aim is to to initiate prompt safety and security support for Ukraines nuclear sites. That will include sending IAEA experts to prioritized facilities, which it didnt identify, and sending vital safety and security supplies including monitoring and emergency equipment. It said that Grossi will travel to one of Ukraines nuclear power plants this week, but didnt say which one. Ukraine has 15 nuclear reactors at four active power plants, and also is home to the decommissioned Chernobyl plant, the site of the 1986 nuclear disaster. Russian forces have taken control of Chernobyl and of the largest active power plant, at Zaporizhzhia.
USPresident Joe Biden will talk to the leaders of France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom on Tuesday to discuss the latest developments in Russias invasion of Ukraine, the White House said.Biden is scheduled to convene the call with French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson at 9.15 am, it said.The call comes amid peace talks between Russia and Ukraine in Istanbul on Tuesday in which Moscow promised to scale back its military operations near the Ukrainian cities of Kyiv and Chernihiv and Ukraine proposed a neutral status with international security guarantees while maintaining its territory.Biden returned from Europe where he visited with top European leaders in person and attended a North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO summit on the Western response to Russia's more than month-long invasion of neighboring Ukraine.
The UK has ordered its first ever detention of a superyacht in British waters, the government says. It says the 38m yacht, named Phi, is owned by an unnamed Russian businessman, but that its ownership is "deliberately well hidden". The transport secretary Grant Shapps says the move is "a clear and stark warning to Putin and his cronies". The UK has already introduced a raft of sanctions against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine. Phi was first identified as being potentially Russian-owned on 13 March, the government says. BBC
US markets headed higher in premarket trading on Tuesday as another round of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine got underway. On Wall Street, the futures for the SP 500 and the Dow industrials gained 0.6, and global shares rose while crude oil prices fell again after sinking 7 on Monday.
World share markets surged and global borrowing costs climbed on Tuesday, as the first face-to-face talks between warring Russia and Ukraine in nearly three weeks yielded signs of progress. US stock indices jumped over 0.5, Europe's main bourses enjoyed 1 to 2.5 gains, and oil tumbled 4 as Russia's deputy defence minister emerged saying Moscow has decided to drastically cut military activity around Ukraine's capital Kyiv and also Chernihiv.
The US has not seen "signs of real seriousness" from Russia about pursuing peace since it invaded Ukraine, Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said. Blinken made the comments after Russia and Ukraine held peace talks earlier today and Moscow announced it would "drastically reduce" combat operations in the Kyiv and Chernihiv in order to "boost mutual trust". BBC
Russia announced on Tuesday the expulsion of 10 diplomats from the three Baltic states in a tit-for-tat response, including three diplomats each from Estonia and Latvia, and four from Lithuania. The three Baltic nations expelled a total of 10 Russian diplomats in a coordinated move earlier this month.Latvia said the Russian diplomats' activities had been at odds with their diplomatic status and that the decision to expel them had also taken into account Russia's invasion of Ukraine.Russia's foreign ministry said in its statement on Tuesday that it had called in the ambassadors of the three countries to complain about what it described as the "provocative" and "groundless" action taken against its diplomats.Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia were all once part of the Soviet Union and are now members of both NATO and the European Union. They have strongly backed Western sanctions imposed on Moscow over its actions in Ukraine.
India has gone through a very "complicated and challenging time" in negotiating its diplomatic stand on the Ukraine-Russia conflict, and because of its multiple interests with other countries, it's been a "bit of dancing on a tightrope," Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor said on Tuesday. He was responding to a question during an interaction in New Delhi after inaugurating a three-day photo exhibition, 'Ukraine Untold Glimpse', on how the country looked barely a month before the war began. "India has gone through a very complicated and challenging time in negotiating as it were its own stand on the Ukraine-Russia crisis. There is no doubt that India in its very first statement seemed to be a little unwilling to say anything that the Russians will be upset about," he said. On India's stand on the conflict, Tharoor said, "In our subsequent statements while we have continued to abstain at UN, we have been a little more vocal on reiterating the principles and our diplomacy has taken into account the multifarious interests we have to look after". While with Russia, India has the "dependency" on military relationship, with the West, we have a "warning relationship" and "we can't antagonise them". "We are a member of Quad and we don't want US to take its eyes off the Indo-Pacific and focus purely on Europe. And then with Ukraine itself, we had to pull out 23,000 Indian citizens, mainly students, in the first few weeks," the Lok Sabha MP said. "So, because of all these interests, there is a bit of dancing on a tightrope," he added.
Russia promised at peace talks on Tuesday to drastically scale down its military operations around Kyiv and the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv, while Ukraine proposed neutral status with international guarantees to protect it from attack. Ukrainian negotiators said they had proposed a status under which their country would not join alliances or host bases of foreign troops, but would have its security guaranteed in terms similar to "Article 5", the collective defence clause of NATO.They identified Israel and NATO members Canada, Poland and Turkey as countries that could help provide such guarantees.The proposals would include a 15-year consultation period on the status of Russian-annexed Crimea, and could come into force only in the event of a complete ceasefire, the Ukrainian negotiators told reporters in Istanbul.Russian Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin said Russia had decided to scale down fighting near Kyiv and Chernihiv to create the conditions for dialogue.Top Russian negotiator Vladimir Medinsky said he would examine the Ukrainian proposals and report on them to President Vladimir Putin.
Johnson  Johnson said on Tuesday it would halt sale of personal care products in Russia, joining other companies that have limited their business in the country in response to its invasion of Ukraine. JJ said it would continue to supply medicines and medical devices in the region as those are excluded from Western sanctions. It will, however, not enroll more patients in clinical drug trials it was running in Russia, it said earlier. The company, which gets about 1 of its sales from Russia, has previously said that half of its business in the region is pharmaceuticals and a majority of its product portfolio from its consumer health business comes within the essential health space of over-the-counter medicines.
The Netherlands has expelled 17 Russian intelligence agents who were accredited as diplomats, based on information from its own security services, the foreign affairs ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. "The reason for this decision is information from the AIVD and MIVD showing that the individuals in question, accredited as diplomats at the Russian representations in the Netherlands, are secretly active as intelligence officers," the ministry said. Dutch foreign minister Wopke Hoekstra said the government was prepared for any retaliation by Moscow.
Western officials say Russia is building up troops in eastern Ukraine, but it's too soon to say whether Moscow's claim to be scaling back operations around Kyiv is true. Officials familiar with the intelligence picture said Tuesday that Moscow is reinforcing troops in the Donbas in an attempt to encircle Ukraine's best-trained and best-equipped forces, which are concentrated in the eastern region. Moscow has said gaining control of the Donbas is now its main military goal in Ukraine.A Western official speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence said it's clear that Russia's tactics and strategies are changing but it's not yet clear what that prefigures. The British government also expressed scepticism about Russia's claims to be scaling back and its commitment to ending the war through talks.We will judge Putin and his regime by his actions, not by his words, said Max Blain, spokesman for Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
The Russian-backed self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic in eastern Ukraine may consider joining Russia once it controls all of Ukraine's Donetsk region, its news outlet cited separatist leader Denis Pushilin as saying on Tuesday. "The main task is to reach the constitutional borders of the republic. Then we will determine that," Pushilin was quoted by the Donetsk News Agency as saying.
The burnt wreckage of two Russian tanks with blown off turrets and several armoured personnel carriers attest the ferocity of last week's clashes in Lukyanivka village just outside Kyiv. The charred corpse of a Russian soldier lies in a field nearby. "There were mortars so strong that it was scary even in the cellar," Valeriy Hudym told Reuters on Sunday, two days after Ukrainian soldiers seized back control of Lukyanivka in a five-hour battle with the Russians. "Tanks were firing, artillery, and machine guns. Everything possible was there." More than a month since Russia's invasion, the defence of Ukraine's capital Kyiv has played out in ferocious fighting in places like Lukyanivka and the nearby town of Brovary to the east, Irpin and Bucha to the northwest and Makariv to the west.
Russian grandmaster Sergey Karjakin is considering appealing against his six-month ban from competition for supporting Russia's invasion of Ukraine, he told Russian news agency TASS on Tuesday. The 32-year-old, who challenged Magnus Carlsen for the world title in 2016, has defended his country's actions on social media in recent weeks, drawing intense criticism from the chess world. The ban puts Karjakin's participation in the Candidates Tournament, which starts on June 16, in doubt.
Russian communications regulator Roskomnadzor on Tuesday said it had drawn up two administrative cases against Alphabet Inc's Google for failing to remove banned information, accusing it of blatantly promoting false content. Roskomnadzor said Google could be fined up to 8 million roubles $91,533, or as much as 20 of the company's annual revenue in Russia for repeat offences. It said YouTube had become one of the key platforms involved in the "information war" against Russia. Google did not immediately respond to an emailed request for comment.
Gen. Tod Wolters, commander of US European Command, said there could be an intelligence gap in the US intelligence gathering that caused the US to overestimate Russias capability and underestimate Ukraines defensive capability in the current Ukraine crisis. Wolters made the comments during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Tuesday. When Sen. Roger Wicker, a Republican from Mississippi, asked if there was an intelligence gap that caused the US to overestimate Russia and underestimate Ukraine, Wolters said there could be." CNN
