Russian FSB identifies second suspect in Darya Dugina killing
20220829
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-fsb-identifies-second-suspect-in-darya-dugina-killing/ar-AA11fyXG
Other pro-Ukrainian figures have come to more outlandish conclusions that have gained traction on social media. Prominent pro-Ukrainian journalist and Wilson Center fellow Kamil Galeev suggested that her father, Russian ultranationalist philosopher Alexander Dugin, was likely aware of or even behind Dugina's killing, most probably in order to justify massive escalation against Ukraine on its independence day. He then seemed to endorse a theory from another prominent pro-Ukrainian journalist, Sergey Sumlenny, claiming that Dugin killed his daughter as an esoteric ritual sacrifice.
Russia's Federal Security Service identified a second suspect in Darya Dugina's killing, who it claims helped forge papers for the alleged assassin and build the car bomb that killed the nationalist figure.
"It has been established that Dugina's murder was devised by a member of a Ukrainian sabotage and terrorist group, who worked together with Vovk in Moscow," the FSB's Center for Public Relations told TASS on Monday. "That is Ukrainian citizen Bogdan Petrovich Tsyganenko, born in 1978, who arrived in Russia in transit through Estonia on July 30, 2022 and left Russian territory the day before Dugina's car exploded."
The suspect is a citizen of Ukraine who entered Russia from Estonia, worked closely with Natalya Vovk, the main suspect, and fled through Estonia the day before the bombing, the FSB told TASS.
Dugina's death earlier this month near Moscow has been the subject of a political firestorm in Russia, leading many to call for further escalation in the invasion of Ukraine. The FSB claims that it was Vovk who carried out the assassination as an agent of Ukrainian intelligence services. The newly identified suspect, Tsyganenko, is said to have assisted Vovk by giving her fake documents and license plates labeling her as a citizen of Kazakhstan and by assembling an improvised explosive device with her in a rented garage in southwest Moscow.
Ukraine fervently denies the accusations, saying it has nothing to do with the attack. Most pro-Ukrainian figures believe the attack was a false flag attack and it was carried out by the FSB itself.
Dugina has since become an icon in nationalist circles in Russia, with many hailing her as a martyr. Russian MP Leonid Slutsky, of the controversial Liberal Democratic Party, declared that a square in Kyiv would be renamed in her honor once the "denazification" of Ukraine had been completed, according to the BBC.
