Russia dismisses speculation over Vladimir Putins health
20220523
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russia-dismisses-speculation-over-vladimir-putins-health/ar-AAXTw0t
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
The Kremlin has refused to comment on speculation that Putin has fallen ill, amid claims the 70-year-old may have blood cancer.
Cancer specialists have also pointed out that Putin has appeared more bloated around the face and neck recently, leading to suggestions that he may be undergoing treatment with steroids.
The Russian president disappeared from public view for a month last September and now holds most of his public meetings at one end of a very long table  something the Kremlin has explained by referring to Covid restrictions.
Last week, a reputable Russian media outlet in exile quoted unnamed sources in the Kremlin as saying insiders were discussing a successor to Putin amid growing unease over the war in Ukraine.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Proyekt, an exiled Russian media outlet, released travel manifests and other documents last month which showed that Putin regularly gets visits from a thyroid cancer doctor.
You can watch him on screens, read and listen to his speeches. I leave it to the conscience of those people who spread such rumours.
Sign up to the Front Page newsletter for free: Your essential guide to the day's agenda from The Telegraph - direct to your inbox seven days a week.
Russias foreign minister on Monday denied speculation that Vladimir Putin was ill, saying the countrys president was entirely healthy.
Very few people are allowed to meet the Russian leader face to face, and discussions about his health have largely been taboo.
I dont think that sane people can see any signs of illness or ailment in this person, Sergei Lavrov said in response to a question about Putins health from a French television channel.
