Russia to send nuclearcapable missiles to Belarus  live updates
20220626
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-to-send-nuclear-capable-missiles-to-belarus-%e2%80%94-live-updates/ar-AAYS4sW
"In the coming months, we will transfer to Belarus Iskander-M tactical missile systems, which can use ballistic or cruise missiles, in their conventional and nuclear versions," Putin said in a broadcast on Russian television at the start of his meeting with Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko in Saint Petersburg.
Russian President Vladimir Putin promised to transfer the Iskander-M missile systems in their conventional and nuclear versions to Belarus, as Russian troops took full control of Sievierodonetsk. DW has the latest.  G7 summit kicks off in Germany under shadow of Ukraine war  Russia to send nuclear-capable missiles to Belarus
Germany is hosting the G7 summit from Sunday to Tuesday at the Elmau luxury resort in the Bavarian Alps.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday urged fellow G7 leaders not to "give up" on Ukraine four months into Russia's war. He also pledged fresh financial support for Kyiv.
Click here to catch up with all of Saturday's major developments regarding the war in Ukraine.
The Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk in Luhansk Oblast is now completely under Russian control, a senior official from Russia's Defense Ministry has said.
Proposals to jointly increase pressure on Russia, collective military and humanitarian support for Ukraine, and the impact of the conflict in driving energy and food prices sharply higher will be focal points at the summit.
Russia came down heavily on military sites in western and northern Ukraine with dozens of missiles targeting these locations.
Buildings and infrastructure at a nuclear research facility in the northeastern city of Kharkiv has been damaged by Russian shelling, Ukraine's State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said.
Russia intends to supply nuclear-capable Iskander-M missile systems to Belarus in the coming months, President Vladimir Putin said on Saturday.
Scholz has said it is important that the summit send a signal of united support for Ukraine.
Russia is drawing on reservists to replenish its forces in eastern Ukraine, the head of Ukraine's military intelligence has told Reuters news agency.
In a late-night video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his country had been hit by 45 Russian missiles over the previous 24 hours, which he described as a cynical attempt to break Ukrainians' spirits.
Putin also said Russia would help Belarus upgrade its fleet of Su-25 fighter jets to make them capable of carrying nuclear weapons.
Ukraine's largest LGBTQ rights event, KyivPride, has taken place jointly with Warsaw's annual Equality Parade owing to restrictions imposed in Ukraine amid Russia's invasion.
World leaders began arriving on Saturday, including US President Joe Biden. As well as attending the summit, Biden is due to meet for bilateral talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
