Russian troops firing missiles from Europes largest nuclear plant amid warning of Chernobylstyle disaster
20220808
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/russian-troops-firing-missiles-from-europe-s-largest-nuclear-plant-amid-warning-of-chernobyl-style-disaster/ar-AA10pMYn
The Zaporizhzhia plant was captured by Russian forces in early March in the opening stage of the war, though it is still being run by Ukrainian technicians.
Ukraines state nuclear power firm said Russian forces damaged three radiation sensors at the facility in renewed shelling on Saturday night, wounding a worker with shrapnel.
Viral TikTok trend asks people to find their soulmates through the phases of the moon
The power plant was experiencing a catalogue of things that should never be happening in any nuclear facility, the IAEAs director general stressed.
And this is why I have been insisting from day one that we have to be able to go there to perform this safety and security evaluation, to do the repairs and to assist as we already did in Chernobyl, he said.
Energoatom said the latest Russian rocket attacks hit the plants dry storage facility, where 174 containers with spent nuclear fuel were stored in the open air.
Russia has been accused of firing missiles from the largest nuclear power plant in Europe, despite warnings that retaliation could cause a Chernobyl-style disaster.
As well as strikes reportedly being launched from the plant, the power station has also been hit by attacks that both sides have blamed on each other.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Rafael Grossi said that patchy communication from the Zaporizhzhia facility and his organisations inability to visit the site were deeply concerning.
Keir Starmer refuses eight times to say when he first approached Sue Gray for Labour job
It comes as the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA warned that the situation at Zaporizhzhia is completely out of control and is getting more dangerous each day.
Though Russia has denied launching strikes from the plant, reports from Ukraine suggest military trucks were seen entering and exiting the power station.
Meanwhile, Moscow said Ukraine had struck the Russian-installed administration of occupied Enerhodar, where the plants employees live, using a 220-mm Uragan multiple rocket launcher system.
Consequently, timely detection and response in the event of a deterioration in the radiation situation or leakage of radiation from containers of spent nuclear fuel are not yet possible, it said.
Russian nuclear terror requires a stronger response from the international community  sanctions on the Russian nuclear industry and nuclear fuel, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky wrote on Twitter.
It is now reported that heavy artillery is being used next to Zaporizhzhia to blast missiles across the River Dnieper in southern Ukraine.
Mr Grossi said Fridays shelling showed the risk of a nuclear disaster. Those shells hit a high-voltage power line, prompting the plants operators to disconnect a reactor despite no radioactive leak being detected.
