Russian Troops Fire Flurry of Rockets at Ukrainian Targets Overnight
20220609
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-troops-fire-flurry-of-rockets-at-ukrainian-targets-overnight/ar-AAYhfyN
Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, Vassily Nebenzia, walked out of a Security Council meeting this week after his country was blamed by European Council president Charles Michel for triggering a global food crisis.
The Russian Ministry of Defense MoD said the unit used the Hurricane multi-launch rocket system MLRS to attack Ukrainian positions.
The MoD shared footage Thursday of troops preparing the rocket-launch systems and shooting rockets into the nighttime sky.
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
The Ukrainian military said that Ukrainian positions had come under "intense fire" around Avdiivka, Novopavlivska, and Zaporizhzhia.
Video shows the moment Russian soldiers reportedly fired a barrage of rockets at Ukrainian targets at night.
According to the Russian military, reconnaissance teams communicated the coordinates of the Ukrainian strongholds for artillerymen to launch a barrage of rockets.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday in the first assault on the Ukrainian capital in weeks.
Satellite imagery has shown significant damage in the key eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk, where heavy fighting is ongoing.
The MoD stated: "After receiving the coordinates of the targets from the military personnel of unmanned aircraft and intelligence data, the crews of the 220-mm Uragan multiple launch rocket systems of the Western Military District attacked the identified enemy positions."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russian attacks on the cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk has turned them into "dead cities." But he added that Ukrainian forces could still hold Severodonetsk despite being outnumbered.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." June 9 marks the 106th day of the campaign.
It added that siege operations were underway around Slovyansk and that Russia had also intensified its aircraft use around Bakhmut.
More than 1,000 Ukrainian troops captured in Mariupol have been transferred to Russia, according to Russian media.
The United Kingdom and the United States are sending long-range missile systems to Ukraine despite warnings by Russian President Vladimir Putin that more attacks in Ukraine can be expected if the West sends long-range weapons.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine has reported that between February 24 and June 9, Russia had lost 31,700 personnel, 1,398 tanks, 3,438 armored fighting vehicles, 711 artillery units, 213 multiple launch rocket systems, 96 anti-aircraft systems, 212 planes, 178 helicopters, 2,421 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 ships and boats, 562 drones, 53 special equipment units and 125 cruise missiles.
The European Parliament has adopted a resolution recommending that the European Union grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for EU membership. 438 members of the European Parliament voted in favor of the resolution, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
