Russia Thinks Ukraine Is About to Give In to Its Demands
20220316
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-thinks-ukraine-is-about-to-give-in-to-its-demands/ar-AAV8Ff6
Occupiers began to fire on columns of buses, fire on residential areas and points where people gathered for evacuation, she said in a video statement Wednesday, noting that Russian troops are also unleashing artillery fire from inside a hospital they seized along with hostages in Mariupol.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken also appeared to caution against optimism in an interview with NPR published Wednesday.
Despite the relatively optimistic assessments, however, there were still plenty of signs the war was far from over. Hours before the Kremlin dangled a chance for compromise, Putin claimed Ukrainian leaders werent showing a serious attitude about reaching a deal.
Weve seen the brutality that Vladimir Putin has brought to this. We know his track record in Chechnya. We know the track record of what hes aided and abetted in Syria. I think we have to expect the same, he said.
The deal would also require Ukraine to refrain from hosting any foreign military bases as part of a vow to remain neutral.
In the same interview, he went on to claim, against all evidence, that Russia has nothing against the Ukrainian people its forces have spent the past 21 days relentlessly bombing.
Efforts are still needed, we still have to fight and workeveryone in their place, he said in a video address, adding that meetings continue.
Mykhailo Podolyak, a top adviser to the Ukrainian president, told the FT the deal would call for the troops of the Russian Federation in any case leaving the territory of Ukraine seized since the invasion began three weeks ago.
Russia says a deal with Ukraine is looking more likely after the Ukrainian president said the country will likely not be admitted to NATO.
Three weeks into Moscows brutal all-out war against Ukraineand as Russian troops continue to target civilians and bomb Ukrainian citiessources cited by the Financial Times on Wednesday said a tentative 15-point peace plan is under discussion by Ukraine and Russia that would see Kyiv give up its ambitions to join the Western alliance.
We have never had any grievances against the Ukrainian people. I am sure that the vast majority of our citizens have no problems or grievances against the Ukrainian people, just as the Ukrainian people have never had any grievances against Russia, he said, adding that, I personally have many Ukrainian friends.
Some changes in the rhetoric of Ukrainian leaders about a more realistic perception of what is happening are encouraging, Lavrov said in an interview with RBC on Tuesday, adding that there is a chance for peace.
His comments came after Volodymyr Zelensky publicly cast doubt on the countrys prospects for joining NATO and the same morning the Ukrainian president addressed the U.S. Congress.
We are at a fork in the road now. There will either be a peace deal struck very quickly, within a week or two, with troop withdrawal and everything, or there will be an attempt to scrape together some, say, Syrians for a round two and, when we grind them too, an agreement by mid-April or late April, he said.
Oleksiy Arestovich, an adviser to the Ukrainian president, went even further and predicted the war could be over by May.
News of the proposed agreement broke shortly after Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the Kremlin was more optimistic about striking a deal with Ukrainian leaders now that they have demonstrated some changes in rhetoric.
While he said U.S. sanctions that have devastated Russias economy are not designed to be permanent and could go away if Russia halted its aggression, he stressed that the Biden administration would not be satisfied with a troop withdrawal alone. Any such pullout would have to be irreversible, he said, with assurances made that this cant happen again, that Russia wont pick up and do exactly what its doing in a year or two years or three years.
For years we have been hearing about how the door is supposedly open to NATO membership but now we hear that we cannot enter. And it is true, and it must be acknowledged, Zelensky said during an address Tuesday.
The Kremlin also floated the idea of Ukraine becoming a neutral country with its own army, with spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying that could be viewed as a certain kind of compromise.
He cited Zelenskys remarks about NATO specifically as a sign that cool-headedness is making its way through.
I think that no later than in May, early May, we should have a peace agreement, maybe much earlier, we will see, I am talking about the latest possible dates, he said in a Tuesday video statement.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereschchuk said Russian forces were also derailing evacuation efforts and ignoring cease-fire agreements, targeting civilians directly.
Zelensky, meanwhile, said Russias stance in negotiations had become more realistic as the two sides prepare to resume talks.
It was not clear what sort of terms the agreement would lay out for territories of Ukraine seized by Moscow and its separatist fighters back in 2014, as Kyiv has for years refused to recognize their independence.
His remarks were interpreted by some as a concession to Moscow, which has long demanded that Kyiv give up any ambitions to join the alliance, a move which it claims poses a direct threat to all of Russia. Putin used Ukraines refusal to rule out joining the alliance as a pretext to launch the war that has decimated Ukrainian cities and already killed tens of thousands of civilians.
