Russian forces close in on takeover of eastern Ukrainian province
20220601
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/newsworld/russian-forces-close-in-on-takeover-of-eastern-ukrainian-province/ar-AAXUWXF
I am horrified to see Severodonetsk, the thriving city where we had our operational headquarters, become the epicenter of yet another chapter of the brutal war in Ukraine, he said, adding that near-constant bombardment had left civilians with precious few opportunities to escape and that fighting had made aid deliveries impossible.
Amid the fighting, two Russian soldiers were convicted of war crimes by a Ukrainian court, which sentenced each man to 11 years in prison. Alexander Bobykin and Alexander Ivanov were charged with shelling civilian buildings in the Kharkiv region Feb. 24, the first day of the Russian invasion. It is the second war-crimes trial since the conflict began.
The finger-pointing over food supplies comes as the European Union approved a sixth package of sanctions aimed at isolating Moscow and starving it of funds to pursue the war. The package includes an embargo on seaborne deliveries of Russian oil by year's end, which would stop roughly two-thirds of Moscows exports to Europe. The required unanimous consent of all 27 EU states was hard-won, with landlocked countries, especially Hungary, successfully demanding that pipeline oil deliveries be excluded from the ban.
Staying in Slovyansk now was just not possible. Maybe we can go back sometime. I just dont know."
In grim proof of his words, French journalist Frederic Leclerc-Imhoff, 32, was killed Monday when Russian bombardment of a road outside Severodonetsk struck a vehicle evacuating civilians from the city, Ukrainian and French officials said.
Denis Pushilin said ships still in Mariupol's port  Ukrainian or foreign  would be commandeered and re-flagged.
Our offensive is proceeding perhaps not as fast as we would like," Pasechnik said in an interview with Russian state news agency Tass. "But above all, we want to preserve the infrastructure of the city as much as possible.
Volunteers and Ukrainian soldiers were collecting people  especially the elderly and infirm  and arranging transportation to Kramatorsk and, further west, to the rail hub of Dnipro. Special trains were moving residents to safer zones farther west. In some cases, volunteers were hoisting evacuees who use wheelchairs into trains in the Dnipro station. Those just arriving from the east were being taken to shelters for the night.
Some of the ships will be transferred to the jurisdiction" of the breakaway republic, Pushilin told Tass on Tuesday. "The relevant decisions have already been made. The flags that will be on them are also already clear.
Unfortunately, the front line divides the city in half. But the city is still defending itself, the city is still Ukrainian, our soldiers are defending it, Mayor Oleksandr Striuk said in an interview Tuesday with a Ukrainian broadcaster. He urged residents to remain in their shelters, adding that aid stockpiles would last a few more days.
The boy stared blankly at the waiting train. His grandmother, exhausted, was silent as she rested on a wheelchair at the station, awaiting the next move.
As the battle for Severodonetsk intensifies, up to 12,000 civilians remain caught in the crossfire without sufficient access to water, food, medicine or electricity, Jan Egeland, secretary-general of the Norwegian Refugee Council aid group, said in a statement Tuesday.
Like many other families, hers had already endured relocation in 2014, when pro-Russian forces seized a portion of the Donbas, sparking an eight-year war that killed more than 14,000 people and left the area divided before the current invasion.
A combined force of Russian troops, Chechen fighters and pro-Moscow separatists slugged their way deeper into Severodonetsk, the Ukrainian governments seat of power in the province of Luhansk, seizing a sizable portion of a city that has been almost completely destroyed in the fighting.
At a news conference in Bahrain on Tuesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that if Ukraine de-mined its coastal waters, then the Russian navy would guarantee grain-bearing ships' passage.
On the ground in Ukraine, Moscow is seeking to solidify its control of conquered territory. In the beleaguered city of Mariupol, the target of an all-out Russian assault that ended earlier this month when Ukrainian holdouts surrendered their positions, the Moscow-installed separatist leader of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic said the breakaway region would have its own "merchant navy."
Earlier, the Moscow-backed leader of the self-proclaimed breakaway Luhansk Peoples Republic, Leonid Pasechnik, said one-third of Severodonetsk was in Russian hands, adding that his forces controlled 95 of Luhansk's territory.
"If this problem is solved ... then on the high seas, the Russian naval forces will ensure the unhindered passage of these ships to the Mediterranean Sea and further to their destinations," Lavrov said, adding that "everything that depends on Russia is guaranteed."
Were just happy to be getting out alive  the world needs to know whats happening here, said Nina Shatanko, 50, of Slovyansk, who was boarding a train for central Ukraine after being evacuated along with her son, Oleksiy, 14, and mother-in-law, Elena Shatanko, 88.
And in the Russian-controlled Kherson region, a Moscow-appointed official said Tuesday that the area would soon become part of Russia, according to a report from the Russian RIA Novosti news agency, which said the region would be integrated into Russia's banking system.
Over the weekend, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the Russian assault had already destroyed all of Severodonetsk's critical infrastructure. Another city official last week said about 90 of residential buildings in the city were damaged.
"Certainly we cannot prevent Russia selling their oil to someone else," the EU's chief diplomat, Josep Borrell, said in Brussels on Tuesday. "We're not so powerful, but we are the most important client for Russia."
She said the stress had been too much for her husband, who died three years ago.
Ukrainian officials fear a similar scenario playing out in the Donbas, where Kyiv's hold is steadily slipping as its forces wait for Western weapons deliveries, including U.S. long-range rocket systems. President Biden on Monday said he would not send Ukraine any weapons with ranges that could reach targets inside Russia.
Its very hard on both of them, to have to give up everything and relocate, Shatanko said. But what choice did we have? Slovyansk is terrible now  shelling all the time. No one wants to die.
This is the volume that was to enter the foreign market. And Russia's blockade of our exports is destabilizing the situation on a truly global scale, he said.
Who would have thought this would happen again? Shatanko asked. And this time its much worse. ...
Ukrainian forces desperately tried to block a complete Russian takeover of one of the countrys two eastern provinces Tuesday, with Russian troops clawing out incremental gains even as European leaders agreed to a partial oil embargo aimed at starving Moscows mammoth war machine.
The large-scale evacuation of civilians from towns and villages in the Donbas increased Tuesday ahead of an expected offensive on Slovyansk and Kramatorsk, the two cities in Donetsk province whose capture would allow Russian troops to encircle a large portion of Ukrainian troops.
Zelensky also accused Moscow of blocking Ukraines Black Sea ports, preventing the export of 22 million tons of grain, a move he said could exacerbate a global food crisis.
Other sanctions include cutting off Sberbank, Russias largest bank, from SWIFT, the international money transfer network, along with the banning of Russian state-owned broadcasters.
In his overnight address to the nation, Zelensky acknowledged the extremely difficult situation in the eastern region of Donbas, which comprises Luhansk and Donetsk provinces, where he said the maximum combat power of the Russian army is now gathered.
