RussiaUkraine live updates Putin sends warning with planned ICBM test leaders boycott G20 meeting over Russia
20220420
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-ukraine-live-updates-new-deadline-for-mariupol-surrender-nears-west-sends-fighter-jets-to-kyiv/ar-AAWo9nk
While Secretary Yellen and our partners will continue to work in solidarity to advance the important business of the G-20, she will also voice our strong condemnation of Russian President Vladimir Putins brutality and make it clear that the benefits and privileges of the leading economic institutions of the world  which we helped create after World War II  are reserved for countries that demonstrate respect for the core principles that underpin peace and security across the world, said a Treasury Department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the departments views.
Putin also claimed that the Sarmat missile was made using exclusively domestically manufactured parts  an apparent shot at Western sanctions, which have kept Moscow from obtaining critical components for other weapons systems it has relied on in its assault on Ukraine.
The weapon will provide food for thought to those who in the heat of frenzied aggressive rhetoric try to threaten our country, Putin said in televised remarks. The Pentagon said Wednesday that the United States was properly notified of the test, which it said did not come as a surprise to Washington.
We are talking to them about those production lines, about the health of those production lines, and whether those production lines need expansion or acceleration, the senior defense official said of ongoing conversations with defense contractors.
The greatest exodus came during March, when an estimated 3.3 million Ukrainians  including those with dual citizenship  fled the conflict. Many more have remained in the country but have had to move to other areas because of heavy fighting.
Ukraines nuclear regulator has reestablished direct communications with the defunct Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the International Atomic Energy Agency said in a statement Tuesday, after Russian troops late last month withdrew from the site of the 1986 disaster.
The finance ministers of the Group of 20 are set to start meetings Wednesday morning in Washington as tensions among world leaders soar.
I dont know when we will be able to unblock Mariupol, Zelensky said at the news conference, alongside European Council President Charles Michel.
Apparent interview footage of him later emerged, including on a Russian talk show. A photo circulating online showed Aslin in handcuffs. In one video, he and another British man who fought in Ukraine appealed to be freed as part of a potential prisoner swap. It was unclear how freely they were speaking, appearing to be prompted at points by an unidentified man.
The British national was part of the resistance to Russian advances in Ukraines besieged port city of Mariupol before he told an American friend that his commander was planning to surrender the unit, The Post previously reported. Russian forces have cornered Ukrainian fighters in a sprawling steel plant after an assault that pummeled the southern city and a siege that cut off vital supplies.
We will halve oil by the summer and be at zero by the end of the year, and then gas will follow, she said during a visit to Riga in comments reported by Der Spiegel magazine. The end of gas imports will be decided in a common European road map, Baerbock said.
In the first scenario, he said the Ukrainian fighters there need serious and heavy weapons to stave off Russian troops and evacuate civilians, but he added, so far we do not have enough of these weapons.
The drop comes amid a larger trend of shrinking viewership, with the streaming service projecting that it will lose a further 2 million subscribers in the next three-month quarter ending in June.
The Pentagon has in the past day sent four more flights carrying weapons for Ukraine, including howitzers, and has launched training, in another country in the region, for Ukrainian forces on how to use them, a senior U.S. defense official said Wednesday.
Sarmat is the most powerful missile with the longest range of destruction of targets in the world, which will significantly increase the combat power of our countrys strategic nuclear forces, the Russian Defense Ministry said Wednesday, announcing a successful test launch from the Plesetsk cosmodrome in the Arkhangelsk region.
The gunshot that killed her disturbs him less than the way her body was treated later.
For Moscow, a victory in Donbas would be a welcome diversion from its failed offensive in Ukraines north. It would also give Russia a critical piece of Ukrainian territory, depriving Kyiv of its industrial heartland.
The annual cyber war games started Tuesday and were organized out of Tallinn, the capital of Estonia  which faced a blistering digital attack in 2007 that shut down government and financial websites for days in an apparent Kremlin response to the removal of a Soviet-era statue in the countrys capital. It was the first known example of a major nation-on-nation cyberattack. The Kremlin denied responsibility for the attack.
Kyiv region: Ukrainian investigators have examined 269 bodies since the town of Irpin on Kyivs outskirts was taken back from Russian forces in late March, Reuters reported, citing a police official. Dozens of new graves have been dug in a cemetery on the towns outskirts.
Vereshchuk has repeatedly spoken about the difficulties of helping civilians reach safety since humanitarian corridors were opened, often recounting how Russian forces on the ground have thwarted evacuation efforts.
British defense officials say Russian air activity in northern Ukraine is likely to remain low after the Kremlin abandoned its bid to seize Kyiv and turned its focus to the countrys south and east.
I want to express my gratitude to everyone who took part in the development and production of the new complex, Putin said. I would like to emphasize that when creating the Sarmat, only domestic components, components and parts were used, which will simplify the serial production of the Sarmat.
After seizing the plant soon after the Feb. 24 invasion, Russian forces disconnected it from Ukraines national power grid, stirring concerns of dangerous radiation leaks, Ukrainian officials said March 9. Electricity is needed for cooling, ventilation and fire-extinguishing systems at Chernobyl.
The letters follow a proposal issued by Guterres this week for both sides to declare a humanitarian pause in fighting to allow evacuations and aid during the four-day Orthodox Christian Holy Week that begins Thursday.
A growing majority of Swedes favor joining NATO, an opinion poll showed Wednesday, according to Reuters. The poll found that 57 percent of Swedes support joining NATO, an increase from 51 percent in March.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, said Tuesday that Russia was shelling the steel plant with powerful anti-bunker bombs. Hundreds of civilians are also said to be sheltering there.
It is in this direction that we will focus our efforts today, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said early Wednesday on Telegram. We managed to agree in advance on a humanitarian corridor for women, children and the elderly.
Last month, after officials expedited her application, Olinichenko and her girls landed at the international airport in Tel Aviv, greeted with a red carpet and cheering crowds. I can eat, I can sleep, my children are okay, she said, exhaling deeply, from the sun-drenched lobby of a four-star seaside hotel.
Treasury can and will target those who evade, attempt to evade, or aid the evasion of U.S. sanctions against Russia, as they are helping support Putins brutal war of choice, Brian E. Nelson, the undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence said in a news release.
She said Russia doesnt have control of its on-the-ground military, making a proper cease-fire for evacuation efforts difficult to achieve.
Last week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky requested lethal arms during an address to South Korean lawmakers. The same week, Ukraines ambassador to Seoul called off a planned visit to a South Korean arms manufacturer that produces missiles, after the trip was leaked to the press, a local newspaper reported.
Street fighting and shelling thwarted several attempts at shuttling people out of Mariupol and prevented a Red Cross team from reaching the city to help evacuate civilians this month. Mariupols mayor, Vadym Boychenko, said early Wednesday that authorities hoped up to 6,000 people could leave the southern city on the Sea of Azov in 90 buses, but he added that the plan was preliminary.
OFAC also will target companies operating in Russias virtual currency mining industry, reportedly the third largest in the world, including Bitriver.
Such visions send ripples through the post-Soviet world. A handful of countries once in Moscows orbit are doing their best to toe a different line. The Baltic states, members of both NATO and the European Union, have flung themselves into the resisting the Russian advance next door tiny Estonia, for example, has already committed nearly 1 percent of its total gross domestic product in support of Ukraines fight. They make up the spearhead of a galvanized Western response to Putins war.
ROZADKY, Ukraine  Along Ukraines eastern front, soldiers man the sprawling maze of trenches and bunkers that form the backbone of defensive positions that stretch for hundreds of miles.
This truly unique weapon will strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces, reliably ensure Russias security in the face of external threats, and will provide food for thought to those who in the heat of frenzied aggressive rhetoric try to threaten our country, Putin said in televised remarks.
Of course there are morons who draw Z, but 10 of any country are morons. 90 of Russians are AGAINST this war! Tinkov wrote Tuesday. The letter Z has become a symbol of support for the Russian military.
The Pentagon said Monday that Russia is learning from mistakes made during its frustrated assault on the north, and is increasing air support to bolster its heavy artillery and troops.
Meanwhile, Russias Defense Ministry said Wednesday it is continuing what it calls a special military operation in Ukraines east and southeast, including missile strikes in Novovorontsovka in the Kherson region.
Energy-rich Donbas, on Russias western border, has long been a flash point for conflict between the two countries  with Moscow backing separatists there for years. Days before ordering the invasion of Ukraine in February, Russian President Vladimir Putin formally recognized the independence of Donetsk and Luhansk, marking an end to already fragile peace talks.
Mizintsev, who has been dubbed the butcher of Mariupol, added that the Ukrainian soldiers end will be bitter in case of their refusal.
On behalf of the All England Club and the Committee of Management of The Championships, we wish to express our ongoing support for all those impacted by the conflict in Ukraine during these shocking and distressing times, the All England Club, the tournaments venue, said in a statement.
We certainly dont want to get to a point where there is a readiness concern or where all of a sudden we have a production issue that we werent tracking, he said.
Ukraine has applied for European Union membership  and von der Leyen has promised a speedy response, although even if Ukraine gains candidate status, formally joining is a long process.
Several high-profile European officials and leaders have visited Ukraine since Russias invasion, including European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The Czech, Polish and Slovenian prime ministers have also made the trip, aimed at showing solidarity on the world stage.
We are ready to exchange our people for the military prisoners. We are ready for any formats for exchange, he said during a news conference. I am ready for the dialogue.
The battle for control over eastern and southern Ukrainian cities is the latest stage in this war, as Russia attempts to solidify its grip on the Black Sea and beyond.
President Biden approved a new $800 million aid package last week that dramatically expanded the scope of weapons Washington has supplied to Kyiv. The package included 155 mm howitzers  a serious upgrade in long-range artillery to match Russian systems  40,000 artillery rounds and 11 Soviet-designed Mi-17 helicopters.
Mariupol: Russia has given Ukrainian forces holding out at a steel plant a fresh deadline of 2 p.m. local time Wednesday for their surrender, after the fighters let a Tuesday deadline expire. As many as 1,000 civilians are taking cover in the sprawling metallurgical plant, according to troops and local officials. Russian officials and media are gathering in and near the city, the Institute for the Study of War think tank said, likely preparing to declare victory in the coming days even if fighting continues.
She said that after people gather in the afternoon, the convoy would move along a corridor from Mariupol northwest to Zaporizhzhia. Due to the very difficult security situation, changes may occur during the corridor, Vereshchuk added. We will do our best to make everything work properly.
Sanctions were first levied on Malofeyev in 2014 for funding separatist activities in Eastern Ukraine, and he is considered by U.S. authorities as one of the main sources of financing for Russians promoting separatism in Crimea.
Ukrainian officials said Wednesday they would try to evacuate people from Mariupol, where encircled fighters are making a last stand after Russian forces advanced on the devastated port city.
Russia has turned over 76 Ukrainians  16 civilians and 60 soldiers, 10 of whom were officers  in a prisoner exchange, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in a statement Tuesday. This was the fifth such swap between the sides, she added, without mentioning how many Russians were turned over in return.
It is unclear when the girl would have left Donbas for Crimea, but in the televised audience with the president, she recited a pro-Russian nationalistic poem, with lines including: I am a daughter of the Donbas  a holy and heroic land. I am ethnically Russian, and I am proud of Russia, and my home is here.
In audio messages sent to The Washington Post, Maj. Serhiy Volyna of the 36th Separate Marine Brigade, holding out against an advancing and much larger Russian force, appealed for other countries to help them secure a way out.
He is not, contrary to the Kremlins propaganda, a volunteer, a mercenary, or a spy, read a statement from the family of Aiden Aslin that was shared with The Washington Post on Wednesday. It said Aslin joined the Ukrainian marines after moving in 2018 to the country, where he settled in the southern city of Mykolaiv and later got engaged to his girlfriend.
Even though revenue grew, the announcement pushed its stock price down by more than 20 percent in after-hours trading. In a letter to shareholders, Netflix attributed the net loss in the January-March period to its decision last month to suspend services in Russia to protest the Kremlins Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  One body has been haunting the coroner. She was shot through the face with a high-caliber bullet through a car windshield. Then a Russian armored vehicle ran over the car, crushing her rib cage like a soda can and tearing off what was left of her head.
Whatever public signals they Russia make when they say they are open and ready to the exchanges, Zelensky said, the ball is on their side.  They continue playing their own game.
Ukrainian officials announced preliminary plans Wednesday morning to try to evacuate people from battered Mariupol, where Ukrainian officials have estimated that nearly 100,000 people remain trapped. Taking full control of Mariupol would expand the grip of Russian forces along the Sea of Azov coast and help form a land bridge from the border to the annexed Crimean peninsula.
Russias Defense Ministry announced that the country had successfully conducted the first test of the RS-28 Sarmat missile, known colloquially as Satan 2.
The cannons are expected to counter Russian artillery, which are a centerpiece of how Russian forces fight. The senior defense official, speaking on the condition of anonymity under ground rules set by the Pentagon, did not say whether more howitzers will be in future weapons packages approved by the president but left the door open.
Kherson region: While the port city of Kherson has not been a primary site of fighting for about three weeks, the two sides are still exchanging fire in towns and villages elsewhere in the region. The city of Kherson remains under Russian control.
Some of the countries that are supporting Ukraine will be there, and we hope to both be providing assistance as they try to survive the battles  but then well also be looking at what could a rebuilding phase look like, World Bank President David Malpass said Tuesday at a panel session with IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva.
12:13 PM: Ukrainian, U.S. officials walk out of G-20 meeting as Russian official begins to speak
Due to the inherent disorganization and negligence of the occupiers, we were unable to provide timely transportation of people to the point where dozens of our buses and ambulances were waiting, she said.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said last week that there were no plans for Biden to visit. The president told reporters he had visited Ukraine many times and spoken to the Ukrainian parliament twice.
12:33 PM: German foreign minister says Berlin will end Russian oil imports by years end
Germans Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Wednesday that Berlin will end Russian oil imports by the end of the year.
The Pentagon at the time played down Russias claims about these features and said that the American people should rest assured that we are fully prepared.
Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a message to the West as he oversaw a planned test launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile on Wednesday  a move that comes as Russia renews its campaign to take eastern Ukraine.
Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, who was put under financial sanctions by the U.S. government earlier this year over the war in Ukraine, attended the conference remotely. Countries that have refused to condemn Russias invasion, such as China, are also at the conference.
Humanitarian evacuations in the battered southeastern city of Mariupol did not go as planned for many reasons Wednesday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
These companies help Russia monetize its natural resources by operating vast server farms that sell virtual currency mining capacity around the world, U.S. authorities said.
Toomas Hendrik Ilves, who was Estonias president at the time, told The Washington Post in an interview that Russia could turn to disruptive or even destructive cyberattacks to alter the course of the conflict in Ukraine. If things go badly for Russia, I think theyll pull out all the stops, he said.
Farther from here is only the enemy, said Andre, 23, an army officer who leads a unit at a deeply dug Ukrainian defensive position within range of enemy rifle fire. It is only a matter of time before they send more of their forces.
Last week, Russia said it would consider reinforcing the Baltic Sea region, including with nuclear weapons, if Finland and Sweden joined NATO, after Finlands prime minister suggested the country could make a membership request within weeks and Sweden mulled a similar move. Both countries are officially nonaligned militarily, but they are reconsidering their status in light of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Moscow has for weeks sought to capture Mariupol, seeking a military victory as well as a land bridge between the Russian-controlled territory of Crimea and the Donbas region in the east, where the Kremlin is now focusing its offensive.
More than 5 million people have fled Ukraine since Russias invasion, according to the latest data published by the U.N. refugee agency, amid what the United Nations and aid groups describe as the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
Intended to replace the Soviet-designed Voevoda, the Sarmat weighs 200 metric tons 220 tons and has a longer range, allowing it to fly over the North or South Poles and strike targets anywhere in the world, Putin said at the time. He added that Sarmat carries a larger number of more powerful nuclear warheads.
Zelensky offered two possible scenarios that would lead to the unblocking of Mariupol, which has been subjected to relentless bombardment for weeks, causing widespread devastation and thousands of civilian casualties.
For the first time, the United States will target Russian companies involved in digital currency operations, as well as a network of Russian entities and individuals attempting to evade penalties in a new round of sanctions announced by the Treasury Department on Wednesday.
Holding out in the citys Azovstal steel plant, the commander of Ukrainian forces in their last foothold in Mariupol told The Washington Post on Tuesday that his fighters did not believe Russian promises of safe passage if they surrender, and he vowed to keep fighting. He said hundreds of civilians also sheltered inside the industrial facility, where Ukrainian forces, including from the Azov Battalion, were outnumbered under a barrage of fire.
Dozens of countries are participating in a multiday NATO cyberdefense exercise, as the Russian invasion potentially raises the threat of Kremlin attacks against critical infrastructure in countries seen as supporting Ukraines war efforts.
The Russian forces pummeling Mariupol have given Ukrainian fighters holding out at a steel plant another deadline for surrender.
Russia had properly notified the United States about its recent intercontinental ballistic missile test, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters Wednesday, noting that the United States did not consider it a threat to Washington or its allies.
Ukraines prime minister and finance minister addressed the meeting before Russia did, the people familiar with the matter said. U.S. officials had said that Yellen would boycott some meetings of the G-20, but it was not clear exactly when she would leave or that she would do so during a speech by one of the Russian officials.
European Council President Charles Michel arrived in Ukraines capital Kyiv Wednesday, calling it the heart of a free and democratic Europe." Michel is expected to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Finlands Parliament began a historic debate Wednesday on whether the Nordic country should join NATO. As it did so, Russia issued another terse warning to Helsinki about joining the military alliance it sees as anti-Russian.
Several other Russian billionaires have publicly called for peace, but most have shied away from directly criticizing the invasion, which Putin has described as a special military operation.
Volyna, who has fought in Mariupol since the start of the Russian invasion, gave a rare glimpse into the lives of the soldiers and hundreds of civilians, including women and children, sheltering inside the steel plant that has caught the worlds attention as the fall of the city looms.
Almost 24,000 Ukrainian refugees  approximately a third of whom are Jewish  have arrived in Israel since the Russian invasion of their country on Feb. 24. Israeli officials say the influx may end up being the largest wave of immigration to the country since the collapse of the Soviet Union  an event that helped propel Israeli politics to the right and laid bare the challenges of successfully integrating new arrivals.
His message follows desperate pleas of commanders on the ground who have asked for other countries to help them secure a way out.
The latter fit well with Ukraines existing arsenal because they use a similar operating system as the Mi-8 helicopters that Kyiv has used for decades, said Alexey Muraviev, a national security expert at Australias Curtin University.
The United Nations estimates that an additional 105,000 people living in the eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions moved to Russia between Feb. 18 and 23, the days leading up to President Vladimir Putins invasion.
As fighting continues in war-torn Ukraine, Western leaders continue to pledge their support  including with symbolic actions. Numerous world leaders, including officials with the U.S. and Ukrainian governments, walked out of a Group of 20 meeting in Washington on Wednesday as Russias finance minister began to speak. The Pentagon also said it delivered four more flights carrying weapons for Ukraine in the last day, including artillery pieces, and has launched training sessions for Ukrainian troops on using them.
12:21 PM: Putin announces test of ICBM dubbed Satan 2 with warning to the West
Ukraine has received an influx of fighter aircraft and related equipment from other nations to help fuel its efforts to fight the Russian invasion, the Pentagon said. The president is set to announce about $800 million in additional military aid for Ukraine in the coming days, an official familiar with the decision said Tuesday.
Ukrainian officials in Washington are expected to confront both Russian officials and countries that support Russias invasion during meetings Wednesday of the worlds most powerful nations.
The Russian diplomat said the final decision on the secretary generals request would be made by the Russian Defense Ministry in Moscow, but he added that he did not know the whole point of a cease-fire.
Haidai said the situation was getting more complicated every hour and called on residents to evacuate, adding that the area is rapidly running out of medicine and food. Protect yourselves  go to evacuation transport and leave, Haidai wrote on Telegram. He listed locations where civilians could board buses to safety.
The intended symbolism is clear  the bloody Russian invasion of Ukraine, in the view of its aggressors, is an act of reclamation and restoration. Russian President Vladimir Putin, who once described the collapse of the Soviet Union as the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century, questions Ukraines right to even exist as an independent nation. His proxies on state media peddle visions of Russia forging a new union encompassing Belarus and Ukraine. And lurking behind it all is a powerful nostalgia  not necessarily for a life under communism, but for what it meant to belong to a globe-straddling power like the Soviet Union.
1:52 AM: As Ukrainians flee to Israel, a debate over who is allowed to stay
The tragedy that was taking place in the Donbas  forced Russia to start this military operation, Putin said. The aim is to help our people suffering through the situation in the Donbas  ones like you, he added, speaking to the girl.
LONDON  The family of a British man who appeared to be captured while fighting in Ukraine described footage of him on Russian television as deeply distressing and said it was trying to secure his release.
Biden hosted a videoconference Tuesday with allies and partners to discuss ongoing international support for Ukraine, including security, economic and humanitarian assistance, according to a White House readout of the call.
Earlier in the day, Michel visited Borodyanka, a town 30 miles northwest of the Ukrainian capital, and vowed in a tweet that history will not forget the war crimes that have been committed here.
Luhansk region: This area, part of Donbas, is one of the primary targets of Russias eastern offensive. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov declared Tuesday that the Kremlin would pursue the complete liberation of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions, hours after Zelensky said Russia had begun its expected ground offensive there. The city of Kreminna was already under the control of Russian troops, Luhansk regional governor Serhiy Haidai said Tuesday.
Russia on Tuesday launched what appeared to be a much-anticipated ground offensive in eastern Ukraine. Its a campaign that will seek the complete liberation of the Donetsk and Luhansk republics, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said, referring to the two breakaway enclaves in Ukraines wider Donbas region.
The move was quickly condemned by Russia. The Kremlin considers the removal of Russian athletes from Wimbledon unacceptable, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. Players are again being made the hostages of political intrigues.
President Biden on Tuesday said he was unsure whether he would travel to Ukraine, after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson paid a surprise visit earlier this month  prompting Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to call on leaders of Western democracies to follow Johnsons lead.
Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen was among the global economic leaders who left when Russia began talking, the people said. The people spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe a private meeting that is ongoing.
European Council President Charles Michel met Wednesday with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv  which he called the heart of a free and democratic Europe  in a trip intended to show support for Ukraine nearly two months into Russias invasion.
Sanctions also have been levied on a privately owned commercial bank Transkapitalbank TKB, which offered clients, including banks in China and the Middle East, the possibility to conduct their transactions via their own Internet-based banking system, an alternative to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication SWIFT network, to enable processing U.S. dollar payments for clients under sanctions.
The assistance is part of $40 million in humanitarian aid that South Korea plans to send to Ukraine. Separately, South Korea has said it will send nonlethal military supplies. The U.S. ally has also declared it would prohibit transactions with Russian banks and restrict the export of strategic items, such as semiconductors, to Russia.
As their offensive in Ukraines east intensifies, some Russians are hoisting a new-old emblem in areas they capture: the Soviet flag. The red banner with that hammer and sickle has reportedly been waved by pro-Russian fighters in the breakaway region of Luhansk and adorned the sides of Russian military vehicles motoring to the front lines.
The Russian military cut off food, electricity, medical supplies and communication networks in the besieged city of Mariupol. Residents were seen at a makeshift market on April 19 buying food and other necessities, as well as charging their cellphones from a generator for a small fee.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has cited a purported threat from NATO expansion as a rationale for his invasion of Ukraine. Adding Finland and Sweden to NATO would redraw Northern Europes security map, bringing the alliances border to the 800-mile Finnish-Russian frontier.
Amid yet another Russian ultimatum pushing for Ukrainian fighters to surrender, a top adviser to Ukraines president insisted  as the Wednesday deadline passed  that defenders in hard-hit Mariupol are holding on. A commander there told The Washington Post that his fighters were dying underground and were seeking a way out.
Russias military presence on its eastern border with Ukraine continues to build, the ministry said. Fighting in the Donbas region is also intensifying as Russian forces seek to break through Ukrainian defenses.
In his most extensive comments to Western media, Maj. Serhiy Volyna of the 36th Separate Marine Brigade, whose forces have been holding out in the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works against a Russian force that vastly outnumbers them, told The Washington Post that his soldiers would continue to conduct combat operations and to complete our military tasks as long as we receive them.
Ukraine has also received fighter aircraft and related parts from other nations, Kirby said. He declined to specify what kind of aircraft has been supplied or which countries have provided them.
Dmitry Polyanskiy rejected the idea hours after Guterres suggested a four-day halt to the fighting later this week that would allow noncombatants to escape to safety. Easter is meant to be a moment of unity, Guterres said, adding that hundreds of thousands of lives were at stake. Ukraine and Russia have had trouble agreeing on humanitarian corridors over the past week.
Lviv: Russian airstrikes hit this city Monday, prompting the State Department to call the attacks part of the Kremlins campaign of terror. Ukrainian officials said seven people were killed and at least 11 were injured in the attack on Lviv, which had been mostly unaffected by the fighting.
But the commander of the Ukrainian forces in the industrial facility told The Washington Post on Tuesday that they did not believe Moscows promises of safe passage and would not lay down their arms. Fighters holed up in the plant, including from the Azov Battalion, were vastly outnumbered. Maj. Serhiy Volyna of the 36th Separate Marine Brigade added that more than 500 soldiers were wounded and that civilians were also sheltered inside the steel plant.
The exodus has raised fears of human trafficking. Gillian Triggs, UNHCRs assistant chief for protection, called on countries to prevent predatory individuals and criminal networks from exploiting the situation.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal will visit Washington, D.C., this week as part of a high-level delegation at financial meetings, a World Bank official told The Washington Post on Saturday.
Oleg Tinkov, the founder of Russias Tinkoff Bank, also made a plea to the West to offer Russian President Vladimir Putin a pathway to withdraw and put an end to the bloodshed.
Russian troops pushed into the city over several weeks with a crippling siege, and while many civilians were evacuated, Ukrainian officials have estimated that nearly 100,000 people remain inside. Thousands who managed to flee recounted being trapped in basements with little food or water, while contacting those left behind grew difficult.
According to Michels weekly schedule, the purpose of his trip to Kyiv was for official meetings amid Russias bombardment of the country  although it was not immediately clear how long the trip would last.
He accused Russian forces of shelling residential areas but also said several enemy attacks have been repelled.
In a tweet following the meeting, Zelensky thanked the European Union leader for his solidarity and said the two discussed sanctions on Europe, Ukraines steps to join the E.U. and continued defense and financial support.
1:06 PM: Ukraine is ready to swap military prisoners for civilians in Mariupol, Zelensky says
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova accused NATO and the United States on Wednesday of pushing Sweden and Finland to join the alliance. She said Moscow has issued warnings both publicly and through bilateral channels, so neither country should be surprised about possible consequences from Russia, she told Russian reporters.
President Vladimir Putin praised the launch as a show of strength that will reliably safeguard Russias security from external threats and make anybody trying to threaten our country think twice.
Zelensky said the situation is increasingly dire in Mariupol, where troops are defending wounded soldiers and about 1,000 civilians, including women and children, sheltered inside the sprawling Azovstal iron and steel plant.
The enemy continues its attacks in order to advance deep into Popasna, Haidai warned. Popasna, a city between Luhansk and Donetsk, has witnessed some of the countrys heaviest fighting.
Some 200 lawmakers in Finlands Eduskunta will conduct a five-hour debate on Wednesday, Swedish media reported. However, any final decision from Finland would require ratification by all 30 NATO members.
After Russias invasion of Ukraine, the United States postponed and subsequently canceled a planned test of the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile, a decision taken to ensure that Russia would not misconstrue such a display of firepower  or use it as justification to escalate the hostilities in Ukraine.
3:23 AM: Why the battle for Mariupol is key in the next phase of the war in Ukraine
This was clearly not a sustainable situation, and it is very good news that the regulator can now contact the plant directly when it needs to, said Rafael Mariano Grossi, the IAEA director general.
This could be our last message, he also said in a video appealing for other countries to help secure a way out. We might only have a few days or even hours remaining.
United Nations Secretary General Antnio Guterres has asked Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to receive him in their respective capitals, Guterress spokesman said Wednesday.
NATOs cyberdefense hub did not detail the exact nature of the simulated attacks, but examples of critical infrastructure include assets such as power plants, air defense systems, financial systems and government websites.
In the second scenario, the president said he was open to a diplomatic solution to exchange Ukrainian civilians for Russian military prisoners, but added that so far Russia does not agree to this.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday his nation successfully test-launched a Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile, and he sent a threatening message to the West.
The next phase of this special operation begins now, Lavrov said in an interview with India Today television. This will be an important moment during this special operation.
Speaking during a televised audience with an unnamed child, Putin listened as she outlined her frightening life in Ukraine before moving to Sevastopol, in Russian-annexed Crimea.
MUKACHEVO, Ukraine  The commander of Ukrainian forces last stronghold in the southern port city of Mariupol, surrounded by Russians and subjected to a constant barrage of fire, said Tuesday that his soldiers will not surrender.
Germany has pushed back against calls for a rapid outright ban on Russian energy imports, saying such a move would have deep economic consequences for Europes largest economy. The government has said it doesnt consider it possible to completely phase out Russian gas imports until 2024.
Serhiy Haidai, the Ukrainian governor of the Luhansk region in Donbas, said earlier Wednesday that several cities in the east have witnessed heavy fighting and have come under Russian attack as Moscow redoubled its offensive there. The situation was getting more complicated every hour, he said. He called on residents to evacuate, adding that the area is rapidly running out of medicine and food.
More than 2.8 million refugees have fled to Poland, according to the data, while many have sought safety in other neighboring countries such as Romania, Slovakia and Hungary.
If Ukraines troops cease fighting at 2 p.m. local time Wednesday, they will be guaranteed life, safety and medical treatment, Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev, head of the Russian National Defense Control Center, said on Tuesday, according to Russian state media.
On his Instagram account Tuesday, he wrote: I do not see ANY beneficiary of this insane war! Innocent people and soldiers are dying.
The official added that given the scope and the speed with which we are providing these systems to Ukraine, the conversations are important.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday the tragedy of life for people in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine prompted his decision to invade that country, and he vowed to return life there to normal.
NETANYA, Israel  When Russian troops began shooting toward the Ukrainian capital from the forest near Olga Olinichenkos home, she and her two daughters hid in their basement for nine days. They managed to escape to Poland, but her familys ordeal drove Olinichenko, who is Jewish, to a decision she had never weighed: applying for Israeli citizenship.
The annual exercises test the response of countries cyberdefense teams with fictional cyberattacks, often based on real-life examples. This years drills are based around a fictional island country, Berylia, that is experiencing a deteriorating security situation. The exercises planners said they drew on the current geopolitical situation to develop realistic scenarios of cyberattacks that could take place as part of a broader geopolitical strategy  such as coordinated attacks on military and civilian IT systems.
Wimbledon on Wednesday barred players from Russia and Belarus from playing in the tournament because of Russias invasion of Ukraine, a decision that will affect two of the worlds highest-ranked players.
Michel also headed to the town of Borodyanka, a town 30 miles northwest of Kyiv. History will not forget the war crimes that have been committed here, Michel tweeted as he compared the devastated area to that of Bucha, where the discovery of mass graves and bound corpses angered the world and sparked calls for a global investigation into the war crimes, and many other towns across the country attacked by Russian forces.
More than 2,000 people from 32 countries are taking part, including team members from Ukraine, which is not a NATO member.
South Korea said Wednesday it has sent 20 tons of humanitarian supplies to Ukraine, including ventilators, defibrillators and first-aid kits.
We have provided $1.4 billion in emergency financing  but more would be necessary, and it would be a great investment over the next couple of months to keep the economy functioning and prevent inflation shooting up, the IMF managing director said.
Ukrainian President Zelensky said earlier this month that the situation in Borodyanka, appeared significantly more dreadful than in nearby Bucha.
While the world is asleep, in Mariupol, the guys are dying, Volyna said. They are suffering losses. They are being bombed with heavy bombs  torn up by artillery, and they are dying underground  the wounded and the living there.
Georgieva also said she held a call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky about keeping the economy afloat while the war rages and creating a clear pathway for reconstructing the country.
Its the second such deadline that Moscow has issued the Mariupol fighters in as many days. On Tuesday, the Ukrainian fighters let the window expire, and their commander told The Post that they would keep fighting.
Putin thanked her for the poem and said that much has changed in Luhansk since she left, but in a worse direction.
RIGA, Latvia  Russia declared the start of an intensified campaign for eastern Ukraine on Tuesday, focusing heavy firepower on areas key to cementing control of the countrys industrial heartland.
The meetings could lead to an unusual display of rancor at the normally staid international proceedings given the mounting death toll in Ukraine. Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen will boycott at least some of the G-20 meetings over Russias presence, as will British Finance Minister Rishi Sunak.
The club added, If circumstances change materially between now and June, we will consider and respond accordingly. Wimbledon is set for June 27 through July 10.
Sarmat is considered Russias most powerful ICBM: a super-heavy thermonuclear-armed intercontinental-range ballistic missile that NATO dubs Satan 2.
Ukraines outgunned and outmanned military has held up for almost two months, and as Russia intensifies its attacks on Ukraines east and south, Western governments are dispatching heavier weaponry and war planes to support the resistance.
Those decisions were taken in the wake of Putin putting Russias nuclear forces on high alert, one of several warning gestures by the Kremlin over what it deemed aggressive moves by the United States and NATO in support of Ukraine.
The heads of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will meet with Ukraines prime minister and finance minister Thursday to discuss providing more aid and helping with reconstruction.
We share in the universal condemnation of Russias illegal actions and have carefully considered the situation in the context of our duties to the players, to our community and to the broader UK public as a British sporting institution. We have also taken into account guidance set out by the UK Government specifically in relation to sporting bodies and events.
MUKACHEVO, Ukraine  The commander of Ukrainian forces making a last stand in the southern port city of Mariupol said Wednesday his fighters holed up in the Azovstal steel plant were dying underground.
Weve seen about a quarter of Ukraines population, more than 12 million people in total, have been forced to flee their homes, Shabia Mantoo, a spokeswoman for the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, told the Associated Press. This is a staggering amount of people.
Aslins family members described him as speaking under duress and having clearly suffered physical injuries and said they were in contact with the British Foreign Office to ensure the Russian authorities meet their obligations to prisoners of war under international law. Robert Jenrick, a British lawmaker for Nottinghamshire, said he was working with Aslins family, his constituents, to ensure his swift and safe release.
Im used to seeing horrible things done to bodies, Perovskyi says. But I was very shocked to see such horrible treatment of the deceased by the Russians. How can someone shoot a person and then run over the body? Or throw them into ditches. How can someone put a bullet into a dead mans head?
Government websites in Ukraine were attacked in January as Russian troops gathered on the border in the lead-up to Februarys invasion. Official websites in Finland were attacked earlier this month as its government discussed joining the NATO military alliance.
A Russian entrepreneur has delivered a stinging rebuke of the Kremlins invasion of Ukraine, calling it an insane war that he said 90 percent of his countrymen dont support.
Serhiy Haidai, the governor of Ukraines Luhansk region, said Wednesday that several cities in the east have come under Russian attack in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas.
A day later, Ukraine informed the IAEA that it had lost contact with the site, though the Ukrainian regulator kept receiving information from Chernobyl through senior off-site management of the plant, the IAEA said in the statement.
Putin praised the Sarmat engineers in his Wednesday speech for creating a purely domestic product. Rounds of economic sanctions imposed on Russia over the years and most recently for its invasion of Ukraine have essentially barred Russia from importing any dual-purpose goods that could help advance its military complex and have left many key industries that rely heavily on imports, such as aviation, vulnerable to production and maintenance disruptions.
Russias deputy ambassador to the United Nations on Tuesday dismissed a proposal from U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres for a cease-fire over the Orthodox Easter holidays, saying he doubted that Ukrainian forces would respect any such agreement.
Mariupol is holding on. Fighting is underway in the vicinity of the Azovstal plant and a few other districts, Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys office, said Wednesday in a video. He added that Ukrainian forces were fighting to repel an escalating Russian offensive in the east along multiple front lines.
In April 1986, a meltdown at the Chernobyl plant led to the release of large quantities of radioactive material into the surrounding land. Radioactive clouds spread as far as Norway, and vast swaths of Europe were affected. The site remains one of the most radioactively contaminated places in the world.
It was first introduced in 2018 during Putins annual state of the nation address, in which he boasted about Russias next generation weaponry, claiming that Sarmat specifically can breach any missile defense system.
We do the best we can with each package to tailor it to the need at the time, and now the need has changed, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Tuesday. "The war has changed, because now the Russians have prioritized Donbas area, and thats a whole different level of fighting, a whole different type of fighting.
For the first time in a decade, Netflix said Tuesday that it lost more paying customers than it added after a net drop of 200,000 subscribers it attributed to its pullout from Russia.
The Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC will target a network of more than 40 individuals and organizations led by Russian oligarch Konstantin Malofeyev, whose primary mission reportedly is to assist Russians in evading sanctions.
Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov is expected to attend remotely despite being under U.S. sanctions since earlier this year. Ukraines prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, and finance minister, Serhiy Marchenko, are also scheduled to attend the meetings, including at least one where Siluanov will be present. Countries that have refused to condemn Russias invasion of the war, such as China, will also be at the conference.
The letters mentioned that Ukraine and the Russian Federation are founding members and strong supporters of the United Nations.
The Pentagon also is scrutinizing with American defense contractors whether steps need to be taken to continue delivering other arms like those that played a vital role in Ukraine fending off the Russian invasion. Thousands of Javelin anti-armor missiles and Stinger antiaircraft missiles have been used by Ukrainian forces in nearly eight weeks of combat.
Multiple world leaders, including officials with the United States and Ukrainian governments, walked out of a Group of 20 meeting in Washington on Thursday when Russias finance minister began to speak, two people familiar with the matter said.
In letters sent through the Russian and Ukrainian U.N. missions, Guterres wrote that at this time of great peril and consequence, he would like to discuss urgent steps to bring about peace in Ukraine and the future of multilateralism based on the Charter of the United Nations and International law, spokesman Stephane Dujarric said in a statement.
Tinkov is among the members of the Russian elite sanctioned by the West after the Russian assault on Ukraine. The subsequent economic slump led to a sharp decrease in the share price of his previously high-flying digital bank, wiping billions from his fortune, according to Forbes. He has denied having close connections to Putin, Reuters reported.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser said fighting continued around a steel plant in the southern city of Mariupol where Russian forces have cornered Ukrainian fighters in their last foothold in the strategic port.
However, there is still a risk of precision strikes against priority targets throughout Ukraine, the British Defense Ministry said in a Wednesday morning intelligence update.
But beyond the conflict, theres a deeper disquiet in many other countries that were once in the Soviet sphere.
Kharkiv region: Ukrainian forces have launched several successful counterattacks around Kharkiv, in the countrys northeast, strategists say, while Russia is building up its forces near Izyum, raising concerns this gateway city to the Donbas region will suffer a similar fate to Bucha  where hundreds of civilians were killed and buried in mass graves or left in the streets.
His comments came after a deadline set by the Kremlin expired for Ukrainian forces in Mariupol to leave by 2 p.m. local time 7 a.m. Eastern Wednesday.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the Kremlin, more than seven weeks into its war in Ukraine, had entered a new stage of the invasion and would seek the complete liberation of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, potentially bringing areas where Russian-backed separatists have waged a long war firmly within Moscows grip. U.S. officials cautioned that Moscow may have yet to unleash its full military might on Ukraines east.
As the world watches the last defenders of the key port city of Mariupol hold out against an advancing and larger Russian force, and with women and children trapped inside a steel plant, Zelensky said Wednesday that Ukraine is ready to exchange Russian military prisoners for Ukrainian civilians.
Russia initially planned to finish Sarmat trials in 2021 and begin deploying it to the army soon after, but several flight test launches, which are considered late-stage trials in arms development, were postponed until 2022, the state-run Tass news agency reported last year.
Volunteers peeled her body out, zipped her into a black plastic bag and laid her in the trailer of a refrigerated 18-wheeler. She rode an hour through Kyivs suburbs before being removed carefully from the bag and laid on coroner Vlad Perovskyis metal autopsy table.
Carved into the hard earth during eight years of bloody fighting, these rugged outposts are occupied by soldiers who have weathered intense shelling and artillery strikes battling Moscow-backed separatists to a standstill.
Kirby said the notification was carried out in keeping with Russias obligations under New START, an arms-control treaty governing such nuclear-capable weapons that does not expire until early 2026. The United States was not surprised by the test, he added.
