Russia could get more forceful as it is desperate to see wins before a planned Victory Day celebration on May 9 UK intelligence says
20220421
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-could-get-more-forceful-as-it-is-desperate-to-see-wins-before-a-planned-victory-day-celebration-on-may-9-uk-intelligence-says/ar-AAWrwCr
"Russia likely desires to demonstrate significant successes ahead of their annual 9th May Victory Day celebrations," the British Ministry of Defense tweeted in its daily intelligence update on the Russian invasion.
Russia could become more forceful in its attack on Ukraine as it likely wants some wins before its planned World War II "Victory Day" celebration on May 9, UK intelligence said on Thursday.
The Kremlin has yet to announce its plans for this year's May 9 holiday parade.
Earlier this week, Russian troops launched a new offensive in Ukraine's eastern region of Donbas, in what Ukrainian officials have described as the "second phase of the war," as per Reuters.
May 9, otherwise known as Victory Day, is a major holiday in Russia that commemorates the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945. It is usually marked with a huge military parade in front of the Kremlin.
According to the UK intelligence briefing, the Russian forces are now advancing towards the administrative city of Kramatorsk, which "continues to suffer from persistent rocket attacks."
"This could affect how quickly and forcefully they attempt to conduct operations in the run-up to this date," the statement said.
Western intelligence officials previously said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is under pressure to demonstrate he can show a victory on that date after his forces failed to take Ukraine's capital, Kyiv.
The ousted former Russian lawmaker Ilya Ponomarev, who moved to Kyiv in 2016 and is fighting alongside Ukrainian forces, said last week that Putin "will try to claim a certain victory  an imaginary victory  on May 9."
"I am absolutely certain about this, but the reality is that he is losing the war," he told CNN. "I think that the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people will not stop before Ukrainian territory will be free."
