Russian Woman Interrupts Live State News Broadcast To Send Message to Putin
20220314
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/woman-runs-onto-russian-television-broadcast-they-re-lying-to-you-here/ar-AAV3reA
Related Articles Fox News Reporter Benjamin Hall Injured in Ukraine While Covering InvasionUkraine Hopeful Results Imminent in Talks About Russia's Demands to End WarPutin Testing 'Nuclear Blackmail' Tactic in Ukraine War: Ex-Russia Official Start your unlimited Newsweek trial
Kevin Rothrock, the managing editor of Meduza, a Russian- and English-language independent news website, posted the video Ovsyannikova recorded before she made her protest during a segment presented by anchor Yekaterina Andreyeva.
The presenter at the Russian state television was speaking about Belarus-Russia collaboration, when a woman just ran onto the stage with a sign that said, "Stop the war! Don't believe propaganda! They're lying to you here!" pic.twitter.comMHQFMbQfom
Marina Ovsyannikova, the woman who ran onto a live state TV news broadcast, even recorded a message beforehand. In it, she says her father is Ukrainian. She calls for anti-war protests, says she's ashamed about working for Kremlin propaganda, and she denounces the war absolutely. pic.twitter.comnOpUY9bH74
Ovsyannikova gave a message of support for Alexei Navalny, the opposition leader currently incarcerated in Russia.
A protester on Monday interrupted a news broadcast on Russia state television, yelling over the anchor while holding a sign that condemned the war against Ukraine.
"What is happening in Ukraine is a crime. And Russia is the aggressor here. And responsibility for this aggression rests on the conscience of a single man: Vladimir Putin. My father is Ukrainian. My mother is Russian. And they've never been enemies. And this necklace I'm wearing is a symbol of that fact that Russia must immediately end this fratricidal war. And our fraternal peoples will still be able to make peace," Ovsyannikova said, according to Meduza's translation.
The messages written on Ovsyannikova's sign read: "No war," "Stop the war," "Don't believe the propaganda," "They are lying to you here," and "Russians against war."
Multiple outlets have reported that Ovsyannikova has since been detained. Russia's state news agency TASS reports that she faces administrative charges, which could be a few days in jail. However, she could also be subjected to a law Putin passed after the Ukrainian invasion in which "fake news" reportingsuch as calling Russia's military operation a "war"could be punished by up to 15 years in prison.
She ended her message by stating, "We Russians are thinking and intelligent people. It's in our power alone to stop all this madness. Go protest. Don't be afraid of anything. They can't lock us all away."
She continued, "Unfortunately, I've spent many of the last few years working for Channel One, doing Kremlin propaganda, and I'm deeply ashamed of this. Ashamed that I allowed lies to come from the TV screen. Ashamed that I allowed the zombification of Russian people."
The outburst occurred on the Channel One network, and the woman who stormed the stage has been identified as Marina Ovsyannikova, an employee of the station. Before she staged her public protest, Ovsyannikova recorded a video message. In it, she said that her father is Ukrainian and that she's ashamed of working for a Kremlin propaganda outlet.
Russian state media has been pushing messages that are staunchly supportive of Russian President Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine. The outlets have supported the debunked claims of Russian officials of Ukraine producing bioweapons in laboratories, as well as baseless claim that far-right Ukrainian forces are hiding behind civilians and that the military operations have gone according to plan for the Kremlin, among other things.
