Russia bombs mosque with more than 30 children sheltering inside
20220312
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russia-bombs-mosque-with-more-than-30-children-sheltering-inside/ar-AAUYrV7
However, despite these economic blows, Russian President Vladimir Putin hasn't shown any signs of calling off the attack anytime soon, with a convoy moving closer to the capital Kyiv.
Over two million Ukrainian refugees have fled, as cities face shortages of food, water, heat, and medicine - with the British public set to be asked to open their homes to Ukrainian refugees.
Russian forces have shelled a mosque sheltering more than 80 people in the besieged city of Mariupol, the Ukrainian government has claimed.
Mariupol has seen some of the greatest misery fromVladimir Putins war as unceasing barrages have thwarted repeated attempts to bring in food and water and to evacuate trapped civilians.
Its ugly already, but its going to get worse, said Nick Reynolds, a warfare analyst at Royal United Services Institute, a British think tank.
The ceaseless shelling forced volunteers to stop digging trenches for mass graves, meaning the dead arent even being buried, the mayor said.
The hospitals head doctor, Maksim Beznosenko, said several hundred patients were in the facility during the attack but no one was killed.
Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more by signing up to Metro's News Updates newsletter
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky also accused Russia of kidnapping the mayor of Melitopol, a southern port city.
Thousands of soldiers on both sides are believed to have been killed along with many Ukrainian civilians.
The foreign ministry said the place of worship was shelled by Russian invaders. There has yet to be any reports of casualties.
Britains Ministry of Defense said Russia is trying to reset and re-posture its troops, gearing up for operations against Kyiv.
As of Friday, the death toll in Mariupol passed 1,500 during 12 days of attack, the mayors office said.
The Ukrainian Embassy in Turkey said that a group of 86 Turkish nationals, including 34 children, were among the people who had sought safety in the mosque of Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent and his wife Roksolana.
On the ground, the Kremlins forces appeared to be trying to regroup and regain momentum after encountering tough resistance and amassing heavy losses over the past two weeks.
Russian forces have hit more than a dozen hospitals since they invaded Ukraine on February 24, according to the World Health Organisation.
Ukrainian officials reported on Saturday that heavy artillery had damaged a cancer hospital and several residential buildings in Mykolaiv, a city 300 miles west ofMariupol.
Countries have retaliated by imposing sanctions on Russia and oligarchs such as Roman Abramovich, while large companies like Disney, Starbucks, McDonald's, and Coca-Cola have suspended business in the country.
Ukraines emergency services reported Saturday that the bodies of five people  two women, a man and two children  were pulled from an apartment building that was struck by shelling in Kharkiv.
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine began on February 24, the country has suffered widespread damages and loss of life amid a major bombing campaign.
Russian forces were blockading Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, even as efforts have been made to create new humanitarian corridors around it and other urban centers so aid can get in and residents can get out.
A strike on a maternity hospital this week killed three people, sparking international outrage and allegations of war crimes.
