Russia broadens air assaults in Ukraine splits up convoy outside Kyiv
20220311
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-broadens-air-assaults-in-ukraine-splits-up-convoy-outside-kyiv/ar-AAUXaLg
Two decades ago, Russia conducted a cruel air assault on Grozny, the Chechen capital, that left the city in abject ruins and echoed through the annals of military history as a moment of extraordinary destruction.
Satellite imaging captured Thursday showed that the convoy had fanned out, and that armored vehicles had begun to roll through town and forests outside of Kyiv, according to Maxar Technologies, a space technology company.
Servicemen of Ukraine's Azov Battalion attend a tactical exercisers in the Ukraine's second-biggest city of Kharkiv on March 11, 2022, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
According to U.S. estimates, between 2,000 and 6,000 Russian troops have also died in the war. The U.S. lost 2,461 soldiers in two decades of war in Afghanistan.
Servicemen of Ukraine's Azov Battalion attend a tactical exercisers in the Ukraine's second-biggest city of Kharkiv on March 11, 2022, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. SERGEY BOBOKEven as Biden scolded Putin, the Russians forces were intensifying the largest invasion in Europe since World War II.Ukraines parliament said 10 occupiers abducted Mayor Ivan Fedorov of Melitopol, a small city in southern Ukrainian, placing a bag over his head as they took him away.Russia captured Melitopol on Feb. 25, one day after starting the invasion. The city sits near the coast of the Sea of Azov, in a region where the often-stalled Russian Army has had more success, perhaps due to its seizure of Crimea, a Black Sea peninsula, in 2014.In the north of the country, Russia has hit roadblocks on the ground and resorted to pulverizing buildings from the air. Kharkiv, Ukraines second largest city, has seen its buildings hallowed out by attacks and its central square blasted into a tangle of rubble.Still, Kharkiv has not yet fallen, nor has Kyiv, the true prize for the Russians. The capital has endured intermittent and sometimes brutal bombing, but turned quieter in recent days while a 40-mile column of tanks and trucks loomed beyond city limits. The respite seemed to be ending. Video: Huge Russian convoy approaches Kyiv, sparking fears Russia is preparing a full-scale assault on the city CNBC Satellite imaging captured Thursday showed that the convoy had fanned out, and that armored vehicles had begun to roll through town and forests outside of Kyiv, according to Maxar Technologies, a space technology company.The moves could signal that Russia is revving up for an intense assault on Kyiv.They moved that convoy after two weeks of sitting in the sun and getting a nice tan, said Barry Pavel, a former top Pentagon official and a director at the Atlantic Council. I think youre going to start to see mass shelling and bombing, especially of Kyiv.
Putins answer to the developments appeared, once more, to be the escalation of a conflict believed to have killed thousands on both sides at a cost of billions of dollars for Russians.
People who fled the war in Ukraine rest inside the old train station building that has been converted for a temporary refugee shelter on March 11, 2022 in Krakow, Poland.
Pavel, who described the Russian Armys execution to date as dreadful, also expressed concern about the expansion of Russian bombing to areas of western Ukraine, not far from the border with Poland.
Theyve changed tactics unfortunately, and theyre just going shell and bomb, Pavel said. Theyre just going to go Full Grozny.
The moves could signal that Russia is revving up for an intense assault on Kyiv.
The invasion has lagged far behind Putins timetable, according to American analysts. And the authoritarian Russian leader appears to have badly misjudged the Ukrainians willingness to fight fiercely for their homeland.
The fighting isnt just by their armed forces, Kirby said, describing throngs of Ukrainians blocking city streets and stopping the Russian military in its tracks. The resistance resides on many levels. And its quite inspiring.
Putins war on Ukraine has already exacted a painful price on a 30-year-old sovereign democratic nation that sits in the former Soviet Union.
It was not entirely clear why Russia had aimed fresh fire at airfields in western Ukraine. But Pavel painted a grim picture of the direction of the war.
President Biden said the U.S. was moving in tandem with its European allies to strip Russia of its normalized trade status. America was also barring the import of Russian seafood, vodka and jewels, the president said.
Putins war against Ukraine will never be a victory. He hoped to dominate Ukraine without a fight  he failed, Biden said. The American people are united. The world is united. And we stand with the people of Ukraine.
John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said Friday afternoon  night time in Kyiv  that the Ukrainian capital was experiencing an air assault and that Russia was tightening its grip around the city, especially on its eastern edges.
People who fled the war in Ukraine rest inside the old train station building that has been converted for a temporary refugee shelter on March 11, 2022 in Krakow, Poland. Omar MarquesPavel, who described the Russian Armys execution to date as dreadful, also expressed concern about the expansion of Russian bombing to areas of western Ukraine, not far from the border with Poland.It was not entirely clear why Russia had aimed fresh fire at airfields in western Ukraine. But Pavel painted a grim picture of the direction of the war.Theyve changed tactics unfortunately, and theyre just going shell and bomb, Pavel said. Theyre just going to go Full Grozny.Two decades ago, Russia conducted a cruel air assault on Grozny, the Chechen capital, that left the city in abject ruins and echoed through the annals of military history as a moment of extraordinary destruction.John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said Friday afternoon  night time in Kyiv  that the Ukrainian capital was experiencing an air assault and that Russia was tightening its grip around the city, especially on its eastern edges.Theres Russian bombardment going on quite violently as we speak, Kirby told reporters. And we do assess that the Russians are beginning to make more momentum on the ground towards Kyiv.Putins war on Ukraine has already exacted a painful price on a 30-year-old sovereign democratic nation that sits in the former Soviet Union.The invasion has sent at least 2.5 million refugees scrambling from Ukraine, and displaced roughly 2 million people inside the country, according to the UN. Dozens of children have died, according to Ukraine, and hospitals have been decimated.According to U.S. estimates, between 2,000 and 6,000 Russian troops have also died in the war. The U.S. lost 2,461 soldiers in two decades of war in Afghanistan.To maintain support at home, Putin has purged his country of independent news reporting, blocked Facebook and presented a preposterous explanation for the war  the Kremlin does not use the word  that falsely presents Ukrainian leadership as neo-Nazis.On Friday, the Kremlin said it was moving to block Instagram, too.The invasion has lagged far behind Putins timetable, according to American analysts. And the authoritarian Russian leader appears to have badly misjudged the Ukrainians willingness to fight fiercely for their homeland.Theyre fighting skillfully, bravely, quite creatively, Kirby said of the Ukrainian troops, noting that ordinary citizens are stepping up too.The fighting isnt just by their armed forces, Kirby said, describing throngs of Ukrainians blocking city streets and stopping the Russian military in its tracks. The resistance resides on many levels. And its quite inspiring.
Russia broadened its aerial bombardment of Ukraine on Friday, split up its menacing miles-long convoy outside the capital, Kyiv, and allegedly abducted the mayor of an occupied city, as the U.S. severed more ties with the Russian economy.On the 16th day of the bloody Russian invasion, President Vladimir Putin found his global reputation cratering to new lows, his countrys economy in free fall and his army reeling from a storm of setbacks and casualties.Putins answer to the developments appeared, once more, to be the escalation of a conflict believed to have killed thousands on both sides at a cost of billions of dollars for Russians.President Biden said the U.S. was moving in tandem with its European allies to strip Russia of its normalized trade status. America was also barring the import of Russian seafood, vodka and jewels, the president said.Speaking in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Biden predicted the White Houses latest penalties would pose another crushing blow to the Russian economy.Putin is an aggressor, Biden said shortly after speaking with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine. And Putin must pay the price.Putins war against Ukraine will never be a victory. He hoped to dominate Ukraine without a fight  he failed, Biden said. The American people are united. The world is united. And we stand with the people of Ukraine.
Speaking in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Biden predicted the White Houses latest penalties would pose another crushing blow to the Russian economy.
Video: Huge Russian convoy approaches Kyiv, sparking fears Russia is preparing a full-scale assault on the city CNBC
To maintain support at home, Putin has purged his country of independent news reporting, blocked Facebook and presented a preposterous explanation for the war  the Kremlin does not use the word  that falsely presents Ukrainian leadership as neo-Nazis.
Still, Kharkiv has not yet fallen, nor has Kyiv, the true prize for the Russians. The capital has endured intermittent and sometimes brutal bombing, but turned quieter in recent days while a 40-mile column of tanks and trucks loomed beyond city limits. The respite seemed to be ending.
Theyre fighting skillfully, bravely, quite creatively, Kirby said of the Ukrainian troops, noting that ordinary citizens are stepping up too.
Russia broadened its aerial bombardment of Ukraine on Friday, split up its menacing miles-long convoy outside the capital, Kyiv, and allegedly abducted the mayor of an occupied city, as the U.S. severed more ties with the Russian economy.
They moved that convoy after two weeks of sitting in the sun and getting a nice tan, said Barry Pavel, a former top Pentagon official and a director at the Atlantic Council. I think youre going to start to see mass shelling and bombing, especially of Kyiv.
Theres Russian bombardment going on quite violently as we speak, Kirby told reporters. And we do assess that the Russians are beginning to make more momentum on the ground towards Kyiv.
The invasion has sent at least 2.5 million refugees scrambling from Ukraine, and displaced roughly 2 million people inside the country, according to the UN. Dozens of children have died, according to Ukraine, and hospitals have been decimated.
On the 16th day of the bloody Russian invasion, President Vladimir Putin found his global reputation cratering to new lows, his countrys economy in free fall and his army reeling from a storm of setbacks and casualties.
Putin is an aggressor, Biden said shortly after speaking with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine. And Putin must pay the price.
Ukraines parliament said 10 occupiers abducted Mayor Ivan Fedorov of Melitopol, a small city in southern Ukrainian, placing a bag over his head as they took him away.
Russia captured Melitopol on Feb. 25, one day after starting the invasion. The city sits near the coast of the Sea of Azov, in a region where the often-stalled Russian Army has had more success, perhaps due to its seizure of Crimea, a Black Sea peninsula, in 2014.
Even as Biden scolded Putin, the Russians forces were intensifying the largest invasion in Europe since World War II.
In the north of the country, Russia has hit roadblocks on the ground and resorted to pulverizing buildings from the air. Kharkiv, Ukraines second largest city, has seen its buildings hallowed out by attacks and its central square blasted into a tangle of rubble.
