Russias Gazprom halts gas supplies to Poland Bulgaria
20220428
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russias-gazprom-halts-gas-supplies-to-poland-bulgaria/ar-AAWHsQc
While Polish gas firm PGNiG confirmed that Gazprom has "completely stopped" supplies via the Yamal pipeline, adding that customers of the company are still getting the fuel in line with their needs.
"Cutting gas supplies is a breach of contract and PGNiG reserves the right to seek compensation and will use all available contractual and legal means to do so," the company said.
Poland, and other EU countries, have refused to pay for natural gas in rubles, which Russia is demanding to stabilize and boost its currency in the face of Western sanctions.
"Europeans can trust that we stand united and in full solidarity with the member states impacted in the face of this new challenge. Europeans can count on our full support," she said.
But both Poland and Bulgaria responded immediately to the development, saying Gazprom was in breach of contact.
"Because all trade and legal obligations are being observed, it is clear that at the moment the natural gas is being used more as a political and economic weapon in the current war," Nikolov said.
Poland's PGNiG said in a statement it would continue to monitor the situation and is prepared to obtain gas from other connections thanks to a "government strategy of diversifying" sources.
Gazprom said that it hasn't received any payments since April 1 from Poland and Bulgaria and was suspending deliveries as of Wednesday.
The suspensions are the first since Russia insisted foreign buyers pay for gas in rubles. Both Poland and Bulgaria have said Gazprom are in breach of contact.Russian energy giant Gazprom on Wednesday halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland over a failure to pay for gas in rubles.
"Gazprom has completely suspended gas supplies to Bulgargaz Bulgaria and PGNiG Poland due to absence of payments in rubles," Gazprom said in a statement.
Germany's network regulator said it was monitoring the situation and that "the security of supply in Germany is currently guaranteed."
"The Russian proposal for a two-step payment procedure is in violation with the current contract and bears considerable risks for Bulgaria, including to make payments without receiving any gas deliveries from Russia,'' the Bulgarian government said.
He said Bulgaria would stick to the European Commission's stance urging countries not to pay in rubles for Russian gas, something Russian President Vladimir Putin had demanded.
"The announcement by Gazprom that it is unilaterally stopping delivery of gas to customers in Europe is yet another attempt by Russia to use gas as an instrument of blackmail," she said in statement published via Twitter.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen also condemned the Russian move as attempted "blackmail."
Morawiecki said Russia could be attempting to "blackmail" Poland, but noted that Poland had prepared by diversifying its energy sources. He noted gas storage facilities are 76 full.
Poland has strongly supported Ukraine and has welcomed the largest number of Ukrainian refugees of any country as well as serving as a transit hub for weapons from Western countries into Ukraine.
It marks Russia's stiffest reaction yet to sanctions imposed by the West over the conflict in Ukraine.
Also on Tuesday, Bulgaria's Energy Ministry said state gas company Bulgargaz had received a similar notice from Gazprom. The ministry said it would take steps towards alternative gas supplies, adding that it is not necessary to limit gas consumption for the time being.
Polish Climate Minister Anna Moskwa said that "there will be no shortage of gas in Polish homes."
Poland imports gas via its Baltic ports and also plans to receive gas from Norway after the 900-kilometer 560-mile Baltic Pipeline project is completed later this year. Poland hopes Norway will eventually be able to supply roughly half the gas the country needs.
Von der Leyen stressed, however, that the EU had been prepared for Moscow's action and been working on securing alternative supplies.
"Payments for gas supplied from April 1 must be made in rubles using the new payments details, about which the counterparties were informed in a timely manner."
The gas suspensions are the first since Russian President Vladimir Putin said in March that "unfriendly'' foreign buyers would have to pay Gazprom in rubles instead of other currencies.
Bulgaria is almost completely dependent on Russia for its annual consumption. Bulgargaz said in a statement that it "fully met its obligations and has made all payments required under its current contract in a timely manner, strictly and in accordance with its terms."
On Tuesday, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that Warsaw had received notice from Gazprom of plans to halt gas shipments. Morawiecki made the announcement in Berlin following a meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
Bulgaria insisted it has paid for Russian gas deliveries for April, Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov told reporters.
European leaders have said requiring ruble payments is a violation of existing contracts with Gazprom.
