Russia in retreat with Chernobyl troops fleeing across border to Belarus
20220331
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russia-in-retreat-with-chernobyl-troops-fleeing-across-border-to-belarus/ar-AAVIuDX
It turns out that the occupiers guarded the station for more than five weeks, and even so well that there are no complaints, Energoatom said in a statement on Telegram.
The countrys nuclear operator announced the retreat on Thursday, amid reports of Russian soldiers digging trenches and getting ill very quickly.
The presence of Russian troops prevented the rotation of the plants personnel for a time.
The Russian troops panicked at the first sign of illness, which showed up very quickly, and began to prepare to leave, the operator said.
But it comes after claims that dozens of Russians had fallen ill with acute radiation sickness at the site.
Russian troops are leaving Chernobyl and heading for the border with Belarus, Ukrainian officials say.
An employee at the Ukrainian state agency overseeing the exclusion zone said irradiated Russian soldiers were being taken away by the bus load to a clinic in Belarus for treatment.
Have you dug trenches in the Red Forest, bitches? Now live with it for the rest of your short life.
Ukraine has repeatedly expressed safety concerns about Chernobyl and demanded the withdrawal of Russian troops, whose presence prevented the rotation of the plants personnel for a time.
Energoatom confirmed reports that the Russians dug trenches in the Red Forest, a 10-square-kilometer nearly four-square-mile area surrounding theplant within the Exclusion Zone, and received significant doses of radiation.
Zelensky has continuously pushed for aid and support from world leaders, as well as pressing for fast-tracked NATO membership.
His actions have been met by harsh economic sanctions, bans from competing in major sporting events, and countries moving away from using Russian oil.
The plants Ukrainian staff have continued to oversee the safe storage of spent nuclear fuel and supervise the concrete-encased remains of the reactor that exploded more than three decades ago.
Yaroslav Yemelianenko wrote on Facebook: Another batch of Russian irradiated terrorists who seized the Chernobyl zone was brought to the Belarusian Radiation Medicine Center in Gomel today.
The claim could not be verified, though US defence officials also claimed a retreat was in progress.
Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more by signing up to Metro's News Updates newsletter
The area was the site of the worst nuclear accident in history after a meltdown at the power plant in 1986.
Energoatom said the Russians have signed a document confirming the handover of theplant and stating that the plants administration doesnt have any complaints about the Russian troops who were guarding the facility.
Millions of people have fled the country, with thousands of British people opening up their homes to Ukrainian refugees.
During the course of the war, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has remained in Kyiv, despite the Ukrainian capital being subjected to a barrage of bombing.
It wasnt immediately clear why Vladimir Putins troops were leaving Chernobyl, which was seized on February 24, the first day of the invasion.
The Russian authorities, who have denied that its forces have put nuclear facilities in Ukraine at risk, did not immediately comment.
The operator, Energoatom, said that the Russian military are also preparing to leave Slavutych, a nearby city where power plant workers live.
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine began on February 24, the country has suffered widespread damages and loss of life amid a major bombing campaign.
