RussiaUkraine war Himars strike closes key bridge into Russianoccupied city of Kherson
20220727
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russia-ukraine-war-occupied-kherson-closes-strategic-bridge-in-response-to-himars-shelling/ar-AA100nZJ
A standoff between Europe and Moscow since the Russian invasion of Ukraine has exposed the bloc's reliance on Russian gas and sparked a frantic search for alternative energy sources.
Thelandmark UN dealto resume exports from Ukraine's ports in a bid to alleviate a global food crisis only last for 120 days after Russia and Ukraine signed it in Turkey last Friday.
Kirill Stremousov, one of the self-appointed officials in the Russian-imposed administration in the occupied Kherson region, added on his Telegram channel: "Traffic on the bridge is blocked. Indeed, another HIMARS strike was launched during the night."
Ukrainian military have struck a key supply bridge essential for Moscow's forces occupying the country's south usingUS-supplied HIMARS rocket launchers.
Authorities in the Russian-controlled Ukrainian city of Kherson have closed the city's only bridge across the Dnieper river after it came under fire from US-supplied high mobility artillery rocket systems HImars, according to Interfax and TASS reports on Wednesday.
Headded that developments around the enclave sandwiched between Poland and Lithuaniaalong the Baltic coastwere positive.
The centrepiece is a model of the independence monument in Kyiv's Maidan Square surrounded by people with Ukrainian and EU flags, and President Volodymyr Zelenskiy handing over Ukraine's formal application for membership of the EU.
The Kremlin has vowed to hinder work of Western media in Russia after a European court upheld a broadcast ban imposed on Russian news channel RT France.
Berlin said Russia's Gazprom had cut its gas supply via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to 20 per cent capacity today.
Russian private military firm Wagner has likely made tactical advances in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, British military intelligence said on Wednesday.
After that vote, ruling parliamentary party leader and close Zelenskyally David Arakhamia wrote on Telegram that Venediktova "remains in the team," and implied that she was due for a diplomatic posting.
Ukrainian forces have mocked Russians for shooting their own Ka-52 helicopter during air strikes on Kherson.
A spokesman for the Security Service of Ukraine said an investigation had foundthe informant's "neighbours" were particularly interested in fortifications near the border.
Mr Zelensky made his remarks during an interview on Piers Morgan Uncensored, where he appeared alongside his wife, First Lady Olena Zelenska, which airs onTalkTV tonight at 8pm.
Writing on Facebook, aspokesman for the Ukrainian Command Southsarcastically called the friendly fire a "gesture of goodwill".
The first Ukrainians boarded the specially chartered MS Victoria on Tuesday which theScottish government insists is "fully staffed" and safe to house up to 1,700 Ukrainian refugees in 739 cabins until next January.
A man has been accused of leakingUkrainian military data to Belarusian police and special services.
Zelensky submitted a formal request to parliament for the assembly to vote to confirm Kostin's appointment to replace Iryna Venediktova, who was removed as prosecutor general earlier this month.
Some Russian state media - citing Russian-backed officials - reported separately it had been stormed.
For four months, the Russian state has not provided to its citizens any information - even censored - about the losses of the occupation contingent.
Russia and Ukraine last week signed alandmark UN dealto resume exports of grains and fertilisers which had been blocked because of war.
The Ukrainian President noted he has "no right" to interfere in the UK's domestic affairs, but claimed he would like Mr Johnson to "be somewhere in politics in a position to be someone".
The Tory MP for Bournemouth East and former Army lieutenant colonel retweeted a local paper report that said figures from the Department for Education showed at least 92 Ukrainian pupils have been offered school places in Bournemouth,Christchurchand Poole as of May 27.
The damaged Antonovsky bridge in Kherson region. It has been struck by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. pic.twitter.comIerAjRkUK9
At the sixth hearing into her case, Griner was escorted into a courtroom by police, bending down to avoid banging her head against the doorway.
"The Grand Chamber of the General Court dismisses RT France's application for annulment of acts of the Council, adopted following the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, temporarily prohibiting that organisation from broadcasting content," the Luxembourg-based General Court said.
Chun In-Bum, a retired South Korean general, said the deal with Poland is Seoul's single biggest weapons export pact ever.
Almost 40,000 Russian troops have been killed since the beginning of the invasion, according toVolodymyr Zelensky.
Russia planned for the attack on Antonivskyi Bridge fueling its occupation of south Ukraine and will begin repairs soon, a separatist Ukrainian politician told Russian news agency Tass.
Panicked European capitals fear they could be plunged into darkness this winter, unable to heat homes or power factories without their usual supplies of Russian gas.
Scotland has started to house Ukrainian refugees who fled the Russian invasion on a cruise ship docked off Edinburgh, the devolved government has said.
Tensions between the EU and Russia soared over suggestions that sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine could ban goods transfers between the Russian mainland and Kaliningrad.
Max, one of the weapon handling instructors training new recruits of the Territorial Defence unit of Boryspil city, near Kyiv, takes aim from a platform designed to shake in order to teach the firer how to adopt the most stable firing position.
Spokeswoman Nataliya Humeniuk said: I will note that we appreciate everything that is in our country, even when it is under occupation. There were strikes, but they were intricate.
The US, which has poured billions of dollars intoUkraineto help it repel Russia, has a memorable history of addressing corruption inUkraine.
Interfax cited Rudenko as saying that grain shipments from Ukraine would start soon, and he hoped the grain deal would hold.
Russia's foreign minister blamed the West's "reckless" green policies and food hoarding during the pandemic for driving up prices behind the "so-called food crisis".
However,this number is already almost 40,000- that is how many killed people the Russian army has lost since February 24. And tens of thousands more were wounded and maime
One of the Wagner fighters in front of the plant showed his watch to the camera - the time on it was 1001 local and gave the date as July 26.
"We join the people ofUkrainein emphasising the importance of transparently appointing a highly qualified and truly independent successor as prosecutor general," State Department spokesman Ned Price said.
A Brussels open-air theme park of famous European landmarks has granted Ukraine a place alongside members of EU this week.
Peskov said that Gazprom will be able to increase supplies once maintenance is over. "Gazprom was and remains a reliable guarantor of all its obligations but it can not guarantee supplies if foreign equipment could not be serviced due to European sanctions," he said.
At least one person has been killed and four people have been wounded by a Russian strike on a Ukrainian hotel in the Donetsk region town of Bakhmut on Wednesday, local authorities said.
In the interview in his office, Mr Klychko rests his dinnerplate-sizehands on a long table opposite us and holds our gaze while delivering his answers. He speaks slowly, commanding attention, with the poise and balance of the prize fighter he was before entering politics.
Russian energy giant Gazprom has drastically cut gas deliveries to Europe via the Nord Stream pipeline to about 20 per cent of its capacity, German authorities said.
The wonderful British effort to support Ukraine is the culmination of hundreds of working parts.
Data about checkpoints, deployment and movement of personnel and equipmentand other military formations in western Ukraine were handed over during illegal crossings of the state border with Belarus, it was alleged.
Denying his country was responsible for the global surge in food prices following its invasion of Ukraine, Sergei Lavrov toldreporters and African diplomats in Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa, that:"The situation in Ukraine did additionally negatively affect food markets, but not due to the Russian special operation, rather due to the absolutely inadequate reaction of the West, which announced sanctions."
The Pentagon formally approved in late June a plan to help treat wounded Ukrainian troops at an American military hospital in Germany, a defence official said.
Unverified footage posted on social media appeared to show fighters from Russia's Wagner private military company posing in front of the Vuhlehirsk power plant.
US basketball player Brittney Griner has arrived in a Russian court charged with drug offences.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has nominated Andriy Kostin, a lawmaker from the president's Servant of the People party, to be the country's next prosecutor general.
Vehicles will no longer be able to cross the Antonivskyi Bridge across the Dnieper River after its deck was pierced with holes late on Tuesday, the deputy head of the Moscow-appointed administration for the Kherson region, Kirill Stremousov, said.
EU states have accused Russia of squeezing supplies in retaliation for Western sanctions over Moscow's war in Ukraine.
Nominations were at 14,423,764 kilowatt hours an hour kWhh for 0800-0900 CET 0600-0700 GMT onwards, down from levels above 27,000,000 kWhh previously.
"The investigation established that the informant gave the data to the Belarusian law enforcement officers during an illegal crossing of the state border with Belarus," the spokesman said.
Ukraine's navy has confirmed that work had started at three Ukrainian Black Sea ports aimed at preparing for the resumption of grain exports.
Mini-Europe owner Thierry Meeus told Reuters the idea was to demonstrate the EU's solidarity with Ukraine.
A Turkish official said all the details had been worked out, including a safe route for ships that will not require the clearing of sea mines.
"But we want to make them as comfortable as possible during their stay and we have worked with partners to provide a variety of services on-board for guests in addition to the support services available."
She was detained at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport in Feb 17 with vape cartridges containing hashish oil in her luggage.
The value of the deal is not known. It is expected to be officially announced in Poland on Wednesday.
Volodymyrs courage, defiance and dignity  all Churchillian qualities  have moved the hearts of millions and stirred a global wave of solidarity. pic.twitter.comBGZDFenIzU
Klaus Mueller, head of Germany's energy regulator, said gas flows had dropped to 20 per cent of the pipeline's capacity on Wednesday from 40 per cent, adding:"We'll see today if it stays that way."
The US has already been training Ukrainian forces in Germany and provided more than $8 billion in security assistance to the Kyiv Government.
The Philippines has scrapped a deal to buy 16 Russian military transport helicopters because of fears of USsanctions, the Associated Press reported on Wednesday, citing Philippine officials.
A Ukrainian counteroffensive to recapture the southern region from Russia could potentially benefit from the destruction of thebridge.
Mr Zelensky cited the need to act against suspected treason by officials supporting Russia. The president had been critical of the two senior figures' performance even before Russia's invasion on February 24.
The European Union has backed a watered-down emergency plan to slash gas consumption by 15 per cent amid mounting fears Vladimir Putin is poised to turn off the taps on the blocs supply.
The deal was struck as European gas prices soared by 20 per cent in two days after Russia put a further squeeze on supplies to the continent in an attempt to weaponise energy exports.
The German government slammed a further reduction in Russian gas deliveries via Nord Stream 1 today, calling it a "power play".
Russian and Russian-backed forces have been struggling to make meaningful progress on the ground since their capture in early July of the eastern Ukrainian city of Lysychansk.
Kyiv isnow in consultation with the IMF over the new financing that he hoped would provide as much as $20 billion over two or three years in form of a Stand-By Arrangement SBA or an Extended Fund Facility EFF.
Authorities in the Russian-controlled Ukrainian city of Kherson have closed the city's onlybridgeacross the Dnieper river after it came under fire from US-supplied high mobility artillery rocket systems Himars, according to Interfax and TASS reports on Wednesday.
The headquarters overseeing exports of Ukrainian grains which are hoped to alleviate a global food crisis is set to be unveiled in Istanbul on Wednesday.
On Monday, Gazprom said it would choke supply to half the amount it has been delivering since service resumed last week after 10 days of maintenance work - 33 million cubic metres a day.
US State Department spokesman Ned Price has said the fight against corruption in Ukraine, long a major concern, is critical as the country seeks membership in the EU.
Ukrainian troops would be treated at Landstuhl Regional Medical Centreif needed, the US official said.
The advances were made around the Vuhlehirska Power Plant and the nearby village of Novoluhanske, the Ministry of Defence said on Twitter, adding that some Ukrainian forces have likely withdrawn from the area.
Adjacent to the Ramstein Air Base southwest of Frankfurt, it is the largest USmilitary hospital outside the continental United States.
A spokesperson said Berlin saw no reason for Russia not to accept the return of a repaired turbine for the pipeline, which saw its supplies of gas to Germanyhalved to 20 per cent capacity today.
"According to preliminary information, there are dead and wounded, a rescue operation is underway," local governor Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote on Facebook.
Vitaly Klychko enters the room and walks towards the table where Dominic Nicholls and I sit. My chair is too close to the wall and, when the mayor of Kyiv extends his hand, I find I cant quite stand up properly. The top of my head barely grazes his chest its like being ambushed by a mountain.
If confirmed, the seizure of the Soviet-era coal-fired Vuhlehirsk power plant in eastern Ukraine would be Moscow's first strategic gain in more than three weeks in what it calls its "special military operation".
Speaking in London, Shevchenko, 49, also said he hoped to agree on a swap line with the Bank of England "within weeks", though he did not specify the amount, adding:"The IMF has always acted as Ukraine's partner during the war.
Sign up to the Front Page newsletter for free: Your essential guide to the day's agenda from The Telegraph - direct to your inbox seven days a week.
Unveiling a centre in Istanbul to oversee the exports, he added the goal of the monitoring centre in Istanbul was to ensure the safe shipment of grains from three Ukrainian ports, with more than 25 million tonnes of grain waiting there.
It is unclear if any Ukrainian troops have been treated in other countries, such as neighbouring Poland.
"In connection with the signing of the agreement on the unblocking by Russia of Ukrainian ports for the export of grain, work has been resumed in the ports of Odesa, Chornomorsk and Pivdeny," the navy said on Facebook.
The local emergency service said a toll of one dead and four wounded had been confirmed so far.
The cut in supplies, flagged by Gazprom earlier this week, has reduced the capacity of the Nord Stream 1 pipeline - the major delivery route to Europe for Russian gas - to a fifth of its capacity, as Russia said another gas turbine needed a repair.
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko has warned the landmark exportsdeal to unblock Ukrainian grain exports on the Black Sea could collapse if obstacles to Russia's agricultural exports are not promptly removed, Interfax reported.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said he does not want Boris Johnson to "disappear" after he stands down as Prime Minister.
Preparations are continuing for the first ships to leave Ukrainian ports under a landmark UN deal to export Ukrainian grains, Turkish Defence Minister Hulusi Akar said.
Poland isbuying nearly1,000 tanks, more than 600 pieces of artillery and dozens of fighter jets from South Koreato replace the military equipment it donated to Ukraine's fight against Russia, the Polish Ministry of Defense told CNN on Tuesday.
The 31-year-old, a Women's National Basketball Association WNBA star who has played in Russia during the league's offseason, faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted.
"Can we make sure and guarantee the safety of the crews? What's going to happen with the mines and the minefields, as well? So lots of uncertainty and unknowns at the moment."
The 1.4-kilometer 0.9-mile bridge sustained serious damage in Ukrainian shelling last week, when it took multiple hits. It was closed for trucks but had remained open for passenger vehicles until the latest strike.
The Scottish Government announced the first group of refugees fleeing Russias invasion have arrived aboard the MS Victoria currently berthed outside Edinburgh.
Requests for Russian natural gas flows through Nord Stream 1 into Germany nearly halved from 8 a.m CET on July 27, data from the pipeline operator showed on Wednesday.
Ukrainian forces meanwhile said theytook care to damage the bridge so that it was unusable for heavy goods and military machinery, but not to destroy it.
A Ukrainian counteroffensive to recapture the southern region from Russia could potentially benefit from the destruction of the bridge.
"Everything from the tensions over Taiwan, to the war inUkraine, as well as how we better manage competition between our two nations, certainly in the economic sphere," Mr Kirby said of the topics to be discussed.
President Joe Biden, while serving as vice president, demanded on a trip to Kyiv thatUkrainefire a prosecutor general seen as ineffective in fighting corruption, warning that the US would otherwise withhold $1 billion in loan guarantees.
While the Russians were focusing on regrouping in Donbas, the Ukrainians started hitting targets on the Kherson front in the South. In fact, this continues a theme: the Ukrainians have actually taken more territory off Russia in the South, than the Russians have off them in the Donbas.This is the reason why Russian military activity has dropped they are playing catch up and trying to rush assets and personnel to defend Kherson in the South
Tobias Elwood, chair of the House of Commons Defence Select Committee, has praisedschools in his constituency for taking in nearly 100 Ukrainian refugee pupils.
"Corruption must be combated even asUkrainedefends itself against Russia's war of aggression. Russia's war againstUkraineposes an external threat. Corruption poses an internal threat," he said.
France could provide Germany two per cent of its gas consumption- 20 terawatt hours- during winter months if needed in the context of the conflict in Ukraine, French energy ministry officials said.
It is unclear how many Ukrainian troops have been wounded but thousands of civilians have died and millions have fled.
"This is a power play," a government spokesperson said at a regular news conference in Berlin.
Germany today said the state-owned gas giant had cut supplies via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to 20 per cent capacity amid an energy stand-off between Moscow and the European Union that will make it harder, and costlier, for the bloc to fill up storage ahead of the winter heating season.
A USofficial said no Ukrainian troops had been treated yet and UStroops would not be going intoUkraineto bring Ukrainian personnel out.
"We have provided for all things like this, and in fact there are several ferry crossings," said Stremousov, who is wanted for treason in Ukraine.
The US has urgedUkraineto pick a credible top prosecutor to replace one sacked by President Volodymyr Zelensky, calling for action on corruption even as Kyiv battles Russian invaders.
Total silence. Nothing was published or said in numerous interviews and speeches at the political and military levels.
The joint coordination centre JCC in Istanbul will oversee departures from three Ukrainian ports in which ships must circumvent mines, and will conduct inspections of incoming ships for weapons. All vessels pass through Turkish waters.
Germany, Europe's top economy and its largest importer of Russian gas, has been particularly hit by supply cuts since mid-June and is preparing for all scenarios including a complete stop to Russian gas supplies.
Between 1,600 and 1,700 Ukrainians will initially be housed aboard the vessel after the SNP ran out of temporary accommodation and shelved its super-sponsor scheme.
"The independence and impartiality of the prosecutor general is vital to ensuring the integrity of accountability efforts inUkraine."
"We do not want people spending more time in temporary accommodation, such as the ship, for any longer than is absolutely necessary," government minister Shona Robison said.
"The SSU is verifying information on his other visits to enemy law enforcement and special services."
"We have to work very hard to now understand the detail of how this is going to work practically," said Mr Platten.
The chamber represents national shipowners associations, accounting for about 80 per cent of the world's merchant fleet.
Appearing alongside his counterpartDemeke Mekonnen in Addis Ababa,Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said: "We confirmed our firm support for those efforts which the government is making to stabilise the situation and launch inclusive national dialogue to solve the key questions."
White House national security spokesperson John Kirby said managing economic competition between the two countries would also be a focus of the call, which Mr Biden said was expected later this week.
Shipowners racing to export millions of tons of grain out of Ukraine still face a "lot of uncertainty" over water mines,said the secretary-general of the International Chamber of Shipping Guy Platten.
The president had earlier nominated Kostin to replace Iryna Venediktova, who was abruptlyremoved as prosecutor general earlier this month, amid claims her office had failed to root out Russian collaborators.
A senior Turkish official said the first ship is likely to depart Black Sea ports in a few days.
A former Philippine defence secretary, Delfin Lorenzana, said late on Tuesday the 12.7 billion peso $227 million deal to acquire the Mi-17 helicopters had been cancelled. The decision to buy the helicopters was approved last month by former President Rodrigo Duterte, before their terms in office ended on June 30, the news agency reported.
Ethiopia was considered a stalwart ally of the West until conflict broke out in November 2020 in its northern region of Tigray. The Ethiopian government has come under pressure from the United States and European Union over its conduct of the conflict, which has killed thousands and displaced millions.
Russia's Gazprom is supplying as much gas to Europe as possible, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters as heblamedsanctions-driven technical issues with equipment.
"During the missile attack by a pair of enemy Su-34 X-31 rockets towards Bashtanka, both missiles were destroyed by our air defense forces."
Some 299 deputies in the 450-seat parliament endorsed thelawmaker's appointment, it said on the Telegram messaging app.
Previous claims by Russia thatit has destroyed several HIMARS systems supplied to Ukraine by the West have beendenied by Kyiv.
Parliament formally dismissed Venediktova and domestic security agency chief Ivan Bakanov on July 19, two days after Zelenskiy suspended them for failing to root out Russian spies since the Russian invasion of Ukraineon February24.
A $20 billion programme would be the second largest currently active loan from the IMF after Argentina.
It was an honour to present my friend President ZelenskyyUa with the Winston Churchill Leadership Award today.
Plus we hear from Mayor of Kyiv VitaliyKlychko - Listen to the full interview in tomorrow's episode!
Both discussed the need to continue to accelerate budgetary support forUkraine, and opportunities to build on sanctions imposed on Russia, the USTreasury Department said.
"This is a call that has been scheduled for a long time and there's already a pretty robust agenda of things for these two leaders to talk about."
"I don't want him to disappear, but the decision is in the hands of the British people."
Russia's Defence Ministry has claimed its forces destroyed more than 100 US-made HIMARS rockets in Ukraine's Dnipropetrovsk region on Sunday.
Tensions over Taiwan, as well as Russia's invasion ofUkraine, are likely topics for a call expected this week between US President Joe Biden and China's leader, Xi Jinping, the White House said.
The armoured vehicles would partly replace the Soviet-era tanks that Poland has donated to Ukraine to use in its fight against Russia.
"Of course, we will take similar measures of pressure on Western media that operate in our country," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. "We will also not let them work in our country."
The EU's decision tostrike a deal with Russia to unblock transit of goods to its Kaliningrad enclaveshows the bloc has understood how "essential" it is to Russia, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
New episode of Ukraine: The Latest sophiecoe and FrancisDearnley are joined by djknowles22 and DomNicholls live from Ukraine.
Russian energy giant Gazprom said on Monday it was halting one more turbine at the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline for maintenance which would result in a reduction of gas flows from Wednesday.
USTreasury Secretary Janet Yellen highlighted a proposed price cap on Russian oil on a phone call with British Chancellor Nadhim Zahawi on Tuesday, a move to reduce the impact of the war inUkraineon global energy prices.
When he gets more animated, speaking with deep anger of the barbaric actions committed by Russias invading forces, you can feel the needle of distant seismographs twitching.
The German economy ministry dismissed the explanation, saying there was "no technical reason for a reduction of deliveries".
Gazprom cited the halted operation of one of the last two operating turbines for the pipeline due to the "technical condition of the engine".
The Antonovsky bridge has been closed for civilians but its structural integrity has not suffered from the shelling, Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Russian-appointed city administration, told Interfax.
The Antonovskybridgehas been closed for civilians but its structural integrity has not suffered from the shelling, Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Russian-appointed city administration, told Interfax.
On whether he would support a campaign to have Mr Johnson back as prime minister, Mr Zelensky told Piers Morgan: "I have no right to play in politics inside the UK. What I can say is he is a big friend of Ukraine.
"Gazprom supplies as much as needed and possible. We know that technical possibilities for supplies have decreased now," Peskov said, adding that European sanctions prevented a timely repair of the Nord Stream 1 equipment.
Visitors to "Mini-Europe" will see depictions of refugees fleeing Ukraine following Russia's invasion in February, and trucks taking medical and food aid into the country.
"At noon, the trio of Ka-52 in the area of Olginoy, intending to attack our units, caused an impact on their own. For which on the way back was attacked by anti-aircraft defense means of Rashist troops. Thus, the enemy another gesture of good will deprived himself of one striking ka-52. Our losses will not be allowed.
Mr Zelensky announced earlier this month that he was firing prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova as well as security chief Ivan Bakanov.
Ukrainian parliament approved the appointment of Andriy Kostin as the country's prosecutor general on Wednesday, the prosecutor general's office said.
Moscow's whistle-stop tour of African states has seen Ethiopia's foreign minister tell of hiscountry's gratitude for "Russia's unwavering support in helping us in safeguarding Ethiopia's sovereignty".
Wearing a long-sleeved T-shirt from her WNBA team, the Phoenix Mercury, Griner held up personal photographs and shook her lawyers' hands through the bars of the defendant's cage before taking a seat.
A cruise ship rented by Nicola Sturgeons government to house Ukrainian refugees in cabins compared to prison cells has welcomed its first arrivals.
The prohibition was imposed in March due to its systematic disinformation over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine is in talks over securingthe world's second biggest active loan from the International Monetary Fund worth up to 16.6bn to help shore up its war-torn economy, the country's central bank governor Kyrylo Shevchenko told Reuters.
Itwill see Warsaw purchase 980 tanks based on the South Korean K2 model, 648 self-propelled K9 armoured howitzers, and 48 FA-50 fighter jets, the ministry said.
They have been repeatedly pushed back by fierce Ukrainian resistance to what Kyiv and the West regard as an imperialist Russian land grab in a pro-Western neighbour that Moscow dominated until the Soviet Union's 1991 break-up.
"The departure and arrival of ships to seaports will be carried out by forming a caravan that will accompany the lead ship."
The episode became the source of unfounded conspiracy theories by former president Donald Trump, who was impeached for withholding security aid toUkraineunlessVolodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, agreed to dig up dirt on Mr Biden.
Europe's second-top court has upheld an EU ban on Russian state-controlled media outlet Russia Today.
