Russian forces have abducted a second Ukrainian mayor this one from the town of Dniprorudne Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Minister says
20220313
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-forces-have-abducted-a-second-ukrainian-mayor-this-one-from-the-town-of-dniprorudne-ukrainian-foreign-affairs-minister-says/ar-AAV0EEk
Dniprorudne is about 85 km, or 52 mi, north of Melitopol. The Russian choice for Melitopol's mayor, Galina Danilchenko, was a former member of Melitopol's city council, according to Sky News. She was introduced as the city's acting mayor on local TV, CNNreported.
"The EU strongly condemns the kidnapping of the mayors of Melitopol and Dniprorudne by Russian armed forces," Fontelles said. "It is yet another attack on democratic institutions in Ukraine and an attempt to establish illegitimate alternative government structures in a sovereign country."
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko told CNN on Sunday that the kidnappings make him worry that he will be a target of a similar abduction.
"Today, Russian war criminals abducted another democratically elected Ukrainian mayor, head of Dniprorudne Yevhen Matveyev. Getting zero local support, invaders turn to terror," Foreign Affairs Minister Dmytro Kuleba said in a tweet.
The abduction comes after the Russians kidnapped mayor Ivan Fedorov of the city of Melitopol and installed an acting mayor in his stead.
Kuleba added a plea to "all states  international organizations to stop Russian terror against Ukraine and democracy."
In an earlier statement, the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Mayor Fedorov's abduction was "a war crime under the Geneva Conventions and the Additional Protocol that prohibit the taking of civilian hostages during the war."
Video: Trey Yingst speaks with Ukrainians fleeing their homes as Russia fails to honor cease-fire FOX News
Russian forces have abducted a second Ukrainian mayor, this time targeting the leader of the southern town of Dniprorudne, the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Minister said.
Josep Borrell Fontelles, theHigh Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, condemned the two kidnappings in a tweet on Sunday.
"Right now, it's every Ukrainian is target, every Ukrainian. And Russians told it's not the war against civilian. Every mayor," Klitschko said. "It's a war against whole population."
