Russia blames Ukraine for death of Putin allys daughter in move that could prompt new attacks on Kyiv
20220822
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-blames-ukraine-for-death-of-putin-allys-daughter-in-move-that-could-prompt-new-attacks-on-kyiv/ar-AA10Vg5K
Maria Zakharova, a Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman, suggested that Ukraine could be responsible in a Monday Telegram post.
She said if Ukraine's involvement was "confirmed" then "we should talk about the policy of state terrorism implemented by the Kyiv regime."
Minutes after posting the initial news of Dugina's death on Telegram, she shared the address of Ukraine's security service headquarters in Kyiv and wrote: "I will try to sleep now, and when I wake up, I hope to read in the news that it was fucking bombed along with the basements."
Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, summed up the uncertainty to CNN's "State of the Union" on Sunday, as he said he hoped Ukraine was not responsible.
Darya Dugina, the daughter of an influential nationalist Russian philosopher, was killed on Saturday by an apparent car bomb, Russian officials said. The work of Dugina's father, Aleksandr Dugin,helped influence Putin, and Dugina was also a proponent both of his thinking and Russia's invasion.
He made his comments on February Morning, a Russian-language TV channel he created in Ukraine that challenges Putin, The Guardian reported.
In the days after her death, some Putin allies rushed to blame Ukraine without producing evidence, and called for greater attacks on the country despite its denial of any involvement.
He told Ukrainian TV, according to CNN: "Ukraine definitely has nothing to do with this because we are not a criminal state, which the Russian Federation is, and even more so, we are not a terrorist state."
"We should be aware that this week Russia may try to do something particularly nasty, something particularly cruel," he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy also warned that Russia may escalate its attacks this week as it celebrates its independence day on August 24.
"This attack opens a new page in Russian resistance to Putinism. New  but not the last," he said. The Guardian noted that it could not verify his claims about the attack or the group.
Dugina's family friend suggested that her death may have been the result of efforts to target her father, and a former Russian lawmaker exiled in Ukraine pointed to an underground dissident group in Russia looking to overthrow Putin.
The Russian outlet Tsargrad TV, where Dugina was a commentator and her father is the editor, said "Kyiv should shake" from missile strikes, The Telegraph reported.
"There are so many factions and internecine warfare within Russian society, within the Russian government. Anything is possible."
She later wrote: "I don't understand why there are still buildings on Bankova Street in Kyiv," referring to the street with the Presidential Administration of Ukraine and other official buildings.
The death of a top Vladimir Putin ally's daughter has added a new layer of confusion and potential escalation to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Ilya Ponomarev, a former Russian MP currently living in exile in Kyiv, said he believed the National Republican Army may have been responsible.
Margarita Simonyan, editor-in-chief of Russian state-media outlet RT, said Russia should fire missiles targeting Ukraine's "decision-making centers," The Telegraph reported.
Ponomarev said the National Republican Army is a group that opposes Putin and thinks he "sent Russian soldiers to certain and senseless death," The Guardian reported.
On Monday, Russia's FSB security service said Ukraine's security services were behind the attack, and that a Ukrainian citizen had carried it out, state-run news agency Tass reported.
Mikhail Podolyak, an advisor at the Ukrainian presidential office, tweeted on Monday that Russia needed to understand "the world sees war live," and that Russian "attempts" to blame Dugina's death or other attacks on Ukraine "are useless."
