Russians shell city near Europes largest nuclear plant
20220804
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russians-shell-city-near-europe-s-largest-nuclear-plant/ar-AA10jjlm
Russia and Ukraine have repeatedly accused each other of firing on territories under their own control.
Dnipropetrovsks regional governor said Russia fired 60 rockets at Nikopol, across the Dnieper River from the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, which has been under Russian supervision since Moscows troops seized it early in the war.
YIV, Ukraine AP  Russian forces shelled a Ukrainian city close to Europes biggest nuclear power plant Thursday, reinforcing warnings from the U.N. nuclear chief that the fighting around the site could lead to a disastrous accident.Dnipropetrovsks regional governor said Russia fired 60 rockets at Nikopol, across the Dnieper River from the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, which has been under Russian supervision since Moscows troops seized it early in the war.Some 50 residential buildings were damaged in the city of 107,000, and residents were left without electricity, Valentyn Reznichenko wrote on Telegram.Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, had warned on Tuesday that the situation was becoming more perilous daily at the Zaporizhzhia plant in the city of Enerhodar.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, denied Ukrainian involvement. He alleged, without offering evidence, that Russian or separatist forces were responsible for the shelling.
In northern Ukraine, the countrys second-largest city, Kharkiv, was shelled by the Russians, Ukraines presidential office said. Several industrial sites were hit in the city, which has been a frequent target. In the nearby city of Chuhuiv, a rocket hit a five-story residential building.
YIV, Ukraine AP  Russian forces shelled a Ukrainian city close to Europes biggest nuclear power plant Thursday, reinforcing warnings from the U.N. nuclear chief that the fighting around the site could lead to a disastrous accident.
Russian forces kept up their bombardment of the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv, shelling it twice over the past 24 hours, Mykolaiv regional governor Vitaliy Kim reported. Kostiantyn LiberovRussian forces have already seized the Luhansk region that neighbors Donetsk. Its Ukrainian governor, Serhiy Haidai, said on social media that local residents are being mobilized by the Russian side to fight against Kyivs forces and that even indispensable mine workers are being taken.Ukrainian authorities reported another abduction of a mayor who reportedly refused to collaborate with the Russians in the southern Kherson region, which is also almost entirely occupied.The reported kidnapping of Serhiy Lyakhno, mayor of the village of Hornostaivka, comes as Russia amasses more troops in the area in anticipation of a counteroffensive by Kyiv and ahead of a planned referendum on the region becoming part of Russia.
Ukrainian authorities reported another abduction of a mayor who reportedly refused to collaborate with the Russians in the southern Kherson region, which is also almost entirely occupied.
Also in the Zaporizhzhia region, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said the Russian military struck two Ukrainian munitions depots near the village of Novoivanivka and a fuel depot near the Zaporizhzhia railway station.
Fighting continued in the fiercely contested Donetsk region in the east, with Ukrainian authorities saying a school was destroyed in the village of Ocheretyne. The attacks have disrupted supplies of gas, water and power, and the regions residents are being evacuated.
Russian forces have already seized the Luhansk region that neighbors Donetsk. Its Ukrainian governor, Serhiy Haidai, said on social media that local residents are being mobilized by the Russian side to fight against Kyivs forces and that even indispensable mine workers are being taken.
In the city of Donetsk, Russian-backed separatist authorities accused Ukrainian forces of shelling the central part of the city Thursday. The area hit was near a theater where a farewell ceremony for a prominent separatist officer killed a few days ago was being held. Donetsk Mayor Alexei Kulemzin said six people were killed.
Every principle of nuclear safety has been violated at the plant, he said. What is at stake is extremely serious and extremely grave and dangerous.
The reported kidnapping of Serhiy Lyakhno, mayor of the village of Hornostaivka, comes as Russia amasses more troops in the area in anticipation of a counteroffensive by Kyiv and ahead of a planned referendum on the region becoming part of Russia.
A woman stands in the aftermath of the Russian shelling in Mykolaiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, Aug. 3, 2022.
A couple reacts after the Russian shelling in Mykolaiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, Aug. 3, 2022. Kostiantyn LiberovEvery principle of nuclear safety has been violated at the plant, he said. What is at stake is extremely serious and extremely grave and dangerous.He expressed concern about the way the plant is being operated and the danger posed by the fighting going on around it. He cited shelling at the beginning of the war when it was taken over and continuing instances of Ukraine and Russia accusing each other of attacks there.Experts at the U.S.-based Institute for the Study of War said they believe Russia is shelling the area intentionally, putting Ukraine in a difficult position.Either Ukraine returns fire, risking international condemnation and a nuclear incident  which Ukrainian forces are unlikely to do  or Ukrainian forces allow Russian forces to continue firing on Ukrainian positions from an effective safe zone, the think tank said.
According local media, supermarket, high-rise buildings and pharmacy were damaged. Kostiantyn LiberovIn the town of Toretsk, artillery shells hit a bus stop, a church and apartment buildings, killing at least eight people, regional Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said.In the city of Donetsk, Russian-backed separatist authorities accused Ukrainian forces of shelling the central part of the city Thursday. The area hit was near a theater where a farewell ceremony for a prominent separatist officer killed a few days ago was being held. Donetsk Mayor Alexei Kulemzin said six people were killed.Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, denied Ukrainian involvement. He alleged, without offering evidence, that Russian or separatist forces were responsible for the shelling.Russia and Ukraine have repeatedly accused each other of firing on territories under their own control.
The Russian capture of Zaporizhzhia renewed fears that the largest of Ukraines four nuclear power plants could be damaged, setting off an emergency like the 1986 Chernobyl accident, the worlds worst nuclear disaster, which happened about 110 kilometers 65 miles north of the capital, Kyiv.
Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, had warned on Tuesday that the situation was becoming more perilous daily at the Zaporizhzhia plant in the city of Enerhodar.
A woman stands in the aftermath of the Russian shelling in Mykolaiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, Aug. 3, 2022. Kostiantyn Liberov Video: Zelenskiy addresses parliament under air-raid sirens Reuters The Russian capture of Zaporizhzhia renewed fears that the largest of Ukraines four nuclear power plants could be damaged, setting off an emergency like the 1986 Chernobyl accident, the worlds worst nuclear disaster, which happened about 110 kilometers 65 miles north of the capital, Kyiv.Also in the Zaporizhzhia region, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said the Russian military struck two Ukrainian munitions depots near the village of Novoivanivka and a fuel depot near the Zaporizhzhia railway station.In northern Ukraine, the countrys second-largest city, Kharkiv, was shelled by the Russians, Ukraines presidential office said. Several industrial sites were hit in the city, which has been a frequent target. In the nearby city of Chuhuiv, a rocket hit a five-story residential building.Fighting continued in the fiercely contested Donetsk region in the east, with Ukrainian authorities saying a school was destroyed in the village of Ocheretyne. The attacks have disrupted supplies of gas, water and power, and the regions residents are being evacuated.
Some 50 residential buildings were damaged in the city of 107,000, and residents were left without electricity, Valentyn Reznichenko wrote on Telegram.
Either Ukraine returns fire, risking international condemnation and a nuclear incident  which Ukrainian forces are unlikely to do  or Ukrainian forces allow Russian forces to continue firing on Ukrainian positions from an effective safe zone, the think tank said.
He expressed concern about the way the plant is being operated and the danger posed by the fighting going on around it. He cited shelling at the beginning of the war when it was taken over and continuing instances of Ukraine and Russia accusing each other of attacks there.
Experts at the U.S.-based Institute for the Study of War said they believe Russia is shelling the area intentionally, putting Ukraine in a difficult position.
In the town of Toretsk, artillery shells hit a bus stop, a church and apartment buildings, killing at least eight people, regional Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said.
Russian forces kept up their bombardment of the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv, shelling it twice over the past 24 hours, Mykolaiv regional governor Vitaliy Kim reported.
