Russia is desperate for troops and is promising big cash bonuses for volunteers to deploy to Ukraine UK intel suggests
20220810
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russia-appears-to-be-promising-lucrative-cash-bonuses-to-troops-who-deploy-to-ukraine-in-a-new-combat-unit-uk-intel-alleges/ar-AA10wuku
Best place to get macro exposure is in the SPY ETF or SPY options, says Susquehanna's Murphy
Recruitment to deploy to Ukraine is open to men under the age of 50 with only middle school education, according to the UK intelligence update.
Video: Food inflation from the Russia-Ukraine war could last till 2024, says food and agriculture firm CNBC
Russia's unprovoked invasion in late February quickly ground to a standstill as Russian forces were plagued with logistical issues and ran into fierce opposition from Ukrainian defenders.
Russia appears to offering cash bonuses to troops to deploy to Ukraine in a new combat unit as "enthusiasm" for volunteering drops, UK intelligence suggested on Wednesday.
The incentives are believed to be part of Russia's attempt to build up a ground-forces unit called the 3rd Army Corps, which they're hoping to fill with "volunteer battalions," according to the update.
A UK intel update alleged Russia is promising recruits "lucrative cash bonuses" once they arrive in Ukraine.
The Fed is a side story  inflation and the economy are the market drivers, says NYU's Damodaran
Then, some people who signed up for a three-month military service contract were being offered 170,000 rubles, or $3,000, a month  about four times the average salary in the region, the Times reported. Another recruiter was reported to offer a monthly salary of 300,000 rubles, or $5,200.
WW International CEO on weight loss drugs: Still critical you make the right lifestyle changes
After failing to take Kyiv, the Kremlin shifted its focus to Ukraine's east, where they've had some success in securing major Ukrainian cities like Mariupol, but have largely failed to push farther west.
The update claimed there are "very limited levels of popular enthusiasm for volunteering for combat in Ukraine," making it difficult for Russia to build up the 3rd Army Corps to Russia's typical army corps size: about 15,000 to 20,000 troops.
In May, Russia was offering signing bonuses up to four times a monthly salary to try to attract soldiers, the Moscow Times reported.
