Russian missile attack kills 15 in Donetsk housing block says Ukraine
20220710
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/russian-missile-attack-kills-15-in-donetsk-housing-block-says-ukraine/ar-AAZqMGM
His sister and nine-year-old nephew lived in the collapsed building and had not answered his calls since Saturday night.
Donetsk governor Mr Kyrylenko said Chasiv Yar  a town of about 12,000 people  was hit by Uragan rockets fired from truck-borne systems.
Ukraine said that the blocks housed mainly people who worked in nearby factories, but Russia has denied targeting civilians.
Mr Zelensky said in his nightly address to Ukrainians: Anyone who orders such strikes, everyone who carries them out in ordinary cities, in residential areas, kills absolutely consciously.
The 45-year-old said:My kitchen walls and balcony have completely vanished. I called my children to tell them I was alive.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the Donetsk region, said about 24 people were feared to be still trapped, including a nine-year-old child.
After such hits, they wont be able to say that they didnt know or didnt understand something.
Chasiv Yar is 20 kilometers 12 miles southeast of city Kramatorsk, a major target of Russian forces as they move towards the west.
Fifteen people have been killed by a missile attack carried out by Russia on an apartment block in eastern Ukraine.
I ran to hide in the corridor with my dogs. Everyone I knew started calling me to find out what had happened. I was shaking like a leaf.
Russia claims that the building was home for Ukrainian militants that it said were part of nationalist units of Ukraines military.
The attack on Saturday night destroyed three buildings in a residential area of the town Chasiv Yar, in the Donetsk region.
Valerii, who gave only his first name to reporters, said he was desperately waiting to hear from his relatives that have been missing.
Xi Jinping sees the Chinese model of modernisation as supreme to that of the west
Irina Shulimova, a 59-year-old retiree, said: We didnt hear any incoming sound, we just felt the impact.
He said: Now Im waiting for a miracle. We do not have good expectations, but I am avoiding such thoughts.
Emergency workers said that they had made contact with three other people that were still alive under the ruins.
But Viacheslav Boitsov, deputy chief of emergency service in the Donetsk Region, told the Associated Press that four shells hit the neighbourhood and they were likely Iskander missiles.
A resident who only gave her name as Oksana to reporters said that she was thrown to the ground and the windows in her third-floor apartment smashed after an explosion.
Six people were pulled out of the rubble on Sunday by emergency workers, and more than 20 people are believed to still be trapped.
One of the rescued people was a man who had been trapped under the bricks and concrete for 24 hours.
The two regions Donetsk and Luhansk make up the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, where separatist Moscow-backed rebels have fought Ukrainian forces since 2014.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Last week, Russia captured the city of Lysychansk, the last major stronghold of Ukrainian resistance in Luhansk.
