Sanctions on Russia pushed imports to 21year low in May
20220713
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/other/sanctions-on-russia-pushed-imports-to-21-year-low-in-may/ar-AAZwUNB
While the data for the UK shows a rise in exports in May, our research suggest that trade is in recession globally, following a 1.3 contraction in the second quarter  and the UK wont be immune, she said.
Europe, the US and their allies imposed a series of strict sanctions on Russia after the Kremlin sent troops farther into Ukraine in late February.
While the data for the UK shows a rise in exports in May, our research suggest that trade is in recession globally, following a 1.3 contraction in the second quarter  and the UK wont be immune
Imports from Russia fell to their lowest point in close to 21 years in May as sanctions continued to chip away at the countrys trading relations.
Imports of inorganic chemicals and cereals were among 19 other categories which fell to zero in May, despite seeing at least some imports the month before.
The ONS trade data also shows imports from all countries, excluding precious metals, rose 4.2, or 2.2 billion, in May, driven by a 1.5 billion boost in EU trade.
Other big drops were largely energy related oil fell 42 between April and May to 116 million, fuel imports dropped 22 to 164 million and refined oil imports were down 19 to 116 million.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Crude oil imports dropped to 0 in May from 59 million in April and 99 million in February.
It means imports were nearly 90 lower in May than in February, the last month unaffected by the Kremlins attack on Ukraine.
The UK imported 206 million of goods from Russia in May, down 16 from 244 million in April, data from the Office for National Statistics ONS shows.
We predict that global trade growth will slow in 2022 from 4 to 3.5, as port congestion returns to its worst condition since early 2021 and supply shortages created by the war in Ukraine take a 480 billion dollar 403 billion slice out of world trade.
Ana Boata, head of economic research at Allianz Trade, warned that worse is likely to come.
However, Europe is still struggling to get off Russian fossil fuels, especially gas, which forms a major part of the energy mix in many European countries.
However, imports of coal, coke and briquettes rose more than fivefold to 48.6 million, the categorys highest score since January 2018.
