Secy of State Antony Blinken denounces atrocities in Ukraine A punch to the gut
20220403
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/sec-y-of-state-antony-blinken-denounces-atrocities-in-ukraine-a-punch-to-the-gut/ar-AAVOnnN
You cant help but see these images as a punch to the gut, Blinken said on CNNs State of the Union.
This is the reality thats going on every day as long as Russias brutality against Ukraine continues. Thats why it needs to come to an end.
Their hands are tied behind their backs with white civilian rags, they were shot in the back of their heads. So you can imagine what kind of lawlessness they perpetrated here, he said.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. AP PhotoJacquelyn Martin, Pool Jacquelyn MartinYou cant help but see these images as a punch to the gut, Blinken said on CNNs State of the Union.The U.S. will help collect evidence of the brutality, he added.Since the aggression, weve come out and said that we believe that Russian forces have committed war crimes, he said. Video: Blinken says Russia is committing war crimes in Ukraine Yahoo! News Weve been working to document that, to provide the information we have to the relevant instructions and organizations that will put all of this together, he said. And there needs to be accountability for it.
Weve been working to document that, to provide the information we have to the relevant instructions and organizations that will put all of this together, he said. And there needs to be accountability for it.
Soldiers walk amid destroyed Russian tanks in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 3, 2022. Ukrainian troops are finding brutalized bodies and widespread destruction in the suburbs of Kyiv, sparking new calls for a war crimes investigation and sanctions against Russia. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday decried atrocities in Ukraine as Russias invasion reached its 40th day, describing the grisly toll as a punch to the gut.Evidence of the brutality surfaced in the town of Bucha, located in the same region as the capital Kyiv, where 57 people were buried in a mass grave, Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk told Agence France-Presse.The corpses of civilians could be seen lining a street as well.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday decried atrocities in Ukraine as Russias invasion reached its 40th day, describing the grisly toll as a punch to the gut.
I think the most important thing is we cant become numb to this, we cant normalize this, Blinken said.
Since the aggression, weve come out and said that we believe that Russian forces have committed war crimes, he said.
The U.S. accused Russia of war crimes in March, about a month after it launched its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Soldiers walk amid destroyed Russian tanks in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 3, 2022. Ukrainian troops are finding brutalized bodies and widespread destruction in the suburbs of Kyiv, sparking new calls for a war crimes investigation and sanctions against Russia. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd Rodrigo AbdThe mayor told Reuters that corpses of executed people lined Buchas Yabluska Street.Their hands are tied behind their backs with white civilian rags, they were shot in the back of their heads. So you can imagine what kind of lawlessness they perpetrated here, he said.
Bodies lie on a street in Bucha, northwest of Kyiv, as Ukraine says Russian forces are making a "rapid retreat" from northern areas around Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv, on April 2, 2022.Photo by RONALDO SCHEMIDTAFP via Getty Images Ronaldo SchemidtGetty-AFPThe U.S. accused Russia of war crimes in March, about a month after it launched its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.I think the most important thing is we cant become numb to this, we cant normalize this, Blinken said.This is the reality thats going on every day as long as Russias brutality against Ukraine continues. Thats why it needs to come to an end.
Bodies lie on a street in Bucha, northwest of Kyiv, as Ukraine says Russian forces are making a "rapid retreat" from northern areas around Kyiv and the city of Chernigiv, on April 2, 2022.Photo by RONALDO SCHEMIDTAFP via Getty Images
Evidence of the brutality surfaced in the town of Bucha, located in the same region as the capital Kyiv, where 57 people were buried in a mass grave, Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk told Agence France-Presse.
