Sentiment stirred by war needs to give way to a rational approach
20220409
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/sentiment-stirred-by-war-needs-to-give-way-to-a-rational-approach/ar-AAW2NYu
Sharply divided stances over sanctions dominated a virtual summit between President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang and two top EU leaders. Xi urged Europe not to "tie the whole world" to the crisis in Ukraine and warned it could take decades to repair the economic damage caused by sanctions. But Xi encountered a different Europe from a little over a year ago when the two sides agreed in principle on the investment deal - to great fanfare. This time, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said: "We exchanged very clearly opposing views ... this is a war ... we made it clear that China should ... not interfere with our sanctions".
Given that Russia and Ukraine are both global food exporters, and Russia is a major energy exporter, such collateral damage was predictable. But that did not prompt the West to cushion the effect of its sanctions. Apart from being the only major power to speak up for worst-affected countries, China also told the EU it should be guided by its own independent thinking in its relations with Beijing, rather than being strongly influenced by Washington's policies. These contribute to a hostile environment for many Chinese businesses and are often not necessarily in Europe's best interests.
With political emotions running high in Europe, prospects of an early breakthrough on an investment pact with China seem remote. Sentiment stirred by war needs to give way to a pragmatic and rational approach. Xi talked about new opportunities and there has been progress on some fronts. Political relations will ultimately govern progress towards a trade deal. There is room for both sides to push ahead with technical preparations, such as investment rules.
Away from video summitry and the halls and corridors of diplomacy, the reality on the ground is that food shortages and prices affected by sanctions and the war are already contributing to humanitarian disasters in Africa, not to mention that rising energy prices are also causing social instability in many other countries that have nothing to do with Russia or the war.
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with SCMP Knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.
If any evidence was needed that international sanctions are a blunt instrument that can inflict unintended consequences, it is to be found in relations between China and the European Union. Less than a year ago EU MPs derailed completion of a historic investment treaty between the two trade giants over Chinese tit-for-tat sanctions started by Europe for alleged human rights abuses. It was a lost opportunity to boost economic growth against the headwinds of the pandemic. Now Western sanctions against Russia, strongly opposed by China, over its invasion of Ukraine not only imperil global recovery but threaten humanitarian crises in poor developing nations with food and energy shortages and rising prices.
This article originally appeared on the South China Morning Post www.scmp.com, the leading news media reporting on China and Asia.
