Sergei Shoigu Amid speculation over his whereabouts Russias defense minister resurfaces
20220324
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/sergei-shoigu-questions-swirl-over-whereabouts-of-russias-defense-minister/ar-AAVrXWk
Peskov confirmed that Chubais quit his job as Putin's climate envoy, but denied any knowledge of Chubais' reported opposition to the invasion of Ukraine.
A young Sierra Leonean artist is fighting to change the negative narrative of pursuing an art career in the West African nation
The anchor quoted Peskov suggesting Shoigu was giving a report to the National Security Council on the military operation in Ukraine remotely. The broadcast footage, which interrupted a live interview, did not show Shoigu speak, but his image appeared on screen among other video call participants reporting to Putin.
The defense minister also asked Putin for more weapons to arm the separatist regions in Ukraine's Donbas.
Man arrested after allegedly trying to open emergency door on plane and stabbing flight attendant
Shoigu appeared in a Channel One broadcast on March 18 that the Russian outlet said was from that day, but Russian journalists have speculated that the event being broadcast was from March 11.
Those items include "robotic complexes, information support and electronic warfare equipment, and of course, logistics, as it has always been the case," Shoigu said, according to TASS.
Peskov said Chubais had not been a full-time government employee and was working on a voluntary basis.
State-owned TV channel Russia 24 broadcast footage on Thursday of a virtual meeting attended by Shoigu, but did not say when the meeting took place.
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported the last time Milley last spoke to Gerasimov. It was February 11.
Scrutiny of Shoigu had increased in recent days. On Thursday, Kremlin's spokesperson Dmitry Peskov  declined to comment on media reports that he had health problems.
Peskov dodged questions on Thursday about the health of Shoigu. "The Defense Minister has a lot on his plate at the moment," he said when CNN asked about Shoigu's reported absence. "The special military operation is going on. Naturally, now is not exactly the time for media activity, this is quite understandable."
"No, the Kremlin doesn't know anything about it," Peskov told CNN when asked to comment on reports suggesting Chubais quit his job over disapproval of Putin's decision to launch the war in Ukraine.
In addition, Shoigu spoke about legal changes that would guarantee government support to Russian troops who have fought in Ukraine, TASS reported.
The speculation over Shoigu's health emerged as a longstanding Russian government insider, Anatoly Chubais, became the highest-profile Kremlin figure to resign since the war began a month ago.
CNN has previously reported that the last known time Austin last spoke with Shoigu was on February 18. Milley last spoke to Gerasimov on February 11.
Russian military leaders, including Shoigu, have been stonewalling their US counterparts, declining calls since the invasion began, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement Thursday. He added that US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mark A. Milley, "have sought, and continue to seek, calls with their Russian counterparts. Minister Shoigu and General Valery Gerasimov have so far declined to engage."
"We continue to believe that engagement between U.S. and Russian defense leaders is critically important at this time," Kirby added.
"With the challenges we are facing today, we are moving according to plan in implementing the state defense procurement contract," Shoigu said. "Considering the fact that the government funding for this year is 15 higher than for the previous year, we must of course take a look at what needs particular attention when fulfilling the state defense procurement contract."
Russian military leaders, including Shoigu, have been stonewalling their US counterparts, declining calls since the invasion began, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement Thursday. He added that US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mark A. Milley, "have sought, and continue to seek, calls with their Russian counterparts. Minister Shoigu and General Valery Gerasimov have so far declined to engage.""We continue to believe that engagement between U.S. and Russian defense leaders is critically important at this time," Kirby added.CNN has previously reported that the last known time Austin last spoke with Shoigu was on February 18. Milley last spoke to Gerasimov on February 11.Envoy quitsThe speculation over Shoigu's health emerged as a longstanding Russian government insider, Anatoly Chubais, became the highest-profile Kremlin figure to resign since the war began a month ago.Peskov confirmed that Chubais quit his job as Putin's climate envoy, but denied any knowledge of Chubais' reported opposition to the invasion of Ukraine."No, the Kremlin doesn't know anything about it," Peskov told CNN when asked to comment on reports suggesting Chubais quit his job over disapproval of Putin's decision to launch the war in Ukraine.Peskov also confirmed his resignation letter would have to be sent to Putin himself."Those who are appointed by presidential decree write resignation letters addressed to Putin," he added.Peskov said Chubais had not been a full-time government employee and was working on a voluntary basis.Chubais first rose to prominence as Russian President Boris Yeltsin's finance minister in the 1990s before going on to hold powerful posts in the Russian energy industry.This story has been updated. Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported the last time Milley last spoke to Gerasimov. It was February 11.
"Those who are appointed by presidential decree write resignation letters addressed to Putin," he added.
Video: 'Russia will not be able to encircle Kyiv,' says former head of United States Army Europe CNN
Shoigu, a close ally of President Vladimir Putin, has kept a low profile recently despite having a leading role in Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The independent investigative Russian outlet Agentstvo reported Wednesday that Shoigu was in poor health, citing anonymous sources in the ministry.
"All is going according to the plan, we report to you here every day this week," Shoigu said.
The Kremlin spokesperson declined to disprove the report by Agentstvo when asked by CNN. "I can't. You shouldn't listen to the Agenstvo media outlet. Please address these questions to the Ministry of Defense."
Envoy quitsThe speculation over Shoigu's health emerged as a longstanding Russian government insider, Anatoly Chubais, became the highest-profile Kremlin figure to resign since the war began a month ago.Peskov confirmed that Chubais quit his job as Putin's climate envoy, but denied any knowledge of Chubais' reported opposition to the invasion of Ukraine."No, the Kremlin doesn't know anything about it," Peskov told CNN when asked to comment on reports suggesting Chubais quit his job over disapproval of Putin's decision to launch the war in Ukraine.Peskov also confirmed his resignation letter would have to be sent to Putin himself."Those who are appointed by presidential decree write resignation letters addressed to Putin," he added.Peskov said Chubais had not been a full-time government employee and was working on a voluntary basis.Chubais first rose to prominence as Russian President Boris Yeltsin's finance minister in the 1990s before going on to hold powerful posts in the Russian energy industry.This story has been updated. Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported the last time Milley last spoke to Gerasimov. It was February 11.
Shoigu reportedly claimed that despite sanctions on Russia, the level of execution of state contracts is at 85. Outside observers have expressed skepticism that Russia can continue to produce high-tech weaponry amid severe international sanctions, particularly if procurement of some technology by Russia is restricted.
State news agency Tass reported Shoigu met with the country's Ministry of Finance to discuss maintaining the supply of advanced weapons for the conflict.
Russia's Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu held a meeting on Saturday, state media reported, amid speculation over his whereabouts and health during the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
Western leaders said at the time that Russia's military had encountered unplanned obstacles and resistance.
Chubais first rose to prominence as Russian President Boris Yeltsin's finance minister in the 1990s before going on to hold powerful posts in the Russian energy industry.
During a televised Security Council Meeting in Russia on March 11, Shoigu told Putin that its invasion of Ukraine was being carried out successfully, despite evidence to the contrary.
He also claimed that the Russian army had received more than 16,000 applications from volunteers in the Middle East wanting to join the war in Ukraine.
