Should know better Drunk mum orders 9000 Uber to Ukraine to help fight against Russia
20220317
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/should-know-better-drunk-mum-orders-9000-uber-to-ukraine-to-help-fight-against-russia/ar-AAVcTNQ
"Uber tried to take the payment nine times out of my account. They were pretty determined. I had a little flashback when the bank called - and I said 'I think it was me - sorry'."
The 34-year-old says she was only saved from making the almost 3000 kilometre journey from her home in Salford, Manchester to the war-torn country because she had insufficient funds for the $9000 fare.
"We'd been out for about four hours so I'd had a few double pink gins, and quite a lot of shots of Sambuca and a bottle of Prosecco. I think that might have tipped me over the edge."
The conversation then took an almost very expensive turn for the worse when the two decided to get an Uber over there, The Manchester Evening News reported.
Fildes later posted on Facebook: "I'm so glad I didn't have the funds available was only a quid short but this is the reason I shouldn't go out. Trying to order an Uber to Ukraine last night coz I'd had a few sambukas sic."
The next morning Fildes didn't remember much but was reminded of her antics when her bank called to ask if her card had been stolen. She says the bank told her Uber tried to take the money nine times before giving up.
"One too many drinks later, we were trying to get a taxi home. We said 'shall we get a taxi and go help them,'" The Manchester Evening News reported.
It's a common scenario on a night out - you have a few too many drinks then decide to get an Uber to Ukraine to help the country defend itself from the Russian invasion.
Fildes was celebrating her friend's birthday and had downed pink gins, "quite a lot of shots of Sambuca", and Prosecco when the conversation turned to the conflict. Her partner is in the military and she told her friend if he ever got called up she would join him.
"I'm 34 - I should know better. I was like 'oh my God'. I woke up to my bank ringing me, thinking my card had been used fraudulently," the Manchester Evening News reported.
"It would have been coming out of my account and I don't know where I'd have woken up," The Manchester Evening News reported.
As if ordering an Uber wasn't enough the pair tried to book the more expensive comfort option which comes with extra legroom and a choice of conversations.
She said she doesn't know what she would have done if Uber had let her order it.
An Uber spokesperson said: "We can confirm that no trip requests were successfully made in this instance. We are looking into this further to understand what happened."
