Takeaways from Bidens trip to Europe
20220328
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/takeaways-from-bidens-trip-to-europe/ar-AAVyhfx
If youre Putin and you think that Europe is going to crack in a month or six weeks or two months, why not? They can take anything for another month, the president said during a press conference in Brussels. But we have to demonstrate, the reason I asked for the meeting, we have to stay fully, totally, thoroughly united.
Bidens final hours in Europe indicated as much. Hours before his speech in Warsaw, Russian missiles struck Lviv in western Ukraine, rattling a city that had been a relative safe haven and suggesting Russia was far from scaling back its operations.
It was a goal Biden was largely able to achieve. The U.S., along with the European Union and the G7, announced additional sanctions on more than 400 Russian individuals and entities. The countries also announce new efforts to prevent Russia from circumventing the sanctions, ways to block the countrys central bank from using gold to prop up its economy, and the launch of efforts to reduce European dependence on Russian natural gas.
In a speech in Warsaw Saturday, Biden repeatedly referenced popular Polish historical figures, like Pope John Paul II and former president Lech Wasa, along with Polands struggles throughout history for its independence in a message directed to the Polish people  thousands of whom lined the streets to get a glimpse of Biden's motorcade and listen to his speech.
WARSAW  President Joe Biden returned to Washington early Sunday after three days of high-profile meetings in Europe where he sought to rally Americas allies for a prolonged pressure campaign against Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The White House quickly issued a statement saying the remarks did not indicate a change in policy as the Kremlin seized on the comment.
Biden said he believes that type of sustained pressure will eventually be what gets Putin to end the war, but he moderated expectations that anything said or done during his visit to Europe would affect Putins actions in the short term.
Biden made several other comments during the trip that also collided with the official White House positions. When he was speaking to U.S. troops in Poland, for instance, he seemed to suggest they would be going into Ukraine  even though he has insisted he wont be sending troops into that country.
We must commit now to be in this fight for the long haul, Biden said in his speech in Warsaw.We must remain unified today and tomorrow and the day after and for the years and decades to come.
The visit provided a high-profile moment on the world stage for Biden in one of the worst periods of European conflict since World War II. Here are four key takeaways from the president's trip:
Poland has become a crucial ally for the U.S.  it is hosting thousands of U.S. troops, taking in millions of Ukrainian refugees, and providing a key supply route for weapons into Ukraine. At the same time, Russian missiles have struck close to its border with Ukraine, and there is a recognition in Poland that it could be Russias next target.
Despite a heavily choreographed itinerary of photo opportunities and meetings, it was some of Bidens unscripted moments that caught the most attention on the world stage.
During a carefully crafted speech in Poland, Biden added a line to the speech that seemed to suggest he was calling for regime change in Russia  something Russian officials have accused the U.S. of attempting for years, to U.S. denials.
Biden offered no illusions over the uncertainty and the long road likely ahead, framing the war in Ukraine as an ongoing conflict between democracies and autocracies that could continue for decades.
White House officials said a central purpose of the meetings with world leaders, which Biden requested, was to shore up unity between NATO, the European Union and the G7 member nations in order to put long-term economic pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Hogan: If my campaign would help Trump, thatd be a pretty good reason to consider not running
Biden met with world leaders in Brussels before heading to Poland where he visited U.S. troops not far from the border with Ukraine, toured a Ukrainian refugee center in Warsaw and met with the Polish president before giving a speech on the state of the war in Ukraine.
A White House official said there has been no change in the U.S. position that troops wont be sent into Ukraine.
During his two days in Poland, Biden made efforts to reassure the country that the U.S. will help provide assistance in dealing with the refugee crisis, pledging an additional $1 billion in global aid for refugees. Biden also vowed to defend Poland militarily, as a member of NATO, should Russia attack its soil.
As the war enters its second month, many questions remain: How will the West respond if Putin uses a chemical or nuclear weapon? What can be done about high oil prices? And what role will China ultimately play?
And during a press conference in Brussels, Biden said the intention of the sanctions on Russia were not meant to deter Putin, directly contradicting comments his vice president and secretary of state had made last month.
