Tax the billionaires
20220328
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/tax-the-billionaires/ar-AAVBlvN
A special committee investigating the Capitol attack will vote Monday evening on a resolution to hold two former White House aides to President Donald Trump in criminal contempt for defying subpoenas for documents and testimony. The House Jan. 6 panel seeks information from Peter Navarro, a former trade adviser, about efforts to delay election certification, and information from Dan Scavino, a former deputy chief of staff, about Trumps activities leading up to the riot and messages on social media that day. If the committee approves the resolution, the full House will vote before the Justice Department considers possible criminal charges.
One in five of the people who quit their jobs during the past two years have regrets,dont like their new position enough to stay or are already searching for a new position, according to a Harris Poll survey for USA TODAY. Some of the quitters with regrets say their new role is not what they expected, and they didnt take enough time to think through the pros and cons of leaving before tapping out. The unprecedented wave of resignations have been traced to pandemic-related factors, including a desire to avoid return-to-office policies and burnout. But while higher pay and the comfort of working from home enticed new hires, desperate employers struggling during the labor shortage may have sugarcoated or misrepresented work conditions.
But first,a slap, a dog and chaos. Here are seven memorable moments from Sundays Oscarsand yes, Will Smith's viral outburst.
President Joe Biden sent his 2023 budget to Congress on Monday,outlining his administrations fiscal priorities for the coming year. While Congress is in charge of writing the federal budget, Bidens spending plan serves as a starting point for negotiations between lawmakers and the White House. A few highlights include a new minimum tax of 20 on households worth more than $100 million, which addresses tax disparities between wealthy taxpayers and middle-income households. While some Democrats are calling to defund the police, Biden outlined $30 billion in mandatory spending to support law enforcement, crime prevention and community violence intervention, and another $1.7 billion to expand gun-tracking strike forces.
The Short List is free, but several stories we link toare subscriber-only. Consider supportingour journalism andbecome a USA TODAY digital subscriber today.
This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. Want this news roundup in your inbox every night?Sign up for The Short List newsletter here.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
The Short List is a snappy USA TODAY news roundup.Subscribe to the newsletter hereortext messages here.
President Joe Biden's budget proposal includes a new tax on billionaires. Russia has low expectations for talks with Ukraine. And those who quit their jobs during the pandemic may have regrets.
The Kremlin dampened expectationsMonday that talks with Ukraine negotiators this week would lead to a deal to end Russias deadly invasion. Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov said there were no significant breakthroughs so far in movement toward an agreement with Ukraine, but the in-person meeting scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday in Turkey would likely allow for more meaningful negotiations. The talks come as Russia rejected Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys latest request for a meeting with President VladmirPutin, claiming a discussion wouldnt be worthwhile until the two countries are closer to agreeing on key issues. Zelenskyy said over the weekendthat he would consider declaring neutrality and offering security guarantees to Russia, such as keeping Ukraine nuclear-free.
A growing number of electric vehicle programs across the country aim to expand access to these vehicles for low-income Americans and people of color. Electric vehicles and charging stations are more likely to be seen in wealthier areas, so non-profits and other groups are working to bring these resources to all demographics and incomes. Communities in cities su Los Angeles are finding affordable alternatives to high gas prices through pilot electric vehicle car share programs. These initiatives not only educate people about how to charge the cars, but also help groups that are already disproportionately affected by air pollution and transportation systems.
