Thank you our heroes Zelensky issues Fathers Day message for those who have taken up arms
20220619
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/thank-you-our-heroes-zelensky-issues-father-s-day-message-for-those-who-have-taken-up-arms/ar-AAYDImu
Mr Zelensky added:'The future of your family, your children, and therefore the whole of Ukraine.
Volodymyr and wife Olena Zelenska, both 44, have two a daughter, Oleksandra, 17, and a son Kyrylo, nine.
Zelensky's Father's Day post came as NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg urged for more heavy weapons to be sent to Ukraine.
Mrs Zelenska said earlier in May in her first interview since the war began:'Nobody takes my husband away from me, not even war.
Ukraine claims it has received just 10 per cent of the weapons promised by its Western allies.
The first lady said: 'I am engaged in this process. I really want our children to go back to school on the first of September.
'There will be no prom. Nothing's going to happen. We are graduating from high school remotely. But she will be applying to university in Ukraine.'
'I cant say that Volodymyr has changed since the start of this war. He was a reliable husband and a reliable man before, and that he remains.'
'The children? They somehow understand that this period will end at some point, but the questions 'when?' are constantly existing in our family.'
'This is an important milestone in her life and unfortunately it happens at such a difficult time in our family's life and in our country's life in general.
'Our family is separated. I see Volodymyr periodically here at the office. I might come in and see him, if he's not in some meeting today, I'll greet him.
'Luckily we were able to organize our lives in such a way that they didn't have to go anywhere, and I didn't have to go anywhere from them,' she said.
Deputy defence minister Anna Maylar said: 'No matter how hard Ukraine tries, no matter how professional our army is, without the help of Western partners we will not be able to win this war.'
Last month Ms Zelenska said she was keeping them with her while her husband deals with the mountainous task of leading a country in the midst of a war.
'And no matter how difficult it is  to protect and defend the most precious.'
President Zelensky celebrated the 'heroes' defending Ukraine in an Instagram post to mark Father's Day.
The Kyiv leader, a father-of-two, posted a series of images of brave fathers taken during the war.
Stoltenberg said at The Hague: 'Ukraine should have more heavy weapons. And Nato allies and partners have provided heavy weapons for a long time, but they are also stepping up.'
