The Russian Lady in Hartford changes name to The Ukrainian Lady
20220422
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/the-russian-lady-in-hartford-changes-name-to-the-ukrainian-lady/ar-AAWsQcx
The Ukrainian Lady, formerly known as The Russian Lady, general manager Jonathan Heggenhougen said, something as small as a name change really gets people talking and it shows that we are coming together and for a great effort.
The Russian Lady announced they are changing their name to The Ukrainian Lady in honor of Ukraine.
In the 80s, they changed the name to The Lithuanian Lady because there were some controversies going on overseas and we knew that going in when we came in 2011 and we have played with the name here and there, said Heggenhougen.
Kyle Waters said, I thought it was something good to do. I think the whole world, minus Russia, has locked arms with Ukraine and something as simple as this can go a long way locally.
The General Manager said starting at 8 p.m. Thursday night they are hosting a party in the name of the Ukrainian people.
The Ukrainian Lady is also planning to change a few mocktail and cocktail names with Ukraine in mind.
HARTFORD, CT WFSB - As the war continues in Ukraine people across the country and here in Connecticut continue to find ways to show support to the people of Ukraine.
I think its awesome I think its a stand that needs to be taken like I said I dont understand how you are pro-Russia at this point in time, so I think its awesome that they recognize that and recognize that giving any kind of attention to Russia is not good, said Aaron Arias of Stratford. I think its really cool I get to walk by this every day and see The Ukrainian Lady in front of me.
We stand as a country, and we stand as a business and were looking to show support anyway we can, said Heggenhougen.
Thursday is the first night the bar has been open since the name change, with people toasting in support of it.
We are sorting through the details now trying to pick where our money is best served, and try to do that as well, said Heggenhougen.
The historic spot says Thursday night was dedicated to the people of Ukraine and plan to find other ways to support and donate to the country.
The famous pub shares this is not the first time they have changed their name for a cause.
The Russian Lady is a staple that has graced Hartford for nearly 50 years and this week they decided to change their iconic name to The Ukrainian Lady, to show they are standing with Ukraine.
We cant wait to see you tonight. Come celebrate the name change. Party in the name of the people!
The historic pub says they stand behind the people of Ukraine and felt that it was in poor taste to keep the name as is.
I felt like Ukrainians have been abused and I feel like this is a good way to raise them back up to the forefront so that more people can pay attention to the issues that are going on, said Terri Morrison.
