The Story Of Air Serbias Airbus A320 Stranded In Moscow
20220603
https://www.msn.com/en-us/travel/news/the-story-of-air-serbias-airbus-a320-stranded-in-moscow/ar-AAY3z5N
A routine inspection of the Airbus A320 aircraft in Moscow revealed that there was an issue with one of the engine frames.
What do you think of Air Serbia continuing to fly to Moscow, and its Airbus A320 being stuck there for almost a week? Let us know what you think of this story in the comments below.
The return flight was scheduled to leave Sheremetyevo the same day at 23:00 to arrive back in Belgrade at 01:05. However, it never did. Instead, this Airbus A320 left Moscow SVO at 16:56 on Wednesday 1st June. This meant it was stuck there for six days, applying significant pressure on Air Serbias capacity.
Passengers were stuck in Moscow for three days, and they could not buy new food and clothes because their credit cards were no longer recognized in Russia. A replacement aircraft, an Airbus A319, picked them up three days after their flight was canceled.
An Air Serbia Airbus A320 aircraft was stuck in Moscows Sheremetyevo SVO Airport for almost a week. Passengers reported being abandoned by the airline for days, and they are now threatening legal proceedings. Air Serbia continues to fly to Russia, capitalizing on Serbias refusal to impose sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Lets take a look at why this aircraft was stuck in Moscow.
We had no idea what was happening. Our flight to Belgrade kept being announced and then canceled, endlessly. We were provided with accommodation at the airport, but we could not sleep because we did not know whether and when the aircraft would take off.
The airline continues to fly to Russia, but it has reverted the massive capacity increase to the country following intense political pressure.
I knew that problems could occur on the flight between Belgrade and Moscow because of the ongoing situation, and I was also ready for it. But I am stunned by the behavior of the people from Air Serbia who had not contacted us for three days while we were stuck at Sheremetyevo Airport. Among us, there were also crew members, the airlines employees, who were all also in the same situation as us, and who were also not contacted by anyone from Air Serbia.
Air Serbia has also faced repeated bomb threats on its flights to Moscow, both for its Moscow-bound aircraft and for its sales offices in Belgrade.
Passengers who were due to be on the flight from Moscow to Belgrade that got canceled report being trapped in Russia for three days, Nova.rs reports.
On Thursday 26th May 2022, an Air Serbia Airbus A320 aircraft operated flight JU654 as normal. This flight is the evening rotation between Air Serbias base, Belgrade Nikola Tesla Airport BEG, and Moscows Sheremetyevo SVO Airport. It leaves Serbia at 18:00 and arrives in Russia at 22:10.
As this is not a complex problem, the issue was fixed immediately on the ground. However, due to the sanctions currently imposed on Russia as a result of its invasion of Ukraine and Airbus no longer recognizing certifications issued to Russian contractors, the A320 could not fly to Serbia. Serbia is not in the European Union, but its airspace is surrounded by the airspaces of EU countries.
