Theyre Ramping Up their Efforts SpaceX CEO Elon Musk on Russias Cyberwar Against Ukraines Starlink
20220513
https://www.msn.com/en-in/money/technology/they-re-ramping-up-their-efforts-spacex-ceo-elon-musk-on-russia-s-cyberwar-against-ukraine-s-starlink/ar-AAXdJHF
According to the agency, this cyber activity against Ukraine emphasises the risk of espionage and disruption to VSAT communications.
Viasat confirmed last month that modem-wiping malware disrupted Viasats fixed broadband service in Ukraine and parts of Europe connected to its KA-SAT satellite network.
The National Security Agency NSA in the US has updated its advice to satellite operators and their customers on how to protect networks from espionage and disruption cyberattacks. Recently, in a statement, it said, The recent U.S. and European Union public statements noted the Russian military launched cyberattacks against commercial satellite communications to disrupt Ukrainian command and control in February 2022.
The NSA issued advice directed at US government agencies a month before Viasats multi-day outage in Europe, warning that VSAT communications are frequently not secured in transit. VSATs virtual network separation, according to the NSA, cannot be trusted to provide access control, separation, or secrecy of sensitive information and therefore recommends using VPNs for secure VSAT communications.
In addition, under the parameters of the EUs 2017 cyber diplomacy toolkit, the EU has abstained from attributing cyberattacks to third countries because each member states action is a sovereign political decision.
Starlink has resisted Russian cyberwar jamming  hacking attempts so far, but theyre ramping up their efforts https:t.cow62yCsDA5w
It is highly rare for the EU to blame a third country for a cyberattack. Individuals from North Korea, Russia, and China have been sanctioned across the EU for their roles in previous cyberattacks on European countries, albeit some years after assaults like WannaCry and NotPetya.
The EU claimed the Russian military attack on Viasats network went against all UN Member States expectations of responsible State behaviour and cyberspace intentions, including the Russian Federations.
About 5,000 Starlink terminals were given to the war-torn country by SpaceX and the US Agency for International Development USAID.
Russia is stepping up its efforts to disrupt Ukraines Starlink internet connection, according to SpaceX CEO Elon Musk. He said that Starlink has so far resisted all Russian hacking bids.
Satellite communication has become an important tool, but it has also become a popular target for hackers.
The NSAs amended alert is mostly unchanged, but it now contains a new section admitting EU and US blame for Russian military attacks on VSATs.
In the tweet, the billionaire clearly stated that so far, Starlink has resisted Russian cyberwar jamming and hacking attempts, but theyre ramping up their efforts.
Musk tweeted a story about the United States, Britain, Canada, Estonia and the EU blaming Russia for a cyberattack on a satellite internet network that took tens of thousands of modems offline amid the Russia-Ukraine war.
However, according to a study of recent cyberattacks conducted by the German Institute for International and Security Affairs SWP, an attribution at the EU level is difficult, partly because only a few EU member countries  such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Estonia, Austria, France, and Germany  have the technical ability or political will to do so.
The minister said earlier this month that there were approximately 150,000 active Starlink users per day in the country, providing critical support for Ukraines infrastructure and the restoration of destroyed territories.
As reported, VSATs throughout Ukraine and Europe was deactivated as a result of the activity, including tens of thousands of terminals outside of Ukraine that, among other things, support wind turbines and provide internet services to private consumers.
The European Commission is currently working on a formal opinion on Ukraines emergency application to join the EU.
ALSO READ  US, UK, Ukraine and More Countries Join Hands to Set New Global Rules for the Internet
ALSO READ  War In Ukraine: What Is Wiper Malware That Russia May Be Using For Cyber Attacks On Ukraine
Ukraines fibre optic and cellular communication infrastructure connections were cut during the Russian invasion on February 24.
After Russias invasion of Ukraine damaged the countrys internet infrastructure, Ukraines Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Transformation Mykhailo Fedorov asked Musk for assistance. Musk responded by sending Starlink terminals to Ukraine, and the network has since been subjected to attempts to jam or hack it.
