Todays letters On supporting Ukraine against Russia
20220310
https://www.msn.com/en-ca/news/canada/today-s-letters-on-supporting-ukraine-against-russia/ar-AAUSGot
Ukraine is not the only hostage taken by Vladimir Putin. For all practical purposes, he has taken the whole world hostage. He must be made to pay a heavy price otherwise the liberal world order will collapse.
We have seen this before, in 1939, and we know the consequences of delay. We must have the courage to stand up to Putin now and hope this give Russians the courage to restrain him. We are running out of options and we must be strong.
As the price of gas at the pumps continues to climb, the shocking degree to which our society is centred on the car becomes ever more obvious, and its effects more clearly deleterious and costly.
I hope that in the next budget, the government sets the funds aside for Canadas share of this global vaccination effort. The solidarity in response to the complex situation in Ukraine should be a reminder that when we have the luxury of also using this solidarity to solve much simpler global problems, we should not hesitate.
The occupation of Parliament Hill has ceded its place in the news cycle to the occupation of Ukraine, without having its root causes addressed by politicians. The pandemic-related mandates would have been largely unnecessary if we had supported the vaccination of everyone on the planet. Interestingly, if split between the billion people in rich countries, the cost of this global vaccination effort would be $60 per person, less than the per capita cost of the convoy incurred by Ottawas citizens  a cost for which they got nothing in return.
The West has co-operated before in establishing no-fly zones in Libya, Bosnia and Iraq. But that was when we had little to fear from a powerful opposition. This time, the people of Ukraine are no less deserving yet we now hold back from imposing a no-fly zone in fear of what Russian President Vladimir Putin may do.
Outside of most cities in this country and continent, there is no functional alternative to the car, forcing many to make hard choices between transportation, housing and food. Even within Ottawa, our underfunded, mismanaged and poorly designed transit system makes the car the only choice for many who need to get to work, school or anything else on time. We must make serious and long-overdue investments in public transit, national high-speed rail and alternative modes of transportation to avoid future oil and sticker shocks.
