Trump warns that Ukraine invasion could lead to World War III and calls Putin driven
20220313
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/trump-warns-that-ukraine-war-could-lead-to-world-war-iii-calls-putin-driven/ar-AAUZBbq
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
But Mr Trump avoided talking about how upon Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskys election, he tried to have the Ukrainian government dig up dirt on Mr Bidens son Hunter when Mr Zelensky mentioned the Javelin missiles. Mr Trump was later impeached for trying to withhold the aid in exchange for Mr Zelensky investigating Mr Bidens son, though the Senate later acquitted him.
But Mr Trumps comments ignored the fact that in 2018, during a summit in Helsinki, Mr Trump told reporters that Mr Putin told him Russia did not intervene in the 2016 election and he said I dont see any reason why it would be and that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today.
Former US President Donald Trump greets the crowd during a rally at the Florence Regional Airport on March 12, 2022 in Florence, South Carolina
Mr Trump also said that a big reason for the war in Ukraine was Mr Putins dedication to the war.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
And it happens to be a man that is just driven. Hes driven to put it together, Mr Trump added. And you look at it and its ridiculous and its so senseless and its so horrible. And I say it again and Ill say it again and again, it should have never happened, if he respected our president, it would have never ever happened.
Remember Obama-Biden? They sent blankets. I sent Javelins, he said. You know what the Javelins are? The anti-tank weapons. They knock the hell out of those tanks. And Ukraine wouldnt be having a chance without them. That was all sent by me. All of it.
And for all the talk of violent conflict in Eastern Europe  and its a terrible thing and were gonna help and were going to do whatever we can because nobody can look at the bloodshed much longer ... whats happening, its a lack of respect for a lot of people, a lot of things, he said.
Similarly, Mr Trump also pointed out how he sent Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine to help the nation oppose Russia.
Mr Trump spoke at a rally in Florence, South Carolina on Saturday evening, where he criticised US president Joe Bidens response to the war in Ukraine, and talked about the dangers that could come from the war.
This could lead to World War III. I see what's happening, he told supporters. Because if you think Putin's gonna stop, it's gonna get worse and worse. He's not gonna accept it. And we dont have anybody to talk to him. You had somebody to talk to him with me. Nobody was ever tougher on Russia than me.
Former president Donald Trump speculated that Russias attack on Ukraine could potentially lead to a third world war and added that the invasion was due to Vladimir Putins lack of respect as he was driven to invade the nation.
But no one ever mentions the bloody and horrific war raging just across our border, he said.
