Tuesday May 10 Russias War On Ukraine News And Information From Ukraine
20220511
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/tuesday-may-10-russia-e2-80-99s-war-on-ukraine-news-and-information-from-ukraine/ar-AAX7YQ3
Ukraine's first president, Leonid Kravchuk, died at 88, Ukrainski Novyny news agency reported, citing Kravchuks family members. Kravchuk was the first president of independent Ukraine, serving from 1991 to 1994.
Belarus has moved additional troops to Ukraine's border, according to Belarus's state-controlled news agency Belta. The troops will respond to the threat from the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Belta wrote.
Luhansk. Russian troops shelled the pipeline in Luhansk Oblast, leaving the whole city of Sievierodonetsk without a gas supply.
The war in Ukraine is to become "more unpredictable and escalatory" in the coming months, according to the U.S. national intelligence director.
Ukrainian small, and medium-sized businesses lost up to $85 billion due to the war. Nearly all of them need at least $54 billion in emergency funding, according to the Kyiv-based think tank Advanter Group.
More than eight million people have been internally displaced in Ukraine, according to the UN. Nearly 63 of those internally displaced are women. Nearly 6 million refugees have left Ukraine since the start of the invasion.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock visited Bucha, a town in Kyiv Oblast destroyed by Russians, and Babyn Yar, a historical site in Kyiv where massacres were carried out by Nazi forces during World War II. Baerbock is the first German cabinet member to travel to Ukraine since Russian began its full scale invasion of the country.
She said that the German embassy in Kyiv will begin operating at a limited capacity. Anka Feldhusen will again be the German representative in Kyiv.
Russia's missile attack on Odesa on May 9 destroyed or damaged warehouses, administrative and residential buildings, as well as the Riviera shopping mall.
Kyiv. At least 390 buildings have been damaged in Kyiv since the start of Russias invasion on Feb. 24. More than 220 of them were apartment buildings. The estimated cost of renovation would be over 70 million euros, according to Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko.
Lithuania has recognized Russia's actions in Ukraine as a genocide of the Ukrainian people, according to the chairman of Ukraines parliament Ruslan Stefanchuk. Lithuania will help Ukraine to hold Russian war criminals accountable through an international tribunal.
Ukraine has killed up to 10 Russian generals, according to the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency. It is an unusually high number for a modern military, one that far outpaces the number of U.S. generals lost during 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan, according to CNN.
As Russias attack on Ukraine continues and the war rages on, reliable sources of information are critical. Forbes Ukraines reporters gather information and provide updates on the situation.
Mariupol. At least 100 civilians, mainly men, are still trapped in the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol. Ukrainian soldiers in Azovstal said they were heavily shelled overnight and, for a while, lost contact with the field hospital. Many people are badly wounded and need immediate evacuation.
Kharkiv. At least 44 bodies of civilians have been found under the rubble of a 5-story residential building in the temporarily occupied city of Izium, near Kharkiv. The building was destroyed by Russian forces in early March.
Odesa. Russian missile hit a bridge across the Dniester estuary near Odesa for the fourth time on Tuesday.
The most likely destination is Syria. Grain may be smuggled from there to other countries in the Middle East," the intelligence said.
Ukrainian intelligence said that Russia has transported stolen Ukrainian grains abroad. According to the Ukrainian defense ministry, the grain stolen by Russian troops in occupied areas is on cargo ships under the Russian flag in the Mediterranean.
