UK distances from Bidens plea that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power
20220327
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/uk-distances-from-biden-s-plea-that-vladimir-putin-cannot-remain-in-power/ar-AAVxAJD
For Gods sake this man cannot remain in power, he said of the Russian president at the close of his speech. He earlier described Mr Putin as a butcher.
'SNL' pokes fun at Fox News following $1.6 billion lawsuit on 2020 election fraud claims
But he declined to criticise Mr Biden, unlike Tobias Ellwood, the Conservative MP who chairs the Commons Defence Committee, who said Mr Putin will now spin this, dig in and fight harder.
Asked if Mr Biden was wrong to issue the call, Mr Zahawi replied: No, what Im saying to you is the White House has been very clear on this, the president gave a very powerful speech on this and I think both the United States and the United Kingdom agree that its up to the Russian people to decide who should be governing them.
I think thats up to the Russian people, he told Skys Sophy Ridge on Sunday.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
In a highly-charged speech in Warsaw, Mr Biden appealed to Russian people directly, with comparisons between the invasion of Ukraine and the horrors of the Second World War.
WNBA legend Lisa Leslie shares her message to Brittney Griner as she returns to the court
But a White House official tried to argue that the US presidents point was that the Russian leader cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbours or the region.
A Cabinet minister has distanced the UK from Joe Bidens apparent call for regime change in Russia when he said in an impassioned speech that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
Video: President Biden talks Putin's war against Ukraine, says 'we're going to hit Putin harder' USA TODAY
Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawi said whether to overthrow Mr Putin for his invasion of Ukraine is up to the Russian people after the US Presidents apparently unscripted call caused the White House to scramble to row back on the remark.
Interviewed on Sunday, Mr Zahawi said it is for the Russian people to decide how they are governed but suggested they would certainly do well to have someone who is democratic and understands their wishes.
The Russian people, I think, are pretty fed up with what is happening in Ukraine, this illegal invasion, the destruction of their own livelihoods, their economy is collapsing around them and I think the Russian people will decide the fate of Putin and his cronies.
As multiple rockets struck the city of Lviv near the Polish border in the west of Ukraine, Mr Biden pleaded: If youre able to listen  you, the Russian people, are not our enemy.
He was not discussing Putins power in Russia, or regime change, the official said, before reports in the US suggested the remarks in question had not been scripted.
