UK promises to support Ukraine as Zelensky hints at concessions to secure peace
20220328
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/uk-promises-to-support-ukraine-as-zelensky-hints-at-concessions-to-secure-peace/ar-AAVA5Y2
Ukraine could declare neutrality and offer guarantees about its non-nuclear status as part of a peace deal, Mr Zelensky suggested, but he stressed the desire to ensure the countrys territorial integrity  stopping the Kremlin from carving it up.
Earlier, the Government distanced itself from US President Joe Bidens suggestion that Mr Putin cannot remain in power  an unscripted comment the White House was forced to row back on, insisting he was not calling for regime change in the Kremlin.
The Home Office has now granted 21,600 visas to Ukrainians with family links in the UK.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss will update MPs on the latest situation in a Commons statement on Monday afternoon.
Cabinet minister Nadhim Zahawi, joking about the role of education tsars in his own department during a visit to a London school, said: Theres one tsar I would like to get rid of now  but thats up to the Russian people.
British defence intelligence analysts said on Monday that Russia has gained most ground in southern Ukraine, in the vicinity of Mariupol where heavy fighting continued as Mr Putins forces attempts to capture the strategically important port.
Register now for one of the Evening Standards newsletters. From a daily news briefing to Homes  Property insights, plus lifestyle, going out, offers and more. For the best stories in your inbox, click here.
But it is not for the UK or any other country to seek to impose its will on the Ukrainian government as to what it should accept in those negotiations.
The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 28 March 2022.
Obviously it would be for President Zelensky and the Ukrainian government to decide on the right approach to negotiations. We will support them in that, the spokesman said.
The UK and Australia announced joint plans to supply humanitarian aid to help refugees fleeing the fighting.
Leading war crimes lawyer Sir Howard Morrison QC will act as an independent adviser to Ukrainian prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova.
In response to Mr Bidens comments, the spokesman said: It is up to the Russian people who should be governing them.
The Cabinet Office issued guidance to public sector bodies urging them to check if they have contracts with Russian or Belarusian companies and cancel them if possible.
He said: Obviously, he updated that negotiations were ongoing and they discussed the importance of holding Putin to account for his actions rather than just his words.
Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine must end in failure, Downing Street said, as Volodymyr Zelensky signalled he was prepared to offer a series of concessions to Russia to end the fighting.
But the Ministry of Defence said logistical shortages, a lack of momentum and low morale were hitting the Russian invaders, combined with aggressive fighting by the Ukrainians.
The spokesman said Mr Johnson believes that Putin must fail in Ukraine and the sovereignty of Ukraine must be restored ahead of the latest round of scheduled talks between the two sides negotiators on Tuesday.
Mr Johnsons official spokesman, speaking while the call was ongoing, said: The Prime Minister provided an update on the supply of defensive lethal aid and also received an update on negotiations as well.
Downing Street said the UK would support Ukraines negotiating position but Boris Johnson firmly believes that Russian president Mr Putin must fail.
The UK and Australia are working together with Refugees to deliver crucial aid support to the people of Ukraine MarisePayne and I call on Russia to allow safe access for the provision of this vital humanitarian assistance.https:t.cou2kDNl0UXz
