UkraineRussia conflict Zelensky speaks with Ramaphosa over invasion
20220421
https://www.msn.com/en-za/news/other/ukraine-russia-conflict-zelensky-speaks-with-ramaphosa-over-invasion/ar-AAWqQTJ
It has been close to two months since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched an offensive on his neighbour, sending hundreds of thousands of troops to destroy key structures in parts of the country. The situation in Ukraine has now morphed into a humanitarian crisis as more than 3.5 million civilians have been forced to flee to other countries.
In a tweet shared on Wednesday evening, 20 April 2022, President Volodymyr Zelensky said he and President Cyril Ramaphosa discussed the ongoing situation with Russia and other issues, including fears of a looming global food crisis.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has finally had a discussion with President Cyril Ramaphosa, which comes not long after South Africa was essentially accused of not playing a more proactive role in responding to the ongoing invasion from Russia.
Had a phone conversation with CyrilRamaphosa. Told about our resistance to Russian aggression. Discussed the threat of a global food crisis, deepening relations with the Republic of South Africa and cooperation within international organizations, he said.
Ramaphosa, who has spoken to Putin and his US counterpart Joe Biden about the Russia invasion, has been vocal about his willingness to also chat with Zelensky.
Ramaphosa is now one of a number of world leaders who have engaged Zelensky since the invasion began.
Earlier this month, Ukraines Ambassador to South Africa, Liubov Abravitova claimed her requests to meet with the South African government to discuss Russias attacks fell on deaf ears. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation DIRCO hit back, saying Abravitova did in fact with government officials  and that she has ignored their request for Ramaphosa to speak to Zelensky.
Government has maintained that the only way to end the crisis is for both Ukraine and Russia to engage in dialogue. South Africa was one of 58 countries in the United Nations that opted against a resolution to have Russia removed from the UN Human Rights Council UNHRC.
