Ukraine braces for expected Russian offensives in east
20220411
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/ukraine-braces-for-expected-russian-offensives-in-east/ar-AAW4si5
What we have learned in the first several weeks of this war is that Ukraine will never be subjected to Russia, he said on CNNs State of the Union. It doesnt matter which general President Putin tries to appoint.
A cemetery worker guides a crane that lifts the corpse of a man from a mass grave to be taken to a morgue for identification, in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 10, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd Rodrigo AbdImages of brutality from liberated towns have horrified the world. The bodies of 1,222 people have been found in the Kyiv region, Ukraines Prosecutor General Iryna Veneditktova said Sunday.What we see in all regions of Ukraine is war crimes, crimes against humanity, and we do everything to fix it, she told Sky News.Dozens of bodies were found on a highway out of Kyiv, fresh evidence of war crimes, The New York Times reported.I now call it the road of death, a local mayor said of the route filled with burnt and mangled corpses.Still, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said over the weekend he is committed to finding a peaceful end to the war.
The Ukrainians have essentially won the battle of Kyiv, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Fox News Sunday.
One thing is clear for me: After this war, when Ukraine will be rebuilt, when we support Ukraine in reconstructing this country, this will be accompanied by reforms, she told CNN. So, it is an extraordinary way to shape the country and to go down the path towards the European Union.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki Photo by Chip SomodevillaGetty Images Chip SomodevillaNo one wants to negotiate with a person or people who tortured this nation. Its all understandable. And as a man, as a father, I understand this very well, Zelenskyy told the Associated Press.But we dont want to lose opportunities, if we have them, for a diplomatic solution, he said.Resolution of the brutal war seemed remote, however, as Russia was expected to launch an offensive to gain control of Ukraines east.Russia also appointed a general to take control of the invasion, according to a top U.S. official. Gen. Alexander Dvornikov will be the first central war commander for the offensive.Ukraine nevertheless will persevere, said U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan.What we have learned in the first several weeks of this war is that Ukraine will never be subjected to Russia, he said on CNNs State of the Union. It doesnt matter which general President Putin tries to appoint.Meanwhile, Ukraine is on a fast track to join the European Union.The process usually takes years but can come to fruition in just a few weeks, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Sunday.One thing is clear for me: After this war, when Ukraine will be rebuilt, when we support Ukraine in reconstructing this country, this will be accompanied by reforms, she told CNN. So, it is an extraordinary way to shape the country and to go down the path towards the European Union.With News Wire Services
Resolution of the brutal war seemed remote, however, as Russia was expected to launch an offensive to gain control of Ukraines east.
Dozens of bodies were found on a highway out of Kyiv, fresh evidence of war crimes, The New York Times reported.
Ukrainians won the battle for Kyiv, the White House declared Sunday, but the besieged country was braced for a Russian offensive in the east.Russian forces withdrew from towns around Kyiv earlier this month after failing to capture the Ukrainian capital during the invasion they launched on Feb. 24.The Ukrainians have essentially won the battle of Kyiv, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Fox News Sunday.Theyve protected their city and that is because of their bravery, their courage, she said, but it is also because of the supplies, the military equipment, everything weve expedited, $1.7 billion worth, from the United States and the commitment and dedication of the American people to this war.
A cemetery worker guides a crane that lifts the corpse of a man from a mass grave to be taken to a morgue for identification, in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 10, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd
I now call it the road of death, a local mayor said of the route filled with burnt and mangled corpses.
Images of brutality from liberated towns have horrified the world. The bodies of 1,222 people have been found in the Kyiv region, Ukraines Prosecutor General Iryna Veneditktova said Sunday.
Theyve protected their city and that is because of their bravery, their courage, she said, but it is also because of the supplies, the military equipment, everything weve expedited, $1.7 billion worth, from the United States and the commitment and dedication of the American people to this war.
Russian forces withdrew from towns around Kyiv earlier this month after failing to capture the Ukrainian capital during the invasion they launched on Feb. 24.
No one wants to negotiate with a person or people who tortured this nation. Its all understandable. And as a man, as a father, I understand this very well, Zelenskyy told the Associated Press.
Russia also appointed a general to take control of the invasion, according to a top U.S. official. Gen. Alexander Dvornikov will be the first central war commander for the offensive.
The process usually takes years but can come to fruition in just a few weeks, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Sunday.
What we see in all regions of Ukraine is war crimes, crimes against humanity, and we do everything to fix it, she told Sky News.
Still, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said over the weekend he is committed to finding a peaceful end to the war.
But we dont want to lose opportunities, if we have them, for a diplomatic solution, he said.
Ukrainians won the battle for Kyiv, the White House declared Sunday, but the besieged country was braced for a Russian offensive in the east.
