Ukraine Russia halts Nord Stream flow to Germany  live updates
20220711
https://www.msn.com/en-za/news/other/ukraine-russia-halts-nord-stream-flow-to-germany-live-updates/ar-AAZrdwM
Germany's Economy Minister Robert Habeck has warned that Russia could continue to suspend gas flows beyond the planned maintenance period in order to destabilize Europe.
Russia opened fire with artillery, multiple rocket launchers and tanks in Kharkiv while maintaining an onslaught on eastern cities in the east, Ukraine's general staff said on Monday.
"As of 08:45 on July 11, ... 18 people were killed, 6 people were rescued from the rubble," it said.
Ukraine's energy and foreign ministries said they were "deeply disappointed" by Canada's decision to return a repaired Siemens turbine used for the Nord Stream 1 natural gas pipeline to Germany.
Europe has been cut off from Russian gas after Nord Stream 1 was turned off for repairs
An apartment building in Ukraine's second-largest city was struck by a missile overnight, but no casualties have been reported, authorities said.
Canada announced it will grant a sanctions waiver for the return of repaired Russian turbines needed for the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to pump more gas from Russia to Germany.
Ukraine's deputy prime minister urged civilians in the Russian-occupied southern region of Kherson to urgently evacuate as Ukraine's armed forces were preparing a counterattack there. Ukraine lost control of most of the Black Sea region of Kherson, including its eponymous capital, in the first weeks after Russia's February 24 invasion.
The UK's Ministry of Defense said in its intelligence update that Russian shells fired from Izium continue to focus along the axis of the E40 main road. "Control of the E40, which links Donetsk to Kharkiv, is likely to be an important objective for Russia as it attempts to advance through Donetsk Oblast," the ministry said.
Meanwhile, the death toll from a Russian rocket attack that hit an apartment block in the town of Chasiv Yar in Donetsk region over the weekend has risen to 18 as rescuers continue to search for survivors, the emergency services said.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's chief of staff, Andriy Yermak, said the rocket strike was "another terrorist attack" and that Russia should be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.
"We are confronted by an unprecedented situation  anything is possible," he told public radio over the weekend.
Several European countries remain dependent on Russian gas exports. After Russia invaded Ukraine this year, Germany reduced the proportion of gas it imports from Russia from 55 to around 35.
Ukrainian emergency services said that the number of people killed in a Russian strike on a five-story apartment building had risen to 15. The incident took place in the town of Chasiv Yar, in the Donetsk region, not far from the front line.
Europe has been cut off from Russian gas after the Nord Stream 1 pipeline was turned off for planned repairs. The shutdown is expected to last 10 days, but other repairs have missed deadlines in the past.
Rescuers were in voice contact with two people trapped in the ruins of the five-story building in that was struck late on Saturday, the service said.
