Ukraine said Russian troops brought parade uniforms to Kyiv expecting a quick triumph that never came
20220407
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-said-russian-troops-brought-parade-uniforms-to-kyiv-expecting-a-quick-triumph-that-never-came/ar-AAVXoUS
The US, the UK, and other Western countries have shared intelligence assessments that say Russia expected to make quick progress in capturing Ukraine.
After weeks of stasis, Russia over the weekend began to withdraw from around Kyiv, and Ukrainian officials said this week that it was once more in control of the whole of the Kyiv administrative region.
"We also find some parade uniforms there, so they expected to get Kyiv in two days and then have a parade here. So we can say now that we have completely destroyed their plans."
He also warned that Russia is likely to try again to take Kyiv, but said he did not know when that could happen.
Russian soldiers advancing on Kyiv brought parade uniforms with them, seeming to expect a victory in less than two days, a Ukrainian army official said on Thursday.
Parade uniforms are usually bright and highly decorated. They are impractical for fighting and only worn for ceremonial events: soldiers expecting resistance wear combat gear, usually rugged and featuring camouflage.
Hruzevych said that the uniforms were found in abandoned Russian military vehicles in the areas around Kyiv that were recently retaken.
The claim was made in a briefing for media by Oleksandr Hruzevych, the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Command of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
Insider's Sam Fellman wrote in early March that Russia's push for a "lightning" victory was centered on taking Kyiv, an objective that it was soon obvious it could not easily achieve.
Military analysts said that Russia's initial strategy matched these assessments, and did not appear to anticipate the fierce resistance from Ukraine.
The official said the soldiers left them behind when withdrawing from the Kyiv area, after weeks of trying without success to take the Ukrainian capital.
Hruzevych warned that Kyiv could still be hit by shelling in the city and that Ukraine was finding "sabotage groups" that Russia had left behind.
