Ukraines Indonesia envoy urges G20 nations to discuss Russian invasion after Beijing says its not appropriate to do so
20220316
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/ukraine-s-indonesia-envoy-urges-g20-nations-to-discuss-russian-invasion-after-beijing-says-it-s-not-appropriate-to-do-so/ar-AAV86WF
The G20, created in the late 1990s, includes the world's economic powerhouses as well as emerging economies such as Indonesia, India, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey.
Said Hamianin: "If we don't name the aggressor, we remain somewhere in the shadows, and the implications of the condemnation would not work here. We would expect something serious and something tangible from Indonesia, such as providing Ukraine with whatever support we need such as medicines, blankets for civilians, or diesel generators."
"The issue is a full-scale war against a neighbouring country. I'm very much disappointed with the position of the Chinese government," the ambassador said. "I think China can do everything possible to stop this war in days. As the closest partner of Russian President Vladimir Putin, China can give him a piece of advice and this would be a really strong voice."
Hamianin also offered his views on Indonesia's position on the war, saying Jakarta needed to "stand up and speak out" against the aggression.
Indonesia holds the rotating presidency of the G20 in 2022, and will host the grouping's leaders in a summit in October on the resort island of Bali.
This article originally appeared on the South China Morning Post www.scmp.com, the leading news media reporting on China and Asia.
A report by state broadcaster CCTV said the two leader exchanged views on Ukraine and agreed that countries should limit the fallout of sanctions.
Small-house policy: Hong Kongs graft-buster charges 2 men for deceiving government into granting building licences for HK$1 billion development
Along with October's G20 leaders' summit, Indonesia is also a convenor of year-long meetings among officials from the grouping.
Earlier this month, the Ukrainian embassy in Jakarta sent a letter to Indonesia's foreign ministry, saying it hoped to hear "loud and brave" calls from Indonesians to support Ukrainians.
Beijing's readout on a phone call on Wednesday between Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Indonesian counterpart Joko Widodo meanwhile said the Chinese leader backed Jakarta's plans for the G20 summit and its focus on global economic recovery.
China has made clear its views on the matter, with its foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian saying on Tuesday the G20 was "the main forum for international economic cooperation, and not the appropriate venue for discussion of Ukraine".
Retno has described Russia's military attack on Ukraine as "unacceptable" and said Indonesia urges all nations to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of other countries.
Indonesia condemned the invasion but at the same time urged "all parties to cease hostilities and put forward peaceful resolutions through diplomacy".
ESF students told exams in Hong Kong to go ahead as planned, despite candidate fears of catching coronavirus
Russia, which was booted out of the Group of Eight industrialised nations following its 2014 annexation of Crimea, remains a part of the G20.
While he did not directly criticise Indonesia, he appeared to reference the country's decision not to directly name Russia as an aggressor in its initial statements on the crisis.
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with SCMP Knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.
The country's officials have repeatedly said that because the G20 is an economic and development forum, discussions about Russia's war in Ukraine would not suit the agenda.
Ukraine is Indonesia's second-biggest wheat and meslin flour provider, behind Australia. From January to November 2021, Southeast Asia's biggest economy imported 2.76 million tonnes of both commodities from Ukraine, worth US$821 million, according to data from the Indonesian statistics agency.
His remarks came a day after China, a G20 member, said the grouping was "not the appropriate forum" to discuss the conflict, echoing a position held by Indonesia.
"So how can you discuss global economic issues without making sure this conflict ends? I'm thinking that it is possible for any member of G20 to raise the issue and to put it on the agenda at the next summit."
Ukraine's top envoy in Jakarta on Wednesday said it was crucial for Russia's invasion of his country to be part of discussions among the G20 nations, and that the economic effects of the conflict had global implications, as Indonesia convenes the grouping's meetings this year.
But the foreign minister has also said that both Russia and Ukraine are "Indonesia's good friends" and that Jakarta hopes to "forge a stronger friendship with both countries".
"The reality tells us that not a single question on the agenda of the G20 summit will be possible to discuss, without understanding that we are facing the economic crisis due to Western-imposed sanctions on Russia due to the breaking of logistic links, now globally and due to the fact that if Ukraine fails to gather enough crops, it might be a threat to the world's food security next year," Hamianin said.
Ambassador Vasyl Hamianin, speaking in a webinar organised by the Jakarta Foreign Correspondents Club, said the war's ramifications were wide-ranging as they involved the breakdown of logistical links and threats to global food security.
"Both sides ... agreed that all parties should stand firm on peace and encourage talks, prevent a large-scale humanitarian crisis, control the negative impact of sanctions on the world economy and avoid dragging down global economic recovery," the report said.
