Ukraine UN chief calls for ceasefire in visit to Moscow  live updates
20220428
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-un-chief-calls-for-cease-fire-in-visit-to-moscow-%e2%80%94-live-updates/ar-AAWHvkX
The UN chief "should focus primarily on one issue, evacuation of Mariupol," Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told The Associated Press in an interview.
The United Nations' humanitarian agency UN OCHA said that it has been forced to double its aid appeal to $2.25 billion E2.11 billion as the humanitarian situation in the country worsens.
Pavel Podvig, a senior researcher at the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, told DW on Tuesday that he does not envisage Russia using nuclear weapons, despite the Kremlin leaving the door open to such tactics.
The attendees will include NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht.
Ukraine says it is concerned by attempts to worsen the security situation in Moldova's pro-Russian breakaway province of Trans-Dniester.
"We will, along with the Netherlands, provide self-propelled howitzer and ammunition training to Ukraine, as we all know that artillery is an essential factor in this conflict."
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres is holding a joint press conference with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov following talks about the war in Moscow. He had also been due to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The UK has dropped tariffs on all goods coming from Ukraine, following a direct request from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
He said talks with Ukraine had been derailed by claims of atrocities committed by Russian forces in the town of Bucha outside Kyiv. He claimed without evidence, that the massacres in Bucha were not carried out by Russians.
The US has convened more than 20 nations at the Ramstein Air Base in Germany on behalf of Ukraine's defense. Speaking at the event, Lloyd Austin, the US Secretary of Defense, told reporters that "we have to move at the speed of war."
Italy is reportedly considering temporarily nationalizing a refinery owned by Lukoil -- a Russian multinational energy corporation -- as a response to possible sanctions on Russian oil.
Hundreds of civilians are still sheltering in the city's huge Azovstal industrial area while Ukrainian troops are still resisting Russia.
Last week, a senior Russian military officer said Russia aims to take control of Ukraine's south and open a land corridor to the region.
"Russian forces are likely attempting to encircle heavily fortified Ukrainian positions in the east of Ukraine," the intelligence update said, adding that Ukrainian forces have been preparing defenses in the southeastern city of Zaporizhzhia.
Security and defense journalist Thomas Wiegold has told DW the Gepard vehicles that Berlin has approved for delivery could make a real difference to Ukraine's fight in terms of anti-aircraft capability.
"The scale of the crisis, definitely the rapidity of people fleeing, we have not seen in recent times," Mantoo said at a UN news briefing. Mantoo added that Syria has the biggest current refugee crisis in the world, with 6.8 million people having fled the country.
"We do want to make it harder for Russia to threaten its neighbors and make it less able to do that," Austin said.
General Mark Milley, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said a key goal of the talks was to synchronize and coordinate security assistance to Kyiv that includes heavy weaponry, like howitzer artillery and well-armed drones and ammunition.
According to the dpa news agency, Germany's federal government intends to allow tanks from industry stocks to be delivered to Ukraine. German defense company Krauss-Maffei Wegmann will be given the green light to sell "Gepard" anti-aircraft tanks from previous Bundeswehr stocks, dpa reported.
"Yesterday we decided that Germany will make the delivery of "Gepard" anti-aircraft tanks possible to Ukraine," Lambrecht is expected to say, according to the statement.
The broadcast discussions showed Guterres and Putin sitting opposite each other at the large oval table in the hall of the Senate Palace, following an hour-long meeting in the Kremlin. Guterres earlier met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov where he called for a ceasefire.
More than 12.7 million people have fled their homes in Ukraine in the past two months, UNHCR spokesperson Shabia Mantoo said. This included 7.7 million internally displaced people and 5 million people who fled Ukraine across international borders.
"Every day of the fight will add years and years to the peaceful life after this war, after our victory," Zelenskyy said.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said that the reports of blasts in the Trans-Dniester region were a cause for serious concern and Moscow was closely following the events.
The UN refugee agency UNHCR said on Tuesday that it expects some 8.3 million people to flee Ukraine this year.
"You've heard us say a number of times that that kind of rhetoric is very dangerous and unhelpful," Austin said. "Nobody wants to see a nuclear war happen. Dangerous rhetoric is clearly unhelpful. And something that we won't engage in," he added.
He was aware the Ukrainians wanted to know "when it all be over," but said "there is no simple answer to that at this time."
"Lavrov's trademark over the course of 15 years or so that he has been the Russian foreign secretary has been that sort of bravado. I don't think that right now there is an imminent threat of escalation," Heappey said.
"In the early morning of April 26, two explosions occurred in the village of Maiac, Grigoriopol district: the first at 6:40 and the second at 7:05," the interior ministry of the in self-proclaimed "Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic" PMR said.
"The next several weeks will be very, very critical," Milley told reporters traveling with him to Germany.
She blamed the attack on "internal differences between various groups in Trans-Dniester that have an interest in destabilising the situation."
Although they are known as tanks, Wiegold said, the Gepard -- also known as Cheetah -- vehicles are more of an anti-aircraft cannon mounted on an armored chassis.
"They can make quite a difference. The German army has taken them out of use almost a decade ago, not because they were obsolete, but because at that time the Bundeswehr was scaling down and they had no use for it anymore."
Finnish newspaper Italehti has reported Finland and Sweden have agreed to submit NATO applications at the same time during the week of May 16.
Ukraine has urged UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to press Russia for an evacuation of the besieged port of Mariupol. Guterres is set to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Moscow on Tuesday.
"I think they regretted it, meanwhile, because short-range air defense is much in demand everywhere now and especially in Ukraine. So, the Ukrainians can make use of it, of course."
The explosions come just a day after several explosions believed to be caused by rocket-propelled grenades were reported to hit the state security ministry in Tiraspol.
But Podvig stopped short of saying Russian President Vladimir Putin would refrain from using tactical nuclear weapons.
Swedish paper Expressen writes that its sources confirm there is an agreement between the two countries.
Referring to Russian troop withdrawal from areas around Ukraine's capital, Austin said that the war was "entering a new phase" following what he called "Russia's defeat at the battle of Kyiv."
Austin said the US was determined to make better use of the US European Command's coordination mechanism and would extend the forum for Ukraine's defense into a monthly contact group.
Britain's Defense Ministry said in a Tuesday intelligence update that the town of Kreminna in Ukraine's eastern Luhansk region has reportedly fallen to Russian forces.
Lambrecht addressed criticism leveled at Germany for not delivering heavier weaponry to Ukraine, and pointed to the government's decision to provide anti-aircraft tanks as progress.
The Turkish side released a statement saying Erdogan urged Putin to agree to direct talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
"Storage facilities in western Ukraine have been targeted more than once by Russian forces. How can it be otherwise? War means war," he said.
The sanctions come in addition to current European Union measures, according to Polish Interior Minister Mariusz Kaminski.
Heappey's remarks follow a statement by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who said that NATO was "in essence engaged in war with Russia through a proxy" and that the "risks" of nuclear escalation were "considerable."
"It's hard for me to say with certainty whether he would refrain from that," he said.
"Over $2.25 billion is now required for needs inside Ukraine, more than double of the amount requested $1.1 billion when we launched the appeal on 1 March, a few days after the war began," the UN OCHA said in a statement.
The ministry accused Sweden of "covering up the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists against the civilian population of Donbas and Ukraine."
Reuters news agency, citing two government sources, said Industry Minister Giancario Gieorgetti is planning to raise the prospect of nationalization when the Italian cabinet meets on Thursday.
British Armed Forces Minister James Heappey said he did not think there was an imminent threat of escalation in the war in Ukraine leading to nuclear conflict.
Podvig's comments come after Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said he would not want to see a nuclear confrontation, but that "the danger is serious" and "should not be underestimated."
"Today I can say that an embargo is now more in reach for Germany. In the coming days and weeks, we will continue to expand this independence and rapidly move away from fossil fuels. But as I said, what a few weeks ago seemed a very large problem for Germany has shrunk considerably, so that German independence from Russian oil is now very very close."
In this conflict, separatists were supported by Moscow. Russia still has a military base there.
Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, called Ukrainians to think of how to make "the presence of occupiers at our land even more unbearable."
German Defense Minister Christina Lambrecht will announce the move during opening remarks at Ramstein air base, coming at the start of a US-hosted conference on Ukraine.
The German government confirmed reports that it will approve a delivery of "Gepard" anti-aircraft tanks to Ukraine, according to a statement seen by DW.
"The United Nations is ready to fully mobilize its human and logistical resources to help save lives in Mariupol," Guterres said.
Guterres is scheduled to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin following his meeting with Lavrov.
Putin told Erdogan that Kyiv should "take political responsibility and for humanitarian reasons, order them the troops to lay down arms," the Kremlin said.
"Despite the fact that the military operation is ongoing, we still hope that we will be able to reach agreements on the diplomatic track. We are negotiating, we do not reject talks," Putin told Guterres, who was visiting Moscow.
"Russia is waging a war of choice to indulge the ambitions of one man," Austin said, alluding to Russian President Vladimir Putin. "Ukraine is fighting a war of necessity to defend its democracy, its sovereignty and its citizens."
In his nightly address, Zelenskyy predicted Russia would lose the war, but said it would require sacrifice.
Speaking to the Russian First Channel he said, "these weapons will be a legitimate target for Russia's military."
The head of the breakaway province, also known as Transnistria or Transdniestra in English, claimed that the apparent attacks could be traced back to Ukraine.
Germany's Sddeutsche Zeitung newspaper reported that Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht will pledge the anti-aircraft tanks to Ukraine during today's meeting at the Ramstein US air base.
The list includes Gas giant Gazprom and Moshe Kantor, who owns part of Poland's state-owned chemicals group Azoty.
His office has established a "red" level of "terrorist threat" for the next 15 days and canceled public Victory Day events on May 9, citing safety concerns.
"Bad news: if Ukraine falls tomorrow Russian troops will be at Chisinau's gates," Podolyak said, referring Moldova's capital. "Good news: Ukraine will definitely ensure strategic security of the region. But we need to work as a team," Podolyak added.
"If the West wants to continue supporting Ukraine, they have to think about starting training Ukrainians on Western systems to deliver Western systems as well."
Russia's Foreign ministry said it summoned the Swedish ambassador to Russia and "strongly protested" the expulsion of Russian diplomats and Sweden's "military support to the Kyiv regime."
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht said Ukrainian troops will be trained on German soil. The remarks stem from a statement she gave at the Ramstein US air base in Germany during a US-hosted defense conference.
Guterres said that he was concerned about possible war crimes in Ukraine, adding that they require independent investigation.
Wiegold said that much of the valuable heavy weaponry was coming from former Warsaw Pact countries that, like Ukraine, relied on Soviet-era equipment. However, he said that further down the line, the West would have to start sharing newer equipment, and train Ukrainians in how to use it.
US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said on Monday following a meeting with Ukrainian officials that Kyiv had requested tanks as it seeks to adapt to the shifting conditions of the conflict.
"We are extremely interested in finding ways in order to create the conditions for effective dialogue, create the conditions for a ceasefire as soon as possible, create the conditions for a peaceful solution," Guterres said at a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Moscow. He added that the priority is to "minimize human suffering" in Ukraine.
Russian forces have surrounded fighters in the last Ukrainian stronghold in the Azovstal steel plant, but an estimated 100,000 civilians are also trapped in the city.
A senior Russian military official, Rustam Minnekayev, said last week that Russian forces aim to take full control of southern Ukraine, saying such a move would open the way to Trans-Dniester.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has met with United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres in Moscow. In televised remarks, he told Guterres that he still hoped for negotiations to end the conflict.
"In response to this, the Russian side decided to declare persona non grata three diplomats of the Swedish embassy in Russia," the ministry said.
The US military expects officials from more than 20 countries to attend talks on Tuesday at Ramstein Air Base in Germany focused on arming Ukraine.
The German economy minister, Robert Habeck says the country is very close to completely halting imports of Russian oil.
US, allies will 'move heaven and Earth' to meet Ukrainian security requirements -- Defense Secretary
The Kremlin says Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin have discussed Moscow's efforts to ensure the safety of civilians in Ukraine.
Lukoil, which is not the subject of sanctions, owns the ISAB refinery -- Italy's largest oil refinery by capacity. It used to buy 30-40 of its crude oil from Russia, with the remainder coming from international markets. Since the Russian invasion, it has been unable to obtain international credit, and has been sourcing almost all its crude oil from Russia.
The incident occurred in a small town of Maiac about 50 kilometres 30 miles from the regional capital Tiraspol and roughly 12 kilometers 7 miles west of the border with Ukraine. No one was hurt in the explosions, officials said.
He said that, although an apparent U-turn, the decision "allows the government to convey the idea it's not that new, because it's not German military stock."
Ukrainian Railways reported that five train stations in central and western Ukraine had come under fire and had been hit by missile strikes. Russia's Defense Ministry claimed it used missiles to destroy facilities powering the railways supplying Ukrainian forces with foreign weapons.
"We are working together with our American friends to train Ukrainian troops on artillery systems on German soil," Lambert said, according to a transcript seen by DW.
"The donor effort is something that has been brought together by countries that are yes, many of them are from NATO, but others are from beyond ... it is not NATO that is doing the military aid," Heappy said.
"There was a provocation in the village of Bucha, which the Russian army had nothing to do with," Putin said. "We know who prepared this provocation, by what means, and what kind of people worked on it."
Habeck said Germany has cut oil import dependency from 35 to 12 in eight weeks.
Kuleba also said he was concerned Guterres could fall into a Kremlin "trap." He cited trips to the Russian capital by foreign officials ahead of the invasion on February 24 as evidence of the Kremlin dictating diplomacy.
Austin said that Ukraine's allies had provided assistance at "record speed," adding that "Putin never imagined that the world would rally behind Ukraine so swiftly."
"Ukraine needs our help to win today, and they will still need our help when the war is over," Austin said. He added that the US and its allies have committed more than $5 billion of equipment to support Ukraine's defense since the start of the war.
US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said that the aim of the conference at the air base in Ramstein, Germany was to "help Ukraine win the fight against Russia's unjust invasion," as well as to "build up Ukraine's defenses for tomorrow's challenges."
They also discussed the safety of Turkish ships sailing from Black Sea ports through a cooperation of defense ministries.
Moldovan authorities have reported two blasts that damaged Soviet-era radio masts in the breakaway Trans-Dniester region. Authorities said a military unit was also targeted.
Moldovan President Maia Sandu has urged citizens to remain calm, saying she had stepped up security measures and convened the country's Supreme Security Council.
Trans-Dniester is a narrow strip of land on the east bank of the Dniester River, sandwiched between Ukraine and Moldova. The breakaway region seceded from Moldova after a brief military conflict in 1992 following the collapse of the Soviet Union.
The meeting seeks to boost weapons deliveries to Ukraine and bolster the country's long-term security.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg is expected to attend the meeting, along with representatives from NATO and non-NATO countries.
This is the first in-person visit from Guterres since the start of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Heappy also told Sky News that it is not NATO that is providing military support to Ukraine.
Austin said that he discussed with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy Kyiv's "changing requirements" as Russia focuses on Ukraine's eastern Donbas region. Austin said that the US and its allies will "keep moving heaven and Earth" to meet Ukraine's security requirements.
The British government said it would also impose further export bans on products to Russia, including cash, maritime goods and technology, and energy-related goods.
In response to Erdogan's questions on the besieged southeastern port city of Mariupol, Putin said "the city is liberated and combat operations are not going on there," according to the Russian statement.
Erdogan proposed taking the "Istanbul process to the level of leaders, a crucial threshold in the Russia-Ukraine negotiations," according to the statement. Talks have so far stalled over accusations of Russian war crimes. Putin later said peace efforts were at a dead end.
"This is really something that the UN is capable of doing. And if he demonstrates political will, character, and integrity, I hope that will allow us to make one step forward," he said.
The breakaway Trans-Dniester region seceded from Moldova in 1992 along with Russian backing, although Moscow has not officially recognized the region's independence. The region borders Ukraine and Kyiv has voiced concerns that it could be used as a staging ground for Russian attacks.
Russian troops are attempting to advance north to Sloviansk and east to Kramatorsk, according to the ministry.
"Thousands of civilians are in dire need of lifesaving humanitarian assistance, and many have evacuated," Guterres said.
Moldovan President Maia Sandu is convening a meeting of the country's Supreme Security Council on Tuesday over incidents that took place in Trans-Dniester.
Russia said it expelled 40 German diplomats in response to Berlin's decision to kick out Russian diplomats over the conflict in Ukraine. Germany Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said the move was unjustified as the Russian staff expelled from Germany had been "spies" rather than diplomats.
"They need continued support in order to be successful on the battlefield. And that's really the purpose of this conference."
Guterres reiterated his call for Ukraine and Russia to work together with the UN to set up aid and evacuation corridors to help civilians in Ukraine.
The UN chief is speaking in Moscow following talks with Russian officials. Meanwhile, the US is hosting allies at Ramstein Air Base to discuss Ukraine's security needs. Follow DW for the latest.  US hosts defense talks on arming Ukraine  Germany to supply Ukraine with anti-aircraft tanks  UN head Guterres urges for ceasefire in Moscow visit  Russia's Lavrov says NATO 'in essence' engaged in proxy war with Russia  Zelenskyy says Russia 'won't win' the war in Ukraine
"I assume that those who organized this attack have the purpose of dragging Transdniestria into the conflict," self-styled president, Vadim Krasnoselsky, was quoted as saying by Russian news agency TASS.
A defense conference on securing Ukraine's long-term security is now underway at the US airbase in Ramstein, Germany.
The defense secretary said that Ukraine "has done a magnificent job defending its sovereignty against Russia's unprovoked invasion."
UN General Secretary Antonio Guterres said during a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov that the organization is ready to fully mobilize its resources to save lives in Mariupol.
Mykhaylo Podolyak, a Ukraine presidential aide said in a post on Twitter: "Russia wants to destabilize the Transnistrian region and hints Moldova should wait for 'guests,'" wrote on Twitter.
It comes after several apparent attacks in the region. In the past day, attacks have reportedly targeted a military unit, the state security headquarters and an old Soviet-era radio antennae.
During an earlier meeting with Lavrov, Guterres called for a cease-fire to be implemented "as soon as possible."
After Lavrov's interview, Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba wrote on Twitter that Russia had lost its "last hope to scare the world off supporting Ukraine."
"What the West is doing to support its allies in Ukraine is very well calibrated ... Everything we do is calibrated to avoid direct confrontation with Russia," Heappy told BBC television.
Austin and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday and pledged additional military assistance to Kyiv. Austin and Blinken are expected to brief allies on Ukraine's security needs during the conference.
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said that conditions for a cease-fire should be created as soon as possible.
German Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund has raised E400,000 $426,000 for Ukraine in a friendly match with Ukraine's top club Dynamo Kyiv. Kyiv won 3-2 in a charity match played in front of about 35,000 fans. All proceeds will go to victims of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Austin went on to express sharp criticism of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who warned on Monday that World War III might be looming.
Wiegold said that technically, the German government was only approving the German industry selling equipment to Ukraine, rather than sending it directly.
Police in the breakaway Moldovan region of Trans-Dniester said that two explosions knocked two powerful antennas out of service in a radio facility close to Ukrainian border. The interior ministry of the region said those antennas were re-broadcasting Russian radio.
Companies on the list will have their assets frozen and be excluded from public tenders, while Russian oligarchs on the list will be banned from entering Poland.
In early April, Sweden said it was expelling three Russian diplomats who it accused of conducting "illegal operations" there.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says Russia is trying to brutalize parts of Ukraine but failing in its war aims.
"I don't think that we are that close," to seeing nuclear weapons used in this war, he said. "And the main reason for that is that there are simply no plausible military missions for nuclear weapons in this type of war."
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is hosting the event following a trip to Kyiv, where he pledged additional support to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
"The UK will continue to do everything in its power to support Ukraine's fight against Putin's brutal and unprovoked invasion," British International Trade Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan said.
In remarks following his appearance in Kyiv on Monday, Austin said he would like "to see Russia weakened to the point where it can't do things like invade Ukraine."
The confirmation comes after German media reported on the move. Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government has come under increasing pressure over not yet sending heavy weapons to Ukraine.
UNHCR had previously planned for some 4 million refugees in the immediate aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told Russian state television that NATO was "in essence engaged in war with Russia through a proxy" by supplying weapons to Ukraine.
Guterres also proposed coordinated work with the Red Cross to allow people to evacuate from the Azovstal steel plant in the city. Civilians and Ukrainian troops have been holed up in the plant for weeks.
He conceded the war in Ukraine would probably end finish with the signing of an accord but added the terms would depend on the military situation in the country at the time.
"It is about sending a signal, a sign of solidarity with Ukraine, earning a bit of money so that we can do one or the other humanitarian action. And then it is also a sign against this despicable war of aggression," Dortmund managing director Hans-Joachim Watzke told broadcasters ZDF.
After a visit to Kyiv, Blinken said Russia's military was underperforming, and its economy was "in shambles" due to sanctions and a mass "exodus" from the country.
Vadym Boychenko, the mayor of the besieged city of Mariupol, said a new mass grave had been identified 10 kilometers 6 miles north of the city. Several victims were located there, though authorities are trying to identify how many victims are in the unmarked graves.
About 15,000 Russian troops have been killed since Russia invaded Ukraine, UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said. Ukraine has claimed 22,000 Russian troops were killed since the invasion. Russia has acknowledged only 1,351 military deaths.
The Kremlin said in a statement that the two leaders spoke about "efforts made by Russia on a constant basis to ensure the safety of peaceful civilians, including the organisation of humanitarian corridors."
On Thursday, Guterres is expected to head to Ukraine for talks with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Foreign Minister Kuleba.
US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has invited around 40 countries to the conference. While many NATO members will be present, a number of the countries invited are not NATO member states.
"This is our key position on which we base everything. The risks now are considerable," Lavrov said.
The foreign minister also said Monday evening that Moscow wants to reduce the chance of "artificially" elevating the risks of a nuclear conflict.
