Ukrainian President Zelensky still seeking diplomatic solution to war
20220409
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/newslondon/ukrainian-president-zelensky-still-seeking-diplomatic-solution-to-war/ar-AAW2Ods
Speaking a day after at least 52 people were killed in a strike on a train station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, the politician also renewed his plea for allies to send more weapons ahead of an expected surge in fighting in the countrys east.
Register now for one of the Evening Standards newsletters. From a daily news briefing to Homes  Property insights, plus lifestyle, going out, offers and more. For the best stories in your inbox, click here.
Ukrainian authorities have called on civilians to get out ahead of an imminent, stepped-up offensive by Russian forces in the east.
Video: UK will send a further 100 million of high grade military equipment to Ukraines armed forces, Boris Johnson has announced Evening Standard
He told the Associated Press: No one wants to negotiate with a person or people who tortured this nation. Its all understandable. And as a man, as a father, I understand this very well.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he is committed to a diplomatic solution to the war despite Russian attacks on civilians.
Ukraine carried out a prisoner exchanmge with Russia this weekend with Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk saying 12 soldiers and 14 civilians were returning to Ukraine. She did not say how many Russians had been released.
He said he was confident Ukrainians would accept peace despite the horrors they have witnessed in the more than six-week-long war including gruesome images of bodies of civilians found in yards, parks and city squares and buried in mass graves in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha after Russian troops withdrew.
More than six weeks after Russia first invaded, it has pulled its troops from the northern part of the country, around Kyiv, and refocused on the Donbas region in the east.
But he added: We dont want to lose opportunities, if we have them, for a diplomatic solution.Speaking from the capital Kyiv, which was until recently under siege from Russian forces, he said: We have to fight, but fight for life. You cant fight for dust when there is nothing and no people. Thats why it is important to stop this war.
Passengers at risk of being injured or killed due to overcrowding at London Bridge station, warns MP
