Ukrainian rescuers search theater rubble as Russian attacks continue
20220317
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukrainian-rescuers-search-theater-rubble-as-russian-attacks-continue/ar-AAVddjm
In a joint statement, the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven leading economies accused Putin of conducting an unprovoked and shameful war, and called on Russia to comply with the International Court of Justices order to stop its attack and withdraw its forces.
NBC News Correspondent Tom Costello joins Andrea Mitchell to break down a series of runway scares, turbulence troubles, and passenger problems ahead of an emergency FAA meeting to address these safety concerns. We've had all of these instances and we need to address it as a country or something bad could happen, says Costello. Regarding the death of a Clinton White House aide on a private flight due to turbulence, Costello notes: This is incredibly rare. In fact, I don't think I've heard of somebody dying of turbulence in a plane, be it a private plane or a commercial plane.
Talks were held by video Wednesday. An official in Zelenskyys office told the AP that the main subject under discussion was whether Russian troops would remain in separatist regions in eastern Ukraine after the war and where the borders would be.
Russian President Vladimir Putin went on television Wednesday to excoriate Russians who dont back him.
Ukrainian firefighters extinguish a blaze at a warehouse after a bombing in Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 17, 2022.
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office on Thursday, March 17, 2022, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, shakes hands with a wounded Kateryna Vlasenko, 16, a refugee from Vorzel who covered her junior brother with her body during Russian shelling as they ran from their home town in a hospital in Kyiv, Ukraine.
Across the city, snow flurries fell around the skeletons of burned, windowless and shrapnel-scarred apartment buildings as smoke rose above the skyline.
The speech appeared to be a warning that his authoritarian rule, which had already grown tighter since the invasion began on Feb. 24, could become even more repressive.
Hundreds of civilians had been taking shelter in the grand, columned theater in central Mariupol after their homes were destroyed in three weeks of fighting in the southern port city of 430,000.
We hope and we think that some people who stayed in the shelter under the theater could survive, Petro Andrushchenko, an official with the mayors office, told The Associated Press. He said the building had a relatively modern basement bomb shelter designed to withstand airstrikes.
Two of the four Americans who were shot at by gunmen and kidnapped in Mexico are now back in the U.S,. according to officials. We are in the process of working to repatriate the remains of the two Americans who were killed in this incident, said State Department spokesman Ned Price.
The strike against the theater was part of a furious bombardment of civilian sites in multiple cities over the past few days.In the northern city of Chernihiv, at least 53 people had been brought to morgues over the past 24 hours, killed amid heavy Russian air attacks and ground fire, the local governor, Viacheslav Chaus, told Ukrainian TV on Thursday.Ukraines emergency services said a mother, father and three of their children, including 3-year-old twins, were killed when a Chernihiv hostel was shelled.Civilians were hiding in basements and shelters across the embattled city of 280,000,The city has never known such nightmarish, colossal losses and destruction, Chaus said.At least 21 people were killed when Russian artillery destroyed a school and a community center before dawn in Merefa, near the northeast city of Kharkiv, according to Mayor Veniamin Sitov. The region has seen heavy bombardment in a bid by stalled Russian forces to advance.In eastern Ukraine, a municipal pool complex where pregnant women and women with children were taking shelter was also hit Wednesday, according to Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional administration. There was no word on casualties in that strike.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for more help for his country in a video address to German lawmakers, saying thousands of people have been killed, including 108 children. He also referred to the dire situation in Mariupol, saying: Everything is a target for them.
Both Ukraine and Russia this week reported some progress in negotiations. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday that some negotiators were breaking into working groups, but there should be contacts today.
This photo released by Donetsk Regional Civil-Military Administration Council on Wednesday, March 16, 2022 shows the Drama Theatre, damaged after shelling, in Mariupol, Ukraine.
Other officials had said earlier that some people had gotten out. Ukraines ombudswoman, Ludmyla Denisova, said on the Telegram messaging app that the shelter had held up.
Russia has demanded that NATO pledge never to admit Ukraine to the alliance or station forces there.
Ukraines emergency services said a mother, father and three of their children, including 3-year-old twins, were killed when a Chernihiv hostel was shelled.
She had been trying to call her mother, who was in a town 50 miles 80 kilometers away. I cant tell her I am alive, you understand. There is no connection, just nothing, she said.
Jeremy Bash: Lethal aid from China could thaw 'frozen conflict' in Ukraine, giving edge to Russia
Medical staff sit in a hospital basement, used as a bomb shelter, during an air raid alarm in Brovary, north of Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 17, 2022. Felipe DanaOther officials had said earlier that some people had gotten out. Ukraines ombudswoman, Ludmyla Denisova, said on the Telegram messaging app that the shelter had held up.Satellite imagery on Monday from Maxar technology showed huge white letters on the pavement in front of and behind the theater spelling out CHILDREN in Russian  DETI  to alert warplanes as to who was inside the building.Across the city, snow flurries fell around the skeletons of burned, windowless and shrapnel-scarred apartment buildings as smoke rose above the skyline.We are trying to survive somehow, said one Mariupol resident, who gave only her first name, Elena. My child is hungry. I dont know what to give him to eat.She had been trying to call her mother, who was in a town 50 miles 80 kilometers away. I cant tell her I am alive, you understand. There is no connection, just nothing, she said.Cars, some with the Z symbol of the Russian invasion force in their windows, drove past stacks of ammunition boxes and artillery shells in a neighborhood controlled by Russian-backed separatists.Russias military denied bombing the theater or anyplace else in Mariupol on Wednesday.
In the northern city of Chernihiv, at least 53 people had been brought to morgues over the past 24 hours, killed amid heavy Russian air attacks and ground fire, the local governor, Viacheslav Chaus, told Ukrainian TV on Thursday.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Rescue workers searched for survivors Thursday in the ruins of a theater blown apart by a Russian airstrike in the besieged city of Mariupol, while scores of Ukrainians across the country were killed in ferocious urban attacks on a school, a hostel and other sites.Hundreds of civilians had been taking shelter in the grand, columned theater in central Mariupol after their homes were destroyed in three weeks of fighting in the southern port city of 430,000.
Ukrainian firefighters extinguish a blaze at a warehouse after a bombing in Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 17, 2022. VADIM GHIRDAMore than a day after the airstrike, there were no reports of deaths. With communications disrupted across the city and movement difficult because of shelling and other fighting, there were conflicting reports on whether anyone had emerged from the rubble.We hope and we think that some people who stayed in the shelter under the theater could survive, Petro Andrushchenko, an official with the mayors office, told The Associated Press. He said the building had a relatively modern basement bomb shelter designed to withstand airstrikes.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Rescue workers searched for survivors Thursday in the ruins of a theater blown apart by a Russian airstrike in the besieged city of Mariupol, while scores of Ukrainians across the country were killed in ferocious urban attacks on a school, a hostel and other sites.
Satellite imagery on Monday from Maxar technology showed huge white letters on the pavement in front of and behind the theater spelling out CHILDREN in Russian  DETI  to alert warplanes as to who was inside the building.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for more help for his country in a video address to German lawmakers, saying thousands of people have been killed, including 108 children. He also referred to the dire situation in Mariupol, saying: Everything is a target for them.
He said the West is using a fifth column of traitorous Russians to create civil unrest. And there is only one goal, I have already spoken about it  the destruction of Russia, he said.
Marc Morial: We have to make the continuing moral case for democracy and voting rights
We are trying to survive somehow, said one Mariupol resident, who gave only her first name, Elena. My child is hungry. I dont know what to give him to eat.
The fighting has led more than 3 million people to flee Ukraine, the U.N. estimates. The death toll remains unknown, though Ukraine has said thousands of civilians have died.
At least 21 people were killed when Russian artillery destroyed a school and a community center before dawn in Merefa, near the northeast city of Kharkiv, according to Mayor Veniamin Sitov. The region has seen heavy bombardment in a bid by stalled Russian forces to advance.
This photo released by Donetsk Regional Civil-Military Administration Council on Wednesday, March 16, 2022 shows the Drama Theatre, damaged after shelling, in Mariupol, Ukraine. Video: Russia expands attacks on Ukrainian cities MSNBC
The strike against the theater was part of a furious bombardment of civilian sites in multiple cities over the past few days.
Three Republican-led states on Monday pulled out of a bipartisan effort among states to ensure accurate voter lists, undermining a system with a demonstrated record of combating voter fraud, according to new reporting. The Morning Joe panel discusses.
Zelenskyys office said Russian airstrikes hit the Kalynivka and Brovary suburbs of the capital, Kyiv. Emergency authorities in Kyiv said a fire broke out in a 16-story apartment building hit by remnants of a downed Russian rocket, and one person was killed.
Medical staff sit in a hospital basement, used as a bomb shelter, during an air raid alarm in Brovary, north of Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 17, 2022.
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office on Thursday, March 17, 2022, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, shakes hands with a wounded Kateryna Vlasenko, 16, a refugee from Vorzel who covered her junior brother with her body during Russian shelling as they ran from their home town in a hospital in Kyiv, Ukraine.Zelenskyys office said Russian airstrikes hit the Kalynivka and Brovary suburbs of the capital, Kyiv. Emergency authorities in Kyiv said a fire broke out in a 16-story apartment building hit by remnants of a downed Russian rocket, and one person was killed.In a joint statement, the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven leading economies accused Putin of conducting an unprovoked and shameful war, and called on Russia to comply with the International Court of Justices order to stop its attack and withdraw its forces.Russian President Vladimir Putin went on television Wednesday to excoriate Russians who dont back him.Russians will always be able to distinguish true patriots from scum and traitors and will simply spit them out like a gnat that accidentally flew into their mouths, said Putin, using language reminiscent of the Stalinist era. I am convinced that such a natural and necessary self-purification of society will only strengthen our country.He said the West is using a fifth column of traitorous Russians to create civil unrest. And there is only one goal, I have already spoken about it  the destruction of Russia, he said.The speech appeared to be a warning that his authoritarian rule, which had already grown tighter since the invasion began on Feb. 24, could become even more repressive.Both Ukraine and Russia this week reported some progress in negotiations. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday that some negotiators were breaking into working groups, but there should be contacts today.Talks were held by video Wednesday. An official in Zelenskyys office told the AP that the main subject under discussion was whether Russian troops would remain in separatist regions in eastern Ukraine after the war and where the borders would be.The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive talks, said Ukraine was insisting on the inclusion of one or more Western nuclear powers in the negotiations and on legally binding security guarantees for Ukraine.In exchange, the official said, Ukraine was ready to discuss a neutral military status.Russia has demanded that NATO pledge never to admit Ukraine to the alliance or station forces there.The fighting has led more than 3 million people to flee Ukraine, the U.N. estimates. The death toll remains unknown, though Ukraine has said thousands of civilians have died.
In eastern Ukraine, a municipal pool complex where pregnant women and women with children were taking shelter was also hit Wednesday, according to Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional administration. There was no word on casualties in that strike.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive talks, said Ukraine was insisting on the inclusion of one or more Western nuclear powers in the negotiations and on legally binding security guarantees for Ukraine.
Tom Costello: We need to address air safety concerns as a country or something bad could happen
More than a day after the airstrike, there were no reports of deaths. With communications disrupted across the city and movement difficult because of shelling and other fighting, there were conflicting reports on whether anyone had emerged from the rubble.
Cars, some with the Z symbol of the Russian invasion force in their windows, drove past stacks of ammunition boxes and artillery shells in a neighborhood controlled by Russian-backed separatists.
Russians will always be able to distinguish true patriots from scum and traitors and will simply spit them out like a gnat that accidentally flew into their mouths, said Putin, using language reminiscent of the Stalinist era. I am convinced that such a natural and necessary self-purification of society will only strengthen our country.
