Ukraine officials warn of offensive Biden announces 150m more in aid May 6 recap
20220506
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/most-russian-forces-leave-mariupol-but-fighting-at-steel-mill-continues-pentagon-says-live-ukraine-updates/ar-AAWYnJc
Earlier Friday, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters that more than 220 Ukrainian soldiers have completed training on M777 howitzer cannons. Almost all of that 90 howitzers the Pentagon has shipped to Ukraine are now ready for use there, he said.
We did not provide Ukraine with specific-targeting information for the Moskva, Psaki said, referring to the ship struck by Ukrainian forces last month. We were not involved in the Ukrainians decision to strike the ship or the operation they carried out. We had no prior knowledge of Ukraine's intention to target the ship.
President Zelenskyy assured me that they will not waver in their fight against Putins barbarism and thuggery. Americans are inspired by their fortitude and resilience. We will continue to stand with Ukrainians as they stand up for their freedom.
Meanwhile,Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he would be open to negotiating with Russia only if its military retreated to its position from before its invasion.
President Joe Biden on Friday announced an additional $150 million in military aid for Ukraine, which he said nearly exhausted the funding Congress has authorized to Biden's office during Russias war in Ukraine.
"I want to say again  Russia is here forever. There should be no doubt about this. There will be no return to the past,"Turchak said, according to TASS.
Ukrainian officials on Friday were warning about a potential offensive before Russia'sVictory Day on Monday.
"Theres anecdotal evidence that Russian troops have destroyed storage capacity and that they are looting the storage grain that is available,"he said. "They are also stealing farm equipment."
The day marks the anniversary of the Soviet Union's defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, sparking worries the Russian military may increase attacks over the weekend.
Zelenskyy made the comment during a meeting Friday at Londons Chatham House think-tank. Ukrainian and Russian officials havepreviously held peace talksduring the war, but negotiations have largely stalled in recent weeks.
For Ukraine to succeed in this next phase of war its international partners, including the U.S., must continue to demonstrate our unity and our resolve to keep the weapons and ammunition flowing to Ukraine, without interruption, Biden said in a statement.
Ukraines deputy prime minister, Iryna Vereshchuksaid the evacuation of civilians from Azovstal will continue Saturday.
Russia'smilitary has fired 2,014 missiles on Ukraine and 2,682 flights of Russian warplanes have been recorded in Ukrainian skies, according toUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM: Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Ukraine officials warn of offensive Biden announces $150m more in aid: May 6 recap
About 50additional civilians were able to evacuate Friday from the Azovstal steel plant in the besieged port city of Mariupol, said Andriy Yermak, head of Ukraines presidential office.
Former President George W. Bush said he spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Thursday, calling him the Winston Churchill of our time.
He expected to be marching through the streets of Kyiv, Psaki said of Putin. That's obviously not what is going to happen.
Officials from Ukraines national security council also warned about the potential for more shelling, urging residents not to ignore air raid sirens in a Facebook postfromthe National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine'sCenter for Counteracting Disinformation.
Biden called on Congress to quickly pass an additional $33 billon in military, economic and humanitarian assistance that the White House requested last month.
Psaki said the U.S. does provide intelligence to help Ukraine understand the Russian threat in the Black Sea, but that Ukraine has a greater level of intelligence.
An official from the United Nations'Food and Agricultural Organization on Friday said there is "anecdotal evidence" that Russian troops were stealing grain from Ukraine.
This story recaps news updates in Ukraine on May 6. For the latest news,read more here.
The shipments are designed to help Ukrainian troops battle Russian forces in the eastern part of the country where the open terrain favors artillery battles.
First lady Jill Biden will be inRomania on Friday to begin her solo trip to Europe. She plans to meet with refugees Sunday in a small Slovakian village on the border with Ukraine.
Germany will provide Ukraine with seven powerful self-propelled howitzers as the country steps up its aid ofheavy weaponry,the German defense minister said Friday.
A senior leader in theRussian political party affiliated with President Vladimir Putin said Friday during an appearance in Ukraine, "Russia is here forever."
"We cannot accept a proposal that ignores this circumstance because in its current form it is equivalent to an atomic bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy,"he added.
I thanked the President for his leadership, his example, and his commitment to liberty, and I saluted the courage of the Ukrainian people, Bush said in a Twitter post, which included photos of the two men speaking by video link.
President Joe Biden will participate in a virtual meeting Sunday morning with G7 nations to discuss Russias war in Ukraine, including potential new sanctions on Russia, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Friday.
The European Union is planning to add Alina Kabaeva, a woman romantically linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin, and Patriarch Kirill,thehead of the Russian Orthodox church, to its sanctions list, CNN and the Guardian reported.
The New York Times, citing unnamed U.S. officials, reported Thursday that U.S. intelligence helped lead to the sinking of the Moskva as partof a continuing classified effort by the Biden administration to provide real-time battlefield intelligence to Ukraine. Other media outlets including NBC News reported similar accounts.
The latest humanitarian operation comes as Russian troops have intensified shelling at the plant in recent days, Ukrainian officials have said. Asked Friday about the siege, Zelenskyy said:"Mariupol will never fall. Im not talking about heroism or anything  There is nothing there to fall apart. It is already devastated."
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
Hungary relies heavily on Russia for its energy, with about 85 of gas and 60 of oil coming from Russia. Switching to other sources of oil would be too burdensome on Hungary's economy, Orban said.
The meeting, which German Chancellor Olaf Scholz will chair, will also include Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Its set for one day before Russias Victory Day, a holiday the U.S. expects Russian President Vladimir Putin to use to falsely claim victory in his war in Ukraine.
About 700,000 tons of grain have disappeared in Ukraine,Josef Schmidhuber, deputy director of FAOs markets and trade division, said Friday.
Kyiv MayorVitali Klitschko warned in a social media post Friday there is a "high probability" of rocket fire across Ukraine in the coming days. There were no plans for a curfew but street patrols would be reinforced,Klitschko added.Zaporizhzhia's mayor said there would be a curfew through Tuesday afternoon there.
Ukrainian forces have repelled at least 11 attacks in the Donbas region, destroying Russian tanks and vehicles in the process, the Ukrainian militarys General Staff said in a statement Friday.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki called recent reports that the U.S. provided specific-targeting intelligence to help Ukraine take down the flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet an inaccurate overclaiming of our role.
Orban said his country was willing to negotiate on the latest round of economic sanctions against Russia, but including an embargo on Russian oil could not be accepted.
Andrei Turchak,secretary of the General Council of United Russia, visited the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, which Russia has occupied since March, and met with the region's head administrator, Volodymyr Saldo, saidRussian state news agencyTASS.
The United States has now committed approximately $4.5 billion to aid Ukraine's military since Biden entered office,$3.8 billion of which was since Russias Feb. 24 invasion.
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., has tiedadditional Ukraine aid to a COVID-19 relief package to try to force both through. Congress was unable to pass COVID-19 relief funds before heading out to recess earlier this month. But Republicans have balked at linking the two spending items together.
The latest round of aid includes 25,000 155mm artillery rounds, counter-artillery radars, jamming equipment, and field equipment and spare parts, according to the White House.
However,Ukrainiandefense chiefGen. Valerii Zaluzhnyi on Thursday announced a planned counteroffensive to repel Russians fromKharkiv and Izyum. Ukrainian troops have already pushed Russian forces east fromKharkiv in recent days.
Hungarian Prime MinisterViktor Orban on Friday decried the European Union's proposed ban on Russian oil, comparing the move to dropping anatomic bomb on Hungarys economy.
Fighting continuesin the region, and Russian forces are aiming to take full control of Popasna and resume offensives inLyman and Siversk, the Ukrainian military said.
And so, on this specific report, it's just not an accurate depiction of how this happened, Psaki said.
Biden on Monday will also sign intolaw the Ukraine Democracy Defense Lend-Lease Act, which will allow the U.S. to lend or lease military equipment to Ukraine.
If the Russian military returned to its position from Feb. 23, the day before the invasion began, "we will be able to start discussing things normally, Zelenskyy said.
