Ukraine Calls for More Sanctions in Response to Russias Gas War
20220726
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-calls-for-more-sanctions-in-response-to-russias-gas-war/ar-AAZYOao
The latest move by Moscow in its escalating economic war with the West has raised fresh questions about Europes ability to avoid running short of natural gas when winter comes, which could lead to rationing, leaving factories idle and homes cold. European countries agreed to cuts to natural-gas consumption on Tuesday, prompted by the threat of a Russian supply cutoff.
Meanwhile, the United Nations and Ukrainian officials said the first ships exporting Ukraine grain via the Black Sea under a deal agreed on Friday might set sail in the coming days. Russias naval blockade of Ukraines Black Sea coast has left Ukraine unable to export grain, threatening a major pillar of Ukraines economy and a vital source of global grain supply.
East of Odessa, in the Mykolaiv region, local government officials said residents of the front-line village of Shevchenkove were evacuated to Odessa in preparation for military operations there. The city of Mykolaiv was also hit by a massive rocket attack Tuesday, according to the Mykolaiv City Council, damaging civilian infrastructure, and shelling continued in villages closer to the front line.
Ukrainian forces on the front line have credited their recent advances to the delivery of heavy weapons, including U.S.-made long-range missile systems that arrived in Ukraine last month.
Mr. Zelensky has vowed to give priority to Ukraines southern offensive against Russias invasion forces, with the goal of retaking the city of Kherson, which Russian forces occupied in the early days of the war. Dmytro Butrii, the regions military governor, said that Ukrainian forces have so far liberated 44 towns and villages, or about 15 of the territory.
Russia has denied using its energy supplies as an economic weapon and blamed sanctions-related problems with turbines for reduced gas flows. Germany, Russias biggest gas customer in the European Union, has called the moves an economic attack, saying that Moscow is using the turbine issue as a pretext.
Germany supplied three M270 Multiple Launch Rocket Systems to Ukraine, its defense minister, Christine Lambrecht, said on Tuesday, adding to compatible systems recently supplied to Ukraine by the U.S. and the U.K.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday that Moscow hopes the Nord Stream turbine issues will be resolved sooner rather than later, but that technical challenges remain. The situation is critically complicated by the restrictions and sanctions that have been introduced against our country, Mr. Peskov said.
A Russian missile attack on the Ukrainian port of Odessa over the weekend cast doubt over Russias adherence to the agreement. Another missile hit the Odessa region on Tuesday morning.
Do everything to limit Russian revenues not only from gas and oil, but also from any remaining exports, Mr. Zelensky said on his official Telegram channel late Monday. Sever trade ties with Russia as much as possible, because every such tie is Russias potential tool of putting pressure.
President Volodymyr Zelensky said Europe should avoid concessions to Moscow and focus on cutting trade with and energy dependence on Russia.
Russian state-owned energy producer Gazprom PJSC said Monday that gas exports through the vital Nord Stream pipeline to Germany would drop to about a fifth of the pipelines capacity. The latest reduction in the pipelines utilizationfrom 40 of capacity currently to 20is expected to take effect Wednesday, Gazprom said.
Meanwhile, in eastern Ukraine, intense fighting continued in the Kharkiv region and the eastern Donbas area. Regional officials reported overnight shelling on villages near the front line.
KYIV, UkraineUkraines president accused Russia of waging a gas war on Europe, following Moscows announcement that it would further reduce natural-gas deliveries to the region, and urged Ukraines allies to hit back at Russia with additional sanctions.
The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin would meet with his Turkish counterpart, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on Aug. 5 in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, in Russia.
All of this is done by Russia deliberately to make it as difficult as possible for Europeans to prepare for winter, Mr. Zelensky said. This is an overt gas war that Russia is waging against a united Europe.
Russias Defense Ministry said Tuesday that a joint coordination center had been launched in Istanbul to implement the grain deal, according to Russian state news service RIA Novosti.
