Ukraine Hundreds still trapped under Mariupol theater Zelenskyy says  live updates
20220318
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/ukraine-japan-australia-announce-further-russia-sanctions-live-updates/ar-AAVdbRq
A Ukrainian lawmaker has also said that the theater was clearly marked from above as a shelter for women and children, accusing Moscow of bombing it on purpose.
The Polish border guard has said that more than 2 million people have crossed from Ukraine into Poland since the Russian invasion began on 24 February.
Russia has been using the UN Security Council to spread disinformation over the invasion of Ukraine, according to six Western member states.
"The cabinet considers it of great importance to make an active military contribution to strengthening the deterrence and defense of the NATO alliance," Dutch Defense Minister Katja Ollongren said in a statement.
The Russian leader also told his German counterpart they were doing everything possible to save the lives of civilians.
He repeated an earlier threat that Russian troops could target supplies of weapons to Ukraine.
The sanctions, which include asset freezing, are the latest in a series of measures by Tokyo since Russia's February 24 invasion of Ukraine.
The Dutch government has said it will send a Patriot missile defense system to Sliac, Slovakia, as NATO moves to strengthen air defenses in Eastern Europe.
Critics say the Russian allegations could be subterfuge to create a pretext for using such weapons themselves.
"The situation is Mariupol is particularly bad. We are trying to get access to bring food in," said Frick, saying the need for humanitarian aid was "urgent" but that "there hasn't been a possibility to bring food in with a humanitarian convoy" due to constant Russian shelling.
Heres Putin. He seems to be on his own special giant stage so nobody can get within 20 yards of him even in a massive stadium.The sings behind him say For a world without Nazism  For Russia pic.twitter.comVjcmlv2QCx max seddon maxseddon March 18, 2022
He said this also meant "that we will take care of the humanitarian plight of the people there."
We will continue to stand firmly by Bosnia and Herzegovina as it takes the necessary steps to secure its place in the Euro-Atlantic community of nations. 22
Canberra imposed sanctions on Moscow's Finance Ministry while adding 11 banks and government organizations, including the central bank, covering the majority of Russia's banking assets along with all entities that handle its sovereign debt.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says "hundreds" who sheltered in a theater in Mariupol are still trapped. Meanwhile, more than two million refugees have now crossed into Poland. Follow DW for the latest.
"We will continue to stand firmly by Bosnia and Herzegovina as it takes the necessary steps to secure its place in the Euro-Atlantic community of nations," the US embassy said on Thursday evening.
The IEA also called on the OPEC group of oil-producing nations to help "relieve the strain" on markets.
Frick also spoke about how Ukraine's role as a breadbasket for the world was affecting global food supply and prices: "While we speak, 20 of the 2021 wheat production is still stuck in Ukraine and more than 40 of the corn production... the global market price for wheat is going through the roof. We have 66 higher prices now than a year ago and 33...only since the Ukraine war started. So this is directly affecting some of the poorest countries in the world and is pushing families in these countries towards poverty and hunger."
Bulgaria was Moscow's closest ally during the Cold War but has since joined both the EU and NATO.
In an ominous speech on Wednesday, Putin likened opponents to "gnats'' who try to weaken the country at the behest of the West.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said the Russian invasion of Ukraine should be a turning point for the European Union.
Ofcom's decision is largely symbolic as RT has already been taken off air as a result of sanctions imposed in the EU.
International Energy Agency urged the international community to cut oil use, warning that the world faced a massive supply crisis.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called for an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine during a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
"What we're afraid of is are we going to be able to keep up with the numbers of people that are flowing out of the country? And that will be in need of greater and greater support," Ghedini-Williams said.
The story even offered a detailed explanation for how the three were identified, using items from a backpack "near the remains of one of the militants." Among the items was a Tennessee state flag, the report claimed.
President Vladimir Putin praised the war waged on Ukraine as a "heroic" mission by the Russian army during a patriotic rally at a Moscow stadium on Friday.
"Freedom of expression is something we guard fiercely in this country, and the bar for action on broadcasters is rightly set very high," Ofcom Chief Executive Melanie Dawes said.
Bosnia has been split along ethnic lines since the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 90s and was ravaged by a brutal war with Russia's close ally Serbia.
The IEA has announced a 10-point plan to cut oil use, including reducing highway speed limits by 10 kilometers per hour 6 miles per hour.
The UN has said that at least 780 civilians have already been killed in Ukraine since the invasion began, as Russian bombs have also been dropped on hospitals and shelters.
"The entire global economy will feel the effects of the crisis through slower growth, trade disruptions, and steeper inflation," the statement read, adding that the conflict was hitting energy and food supplies resulting in rising poverty.
One person was killed and several others injured when the Podil neighborhood of Kyiv was bombed.
"In addition to the devastating human catastrophe unfolding in Ukraine, the war is disrupting livelihoods throughout the region and beyond," they said.
Officials and observers have noted that people in Mariupol are on their "last reserves" of food and water, claiming Russia is using starvation as a tactic of war.
"I think we fear what may happen in the coming days and weeks as we've seen cities that we thought were safe havens, it seems, are not necessarily safe," she said.
The UN migration agency says nearly 6.5 million people have been displaced inside Ukraine, in addition to the 3.2 million who have already fled the country.
Russia announced it will not call for the UN Security Council to vote Friday on its draft resolution on humanitarian relief for Ukraine, which has been criticized for making no mention of the Kremlin's invasion of its neighbor.
"Russia is once again attempting to use this council to launder its disinformation, spread its propaganda, and justify its unprovoked and brutal attack on Ukraine," the six countries with seats on the council said in a statement read out by US ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield.
"It was noted that the Kyiv regime is attempting in every possible way to delay the negotiation process, putting forward more and more unrealistic proposals," the Kremlin said in a readout of the call.
The council held a meeting on the same issue last week, also at Russia's request. At the time, Western countries accused Russia of spreading conspiracy theories.
China is trying to walk a fine line between antagonizing its Russian partners and disrupting its economic ties with the west. Xi's government has tried to distance itself from Russia's actions  for example abstaining from a historic UN vote to condemn the invasion  but has not gone as far as condemning Moscow.
The city near the Polish border has been spared the worst of the Russian attacks so far.
By seizing the strategic port city, Russian President Vladimir Putin could create a corridor between Russia, the Donbas area, and Crimea and take full control of the Sea of Azov.
FIFA declared Poland winners by walkover  a decision that is made when a team is disqualified  after Russia's suspension.
French President Emmanuel Macron told Russias President Putin in a phone call that he had "extreme concern" for the civilians in Mariupol, Macrons office said.
He unleashed a diatribe at those who oppose his course and spoke of the "necessary self-purification of society."
The city's mayor Vitali Klitschko shared a video from the district saying, "The enemy continues to attack the capital." He said six buildings, including a preschool, were damaged in the attack.
"For Spain, it is very important that the EU summit take urgent action," said Sanchez.
In the face of the emerging global energy crisis set off by Russias invasion of Ukraine, our new 10 Point Plan to Cut Oil Use proposes actions to ease market strains reduce the price pain being felt by consumers lessen the economic damageMore: https:t.coN5PGzJLbnS pic.twitter.comK2dTpf0BRv Fatih Birol fbirol March 18, 2022
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the call offers the chance "to assess where Xi stands" on the war. She added that Biden will question Beijing's "rhetorical support" and "absence of denunciation" over the invasion.
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the state broadcaster RT that Russia wouldn't allow other countries to supply S-300 anti-aircraft missile systems to Ukraine.
Poland, Sweden, and the Czech Republic said they would refuse to play against Russia before the suspension.
On Wednesday, Mariupol's theater was destroyed during a bombardment. Russia denied striking it. Italy said it would rebuild it.
She said refugees need more than food, water, and shelter, "there's a great deal of trauma that we will have to be able to support."
Japan, meanwhile, said it would impose sanctions against 15 individuals and nine organizations, including defense officials and state-owned arms and dual-use technologies exporter Rosoboronexport.
The Tennessee Guard said in a statement: "They are accounted for, safe and not, as the article headline erroneously states, US mercenaries killed in Donetsk People's Republic."
The Ukrainian air force's western command said the missiles that hit Lviv were launched from the Black Sea.
The search for survivors continued at the Mariupol theater, which was bombed on Wednesday, with Ukrainian lawmaker Dmytro Gurin telling DW that the attack was "deliberate."
The two leaders spoke for an hour, during which time Macron urged a "a lifting of the siege and humanitarian access" to the city.
Sanchez said that Putin was the sole author of the war. He also underlined the need to keep energy prices from spiraling out of control ahead of a meeting of European leaders next week.
The US embassy in Sarajevo has called the "threats" made by the Russian ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the Balkan country's wish to join NATO "dangerous, irresponsible and unacceptable" in a Tweet.
In the face of the emerging global energy crisis set off by Russias invasion of Ukraine, our new 10 Point Plan to Cut Oil Use proposes actions to
The EU said that potential "war crimes" in Ukraine would be investigated and prosecuted, joining top US figures in labeling Moscow's actions thus.
"As a result of Russia's appalling aggression against Ukraine, the world may well be facing its biggest oil supply shock in decades, with huge implications for our economies and societies," IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said.
According to his spokesman, Scholz pressed Putin to make progress in finding a diplomatic solution and told him the humanitarian situation needed to improve.
"With our recent inclusion of the Central Bank of Russia, Australia has now targeted all Russian government entities responsible for issuing and managing Russia's sovereign debt," Minister for Foreign Affairs Marise Payne said in a statement.
Several countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada, have banned Russian oil imports.
Russia is the largest exporter of oil to global markets and the second-largest crude oil exporter behind Saudi Arabia.
During the latest of several telephone calls between the two leaders since Russia's invasion began three weeks ago, Macron "again demanded the immediate respect of a cease-fire" in Ukraine, the Elysee Palace said.
"The Tennessee Guard is aware of the fake news coming out of Russia," said Tracy O'Grady, a spokesperson for the larger US National Guard.
"We call on President Putin to immediately stop the to immediately cease hostilities and withdraw his invading forces from the country."
The Bulgarian foreign ministry declared 10 Russian diplomats "persona non grata" and demanded that they leave the country within 72 hours, accusing them of carrying out activities incompatible with their diplomatic status.
She said the decision was taken because it "appears impossible for RT to comply with the due impartiality rules" in its coverage of the war in Ukraine.
Asked about supposed humanitarian corridors that Moscow promised it would respect, Frick said "we have yet to see them."
"In Mariupol, units of the Donetsk People's Republic, with the support of the Russian armed forces, are squeezing the encirclement and fighting against nationalists in the city center," the ministry said in Moscow.
He was cut while saying: "It so happened that the beginning of the operation coincided by chance with the birthday of one of our outstanding military..."
The Baltic states also expelled a total of 10 Russian diplomats on Friday: three from Latvia and Estonia each and four from Lithuania.
Bilateral talks also continued between Russia and Ukraine, albeit with neither side saying very much publicly on Thursday.
That conflict drove some 13 million people from their homes internally and to other countries.
The allegation was made at a council meeting called at Russia's request to discuss its allegations that Ukraine is developing biological weapons.
"The war in Ukraine means a turning point for the EU as well," Scholz said as the pair met in Berlin.
The Russian soccer federation wanted an urgent interim ruling to freeze the ban pending an appeal.
Australia and Japan on Friday increased the pressure on Russia by placing sanctions on individuals, banks and government organizations.
But a report published in Russia's Pravda newspaper identified three Americans as being dead and gave military ranks for each of them, citing information from pro-Russian militia in Ukraine's Donetsk.
The Kremlin characterized the call somewhat differently, saying that Putin used it to accuse Ukraine of "war crimes" while promising that the Russian leader would do "everything possible" to avoid civilian deaths.
He said Russia expected to find Ukraine much as it did in 2014, when it seized Crimea without a fight and backed separatists in the eastern Donbas region. But Ukraine is now a different country, with much stronger defenses, he said.
We will continue to stand firmly by Bosnia and Herzegovina as it takes the necessary steps to secure its place in the Euro-Atlantic community of nations. 22 US Embassy Sarajevo USEmbassySJJ March 17, 2022
We do not consider RT to be fit and proper to hold a UK licence and cannot be satisfied that it can be a responsible broadcaster.
US President Joe Biden ordered the withdrawal of American troops from Ukraine ahead of Russia's invasion of the country.
In an online address, Zelenskyy said shelling by Russian forces continued to prevent the authorities from establishing effective humanitarian corridors to the encircled port city in southern Ukraine. He said that hundreds of people are believed to still be trapped.
"The deteriorating security situation in Europe because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine makes this contribution necessary."
The findings were presented in a paper issued by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. Projections found that "over 12 million people are estimated to be stranded in affected areas or unable to leave due to heightened security risks, destruction of bridges and roads, as well as a lack of resources or information on where to find safety and accommodation.''
"Latvia expels three Russian Embassy employees in connection with activities that are contrary to their diplomatic status and taking into account ongoing Russian aggression in Ukraine. The decision has been coordinated with Lithuania and Estonia," Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics tweeted.
"Attention was drawn to the numerous war crimes committed daily by the Ukrainian security forces, in particular massive rocket and artillery attacks on the cities of Donbas," the Kremlin said of the call.
Representatives from the global institutions met on Thursday to discuss the impacts of the Russian invasion of Ukraine around the world.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said rescue work was ongoing at the site of a bombed theater in Mariupol from where 130 people have so far been recovered alive.
The Court of Arbitration for Sport CAS upheld FIFA's ban on Russia from taking part in the playoffs for the 2022 World Cup finals over the invasion of Ukraine.
"We have shown what we expect on the example of Ukraine. If there are threats, we will react," Kalabukhov added.
Putin spoke before tens of thousands of people at Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium, where people waved the Russian national flag and flags bearing the letter Z, a pro-war symbol.
So far, more than 3 million people have fled due to Russias invasion of the country. At least 200,000 of these have arrived in Germany seeking refuge. According to the UN, around half of all Ukrainian refugees are children.
"We are delivering food to cities that are not entirely encircled. We have now built up food stocks for more than 3 million people for 30 days. But we are still waiting and pressing for humanitarian corridors, particularly for Mariupol."
Three current and previous members of the Tennessee National Guard were falsely identified as being killed in a Russian media report.
He wrote on Telegram work in the plant had stopped before the strike and no casualties were reported. A bus repair facility was also hit in the strike.
US President Joe Biden is planning to call his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Friday. While the phone call has been on the agenda since November, relations between Beijing and Moscow in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine are likely to take center stage.
Bulgaria expelled two other Russian diplomats on March 2 amid allegations of espionage. On Monday, Slovakia kicked out three Russian embassy staff based on information from its secret service.
A group of leading financial lenders, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Council of Europe Development Bank among others, have released a statement warning of the "extensive" economic fallout from the war in Ukraine.
The document cited the IOM figures as "a good representation of the scale of internal displacement in Ukraine  calculated to stand at 6.48 million internally displaced persons in Ukraine as of March 16.''
Earlier in the week, ambassador Igor Kalabukhov said that if Bosnia "chooses to be a member of anything, that is its internal business. But there is another thing, our reaction."
Shells also hit the eastern city of Kramatorsk, killing two people and wounding six, according to Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko.
Washington has denied these claims, in turn alleging that they are part of a potential "false-flag operation" by Moscow.
On Thursday, Slovakia's defense minister, Jaroslav Nad, speaking alongside his US counterpart Lloyd Austin, said Bratislava is ready to send long-range surface-to-air missiles to Ukraine.
"In addition to the 3.3 million who have become refugees in neighboring countries, we could be looking at potentials of many more millions becoming refugees," Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams, Head of Global Communications at the UNHCR, told DW.
We have revoked RTs licence to broadcast in the UK with immediate effect. We do not consider RT to be fit and proper to hold a UK licence and cannot be satisfied that it can be a responsible broadcaster.Read about our decision https:t.coLWKtMxaCQm pic.twitter.com2BBTyqrHXo Ofcom Ofcom March 18, 2022
Izumi Nakamitsu, UN high representative for disarmament issues, last week said his department had no knowledge of a Ukrainian biological weapons department or a mandate to carry out an investigation.
The Russian ambassador to the UN, Vassily Nebenzia, announced the change of plans in a separate session on Thursday called by western countries.
Britain's media regulator, Ofcom, has revoked Russian state broadcaster RT's license to broadcast in the UK with immediate effect.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed the Bundestag, telling the German parliament that "help came too late to stop war." He also criticized the German government over its economic ties with Russia.
Heres Putin. He seems to be on his own special giant stage so nobody can get within 20 yards of him even in a massive stadium.
"The only strategic air defense system that we have in Slovakia is the S-300 system," Nad said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia had been surprised by the resistance it has been met with since it began its invasion.
S-300 missiles are high on Ukrainian demands from the West because they are designed to hit targets at higher altitudes.
Earlier in the week CAS also rejected a Russian appeal to stay a suspension of its national teams and clubs by the European body UEFA.
"As before, we will continue to support Ukraine, which so courageously opposes the aggressor," said Scholz.
The International Organization for Migration IOM indicates that, within 3 weeks, Ukraine is on its way to the levels of displacement from Syria's devastating war.
World Food Program Director Martin Frick spoke to DW about the deteriorating situation for civilians in Ukrainian cities like Mariupol, which are being besieged by Russian forces, as well as the consequences for the global food supply without Ukrainian wheat.
Local officials said shelling of the town of Merefa, outside the city of Kharkiv, killed at least 21 people and injured 25.
The CAS decision means Russia will not be able to play Poland in World Cup qualifying on Thursday.
Putin said all of the Kremlin's plans for Ukraine would be implemented. However, Russian state television curiously cut Putin's speech mid-sentence, switching to footage of patriotic music.
In the eastern city of Kharkiv, the emergency services said one person was killed when a teaching building was struck.
Speaking alongside Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez in Berlin, Scholz said it was vital for the EU to strengthen its defense capability and take decisions in the energy sector.
The Patriot is a surface-to-air guided weapon system that can be used to take out aircraft, helicopters, and high-speed ballistic and cruise missiles. This is possible up to a height of 20 kilometers about 12.5 miles and a distance of 60 kilometers.
He added Western allies give them a "proper replacement" to avoid creating a security gap.
"This is our defense," he said in his nighttime video address to the nation. "When the enemy doesn't know what to expect from us. As they didn't know what awaited them after February 24," the day Russia invaded. "They didn't know what we had for defense or how we prepared to meet the blow."
"We continue to believe it is possible that Russia may be planning to use chemical or biological agents against the Ukrainian people," said Thomas-Greenfield.
Ukraine hopes to evacuate civilians through nine humanitarian corridors from cities and towns on Friday, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has said.
The rally was held to celebrate the 8th anniversary of Russia's annexation of the Ukrainian Black Sea peninsula of Crimea on March 18, 2014.
As Putin prepared to take the stage, speakers had praised him as fighting "Nazism" in Ukraine  the pretext used by Moscow for staging its invasion.
However, last weekend, Russian troops launched multiple air raids on a large Ukrainian military facility outside the city, killing at least 35 people.
It will instead use the scheduled council session to repeat allegations that the United States has biological warfare laboratories in Ukraine.
