Ukraine crisis is WORSE than Cold War says Russias former president
20220326
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/ukraine-crisis-is-worse-than-cold-war-says-russia-s-former-president/ar-AAVwdec
He told RIA news agency in an interview that sanctions will only consolidate Russian society and won't cause popular discontent with the authorities.
In the interview Medvedev also claimed the 'economic war on Russia' will bring about 'the destruction of the entire world economic order'.
He also said Russia's counterparts weren't 'trying to bring the situation to a boiling point' then.
The West has imposed an array of sanctions on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine, but one month into the war, the Kremlin says it will continue the assault until it accomplishes its goals of Ukraine's 'demilitarisation and denazification'.
He added: 'They are seizing assets of financial institutions and even of the Russian Central Bank, and are even talking about foreclosing these assets, about nationalising them in other words. Well, look, this is a war without rules.'
In an interview with RIA news agency the ex-president also saidthere are several grounds under which Russia has the right to use nuclear weapons, including an attack on the country or encroachment on infrastructure as a result of which Russia's nuclear deterrent forces would be paralysed.
Some of the sanctions have specifically targeted billionaire businessmen believed to be close to President Vladimir Putin.
It is by many believed Putin, who then became president again in 2012, was a de facto leader at the time, only putting Medvedev in power because he wasn't constitutionally able to serve a third consecutive term.
He added its place 'is destined for it by history and, if you like, by God...And Russia has its own future, its own positioning, its own pride, its own strength, its own opportunities, its own problems.'
Medvedev served as president from 2008 to 2012, in his election campaign promising to elect predecessor Vladimir Putin as Prime Minister.
Despite remarking that the situation for Russia is worse and claiming 'the destruction of the entire world economic order' is on the horizon, Medvedev also said it is 'foolish' to believe that Western sanctions against Russian businesses could have any effect on the Moscow government.
But he added that negotiations - even in the most difficult situations such as those around Ukraine - are Moscow's preferred path to proceed.
Medvedev also told Sputnik that while 'no one wants any war, much less a nuclear war, which is a threat to the very existence of human civilisation', it's 'obvious' that this a threat that 'always exists'.
'Let us ask ourselves: can any of these major businessmen have even the tiniest quantum of influence of the position of the country's leadership?' Medvedev said.
In an interview with state agency Sputnik News, the politician, who is nowdeputy head of security council, said during that period Russia wasn't faced with sanctions on 'industries, agriculture, and individuals'.
He added that he agrees with those who say that 'the development of nuclear weapons has prevented a huge number of conflicts in the 20th and 21st centuries'.
Russia's ex-president Dmitry Medvedev has said the Ukraine crisis is worse for Russia than the Cold War was.
When asked about Russia's place in the world, Medvedev told RIA news agency that it's a 'big, significant' and 'very good' country.
