Ukraine is using fake rocket launchers made of wood to get Russia to waste its missiles on useless targets report says
20220830
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-is-using-fake-rocket-launchers-made-of-wood-to-get-russia-to-waste-its-missiles-on-useless-targets-report-says/ar-AA11gULZ
Ukraine was also used to fighting Russia despite having a significantly smaller weapons supply. Russia repeatedly attacked Ukraine's east even before it invaded this February.
Ukraine's fight against Russia has been largely fueled by Western weapons. But the West was hesitant to give advanced weapons early in the war for fear they would end up in Russian hands.
Ukraine is now making more of those decoy rocket launchers as a result, the official told The Post. The official did not say how many.
The Post said its report was based on interviews with interviews with senior US and Ukrainian officials. The Post said it has also seen photos of the wooden decoys.
Russia used at least 10 Kalibr cruise missiles in the first weeks of Ukraine trying the strategy, a senior Ukrainian official told The Post.
The decoys are made of wood but look like advanced US rocket launchers when spotted by Russia's drones, The Post reported.
Ukraine is firing wooden decoys made to look like rocket launchers to trick Russia into wasting its missiles on them, The Washington Post reported.
The drones then send the location of the dummy launchers to Russia's cruise missile carriers in the Black Sea, prompting the carriers to fire but on useless targets, The Post reported.
Russia has been targeting Ukrainian rocket launchers, including the US-donated High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARSthat have allowed Ukraine to hit some strategic targets.
This means Ukraine's army is known for improvising, creating their own weapons by putting materials together, and finding ways to fight Russia while preserving its own weapons supply.
The Post noted that the dummy systems may have been behind Russia's claim that it had destroyed some HIMARS, even though Ukraine denies it and the US says all HIMARS are accounted for, working, and still in Ukrainian hands.
