Ukraine Latest Putin Says Nord Stream Volume Could Fall Again
20220719
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-latest-putin-in-iran-imf-warns-of-gas-cutoff-fallout/ar-AAZJ6Bh
The European Union is proposing a 500 million-euro $508 million investment tool to incentivize a minimum of three member states to buy weapons jointly, including artillery, air defense systems and anti-tank missiles.
Volume could drop to around 30 mcmday if only one turbine is functioning instead of the two that are currently operating, Putin said in a televised briefing after his talks in Iran. He also said that another turbine needs to be sent for regular maintenance around July 26.
Ukraines military chief, Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, said Ukraine has managed to stabilize the situation in the country.
Speaking virtually at an event hosted by the Atlantic Council in Washington, Reznikov said hes requested NATO artillery paired with drones for reconnaissance to direct precise shooting. Artillery alone will not be enough, he said.
The EU is set to propose a voluntary 15 cut in natural gas use by member states starting next month on concern Russia may halt supplies of the fuel. An IMF working paper warned that a cutoff of Russian gas could result in a hit of as much as 2.65 to the European Unions economy.
Sales of Turkish homes to foreigners jumped more than 80 in June from a year ago to a record 8,630, thanks primarily to accelerating demand from Russian citizens since the start of the war in Ukraine.
Russia struck the Odesa region with seven missiles overnight, one of which was shot down by air defense, while six hit a village, according to the Ukrainian militarys southern command. Six people, including a child, were injured. Kremlin forces are trying to create conditions for resuming the offensive in the Donetsk region, Ukraines General Staff said in a statement. The Russian military continued shelling, hitting areas from Chernihiv region in the north to Dnipropetrovsk region in the south, according to Ukrainian officials.
Borrell said recent denial-of-service attacks against several EU member states claimed by pro-Russian hacker groups were another example of the heightened and tense cyber threat landscape. He said a striking and concerning number of hackers have been indiscriminately targeting essential entities globally.
Russians purchased 1,887 properties last month, and have now bought 5,849 homes in Turkey this year, making them the biggest buyers by nationality.
Russia expects talks over Ukrainian grain exports will continue in the near future, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, state-run Tass reported.
Olena Zelenska, the first lady of Ukraine and wife of President Zelenskiy, will accept a human rights award at the Victims of Communism Museum on Tuesday, according to a statement from the organization.
Ukraines parliament voted to dismiss Chief Prosecutor Iryna Venediktova after she was suspended by President Volodymyr Zelenskiy this week in a shakeup of the nations security services.
Zelenska, who met with US first lady Jill Biden during an unannounced visit to Ukraine in May, was invited to address the US Congress on Wednesday by Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Earlier, a European Commission estimate forecast a gas embargo could reduce the blocs gross domestic product by as much as 1.5 if next winter is cold, according a draft EU document seen by Bloomberg News.
Not all issues related to the export of grain from Ukraines Black Sea ports are resolved, but theres progress, Putin told Turkeys Erdogan at a meeting in Iran.
Her ouster follows accusations from Zelenskiys office that the state prosecutors office and the state security service -- whose head the president also dismissed -- employed more than 60 people who worked for Russia and leaked information to undermines Ukraines efforts to beat back Moscows invasion.
Ukraine Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said US and European weaponry -- including the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS -- has significantly slowed down the Russia advances and dramatically decreased the intensity of its artillery barrages, so its working.
Bloomberg -- Russian President Vladimir Putin held talks with the leaders of Iran and Turkey in Tehran on Tuesday, a summit that was focused on enforcing a peace deal in Syria but was largely overshadowed by the war in Ukraine.
Russias Agriculture Ministry plans to purchase as much as 1 million tons of grain from Siberia, Urals and central Russia this year, starting in August, Interfax reported, citing the ministry.
Seaports brokerage business, best known for trading debt and distressed situations, continues to settle and trade billions of Russian sovereign bonds daily and remains a buyer of such assets, it told clients last week in a note seen by Bloomberg News.
Russias war in Ukraine has been accompanied by a significant increase in malicious cyber attacks around the world that risk possible escalation of tensions, Josep Borrell, the EUs foreign policy chief, said in a statement.
It is complex, intense, but completely controlled, Zaluzhnyi said on Facebook after speaking with General Mark Milley, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff. An important factor contributing to our retention of defensive lines and positions is the timely arrival of M142 HIMARS, which deliver surgical strikes on enemy control posts, ammunition and fuel storage depots.
The minister also joked about Ukraines sinking in April of the Russian cruiser Moskova, saying its created the best dive site in the Black Sea for divers of all the world.
The European Union has proposed additional sanctions on Sberbank, Russias largest bank, according to people familiar with the matter.
Shipments will resume on Thursday, but remain below normal after the Russian gas giant declared force majeure on some European clients, said the people, who asked not to be named because the information is private. Flows via Russias biggest link to Europe were capped at 40 of capacity before the work.
A natural gas halt would probably reduce gross national expenditures in the EU by at least 0.4 over one year, researchers Silvia Albrizio, John Bluedorn, Christoffer Koch, Andrea Pescatori and Martin Stuermer said in an IMF working paper.
With your mediation, weve moved forward, Putin said in televised comments. Not all issues have been resolved yet, but there is movement and that is already good.
Putin and Erdogan will 100 discuss efforts to reach a deal on unblocking exports of millions of tons of Ukrainian grain from Black Sea ports, Kremlin foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov said, Tass reported Monday. Grain talks between Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and UN representatives could resume on July 20-21, the news service said last week.
Zelenskiys deputy chief of staff, Andriy Smyrnov, said Tuesday the president expected officials to step up work to remove traitors from state security bodies and investigations would be launched into Venediktova and Ivan Bakanov, who led the security service.
The VTsIOM poll found 44 in favor of each option, with 12 declining to answer the question, The Bell said, citing an unidentified person close to the Kremlin who was familiar with the survey of 1,600 Russians conducted in late June. In another question, 57 said they favored continuing the war compared to 30 supporting ending it as soon as possible, The Bell said.
Investment bank and brokerage firm Seaport Group LLC has traded several billion dollars of Russian government bonds in recent weeks, becoming one of the main venues for clients to buy and sell securities that many of Wall Streets biggest firms will no longer handle.
The measures against Sberbank, which has already been cut off from the international payments system SWIFT, would include a total asset freeze, the people said. Under the current proposal the measure would kick in after six months. EU sanctions need the backing of all member states and details could change before that happens.
This initiative will make it possible to replenish part of the stocks following Europes united and supportive response by way of transfer of arms to Ukraine, EU Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton said, adding the project would boost our European industrial base.
The EUs latest package of proposals includes a derogation to allow listed banks to continue transactions related to essentials such as food and agricultural goods. The suite of measures also includes a proposal that would oblige sanctioned individuals to register their assets and a ban on imports of Russian gold. At a meeting of EU ambassadors on Monday, a number of member states asked that the gold ban also cover jewelery, the people said.
Ukraines cabinet approved a two-year freeze on Eurobond payments to conserve its hard-currency reserves, Ekonomichna Pravda reported, citing an unidentified official who attended the meeting.
The purchases will be for the State Intervention Fund, according to Interfax. The announcement comes as global wheat prices are much higher than usual for this time of year, after Russias invasion of Ukraine cut Kyivs grain shipments and other major producers are hit by drought.
Zaluzhnyi and Milley also discussed a meeting of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group, scheduled for Wednesday, where military needs will be discussed.
The former Soviet state, which is seeking closer integration with the West as it fights off Russias military invasion, has agreed to a demand by the bloc and the International Monetary Fund to demonstrate progress in fighting endemic corruption as a condition to receiving financial aid.
Ukraine appointed a new head of the anti-corruption prosecutors office after months of delay, fulfilling a requirement from the European Union and other international financial donors.
EU Budget Commissioner Johannes Hahn said earlier that he doesnt expect Russia to restart the link on July 21 as planned.
Gazprom PJSC is poised to resume gas flows via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline on time at a reduced capacity Thursday after the completion of scheduled maintenance, according to people familiar with the matter.
Ukraine, which has $24.5 billion in foreign debt, has been in an increasingly precarious position financially as the war saps its ability to pay its bills. Last week, its state-owned energy company NJSC Naftogaz Ukrainy moved to delay payments on its bonds.
While the Biden administration hasnt explicitly outlawed the brokering of such debt, the US Treasury in June forbid US investors from acquiring the securities.
The Russian president warned that supply volumes of natural gas through the Nord Stream pipeline will drop again if theres a delay in the return of a turbine sent for repairs to Canada that was held up by sanctions.
Russians were evenly divided over the need to hold peace talks or continue what the authorities call a special military operation in Ukraine, The Bell reported, citing a non-public June survey by state pollster VTsIOM.
The decision still must be approved by the parliaments budget committee, according to the report. Finance Minister Serhiy Marchenko didnt reply to a text message or phone call seeking comment.
Russia is poised to restart gas exports via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to Germany at a reduced capacity on Thursday, though Putin warned that volumes could decline if a turbine sent for servicing, and held up by sanctions, isnt returned in a timely fashion.
The measure would draw from the blocs budget for the next two years, and only European companies based in Europe will be able to benefit.
