Ukrainian Man Mowing Lawn amid Bombed Buildings is a Picture of Resilience
20220626
https://www.msn.com/en-in/news/world/ukrainian-man-mowing-lawn-amid-bombed-buildings-is-a-picture-of-resilience/ar-AAYSrLv
We must ALL be Ukrainian!! The only way we'll make it out of this . . . all of this. https:t.co2knTjnXDST
Nobody really knows how many combatants or civilians have died in the Russia-Ukraine war, and claims of casualties by government officials  who may sometimes be exaggerating or lowballing their figures for public relations reasons  are all but impossible to verify. Government officials, U.N. agencies and others who carry out the grim task of counting the dead dont always get access to places where people were killed, says a report in AP. And Moscow has released scant information about casualties among its forces and allies, and given no accounting of civilian deaths in areas under its control. In some places  such as the long-besieged city of Mariupol, potentially the wars biggest killing field  Russian forces are accused of trying to cover up deaths and dumping bodies into mass graves, clouding the overall toll. With all those caveats, at least tens of thousands of Ukrainian civilians have died so far, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had said in comments to Luxembourgs parliament.
Although their apartment burned down as a result of shelling, he and his wife came to clean the area around his block of flats. As he said, make it nicer in the estate, so that life would come back.
We must ALL be Ukrainian!! The only way well make it out of this . . . all of this.
The photo of a Ukrainian man mowing a lawn in the backdrop of buildings devastated by the Russian invasion is going viral. The photo has become the sign of the resilience of Ukrainian people in the face of such destruction. It was shared by a journalist, Marek M. Berezowski, on Twitter. Although their apartment burned down as a result of shelling, he and his wife came to clean the area around his block of flats. As he said, make it nicer in the estate, so that life would come back.
Read all the Latest News , Breaking News , watch Top Videos and Live TV here.
Culture of caring in Ukraine build  maintain vs in Russia destroy  loot. https:t.cohcjOd7LIjv
