Ukraine Kyiv police find bound men in Bucha as Russia continues eastern assault  live updates
20220430
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-kyiv-police-find-bound-men-in-bucha-as-russia-continues-eastern-assault-live-updates/ar-AAWMzoN
While the deadline had already passed, Russia was able to make the payment before the end of the 30-day grace period, which investors and rating agencies had not expected.
Ukraine is one of the world's major wheat producers and had a 10 share of the export market in 2021, according to UN figures.
Zelenskyy also gave his condolences to the relatives and friends of Vera Hyrych, the journalist killed in Thursday's airstrike against Kyiv.
Russia was continuing to mass troops near the city of Izyum in the Kharkiv region at the eastern Ukrainian border, the Ukrainian General staff added. Russian units also fired at targets with rockets and artillery in the Dnipropetrovsk region, southwest of the city of Kharkiv, the update said.
Berlin has come under considerable pressure from allies to embargo fossil fuel imports from Russia, which are thought to provide Moscow with much of its revenue for continuing its assault on Ukraine. So far, Germany has cited fears of severe economic damage as a reason for not stopping its imports from Russia.
Moscow is now focusing its military efforts on taking territory in eastern Ukraine after its forces failed to make significant advances elsewhere in the country in the face of determined Ukrainian resistance.
He also said Russia could "retool" its economy to bolster it against potential "unlawful hostilities" and that the country would reduce imports and boost its technological independence in the face of Western sanctions.
The Pentagon said on Friday that the US was training Ukrainian troops at its military installations in Germany.
Russia's Finance Ministry said on Friday that it had made two interest payments on foreign bonds in dollars, just avoiding a last-minute default.
Currently, at least 392,600 refugees from Ukraine are in Germany, according to the latest figures published on Saturday. The actual number, however, could be much higher.
The payment of the debt in US dollars marks a U-turn by Moscow after it had pledged to pay only in rubles following the freezing of its foreign currency reserves.
It said many of the units previously involved in the failed attempts to take territory in Ukraine's northeast were depleted and likely to be suffering from "weakened morale."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Russian strikes on Kyiv on Thursday were meant to "humiliate" the UN during the visit by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
"The victims' hands were tied, cloths were covering their eyes and some were gagged. There are traces of torture on the corpses," authorities said in a statement on Saturday.
Germany imported some 55 of its gas, 50 of its coal and 35 of its crude oil from Russia in March.
Russia was now trying to remedy these shortcomings "by geographically concentrating combat power, shortening supply lines and simplifying command and control," according to the update.
Speculation over a possible default has loomed large since the sanctions were first imposed. Russia has not defaulted since the 1917 Revolution, which led to the collapse of the Russian Empire and the founding of the Soviet Union.
French President Emmanuel Macron said his country would "intensify" deliveries of military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine.
The newly reelected French leader promised the aid boost during a phone call on Saturday with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The French aid to Ukraine amounts to "more than 615 tons of equipment, including medical equipment, generators for hospitals, food aid, shelter aid and emergency vehicles," a statement from the French presidency said.
"The dismantlement of debris in Kyiv, where Russian missiles hit yesterday during the visit of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, continues," he said. "Unfortunately, such a deliberate and brutal humiliation of the United Nations by Russia was left without a powerful response."
One of the strikes hit a residential building, killing Radio Free Europe journalist Vira Hyrych.
The United Nations estimates over 5.4 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion at the end of February.
Among other things, licensing authorities would be allowed to temporarily suspend certain requirements such as environmental impact assessments under some circumstances.
The war refugees from Ukraine are mainly "women, children and older people," Germany's Interior Ministry said.
It said a paper it had seen stated that the "LNG Acceleration Act" aimed to "go through all approval and licensing procedures as well as the awarding of public contracts and concessions considerably faster than is possible under the current legal situation, and so to achieve speedy approvals and integration of LNG into the German market."
Alexander Bogomaz was cited by RIA news agency as saying that there were no casualties and that a logistics building at the terminal had been damaged.
"A lack of unit-level skills and inconsistent air support have left Russia unable to fully leverage its combat mass, despite localized improvements," it said.
Earlier this week, Germany announced it would send Gepard anti-aircraft tanks to Ukraine -- shifting its previously cautious policy towards weapons deliveries.
That figure and the information from the Ukrainian General Staff cannot yet be independently verified. Russia has so far given a far lower official death toll for Russian troops in Ukraine.
The agency cited sources from the Ministry of Economics and Technology as saying the law on accelerating LNG projects in northern Germany had been submitted for departmental approval.
Taras Vysotskiy told Ukrainian national television that he was worried that Russian forces might also steal 1.5 million metric tons 1.6 million US tons of grain he said was stored in occupied territory.
This comes as the English-language newspaper Kyiv Independent published information from Ukraine's armed forces saying that 23,200 Russian troops have been killed so far during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which began on February 24.
Russian forces are still being hampered in their operations in Ukraine by deficits in tactical coordination, the UK Ministry of Defense has said in an intelligence update.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview for Chinese news agency Xinhua published early on Saturday morning that the lack of progress in ongoing talks with Ukraine was down to Western intervention.
The French presidency said Zelenskyy thanked France for "large-scale military shipments that contribute to the Ukrainian resistance."
An exact number is hard to determine, as there are no stationary controls at the European Union's internal borders, and people fleeing Ukraine can enter Germany without a visa and stay for 90 days.
He said "the belligerent rhetoric and incitement of Kyiv's Western benefactors" is what is obstructing further talks, Russian news agency TASS reported.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy claimed that Russia wants to "destroy any life" in the Donbas region, comparing it to the Russian offensive against the port city of Mariupol.
The Bryansk region lies about 100 kilometers 62 miles north of Ukraine's northern border with Russia.
The same stealing accusation was leveled at Russian troops by Ukraine's Foreign Ministry on Thursday. It said such theft increased the threat to global food security.
Russia confirmed the strikes but said it had destroyed the production facilities of a space-rocket plant in the Ukrainian capital.
The bodies were found in a pit in Bucha, located close to the capital Kyiv.
NATO Allied Air Command said that it had scrambled fighter planes "multiple times" in recent days to track and intercept Russian planes near alliance airspace, especially in areas over the Baltic and Black seas.
The victims had multiple gunshot wounds in their ears and other extremities, indicating that they'd been tortured before being killed, Kyiv regional police chief Andriy Nebytov said.
Shells hit parts of an oil terminal and adjacent sites in the Bryansk region after Russian air defenses prevented a Ukrainian aircraft from entering the area on Saturday morning, the region's governor told Russian news agencies.
The number of refugees arriving in Germany from Ukraine continues to rise, the Interior Ministry said.
Polish officials said that more than 3 million Ukrainian refugees have crossed into the country since the beginning of the war, although many have since moved on and some have returned to Ukraine.
The sanctioning of Russia's Central Bank has forced Moscow to use revenues from gas and oil sales to pay off debts or foreign currency reserves outside the country. The aim of the international sanctions is to deplete the country's financial resources and so halt its ability to fund its war in Ukraine.
"If the US and NATO are really interested in resolving the Ukraine crisis, then first of all, they should wake up and stop supplying the Kyiv regime with arms and ammunition," Lavrov said.
"Constant brutal bombings, constant Russian strikes at infrastructure and residential areas show that Russia wants to make this area uninhabited," he said.
The goal of lessening German dependence on Russia for its energy needs gained further urgency last week after Moscow halted gas supplies to fellow EU states Poland and Bulgaria.
He welcomed the return to Kyiv of the UK's Ambassador to Ukraine Melinda Simmons and added that "currently, 27 foreign diplomatic missions operate in the capital of our country."
France, the Czech Republic and the United States, however, have been providing hundreds of long-range artillery components to Ukraine's military.
Some 14 attacks were repelled in the eastern regions of Luhansk and Donetsk, which are partly controlled by pro-Russian separatists. Ukrainian forces destroyed 11 tanks, nine drones and seven artillery systems, according to the update.
Ukraine said it was planning an operation to evacuate the civilians who have been trapped inside the Azovstal steelworks in the besieged city of Mariupol. Guterres said the UN would redouble its efforts to reduce human suffering after his visit to Kyiv.
Over 1,000 bodies have been discovered in and around Bucha, where Ukrainian authorities allege widespread abuse by Russian troops who occupied the area during their bid to seize Kyiv. Russia rejects the accusations.
As part of its bid to reduce Germany's dependence on Russian fossil fuel imports, the government is planning a new law to enable faster approval and construction of import terminals for liquefied natural gas LNG, the dpa news agency has reported.
Ukraine's deputy agriculture minister has said Russian soldiers have stolen hundreds of thousands of tons of grain from areas they are occupying.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that his county does not consider itself to be at war with NATO and accused Western nations of threatening nuclear war. He also told Moldova it should "worry about its future" over ties with NATO.
In the town of Bucha outside Kyiv, police found three bodies of civilians who had been bound and tortured. Meanwhile, Russia renewed its attacks in the eastern Donbas region. DW has the latest.  Police find three more bodies with their hands tied in Bucha  France's Macron vows to 'intensify' military aid to Kyiv  Russia's invasion still facing 'considerable challenges', says UK  Russia has paid off overdue foreign debt in US dollars  Zelenskyy says Russia wants to destroy Donbas
Kyiv regional police said they'd uncovered the bodies of three civilians in Bucha whose hands had been tied behind their backs and who showed signs of torture.
Lavrov also insisted that Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which he referred to using the official Kremlin terminology of a "special military operation," was going to plan.
A US license that allows banks to process Russian debt payments is set to expire in less than four weeks.
However, on Friday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an interview with Polish media that talks between the two sides were at high risk of falling apart, Ukrainian newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda reported.
Fighting is ongoing in eastern Ukraine but Ukrainian forces are repelling Russian attempts to advance further inland, the Ukrainian General Staff has said in an update.
Lavrov said negotiations have been continuing over daily video conferences. But he said Ukraine must stop acting in the interests of "remote advisers" who incite Kyiv to "fight until the last Ukrainian."
