Ukraine Russian strikes wound several in Lviv  live updates
20220326
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/ukraine-russian-strikes-wound-several-in-lviv-live-updates/ar-AAVvMzb
Tyler Jacob of Winona, MN is safe. A teacher in Ukraine, he was detained at a Russian checkpoint while trying to leave the country.
"We discuss current issues  cooperation in political and defense directions between Ukraine and the United States," Reznikov said on Twitter. He posted a photograph of the meeting in the Polish capital with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin.We are meeting our U.S. counterparts SecBlinken and SecDef in Warsaw together with oleksiireznikov. This special 22 format allows us to seek practical decisions in both political and defense spheres in order to fortify Ukraines ability to fight back Russian aggression. pic.twitter.com5qlUXtwqXS Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 26, 2022
Poland is taking a "significant" responsibility in the humanitarian crisis caused by the conflict, Biden said during a visit to Warsaw. He also told his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda that he views NATO's Article 5 guarantee of mutual defense between member states as a "sacred" commitment.
She said Russian President Vladimir has broken international law with his war of aggression, which was an attack on 40 million Ukrainians and peace in Europe as a whole.
Russian troops have seized control of the town of Slavutych, home to workers of the defunct Chernobyl nuclear site, the governor of the Kyiv region said.
Biden is on the second day of a visit to Poland following summits with EU and NATO leaders in Brussels earlier in the week.
Baerbock's Green Party has its roots in the German peace movement and many members are skeptical of German military involvement abroad.
Ukrainian officials said Russian airstrikes have hit the western city of Lviv. Meanwhile, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock defended sending arms to Ukraine. DW has the latest.
According to the US Embassy in the Polish capital, he will appear at Warsaw's Royal Castle between 5 and 6 p.m. local time 1600 and 1700 UTCGMT.
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht denied her ministry had been slow in making good on its promises of weapons deliveries to Ukraine.
Turkey's Defense Ministry said on Twitter that a dive team had initiated an intervention to "neutralize" the object.
"I'm sure they won't take any more territory, but they will continue to destroy Ukraine and that's why we have got to do a lot more," he said.
Russia has said its invasion of Ukraine has entered a new phase, one signal it may be scaling back its ambitions. Moscow has suffered a series of setbacks and defeats at the hands of the Ukrainian army and Ukrainians fighting against the Russian invasion.
Reuters news agency reported that authorities had warned vessels to keep away from the area while the team carried out their work.
The UK said it planned to fund 2 million pounds $2.6 million 2.3 million worth of food aid for critically cut off areas of Ukraine after a direct request was made by the Ukrainian government.
Dozens of Ukrainian officials, journalists and activists have been detained or kidnapped by Russian forces, the United Nations has warned. Matilda Bogner, the head of the UN rights team in Ukraine, said human rights monitors have been receiving ever more information on mass graves in the besieged port city of Mariupol.
"It is important for us to condemn this war in the strongest terms and to name clearly who can end this war  and that is the Russian president," Baerbock said.
"Before we deliver something, we look to see if it is functional," Lambrecht told RedaktionsNetzwerk Deutschland,
According to a White House pool report, Biden was seated at a long white table alongside US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, facing Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
Earlier this week, Moscow said nuclear weapons could be used in the Ukraine war if Russia were to face an "existential threat."
After a statement from Sergei Rudskoi, a senior Russian general, suggested that Russia would reduce its war aims to controlling Donbas, an eastern region already partly held by Russian proxies, former US General Ben Hodges told DW it indicated a "colossal failure" of the Russian military to reach its stated objectives in Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called on energy-rich countries to increase their output to prevent Moscow from using its oil and gas supplies to "blackmail" other nations.
Along with breaking from a long-held policy on arms delivery, Germany has also said it would commit 100 billion $111 billion to a new "armed forces fund."
Around 200 children have been injured, the prosecutor's office said. The figures have not been independently verified.
"They're going to try and dress it up as something else, that they've accomplished everything they meant to, but they haven't accomplished anything except to demonstrate that their military has suffered from decades of corruption," he said.
The gathering marks his first talks with top Kyiv officials since Russia's invasion began on February 24.
The former commander of US forces in Europe also said the West needs to do more to help Ukraine fight the Russians.
"We don't even know all the possibilities for hybrid influencing that someone may invent," Niinisto said. "The entire world of information technology is vulnerable. Even some important society functions can be disrupted.''
Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov and Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba have held a joint meeting with their US counterparts for the first time.
The UK said around 25 truckloads of dried food and water were being sent by road and rail from warehouses in both Poland and Slovakia to the most vulnerable Ukrainian cities.
One month into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russian troops have not captured any major Ukrainian cities.
"We are supporting the Ukrainians so that they can defend themselves and fight for their security and their peace," Baerbock told a Green Party conference Saturday.
Ukraines deputy prime minister says an agreement has been reached to set up 10 humanitarian corridors on Saturday to evacuate civilians from front-line areas.
Emanuel condemned Moscow's position in statement: "We live in unprecedented times as Russia threatens the use of nuclear weapons, something that was once unthinkable, even unspeakable."
"But I can assure them: Just because we are silent doesn't mean nothing is happening  quite the opposite," she added.
"They are destroying our ports,'' Zelenskyy said. "The absence of exports from Ukraine will deal a blow to countries worldwide.''
Weeks after Germany announced a major policy shift on delivering arms to conflict zones, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said that "when the world changes, policy has to change."
The office of Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota announced that Tyler Jacob, a 28-year-old American teaching English in Ukraine who had been detained at a checkpoint while trying to exit the country, has been freed.
Ukrainian officials reported that airstrikes had hit the western city of Lviv on Saturday afternoon after explosions were heard earlier outside the city.
Turkish authorities say they have discovered a mine-like object floating in the Bosporus near the Black Sea, days after Russia warned that several mines had drifted away from Ukrainian ports.
Speaking on live television, Iryna Vereshchuk said civilians trying to get out of the southern port of Mariupol would have to leave in private cars as Russian forces were not letting buses through their checkpoints.
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced he had placed Moscow's strategic nuclear forces on high alert just days after Russia's invasion of Ukraine began last month.
Ukrainian authorities had previously reported three large explosions near the western Ukrainian city of Lviv and urged residents to take shelter.
It said 64 of those children were killed in the Kyiv region. A further 50 died in the Donetsk region in the country's east, it added.
Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida and the country's US envoy Rahm Emanuel appeared at the Hiroshima memorial park on Saturday and said Russia's refusal to rule out deploying its nuclear arsenal was "unconscionable."
On the second day of his visit to Poland, US President Joe Biden is expected to address the Polish people in a speech in Warsaw.
US President Joe Biden said the world should help lessen the burden of the Russia-Ukraine war on Poland, which has received some 2 million Ukrainians over the past month.
But he also highlighted the potential threat of disruptive behavior by Russia during a lengthy accession process.
"They've demonstrated that Ukrainians have something to fight for where Russian soldiers don't. Unfortunately, they still have the ability to murder innocent Ukrainians," he added.
Opinion polls in recent weeks have shown that a majority of Finns now support NATO membership, up from about a quarter before Russia's invasion of Ukraine last month.
However, Ukraine's air force said the headquarters in Vinnytsia in the western part of the country was hit by numerous Russian cruise missiles Friday afternoon.
Doha Forum's Opening Ceremony virtually welcomes Ukrainian President HE Volodymyr Zelenskyy to address the delegation. DohaForum ZelenskyyUa pic.twitter.comUUzuu5sY8y
"This will be done in an attempt to create new facts on the ground for negotiation, to create a new sort of frozen conflict. And this is what we cannot afford. We should not allow Russia to be rewarded for their attack on Ukraine," he said.
In over a month of fighting, Russian troops have failed to capture and hold onto any major Ukrainian city, although a number of major centers, including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol remain under siege.
Almost 2.24 million refugees from Ukraine have entered Poland since the Russian invasion began more than a month ago.
Finland's president fears his country would be targeted by Russian cyberattacks and other violations if it decides to apply for NATO membership.
On Friday, US President Joe Biden traveled to Rzeszow, a city in southeastern Poland that's located about 65 kilometers 40 miles from the border with Ukraine. Biden addressed US troops who are stationed there as part of a NATO mission to protect its eastern flank.
Kuleba told reporters after the meeting that Ukraine had received "additional promises from the United States on how our defense co-operation will evolve."
Hodges said he expects Russian forces around Kyiv to harden their positions outside the city and make it difficult for the Ukrainians to push them out while buying more time for negotiations.
In his nightly video address to the Ukrainian people, Zelenskyy may have been responding to Russian Colonel General Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of the Russian general staff. Rudskoi said Russian forces would focus on "the main goal, the liberation of Donbas."
Located in the far west of Ukraine near the border with Poland, Lviv so far has been spared from major Russian attacks and is a destination for refugees. It is the largest city in western Ukraine.
Zelenskyy made the comments during a surprise video appearance at the Doha Forum in Qatar, a leading exporter of natural gas.
Later on Saturday, the US president is due to visit a reception center for refugees and deliver a major speech on the conflict at Warsaw's Royal Castle.
Alice Hooper, a humanitarian adviser to the Foreign Office, said, "The need on the ground in Ukraine is clear, with so many people in encircled areas trapped in basements without access to food or water."
Biden met with Ukraine's foreign and defense ministers on day two of his trip to Poland
We are meeting our U.S. counterparts SecBlinken and SecDef in Warsaw together with oleksiireznikov. This special 22 format allows us to seek practical decisions in both political and defense spheres in order to fortify Ukraines ability to fight back Russian aggression. pic.twitter.com5qlUXtwqXS Dmytro Kuleba DmytroKuleba March 26, 2022
In introducing Germany's national security strategy last week, Baerbock said "in the light of Russia's massive breach of our peace order, we need to implement the principles that guide us even more clearly into practical politics."
The White House said US President Joe Biden was also expected to "drop by" the meeting.
The death toll was posted in a message on the Telegram app and on Facebook.
Klobuchar's office specifically thanked "his parents Tina  John for never giving up  our State Dept  U.S. Ambassador in Moscow Sullivan who spoke with me  directly helped."
Zelenskyy also noted that Muslims in Ukraine would have to fight during the upcoming holy fasting month of Ramadan.
He was detained by Russian forces while trying to flee the Ukrainian city of Kherson and held for 10 days.
Doha Forum's Opening Ceremony virtually welcomes Ukrainian President HE Volodymyr Zelenskyy to address the delegation. DohaForum ZelenskyyUa pic.twitter.comUUzuu5sY8y Doha Forum DohaForum March 26, 2022
Earlier in the day, Biden is due to meet Polish President Andrzej Duda at the presidential palace. He is also expected to accompany Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski to Warsaw's National Stadium, where Ukrainian refugees are being registered and provided with aid.
US President Joe Biden met Saturday with Ukraine's foreign and defense ministers at the Marriott Hotel in central Warsaw.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy reiterated his call for peace talks with Russia to end the war, but he stressed that Ukraine would not give up territory.
The intelligence report said Russian forces were mainly relying on the indiscriminate use of air and artillery bombardments "in an attempt to demoralize defending forces," rather than large-scale infantry operations inside cities.
We are meeting our U.S. counterparts SecBlinken and SecDef in Warsaw together with oleksiireznikov. This special 22 format allows us to seek practical decisions in both political and defense spheres in order to fortify Ukraines ability to fight back Russian aggression. pic.twitter.com5qlUXtwqXS
Tyler Jacob of Winona, MN is safe. A teacher in Ukraine, he was detained at a Russian checkpoint while trying to leave the country.Thanks to his parents Tina  John for never giving up  our State Dept  U.S. Ambassador in Moscow Sullivan who spoke with me  directly helped. Amy Klobuchar amyklobuchar March 25, 2022
The latest intelligence report from the UK's Ministry of Defense has warned that Russia will likely continue to "use its heavy firepower on urban areas as it looks to limit its own already considerable losses."
The White House said he would "deliver remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, hold Russia accountable for its brutal war, and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principles.''
"There have been two rocket strikes within the limits of Lviv," regional Governor Maksym Kozytskyy said. The city's mayor, Andriy Sadovyi, also said the city had been targeted by airstrikes in a post on Telegram.
Mayor Vitali Klitschko said in an online post that the decision was made by the Ukrainian military. No further details were available.
"There were three powerful explosions near Lviv in direction of Kryvchytsy, now there is an air raid warning, so "keep calm and take shelter," Kozytskyy said in an online post, referring to an to the east of the city.
Governor of the Kyiv region Oleksandr Pavlyuk said troops had occupied the town's hospital and kidnapped the mayor. Media reports later said the mayor had been released. Neither account could be independently verified.
The mayor of Ukraine's capital says an extended curfew will go into force from 8 p.m. local time 1800 UTCGMT on Saturday until 8 a.m. on Monday.
The office of Ukraine's prosecutor general says the war in Ukraine has killed 136 children since Russia invaded its neighbor a little over a month ago.
The town is close to Ukraine's border with Belarus and sits just outside the exclusion zone that was established around Chernobyl after the 1986 nuclear disaster. Ukrainian staff have continued to work there even after the plant was seized by Russian forces last month.
Pavlyuk said Slavutych's residents took to the streets with Ukrainian flags to protest against Russia's assault.
He told the international conference that no country was safeguarded from the shocks triggered by disruptions to food supply as a result of Russia's invasion.
"We have to ensure this sacred month of Ramadan is not overshadowed by the misery of people in Ukraine,'' he said.
Russia's main intelligence agency warned earlier this week that a number of mines had drifted out to sea after breaking away from cables near Ukrainian ports. That claim was dismissed by Kyiv as disinformation.
In an interview with public broadcaster YLE, President Sauli Niinisto said the biggest advantage in joining the military alliance would be "gaining a preventive effect."
Russia, Turkey and Ukraine all border the Black Sea, a major shipping artery for grain, oil and oil products.
Western officials said a seventh Russian general has been killed since the war in Ukraine began. Lt. Gen. Yakov Rezanstev, commander of Russia's 49th Combined Arms Army in the southern military district, was killed most recently.
Moscow has said it would see moves by EU members Finland and Sweden to join NATO as hostile and that they would come with military and political consequences.
UK intelligence reports Russian forces have been pushed back to 35 kilometers east of Kyiv. The Pentagon said the city of Kherson was again "contested" as Ukrainian forces launched a counteroffensive.
Thanks to his parents Tina  John for never giving up  our State Dept  U.S. Ambassador in Moscow Sullivan who spoke with me  directly helped.
