Ukraine expects EUwide support for candidacy to join bloc
20220615
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-expects-eu-wide-support-for-candidacy-to-join-bloc/ar-AAYKVgr
Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration Olha Stefanishyna, after an interview with The Associated Press, in Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, June 22, 2022. Stefanishyna said Wednesday that shes 100 certain that all 27 EU members will imminently green-light granting Ukraine the coveted status of candidate to join the bloc. Nariman El-MoftyStefanishyna said the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark had been skeptical about starting accession talks with Ukraine while it is fighting Russias invasion but are now supportive. Asked how confident she was that Ukraine would be accepted as an EU candidate, she said: The day before the summit starts, I can say 100.The EUs executive arm threw its weight behind Ukraines candidacy last week. Stefanishyna described the European Commissions endorsement as a game-changer that had taken the ground out from under the legs of those most hesitating.EU candidate status, which can be granted only if the existing member countries agree unanimously, is the first step toward membership. It does not provide any security guarantees or an automatic right to join the bloc.
Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration Olha Stefanishyna, after an interview with The Associated Press, in Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, June 22, 2022. Stefanishyna said Wednesday that shes 100 certain that all 27 EU members will imminently green-light granting Ukraine the coveted status of candidate to join the bloc.
Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., spoke on the Senate floor to criticize Tucker Carlson's portrayal of the Capitol riot on his Fox News show as "a lie, pure and simple." He said the host showed "contempt for the facts" and criticized House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., of playing a "treacherous game" by turning over the footage.
A boy removes broken glass from a window's frame after shelling in Donetsk, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, June 22, 2022. Alexei AlexandrovIn a virtual talk to Canadian university students on Wednesday, Zelenskyy described the Brussels summit as two decisive days that he, like Stefanishyna, thinks will result in approval of Ukraines EU candidacy.That is a very crucial moment for us, for some people in my team are saying this is like going into the light from the darkness, the Ukrainian president said. In terms of our army and society, this is a big motivator, a big motivational factor for the unity and victory of the Ukrainian people.Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said he spoke with Zelenskyy on Wednesday and guaranteed him that Belgium would support Ukraines candidate status.Considerable efforts will be needed, especially in the fight against corruption and the establishment of an effective rule of law, De Cross said. But I am convinced that it is precisely the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine that will provide opportunities to take important steps forward.In other developments, satellite images of Snake Island appear to show damage from a Ukrainian attack on the Russian-occupied island in the Black Sea. The Maxar Technologies images taken Tuesday show three new scorched areas that were not there four days earlier. Russia and Ukraine offer conflicting accounts of the attack.The Ukrainian militarys southern command said it inflicted significant losses on Russian troops in an attack using various forces and methods of destruction, while the Russian Defense Ministry said its air defenses successfully repelled the Ukrainian assault. Russian forces captured the small rocky island in the first days of the war and used it to strengthen their control over the northwestern part of the sea.
Ukraines full membership will depend on whether the war-torn country can satisfy political and economic conditions. Potential newcomers need to demonstrate that they meet standards on democratic principles and must absorb 80,000 pages of rules covering everything from trade and immigration to fertilizers and the rule of law.
EU candidate status, which can be granted only if the existing member countries agree unanimously, is the first step toward membership. It does not provide any security guarantees or an automatic right to join the bloc.
A boy removes broken glass from a window's frame after shelling in Donetsk, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, June 22, 2022.
Stefanishyna said the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark had been skeptical about starting accession talks with Ukraine while it is fighting Russias invasion but are now supportive. Asked how confident she was that Ukraine would be accepted as an EU candidate, she said: The day before the summit starts, I can say 100.
Were already very much integrated in the European Union, she said. We want to be a strong and competitive member state, so it may take from two to 10 years.
In other developments, satellite images of Snake Island appear to show damage from a Ukrainian attack on the Russian-occupied island in the Black Sea. The Maxar Technologies images taken Tuesday show three new scorched areas that were not there four days earlier. Russia and Ukraine offer conflicting accounts of the attack.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration Olha Stefanishyna said the decision could come as soon as Thursday, when the leaders summit starts.
Ukraines full membership will depend on whether the war-torn country can satisfy political and economic conditions. Potential newcomers need to demonstrate that they meet standards on democratic principles and must absorb 80,000 pages of rules covering everything from trade and immigration to fertilizers and the rule of law.Stefanishyna told the AP that she think Ukraine could be an EU member within years, not the decades that some European officials have forecast.Were already very much integrated in the European Union, she said. We want to be a strong and competitive member state, so it may take from two to 10 years.To help candidates, the bloc can provide technical and financial assistance. European officials have said that Ukraine has already implemented about 70 of the EU rules, norms and standards, but have also pointed to corruption and the need for deep political and economic reforms.
That is a very crucial moment for us, for some people in my team are saying this is like going into the light from the darkness, the Ukrainian president said. In terms of our army and society, this is a big motivator, a big motivational factor for the unity and victory of the Ukrainian people.
Considerable efforts will be needed, especially in the fight against corruption and the establishment of an effective rule of law, De Cross said. But I am convinced that it is precisely the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine that will provide opportunities to take important steps forward.
The EUs executive arm threw its weight behind Ukraines candidacy last week. Stefanishyna described the European Commissions endorsement as a game-changer that had taken the ground out from under the legs of those most hesitating.
Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said he spoke with Zelenskyy on Wednesday and guaranteed him that Belgium would support Ukraines candidate status.
In a virtual talk to Canadian university students on Wednesday, Zelenskyy described the Brussels summit as two decisive days that he, like Stefanishyna, thinks will result in approval of Ukraines EU candidacy.
Attorney General Merrick Garland addressed the recent kidnapping of four Americans in Mexico, offering his "deepest sympathies" to their families. He also assured the Justice Department is working closely with the State Department to address the matter.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy expressed similar optimism, calling it a crucial moment for Ukraine. Ukraines membership bid is the top order of business for EU leaders meeting in Brussels.
To help candidates, the bloc can provide technical and financial assistance. European officials have said that Ukraine has already implemented about 70 of the EU rules, norms and standards, but have also pointed to corruption and the need for deep political and economic reforms.
KYIV, Ukraine  A Ukrainian official overseeing the countrys push to join the European Union said Wednesday that shes 100 certain all 27 EU nations will approve Ukraines EU candidacy during a summit this week.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy expressed similar optimism, calling it a crucial moment for Ukraine. Ukraines membership bid is the top order of business for EU leaders meeting in Brussels.In an interview with The Associated Press, Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration Olha Stefanishyna said the decision could come as soon as Thursday, when the leaders summit starts.
Ukraine's President Zelenskyy has vowed to keep defending the eastern city of Bakhmut as Russian forces along with mercenary fighters from the Wagner Group inch closer to taking the important foothold in the Donbas region. NBC News Matt Bradley has the details.
KYIV, Ukraine  A Ukrainian official overseeing the countrys push to join the European Union said Wednesday that shes 100 certain all 27 EU nations will approve Ukraines EU candidacy during a summit this week.
The Ukrainian militarys southern command said it inflicted significant losses on Russian troops in an attack using various forces and methods of destruction, while the Russian Defense Ministry said its air defenses successfully repelled the Ukrainian assault. Russian forces captured the small rocky island in the first days of the war and used it to strengthen their control over the northwestern part of the sea.
Stefanishyna told the AP that she think Ukraine could be an EU member within years, not the decades that some European officials have forecast.
A view of an apartment building damaged during shelling in Donetsk, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, June 22, 2022. Alexei Alexandrov Video: Ukraine's Zelenskyy hails 'historic' week ahead for his country NBC News
A view of an apartment building damaged during shelling in Donetsk, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, June 22, 2022.
