Ukraine Germany expels Russian diplomats with Bucha deaths in focus  live updates
20220404
https://www.msn.com/en-xl/news/other/ukraine-germany-expels-russian-diplomats-with-bucha-deaths-in-focus-live-updates/ar-AAVOYVS
Even if the whole area did catch fire, the radiological risks are low. Valery Kashparov, Director of Ukrainian Institute of Agricultural Radiology UIAR, told DW that the supposed risks are the opinion of incompetent people. Kashparov said fires in the exclusion zone do not pose a radiological hazard to the population outside the Chernobyl zone or to firefighters.
Vekselberg is Ukrainian born and has been a major player in aluminium. He ranks among the wealthiest people in Russia and owns the world's largest collection of Faberge eggs.
Images from Bucha near Kyiv, where civilian corpses were found on the streets and mass graves were found after Russia's withdrawal, have prompted international outrage.
A mass grave has been found on church grounds in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha.Satellite images posted Sunday show early signs of excavation at the site on March 10. An image taken on March 31 shows an approximately 13.7-meter-long trench, where reportedly 57 bodies were found. pic.twitter.com7wCUdIZ7ra DW News dwnews April 3, 2022
However, scientists have told DW that the facts have been misconstrued and the radiological risks from the exclusion zone have been overstated. Before Ukrainian forces retook Chernobyl, the countrys parliamentary Human Rights Commissioner Liudmyla Denisova claimed that 10,000 hectares of the Chernobyl exclusion zone were uncontrollably ablaze, causing risks of cross-border radioactive air pollution. The claims and warnings were repeated by Ukrainian parliamentarians and news outlets.
"The images that are circulating and that we saw are simply shocking. And it is at the core of the international humanitarian law that civilians and civilian infrastructure must be protected," she said of accusations that Moscow's troops had executed civilians and raped local women.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky denounced what he called Russia's attempt to eliminate "the whole nation" during an appearance Sunday on US broadcaster CBS, saying: "This is genocide."
Habeck said that the company controlled critical infrastructure in Germany and that the lack of clarity over its ownership led to the temporary step. The Bundesnetzagentur regulator is scheduled to control the company until the end of September.
Nikolaos Evangeliou, a scientist at the Norwegian Institute for Air Research who has studied Chernobyl and Fukushima extensively, told DW that modelling of fires in the exclusion zone found even catastrophic burning presented insignificant dangers for the European population.
"The situation is undoubtedly serious and we would ask that many international leaders not rush with their statements, not rush with their baseless accusations, request information from different sources, and at least listen to our explanations."
Zelensky also took aim at former German Chancellor Angela Merkel and France's former President Nicolas Sarkozy, claiming their Russia policy contributed to the current crisis.
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht has called on the European Union to discuss a ban on Russian gas imports after reports emerged of Russian forces committing atrocities near Kyiv.
Satellite images posted Sunday show early signs of excavation at the site on March 10. An image taken on March 31 shows an approximately 13.7-meter-long trench, where reportedly 57 bodies were found. pic.twitter.com7wCUdIZ7ra
Baerbock spoke of "a significant number of members of the Russian embassy, undesirables who have worked every day here in Germany against our freedom, against the cohesion of our society."
.USAmbUN in Romania responds to the horrific images out of Bucha: In close coordination with Ukraine, European countries and other partners at the UN, we are going to seek Russias suspension from the UN Human Rights Council. pic.twitter.comKiIvij1sAt Bianna Golodryga biannagolodryga April 4, 2022
The pictures from Maxar Technologies showed trench dug into the grounds of the Church of St. Andrew and Pyervozvannoho All Saints.
Western leaders have condemned the killings of unarmed civilians in Bucha and the surrounding areas of Kyiv.
The German government has declared 40 Russian diplomats unwelcome and taken temporary control of Gazprom's German subsidiary. This comes as the world digests images of civilian deaths in a Kyiv suburb. DW has the latest.
The European Union condemned the "atrocities" that have been reported in several towns that had been occupied by Russian forces and said it is planning on introducing new sanctions against Moscow.
The Ukrainian newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda reported that the number of bodies found in the city of Bucha has risen to 330-340, citing a local funeral service.
Russian missiles also targeted key infrastructure, including a likely oil refinery, in Ukraine's southern port of Odesa.
The EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Monday that "the Russian authorities are responsible for these atrocities, committed while they had effective control of the area. They are subject to the international law of occupation."
After being detained by unidentified operatives, he was driven to the Moldovan border and was told he was banned from entering Ukraine for ten years.
Russia is in its second term out of three sitting in the Geneva-based council. A two-thirds majority vote can oust any member for systemic violations of human rights.
We strongly condemn apparent atrocities by Kremlin forces in Bucha and across Ukraine. We are pursuing accountability using every tool available, documenting and sharing information to hold accountable those responsible.
He claimed that the footage of dead bodies in Bucha were "fakes" and said that Russia would push ahead with its call for a UN Security Council meeting over what it called "Ukrainian provocations."
A Joint Investigation Team has been established with Ukraine, according to von der Leyen, and it will "collect evidence and investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity."
Investigation teams were on hand and ready to be sent to support Ukraine Prosecution Services, and relevant authorities were ready to assist.
Extradited from Ukraine because of doing my job. Persona non grata for 10 years pic.twitter.comIMWTrZThPI
The governor of the northern Ukrainian region of Sumy, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said on Monday that there were no longer any Russian troops in towns or villages in the region.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the EU was ready to send investigators to probe possible war crimes.
French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday that he was in favor of introducing new sanctions against Russia after Ukraine said that Russian forces had carried out mass killings of civilians in areas around Kyiv.
Moscow has again denied the accusations from Ukraine that Russian forces carried out mass killings in towns around the capital, Kyiv, while they were under Russian control.
The most worrying scenario for Evangeliou, from a radiological standpoint, is the risk of a missile hitting a nuclear site. To this end, he has released daily models of possible cross-border outcomes from a major nuclear incident in Ukraine. However, for Ukrainians, Russian behavior around Chernobyl presented an intolerable risk that brought back memories of the initial disaster.
"Reports emerging from this and other areas raise serious and disturbing questions about possible war crimes, grave breaches of international humanitarian law and serious violations of international human rights law," she added.
Die Verantwortlichen fr diese Kriegsverbrechen mssen zur Rechenschaft gezogen werden. Wir werden die Sanktionen gegen Russland verschrfen unddie Ukraine noch strker bei ihrer Verteidigung untersttzen. 22 Auenministerin Annalena Baerbock ABaerbock April 3, 2022
Monday's intelligence update from the UK's Ministry of Defence stated that Russia is consolidating its position in the eastern Donbas region of Ukraine  parts of which have been under the control of Russian-backed separatists since 2014.
The statement also said that, in light of the images from Bucha, international and German efforts to stop the conflict had Merkel's "full support."
"We've seen images of utter desolation and destruction. Entire civilian neighborhoods are destroyed beyond repair. Streets are littered with unexploded remnants of war. There are still places that are heavily mined and are extremely dangerous to get to, which is a huge problem for us because we are trying to get more supplies into these places. And unfortunately, right now it is impossible to send trucks."
The UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet expressed her horror on Monday after seeing the images coming out of Bucha.
A leading rights group, Human Rights Watch told DW it had documented what it described as "apparent war crimes."
The prime ministers of Spain and Poland have called the killings of civilians in the towns around Kyiv "genocide."
"The pictures out of Kyiv are unbearable," Baerbock wrote on Twitter. "Putin's unrestrained violence is wiping out innocent families and knows no limits."
"And this is what we are striving to do in Ukraine as well. Of course, the access has been extremely difficult to many places because of the heavy fighting, heavy shelling," she added.
Extradited from Ukraine because of doing my job. Persona non grata for 10 years pic.twitter.comIMWTrZThPI Robert Dulmers SaintJust1965 April 3, 2022
Von der Leyen stressed the need for a global response saying talks were ongoing between the EU's cross-border criminal justice agency and the International Criminal Court for a joint investigative approach.
Alyona Synenko, a Ukrainian working with the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC, spoke with DW about alleged atrocities committed by Russian soldiers in the Kyiv suburbs of Bucha and Irpin.
Von der Leyen's comments came following talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about what she called "the dreadful murders that have been uncovered in Bucha."
In the past weeks, Ukrainian authorities have sounded the alarm about the radiological risks in the Chernobyl exclusion zone from wildfires and dust caused by Russian hostilities, heavy vehicles and trench-digging.
Social Democrat former Chancellor Gerhard Schrder has faced particular criticism for his post-politics ties to Russian oil and gas, but Ukraine's ambassador in Berlin on Sunday also singled out current President Frank-Walter Steinmeier as partly to blame, given his past as foreign minister.
She also called for those responsible to be brought to justice and for further sanctions against Moscow.
"These bloody massacres committed by Russians, by Russian soldiers, deserve to be called what they are. This is genocide and it must be judged," Morawiecki told reporters.
The Ukrainian ambassador to Germany, Andriy Melnyk, called on the German government to reconsider its stance on sanctions against Russian fossil fuels following the accusations of mass killings in areas formerly occupied by Russian forces.
Dulmers has been reporting from Ukraine for the Nederlands Dagblad newspaper since the start of the war.
He joined other European officials in tabling again the possibility of imposing sanctions against Russian fossil fuel exports. The EU is broadly dependent on Russian oil and gas while the Russian economy is dependent on its fossil fuel exports.
However, the European Forest Fire Information System EFFIS, which detects and monitors wildfires from space, told DW that just 1,000 hectares had caught fire within 50 kilometers 31 miles of Chernobyl and are no longer ablaze. These months usually have elevated fire risks anyway, due to agricultural practices.
"I invite Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Sarkozy to visit Bucha and see what a policy of concessions for 14 years has led to," he said.
Ukraine had requested NATO membership in 2008 at a summit in Romania, but the request was rejected by EU member states.
Economy Minister Robert Habeck said on Monday that he had appointed the German government's regulator for electricity, gas and other core industries in temporary control of the German subsidiary of Russian state-owned energy giant Gazprom.
The Recording Academy also urged viewers to donate to help Ukraine and to join Global Citizen's StandUpForUkraine campaign.
"If we don't work independently, we simply don't work because neutrality and independence are at the core principles of what we do that allow us to document violations of international humanitarian law and speak with warring parties to prevent those violations from happening," she said of the ICRC's need to work independently and in a non-partisan way.
"There is a common responsibility. For these killings, for this torture, for arms blown off by blasts... For the shots in the back of the head," Zelenskyy added.
He added that the "haunting images of large numbers of civilian deaths and casualties, as well as destruction of civilian infrastructures show the true face of the brutal war of aggression Russia is waging against Ukraine and its people."
In 2008, Germany, France and smaller NATO states withstood pressure from the US to offer Ukraine membership of the alliance, saying it wasn't ready and Russia could be antagonized.
"We are pursuing accountability using every tool available, documenting and sharing information to hold accountable those responsible," the top US diplomat said.
Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has defended the decision not to admit Ukraine into NATO in 2008.
"On our land we are fighting Russia, which brings horrible silence with its bombs. The dead silence. Fill the silence with your music. Fill it today to tell our story," he added.
Germany's comparative closeness to Russia has come under scrutiny more generally in recent weeks, hitting both the country's major parties.
The Russian Foreign Ministry said it would respond accordingly to Germany's decision to expel the 40 Russian diplomats, according to Interfax news agency. Though details on how Moscow would respond were not provided, tit-for-tat diplomatic expulsions have been very common in recent weeks, months and even years.
Zelenskyy accused Russians of committing atrocities against unarmed civilians in Bucha and other Ukrainian cities.
A mass grave has been found on church grounds in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha.
He addressed the German government in a tweet, saying: "I recommend you read these reports about raped and murdered children in Bucha and Irpin before you start explaining to us again why an immediate embargo on Russian gas, oil and coal isn't feasible."
The company is primarily involved in gas trade, transportation and storage, and owns other companies in the German gas industry.
I spoke with President ZelenskyyUa about the atrocious murder of civilians in Bucha and elsewhere in Ukraine.
The news agency RBK Ukraina also said that the road between Kyiv and Chernihiv was once again open on Monday. The mayor of the city, which is 130 kilometers 80 miles north of Kyiv, said that Russian shelling had destroyed 70 of the city.
He said Ukrainian authorities told him he revealed state secrets by posting images of the Russian missile impact in the key port city.
He said claims of Russian soldiers receiving radiation poisoning were impossible, unless they were actually inside the destroyed fourth unit of the power plant or the radioactive waste storage facilities, of which there is no evidence.
.USAmbUN in Romania responds to the horrific images out of Bucha: In close coordination with Ukraine, European countries and other partners at the UN, we are going to seek Russias suspension from the UN Human Rights Council. pic.twitter.comKiIvij1sAt
Macron told French Inter radio that there were "clear indications" of Russian war crimes in Bucha. "What happened in Bucha demands a new round of sanctions and very clear measures," he added.
Vekselberg is not on the list of individuals sanctioned by the EU in response to the invasion of Ukraine. However, he was placed on a US sanctions list relating to allegations of interference in the 2016 US presidential elections, and is on a list of people close to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
This follows Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calling out Merkel and former French President Nicolas Sarkozy by name late on Sunday when talking about the alleged killing of civilians in Bucha. Zelenskyy said France and Germany's reported resistance to a bid to fast track Ukraine's NATO membership had proven to be a failed policy.
"Former German Chancellor Dr Angela Merkel stands by her decisions in connection with the 2008 NATO summit in Bucharest," a spokesperson for Merkel told German news agency dpa.
Polish leader Mateusz Morawiecki called for an international investigation into the claims made by Ukraine that Russian soldiers executed, raped and tortured civilians in the towns of Bucha and Irpin.
Russia requested a UN Security Council session on Monday over Bucha war crime allegations. Russia described photos and videos from the town as a "staged performance," despite the first-hand verifications of the killings by journalists from several international outlets.
Die Verantwortlichen fr diese Kriegsverbrechen mssen zur Rechenschaft gezogen werden. Wir werden die Sanktionen gegen Russland verschrfen und
"Those who are responsible for these war crimes must be held to account. We will increase our sanctions against Russia and strengthen our support for Ukraine," she added.
"Ordering the trusteeship serves both the maintenance of public security and order and the maintenance of supply security," Habeck said. "Gazprom Germania GmbH plc with its headquarters in Berlin is a domestic company."
Liebe Bundesregierung, ich empfehle Ihnen diese Berichte ber vergewaltigte und ermordete Kinder in Butscha  Irpin zu lesen, bevor Sie uns wieder erklren werden, warum ein sofortiges Embargo fr Gas, l  Kohle nicht machbar ist. Wie wird Deutschland damit leben??? https:t.coBVArqLk9tx Andrij Melnyk MelnykAndrij April 4, 2022
John Legend then performed a new song, "free" with Ukrainian artists Mika Newton, Siuzanna Iglidan and poet Lyuba Yakimchuk.
He also called for the individuals responsible to be held accountable. "International justice must take care of this and those who committed these crimes will have to answer for them," Macron said.
We strongly condemn apparent atrocities by Kremlin forces in Bucha and across Ukraine. We are pursuing accountability using every tool available, documenting and sharing information to hold accountable those responsible. Secretary Antony Blinken SecBlinken April 4, 2022
I spoke with President ZelenskyyUa about the atrocious murder of civilians in Bucha and elsewhere in Ukraine. The EU is ready to send Joint Investigation Teams to document war crimes in coordination with the Ukrainian Prosecutor General.Europol and Eurojust will support. Ursula von der Leyen vonderleyen April 4, 2022
He did not say whether outrage over Bucha would hamper the talks planned for Monday between Russian and Ukrainian negotiators.
The update also said that further Russian forces, as well as the soldiers from the Wagner mercenary group with links to Moscow, were being deployed in the eastern region.
"Russia's participation on the Human Rights Council is a farce," US Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said during a visit to Romania. "And it is wrong, which is why we believe it is time the UN General Assembly vote to remove them," she added.
Evangeliou said although the dust in the exclusion zone is radioactive, the muddy conditions in Ukraine at the moment mean it is unlikely that any dust will be thrown into the atmosphere. It may be a different story if the war continues into summer.
"We will do everything to ensure that those who have perpetrated these war crimes do not go unpunished, and therefore appear before the courts... to deal with these alleged cases of crimes against humanity, war crimes and why not say it too, genocide," he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy fears that "more terrible things could unfold" and "even more deaths and abuses" could emerge from Ukrainian regions still under Russian control.
Viktor Vekselberg is among the wealthiest individuals and is considered to be in Russian President Vladimir Putin's inner circle
Spanish authorities on Monday impounded a superyacht belonging to Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg. The vessel which is valued at $99 million 90 million euros was seized in a shipyard in Mallorca at the request of US authorities.
The images were captured on 31 March, but the company said the first signs of excavation for a mass grave were seen on March 10.
Bodies were first buried in the grave on the church grounds in the first days of the war, residents told CNN.
Dutch journalist Robert Dulmers was expelled from Ukraine after posting a video of a Russian missile attack on an oil refinery and fuel storage facility in Odesa.
In a statement posted to Twitter, Blinken described the killings as "apparent atrocities" that were committed by "Kremlin forces."
Germany declared 40 Russian diplomats "undesirable persons," meaning they must return to Russia, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock announced. The affected individuals, whom Berlin believes to be members of Russia's intelligence services, will have five days to leave Germany.
Ukraine's Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said prosecutors investigating possible war crimes carried out by Russian troops. Ukrainian forces found 410 bodies in towns near Kyiv over the weekend.
The decision was communicated to Russian Ambassador Sergei Nethayev, after he was summoned to the Foreign Ministry on Monday.
New satellite imagery of Bucha revealed a 45-foot 13.71 meter trench at a site where a mass grave has been identified, a US satellite data firm says.
Ukraine accused Russian forces of carrying out a "massacre" in the town on the outskirts of Kyiv.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington strongly condemns the killings of civilians in Bucha and other areas across Ukraine.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 4 April 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.covU5ocGdpuw StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comb6zWoAJQ2e Ministry of Defence  DefenceHQ April 4, 2022
Sumy lies on the border with Belarus and parts of it had been occupied for almost a month. Zhivitsky said in a video message that the Russian forces had left behind lots of military equipment.
A worker told the paper that they did not have complete lists of those allegedly killed by the Russian troops, adding that a search for further victims is ongoing.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appeared in a pre-recorded message at the Grammy Awards urging viewers to "support us in any way you can. Any, but not silence."
Liebe Bundesregierung, ich empfehle Ihnen diese Berichte ber vergewaltigte und ermordete Kinder in Butscha  Irpin zu lesen, bevor Sie uns wieder erklren werden, warum ein sofortiges Embargo fr Gas, l  Kohle nicht machbar ist. Wie wird Deutschland damit leben??? https:t.coBVArqLk9tx
In response to Ukrainian accusations of war crimes carried out by Russian forces, the US has said that it will ask the UN General Assembly to suspend Russia from its position on the Human Rights Council.
"I am horrified by the images of civilians lying dead on the streets and in improvised graves in the town of Bucha in Ukraine," she said in a statement.
The Dutch Journalists' Association NVJ appealed to Ukrainian authorities to reconsider the decision, Dutch public broadcaster NOS reported
The EU is ready to send Joint Investigation Teams to document war crimes in coordination with the Ukrainian Prosecutor General.Europol and Eurojust will support.
The Ukrainian leader also announced the creation of a special agency to investigate and litigate crimes committed by Russian forces.
As a result, the bloc "will advance, as a matter of urgency, work on further sanctions against Russia."
Gazprom had announced on Friday that it was separating from its Gazprom Germania subsidiary, having previously been the sole owner. It did not make clear whether the organization had been sold, or who it planned to leave in control.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Western allies would agree on further sanctions on Russia in the coming days over its invasion of Ukraine and the "atrocities" committed by Russian troops in a town near Kyiv.
"Hundreds of people were killed. Tortured, executed civilians. Corpses on the street," he said in a Sunday evening video message.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock joined the many voices condemning the mass killing of civilians in the town of Bucha outside Kyiv.
