Ukraine UK says all possible options on table if Russians used chemical weapons
20220412
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/uknews/ukraine-uk-says-all-possible-options-on-table-if-russians-used-chemical-weapons/ar-AAW7Eoc
The Foreign Office said it was shocked by reports of mass graves being found in the village of Buzova outside Kyiv. Local officials said bodies showing evidence of execution had been discovered following the Russian withdrawal.
Western officials think Russia wants to bring about the fall of Mariupol to both free up troops for the fight in the Donbas but also to create a route north for the Kremlins forces as they look to form a pincer movement on Ukrainian defenders in the east.
Foreign secretary LizTrussand Armed Forces minister James Heappey said the UK was working with allies to verify reports that Russian forces may have used chemical agents in an attack on Mariupol.
Mariupols Azov regiment reported that soldiers were left dizzy and unable to breathe after a poisonous substance of unknown origin was dropped on them from a Russian drone, according to the Daily Mail.
Ukrainian troops will come to UK in the next few days for training in the use of armoured vehicles, the Armed forces minister has confirmed.
The UK will work with allies to investigate war crimes and ensure justice is done, a Foreign Office spokesman said.
The Ukrainian system, as youve seen from president Zelensky, are only referring to the fact that there are reports, they themselves havent yet been able to confirm to us that they have been used, Mr Heappey told Sky News.
It came hours after Mariupols mayor said more than 10,000 civilians have died in the Russian siege of his city and the death toll could surpass 20,000.
Boris Johnsons government has said all possible options are on the table to respond to Russia if Vladimir Putins forces are found to have used chemical weapons in Ukraine.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
MrTrusssaid any use of such weapons would be a callous escalation in this conflict and we will hold Putin and his regime to account, but made clear the UK was still trying to verify reports.
Meanwhile, late on Monday Ukraines parliament said Russian forces had fired on nitric acid tanks in Donetsk, with residents of the eastern city urged to prepare protective face masks soaked in soda solution.
Mr Heappey said any use of chemical weapons will get a response  and suggested some countries may choose to act outside of Nato. There are some things that are beyond the pale, he said.
Officials have said Mr Putin will double or even possibly triple the number of Russian troops in the Donbas as the Russian president resorts to a diminished invasion strategy.
He added: Its not for any government minister from any individual country to pledge Nato involvement. Its perfectly possible that a response to chemical weapons use could happen outwith Nato.
Challenged on BBC Radio 4s Today programme if a response could involve direct Nato involvement, Mr Heappey said: All options are on the table  Its important to have some ambiguity.
Boris Johnson sings Augustus Gloop song in defence of free speech at soft power summit
Britain is increasingly worried that Russia could use white phosphorus munitions in the bombardment of the city. White phosphorus is used for illumination at night or to create a smokescreen, but when it is deployed as a weapon it causes horrific burns.
The amassing of troops, however, will not necessarily give Moscow an advantage over Ukraine, with Kyivs forces having had success in pushing back insurgents in the east of the country, they said.
Buzova is near Bucha, another town where atrocities were discovered  although Russia has claimed the scenes from the aftermath of its occupation were staged.
Theres 120 armoured vehicles that are in the process of being made ready, Mr Heappey told LBC Radio.
Asked what the options would include, Mr Heappey said ambiguity was important  but added that any response would certainly be effective, but it would also be well considered.
And the Ukrainian troops that will operate them will arrive in the UK in the next few days to learn how to drive and command those vehicles.
The defence minister told Sky News said that if chemical weapons are used then president Putin should know that all possible options are on the table in terms of how the west might respond.
