Ukrainian sniper Charcoal is lauded as modernday Lady Death
20220406
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/ukrainian-sniper-charcoal-is-lauded-as-modern-day-lady-death/ar-AAVUkb9
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
For her exploits on the battlefield, Pavlichenko earned the Hero of the Soviet Union award, the USSRs highest military award.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Styled as a new Pavlichenko, Charcoal is not the only female sniper to have been singled out during the Ukraine war. In late March, the Ukrainian army claimed to have captured Irina Starikova, a pro-Russian separatist who is thought to have shot dead 40 Ukrainians in the Donbas region over the last eight years.
The unnamed markswoman joined Ukraines armed forces in 2017, fighting in the east of the country against Russian-backed separatists.
A female Ukrainian sniper codenamed Charcoal has been hailed as a national hero, drawing comparisons to a legendary Second World War sharpshooter nicknamed Lady Death.
In a message shared by the Ukrainian army, Charcoal vowed to punish Moscows forces. We must take them all out! she said.
The Ukrainian army has released images of Charcoal, with her face partially covered to mask her identity.
Before the publicity surrounding Charcoal, Ukraines armed forces sought to raise morale by sharing a selfie of a fighter pilot known as the Ghost of Kyiv, claiming they had shot down many Russian planes in the early days of the war.
After taking a break from her job in January, the sniper rejoined the Marines when Russia invaded her country on 24 February.
Pavlichenko defended Odesa and Sevastopol against the Nazis, before she was wounded by shrapnel. She later travelled to the US to drum up American support for the war effort.
These people are not human beings. Even the fascists were not as vile as these orcs. We must defeat them, she added.
Charcoal joins a proud line of Ukraine-born female snipers, the most famous of whom is Lyudmila Pavlichenko, who was dubbed Lady Death for reportedly killing more than 300 Germans during the Second World War.
