Ukraine says 9 Russian warplanes destroyed in Crimea blasts
20220810
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/ukraine-says-9-russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-blasts/ar-AA10x1yU
Sergey Milochinsky, a local resident, recalled hearing a roar and seeing a mushroom cloud from his window. Everything began to fall around, collapse, he said.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Ukraines air force said Wednesday that nine Russian warplanes were destroyed in a deadly string of explosions at an air base in Crimea, amid speculation the blasts were the result of a Ukrainian attack that would represent a significant escalation in the war.
Official Kyiv has kept mum about it, but unofficially the military acknowledges that it was a Ukrainian strike, Ukrainian military analyst Oleh Zhdanov said.
NBC News Correspondent Tom Costello joins Andrea Mitchell to break down a series of runway scares, turbulence troubles, and passenger problems ahead of an emergency FAA meeting to address these safety concerns. We've had all of these instances and we need to address it as a country or something bad could happen, says Costello. Regarding the death of a Clinton White House aide on a private flight due to turbulence, Costello notes: This is incredibly rare. In fact, I don't think I've heard of somebody dying of turbulence in a plane, be it a private plane or a commercial plane.
Rising smoke can be seen from the beach at Saky after explosions were heard from the direction of a Russian military airbase near Novofedorivka, Crimea, Tuesday Aug. 9, 2022. The explosion of munitions caused a fire at a military air base in Russian-annexed Crimea Tuesday but no casualties or damage to stationed warplanes, Russia's Defense Ministry said.If Ukrainian forces were, in fact, responsible for the blasts, it would be the first known major attack on a Russian military site on the Crimean Peninsula, which was seized from Ukraine by the Kremlin in 2014. Russian warplanes have used Saki to strike areas in Ukraines south.Crimea holds huge strategic and symbolic significance for both sides. The Kremlins demand that Ukraine recognize Crimea as part of Russia has been one of its key conditions for ending the fighting, while Ukraine has vowed to drive the Russians from the peninsula and all other occupied territories.Hours after the blasts, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy promised again to do just that.This Russian war against Ukraine and against all of free Europe began with Crimea and must end with Crimea  its liberation, he said in his nightly address.
The explosions, which killed one person and wounded 14, sent tourists fleeing in panic as plumes of smoke rose over the coastline nearby.
The base is at least 200 kilometers about 125 miles from the closest Ukrainian position. Zhdanov suggested that Ukrainian forces could have struck it with Ukrainian or Western-supplied anti-ship missiles that have the necessary range.In the countrys southeast, Moscows forces continued shelling the city of Nikopol across the Dnieper River from the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia power station, the biggest nuclear plant in Europe. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling it, stoking international fears of a catastrophe.
Rising smoke can be seen from the beach at Saky after explosions were heard from the direction of a Russian military airbase near Novofedorivka, Crimea, Tuesday Aug. 9, 2022. The explosion of munitions caused a fire at a military air base in Russian-annexed Crimea Tuesday but no casualties or damage to stationed warplanes, Russia's Defense Ministry said.
Crimeas regional leader, Sergei Aksyonov, said some 250 residents were moved to temporary housing after dozens of apartment buildings were damaged.
A satellite image by Planet Labs PBC shows aircraft at Saki Air Base before an explosion Tuesday, Aug. 9, 2022, in the Crimean Peninsula, the Black Sea peninsula seized from Ukraine by Russia and annexed in March 2014. Powerful explosions rocked the Russian air base in Crimea and sent towering clouds of smoke over the landscape Tuesday in what may mark an escalation of the war in Ukraine. At least one person was killed and several others were wounded, authorities said. Planet Labs PBC Video: Ukraine strikes in Russian-occupied Crimea MSNBC
Two of the four Americans who were shot at by gunmen and kidnapped in Mexico are now back in the U.S,. according to officials. We are in the process of working to repatriate the remains of the two Americans who were killed in this incident, said State Department spokesman Ned Price.
Ukrainian officials stopped short of publicly claiming responsibility for the explosions, while mocking Russias explanation that a careless smoker might have caused ammunition at the Saki air base to catch fire and blow up. Analysts also said that explanation doesnt make sense and that the Ukrainians could have used anti-ship missiles to strike the base.
On Wednesday, foreign ministers of the Group of Seven industrialized democracies demanded that Russia immediately hand back full control of the plant to Ukraine. They said they are profoundly concerned about the risk of a nuclear accident with far-reaching consequences.
If Ukrainian forces were, in fact, responsible for the blasts, it would be the first known major attack on a Russian military site on the Crimean Peninsula, which was seized from Ukraine by the Kremlin in 2014. Russian warplanes have used Saki to strike areas in Ukraines south.
Jeremy Bash: Lethal aid from China could thaw 'frozen conflict' in Ukraine, giving edge to Russia
A satellite image by Planet Labs PBC shows aircraft at Saki Air Base before an explosion Tuesday, Aug. 9, 2022, in the Crimean Peninsula, the Black Sea peninsula seized from Ukraine by Russia and annexed in March 2014. Powerful explosions rocked the Russian air base in Crimea and sent towering clouds of smoke over the landscape Tuesday in what may mark an escalation of the war in Ukraine. At least one person was killed and several others were wounded, authorities said.
Marc Morial: We have to make the continuing moral case for democracy and voting rights
The explosions, which killed one person and wounded 14, sent tourists fleeing in panic as plumes of smoke rose over the coastline nearby.One tourist, Natalia Lipovaya, said that the earth was gone from under my feet after the powerful blasts. I was so scared, she said.Sergey Milochinsky, a local resident, recalled hearing a roar and seeing a mushroom cloud from his window. Everything began to fall around, collapse, he said.Crimeas regional leader, Sergei Aksyonov, said some 250 residents were moved to temporary housing after dozens of apartment buildings were damaged.But Russian authorities sought to downplay the explosions on Wednesday, saying all hotels and beaches were unaffected on the peninsula, which is a popular tourist destination for many Russians.A Ukrainian presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych, cryptically said that the blasts were either caused by Ukrainian-made long-range weapons or the work of Ukrainian guerrillas operating in Crimea.A Ukrainian parliament member, Oleksandr Zavitnevich, said the airfield was rendered unusable. He reported on Facebook that it housed fighter jets, tactical reconnaissance aircraft and military transport planes.Official Kyiv has kept mum about it, but unofficially the military acknowledges that it was a Ukrainian strike, Ukrainian military analyst Oleh Zhdanov said.The base is at least 200 kilometers about 125 miles from the closest Ukrainian position. Zhdanov suggested that Ukrainian forces could have struck it with Ukrainian or Western-supplied anti-ship missiles that have the necessary range.In the countrys southeast, Moscows forces continued shelling the city of Nikopol across the Dnieper River from the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia power station, the biggest nuclear plant in Europe. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling it, stoking international fears of a catastrophe.On Wednesday, foreign ministers of the Group of Seven industrialized democracies demanded that Russia immediately hand back full control of the plant to Ukraine. They said they are profoundly concerned about the risk of a nuclear accident with far-reaching consequences.
Three Republican-led states on Monday pulled out of a bipartisan effort among states to ensure accurate voter lists, undermining a system with a demonstrated record of combating voter fraud, according to new reporting. The Morning Joe panel discusses.
One tourist, Natalia Lipovaya, said that the earth was gone from under my feet after the powerful blasts. I was so scared, she said.
This Russian war against Ukraine and against all of free Europe began with Crimea and must end with Crimea  its liberation, he said in his nightly address.
But Russian authorities sought to downplay the explosions on Wednesday, saying all hotels and beaches were unaffected on the peninsula, which is a popular tourist destination for many Russians.
A Ukrainian parliament member, Oleksandr Zavitnevich, said the airfield was rendered unusable. He reported on Facebook that it housed fighter jets, tactical reconnaissance aircraft and military transport planes.
Tom Costello: We need to address air safety concerns as a country or something bad could happen
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Ukraines air force said Wednesday that nine Russian warplanes were destroyed in a deadly string of explosions at an air base in Crimea, amid speculation the blasts were the result of a Ukrainian attack that would represent a significant escalation in the war.Russia denied any aircraft damaged in Tuesdays blasts or any attack occurred.Ukrainian officials stopped short of publicly claiming responsibility for the explosions, while mocking Russias explanation that a careless smoker might have caused ammunition at the Saki air base to catch fire and blow up. Analysts also said that explanation doesnt make sense and that the Ukrainians could have used anti-ship missiles to strike the base.
Crimea holds huge strategic and symbolic significance for both sides. The Kremlins demand that Ukraine recognize Crimea as part of Russia has been one of its key conditions for ending the fighting, while Ukraine has vowed to drive the Russians from the peninsula and all other occupied territories.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych, cryptically said that the blasts were either caused by Ukrainian-made long-range weapons or the work of Ukrainian guerrillas operating in Crimea.
