Ukraines leaders thank Elon Musk for latest delivery of satelliteinternet gear
20220310
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/ukraine-s-leaders-thank-elon-musk-for-latest-delivery-of-satellite-internet-gear/ar-AAUQUBL
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
The entrepreneur activated the companys Starlink system over Ukraine in the days that followed Vladimir Putins unprovoked invasion and shared advice on Twitter with officials on how to keep internet in the country running while under attack.
Ukraines leaders have thanked SpaceX boss Elon Musk for the latest delivery of the companys satellite-internet equipment to the embattled country.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Just 10 hours later the SpaceX CEO confirmed that Starlink had been activated and two days later the first truck full of terminals needed to receive the internet signal arrived in Ukraine.
Mr Musk then warned Starlink users in Ukraine that the systems may be targeted by Russian troops and that the devices should be covered with light camouflage to hide them.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky also thanked Mr Musk for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds.
But the businessman has declined to block pro-Russian news outlets, saying he would not do so unless at gunpoint. Sorry to be a free speech absolutist.
Received the second shipment of Starlink stations! Elon Musk keeps his word! Thank you for supporting Ukraine and peace in the entire world! he tweeted.
Now Mykhailo Fedorov, Ukraines vice prime minister, who also oversees digital transformation, has again taken to Twitter and posted a photograph of another truck loaded with Starlink transmitters.
Received the second shipment of Starlink stations! elonmusk keeps his word! Thank you for supporting Ukraine and peace in the entire world! OMarkarova thanks! pic.twitter.comhNZwsXkOCT
The day after Russias attack Mr Fedorov first publicly messaged Mr Musk to ask him top help provide Starlink, a satellite-based internet system that beams its signal into hard to reach areas of the world.
