Ukrainian army announces withdrawal from last major city in Luhansk
20220703
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/ukrainian-army-announces-withdrawal-from-last-major-city-in-luhansk/ar-AAZ9mWD
In order to preserve the lives of Ukrainian defenders, a decision was made to withdraw, it added.
Earlier on Sunday, Russias defence ministerSergei Shoiguhad told presidentVladimir Putinthat Luhansk had been liberated  a claim Ukrainian defence officials initially denied.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
The Ukrainian military has confirmed it has withdrawn from Lysychansk, the last major city the countrys forces held in the key eastern province of Luhansk.
Russia also reported explosions on Sunday in its city of Belgorod, some 40km 25 miles north of the border with Ukraine. Three people were killed and homes were damaged or destroyed.
Meanwhile, in the Russian-occupied southern Ukrainian city of Melitopol, Ukrainian forces hit a military base with more than 30 strikes on Sunday, the citys exiled mayor Ivan Fedorov said in a video address on Telegram.
Senior Russian MP Andrei Klishas accused Ukraine of shelling Belgorod and called for a stern response.
Moscow has accused Kyiv of numerous attacks on Belgorod and other areas bordering Ukraine. Kyiv has not claimed responsibility.
But in a statement posted Sunday evening to an official Facebook page, Ukraines office of the general staff said after heavy fighting they had pulled back to protect their troops.
The announcement came as six people were killed in another eastern Ukrainian city, Slovyansk, after it was hit by powerful shelling from Russian multiple rocket launchers, local officials said.
We continue the fight. Unfortunately, steel will and patriotism are not enough for success  material and technical resources are needed, the statement read.
The attack caused nearly 15 fires in the city in the industrial Donbas region, Mayor Vadym Lyakh wrote on Telegram.
