UN trying to rescue civilians sheltering in Mariupol steel plants bunkers more bodies found outside Kyiv April 30 recap
20220430
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/russian-advance-slowed-by-ukraines-strong-defense-west-says-mariupol-residents-begging-to-get-saved-live-updates/ar-AAWLYma
The United Nations General Assembly will hold a vote next month on a country to replace Russiaon its human rights council after suspending the nation for its actions in Ukraine.
Seven Ukrainian military members and seven civilians were returned home Saturday in a prisoner exchange with Russia, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Telegram.
Today, there are confirmed facts that several hundred thousand tons of grain in total were taken out of the Zaporizhzhia, Kherson, Donetsk and Luhansk regions, minister Taras Vysotsky told Ukrainian television on Saturday.
Local authorities urged residents of the area to shelter in place as Ukrainian news agency UNIAN, citing army sources, reported that several explosions were heard in Odesa.
Russian forces have continued strikes across Ukraine in a bid to seize the Donbas, but theirprogress has been slower than expected, according to Western officials.
The situation in Mariupol, the Ukrainian port city that has been under siege by Russian attacks, is like a "Russian concentration camp among the ruins," President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said late Friday.
Ukraines deputy agriculture minister says Russian forces are seizing vast amounts of grain in territory they hold.
Videos of such attacks are widely available on Twitter, proudly shared by Ukrainian fighters and their supporters. Unlike the sophisticated drones that many militaries use, the drones are widely available at stores like Best Buy, easily modified and hacked to turn them into lethal weapons.
Ukraine Red Cross office in Dobropillia, a city located in Donetsk region in war-torn eastern Ukraine, was bombed and destroyed Saturday, the organization postedon Twitter, making the eighth Ukraine Red Cross office to be damaged or destroyed since Russia invaded.
And experts say such drones are opening up a new front for both warfare and terror attacks. Now, the Biden administration is renewing efforts to protect domestic infrastructure from potential drone attacks. Read more about the use of drones in the war, and its implications in the U.S.
The cost of a gallon of diesel fuel in the U.S. topped $5.25 a gallon Saturday, up 7 cents in a single day and 18 cents in a week,AAA's Fuel Gauge Report shows.That easily smashed the previous record of $5.13 a gallon set March 12.
This page recaps the news on the war in Ukraine for Saturday, April 30.Click here for the latest updates on Russia's invasion in Ukraine from Sunday, May 1.
He said the cities and towns of the Donbas will survive only if Ukraine remains standing.
This is another mass burial made by the occupiers in the Bucha district, the long-suffering district where more than a thousand civilians have been killed and tortured, Nebytov added.
Zelenskyy promised that officials would find a fuel supply system within a week or two to prevent a deficit but called it a difficult task after the refinery at Kremenchuk was hit by a Russian missile.
On Saturday, reports said a small group of civilians were evacuated as the United Nations continues to try to broker a deal to get people to safety.
On April 29, a pit with the bodies of three men was found in the Bucha district, regional police chief Andriy Nebytov wrote on Facebook. The victims were tortured for a lengthy period of time. Bullet wounds were found on the extremities of their bodies. In the end, each of the men was shot through the ear.
The British military also said in a tweet on Friday: Due to strong Ukrainian resistance, Russian territorial gains have been limited and achieved at significant cost to Russian forces.
Fuel shortages have been reported in Kyiv, Dnipro and other cities. Vehicles can be seen lining up at gas stations and drivers in most places can purchase only 2.6 gallons of fuel at a time.
Ukraine is also facing fuel shortages as Russia destroys its fuel infrastructure and blocks its ports, Zelenskyy said Friday night.
Another mass grave has been found in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, the scene of alleged mass executions of civilians before its recapture by Ukrainian forces in early March, the head of Kyivs regional police force said Saturday.
People in theAzovstal steel plant, the last holdout still under Ukrainian control in the city, are protected to an extent by underground bunkers in the Soviet-era facility. But Russians have been dropping "bunker buster" bombs, making the situation more dire.
In a Telegram post, Ukraines Operational Command South said there was no way that the Odesa runway could be used as a result of the rocket attack.
A Russian rocket attack destroyed an airport runway in Odesa, Ukraines third-largest city and a key Black Sea port, the Ukrainian army said Saturday.
If the Russian invaders are able to realize their plans even partially, then they have enough artillery and aircraft to turn the entire Donbas into stones. As they did with Mariupol," he said.
According to Russian state media outlets, a group of 19 adults and six children were brought out of the steel plant in the bombed-out city of Mariupol. A Ukrainian commander,Capt. Svyatoslav Palamarconfirmed that an evacuation convoy brought out women and children, according to The New York Times.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM:Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone
A senior U.S. Defense official, speaking to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity, said that Ukraine's strong defensive efforts have stalled Russia's advance by "at least several days."
A Russian missile strike targeting Kyiv killed at least one person following a meeting between U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who called the attack an attempt to "humiliate" the U.N. Vira Hyrych, a journalist for the U.S.-funded Radio Free Europe, died in the attack.
The pilot was identified as Major Stepan Tarabalka, 29, byBritish newspaper The Times. He was killed when the MiG-29 he was flying was shot down on March 13, the Times reported.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: UN trying to rescue civilians sheltering in Mariupol steel plant's bunkers more bodies found outsideKyiv: April 30 recap
In another blow to the U.S. economy,diesel fuel prices are skyrocketingto new records in reaction to Russia's move against its European neighbors.
MYTH DEBUNKED: Fact check: Claim that Sam Hyde is the 'Ghost of Kyiv' is a hoax
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of trying to destroy the Donbas and all who live there.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
Five other prisoner exchanges have taken place in April,according to Ukrainian Pravda. The most recent was held April 28, where 45 Ukrainians were released from Russian captivity. Eight exchanges have occurred in total.
The price spread between diesel and gasoline has widened.Diesel cost 20 cents more a gallon a year ago when the oily fuel averaged $3.08 a gallon. On Saturday, the difference between the two was $1.13 and rising.
We also assess that because of this slow and uneven progress, again, without perfect knowledge of every aspect of the Russian plan, we do believe and assess that they are behind schedule in what they were trying to accomplish in the Donbas, the official said.
The constant brutal bombardments, the constant Russian strikes on infrastructure and residential areas show that Russia wants to empty this territory of all people. Therefore, the defense of our land, the defense of our people, is literally a fight for life, he said late Friday in his nightly video address to the nation.
Locals who manage to leave Mariupol say it is hell, but when they leave this fortress, they say it is worse, MayorVadym Boichenko said, according to a translator. They are begging to get saved.
According to some estimates, Tarabalka shot down 40 Russian aircrafts since Feb. 24, when Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the Kyiv Post and other Ukrainian media outlets wrote.
For me, this exchange is special: one of the military women is in the fifth month of pregnancy, she said. God bless you!
The price rise is being driven by the fallout from Russias decision to use its natural gas exports as an economic weapon against Ukraine's allies.It announced it will cut off supplies to Poland and Bulgaria, apparently in retribution for the two nation's support of Ukraine following Russia's invasion.
As diesel prices skyrocket, gasoline prices have moderated, falling more than 2 cents a gallon for the week to an average of $4.12 a gallon. The Biden administration ordered more oil pumped from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve recently after an outcry about high gasoline prices.
RISING PRICES: How Russia's war against Ukraine could make our food prices  from bread to beer  more expensive
An estimated 1,000 civilians and more soldiers taking shelter inthe Azovstal steel plant's underground bunkers are running out of food, water and medicine, but continue tohold out against Russian forces.
The identity of afighter pilot dubbed the Ghost of Kyiv, whose single-handed conquests against Russian forces made the then-unnamed pilot the stuff of legends, was made known Friday more than a month after he was reportedly killed in combat.
Odesas regional governor said that the rocket was fired from Russian-occupied Crimea. Maksym Marchenko said there were no reports of any injuries.
Tarabalka went to heaven during an air battle with overwhelming forces of the Russian invaders, Ukraines Defense Ministry said,according to the Kyiv Post.
According to Nebytovs post, the burial site was found in the forest near the village of Myrotske, 6 milesnorthwest of the town of Bucha. Nebytov said the three bodies were being sent for a forensic examination, following a preliminary inspection by the Kyiv regional police.
Consumer-grade drones, costing about $1,000 and modified to drop explosives on Russian troops and fighting vehicles, have been taking center stage in Ukraine's resistance against the Russian invasion.
Zelenskyy spokespersonSerhiy Nikiforovsaid on Friday that about 900 corpses have been found in the Kyiv region.
Former U.S. marineWilly Joseph Cancel, 22, was killed while working for a military contracting company that sent him to Ukraine, his family told CNN. It is thefirst known death of an American citizenwhile fighting in the war against Russia.
Ukraine is one of the worlds major grain producers and the Russian invasion has curtailed exports, pushing up world grain prices and raising concerns about severe grain shortages in importing countries.
On March 19, Zelenskyyposthumously awardedTarabalka with the Order of the Golden Star, Ukraines top medal for bravery in combat, and the Hero of Ukraine title.
