US moves to seize 350M plane from Russian oligarch Zelenskyy says war fatigue is growing in West Live Ukraine updates
20220606
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/grateful-zelenskyy-visits-front-lines-russia-threatens-deeper-push-into-ukraine-live-ukraine-updates/ar-AAY7PhM
Zelenskyy's tour included Luhansk, whereGov. Serhiy Haidai said Monday that fierce fighting was continuing in the crucial city of Sievierodonetsk.
"The fight in Ukraine is about honoring these veterans of World War II, he said.Its about maintaining the so called global rules-based international order that was established by the dead who are buried here at this cemetery.
Dozens of the dead taken from the bombed-out mills ruins have been transferred to the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, where DNA testing is underway to identify the remains, according to both a military leader and a spokeswoman for the Azov Regiment.
While the fate of the Ukrainian prisoners taken from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol remains uncertain, some information is emerging about the fighters killed defending the sprawling plant thatbecame a symbol of resistance against the Russian invasion.
"The unthinkable has happened," Lavrov said. "What has happened is basically a deprivation of a sovereign state's right to conduct foreign policy.''
Graduating students waltzed in front of the ruins of their high school in Kharkiv, reviving a tradition that has been put on hold because ofthe war. In Ukrainian schools, the graduating class traditionally dances a waltz in front of the entire school as students hear the bell being rung for the last time, Pravda Ukraine reports.
A Ukraine commander leading the effort to wrest the crucialcity of Sievierodonetsk from the Russian military says fierce street battles are underway and the city is being battered. Petro Kuzyk told Radio Svoboda that his forces must constantly maneuver to avoid being crushed. Each side gains and loses territory multiple times in a day, he said.
Ukraine said over the weekend the warring sides had exchanged the bodies of 320 military dead -- 160 each -- andAzov Regiment spokeswoman Anna Holovko said all the Ukrainian remains were from the Azovstal ruins.It's not known how many bodiesremain at the plant.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited the front lines Sundayin the hotly contested Donbas,getting an up-close look at his military operation,awardingmedals for heroic efforts and leading moments of silence to honor fallen troops.
"Fatigue is growing, people want a result for themselves," he said in a speech to his countrymen."You and I need a resultfor us."
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM: Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone
Russias foreign ministry has called U.S. news media to a meeting to warn that their accreditations and visas could be withdrawn if the U.S. does not rescind measures limiting Russian journalists in America.
"The enemy prevails to a certain degree in cannon artillery, quantity of tanks, maybe, in personnel, and is actively using this advantage," he said. "They are constantly attacking, shelling, ruining houses and our fortifications."
"As Russias tactics change, so must our support to Ukraine," Wallace said in a statement. "These highly capable multiple-launch rocket systems will enable our Ukrainian friends to better protect themselves against the brutal use of long-range artillery, which Russian leader Vladimir Putins forces have used indiscriminately to flatten cities."
"We had imagined a different last bell for our kids, but it is what it is, and we want to have a celebration for the kids," she said.
Some Western politicians and the media are pushing Ukraine to end the war with a result not beneficial for Ukraine, but his nation won't be swayed, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Monday.
Our defenders managed to conduct counteroffensive and free nearly half of the city, but the situation has worsened again now," Haidai said. Our guys are defending the positions in the industrial zone on the outskirts of the city.
Still, Zelenskyy said he believes Ukraine should work "with all European countries, world powers" to end the conflict on positive terms. But heremained defiant as Russian troops blew up bridges and shelled apartments in Sievierodonetsk and neighboring Lysychansk, the last two major cities of the Luhansk province still held by Ukraine. If captured, Russian would take control of the contested area.
The Boeing is believed to be in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, following a roundtrip March 4 flight from Dubai to Moscow, the affidavit said.
"I do not have any negotiations on any plans," he said of peace talks. "Such negotiations are currently at zero."
The United Kingdomwill provide Ukraine with multiple-launch rocket systems capable of striking targets 50 miles away with "pinpoint accuracy," Defense Secretary Ben Wallace announced. Ukraine troops will be trained to use the system in Britain. The movehas been coordinated closely with the U.S. decision to provide a variant of the system.
Russian state media and the Ukraine military confirmed Monday the death ofMaj. Gen. Roman Kutuzov during fighting in the Donbas region, the BBC reported. The Russian defense ministry has not commented.
Olena Mosolova, a geography teacher whose daughter is also graduating this year, said that the last waltz was an opportunity to at least somehow recreate the atmosphere of the "last bell" for the students.
An FBI agent wrote in an affidavit that the planesare subject to seizure because they hadbeen moved between March 4 and March 15 without licenses being obtained, in violation of sanctions placed against Russia.According to the affidavit, Abramovich controlled the Gulfstream through a series of shell companies. The plane is believed to have been in Moscow since March 15.
"I want to thank you for your great work, for your service, for protecting all of us, our state," Zelenskyy said at one gathering. "I am grateful to everyone. I want to wish you and your families good health. Take care of yourselves."
The decision comes in response to requests from Ukrainian forces for longer-range precision weapons to defend themselves from Russian heavy artillery, which has been used to devastating effect in the eastern Donbas region.
"Russian President Vladimir Putin has already commented on the situation that will emerge with the arrival of new armaments," Lavrov said. "I can only add that the longer the range of armaments that you will supply, the further away we will move from our territory."
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
U.S. authorities moved Monday to seize a $350 million Boeing jet believed to be one of the worlds most expensive private airplanes from Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich.
Army Gen. Mark Milley, marking the 78th anniversary of D-Day atthe American Cemetery in France overlooking Omaha Beach, said Ukrainians are experiencing the same horrors as the French citizens went throughin World War II.Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said large countries can't use their superior military might to invade smaller ones without consequences.
A federal magistrate judge signed a warrant authorizing the seizure of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner that authorities said was worth less than $100 million before a lavish customization. The warrant also authorized seizure of a $60 million Gulfstream jet.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: US moves to seize $350M plane from Russian oligarch Zelenskyy says war 'fatigue is growing' in West: Live Ukraine updates
Serbia and Russia confirmed Monday that a planned visit by Russia's foreign minister will not take place after Serbia's neighbors Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Montenegro refused to allow Sergey Lavrov's plane to fly through their airspace en route to Serbia. While formally seeking European Union membership, Serbia has maintained friendly ties with Russia and has refusedWestern sanctions against Moscow.
Mass burials and lack of access to drinking water have led toa "critical" risk of cholera in Russian-occupied Mariupol, Deputy Health Minister Ihor Kuzin said.
Ukraine has targeted Russia's top officers and says it haskilled 12, although some of those claims have been disputed. Westernintelligence officials have confirmed the death of at least seven senior commanders, the BBC said.
The school was the site of heavy fighting in February between Russian forces and the Ukrainian military. Pravda reported that at one point 30 Russian soldiers occupied the school until they were driven out by Ukraine forces.
Reporter Alexander Sladkov of state-owned Rossiya 1 said on the Telegram social media app thatKutuzov had been commanding troops from the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic."The general had led soldiers into attack, as if there are not enough colonels," Sladkov wrote.
Russias ambassador in Rome was summoned to the Italian foreign ministry after Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov derided Italian counterpart LuigiDi Maios peace plan. The plan calls for incremental cease-fires and humanitarian corridors Lavrov also insinuated that Di Maio was out for self-promotion to gain votes.
Russia has been concentrating its military might on the eastern Donbas region of Ukraine. ButRussian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said at an online newsconference Monday that Russia will push deeper into Ukraine so longer-range missiles provided by the Westcan't reach its cities. Ukraine has sought thosemissile because Russia has severely damaged several cities by firing long-range missiles from a distance Ukraine weapons can't reach.
Ukraine has added another general to the list of high-ranking Russian officers it has killed in the war.
