US slams Russias forced deportations in Ukraine  live updates
20220713
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/us-slams-russias-forced-deportations-in-ukraine-live-updates/ar-AAZxHMV
Ukraine's Infrastructure Ministry said that monthly grain exports could be increased by 500,000 tons if its backlog is cleared through the Bystre river mouth of the Danube-Black Sea waterway.
Most Ukrainian refugees want to return home as soon as possible but expect to stay in their host countries until hostilities subside, according to a United Nations survey.
"The unlawful transfer and deportation of protected persons is a grave breach of the Fourth Geneva Convention on the protection of civilians and is a war crime," US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said.
The key challenge ahead will be filling the huge gap that will be left when the European Union weans itself off the 158 billion cubic metres per year of gas that Russia supplies, Kukies said.
This alludes to Russia's stated justification early in the war that it invaded to halt what it called a "genocide" in pro-Russian areas of eastern Ukraine.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said he hoped Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations would not be drawn into any economic punishments against Russia.
"We are fighting for our freedom, for our territorial integrity, and we want peace," Kuleba told the Associated Press in Istanbul, ahead of a much-anticipated meeting regarding grain shipments. "This war was imposed on us. This was not our choice."
Russian and Ukrainian officials are set to meet later Wednesday in Turkey to discuss grain exports.
"The occupiers have already felt very well what modern artillery is and they will not have a safe rear anywhere on our land," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his evening address, referring to heavy weaponry supplied by the West.
The deputy head of the Russian-backed administration in Kherson, Ekaterina Gubareva, said Kyiv had used US-supplied long-range, precision artillery systems in the strikes on Nova Kakhovka.
"The objective of Ukraine in this war... is to liberate our territories, restore our territorial integrity, and full sovereignty in the east and south of Ukraine," he told reporters, ruling out that Kyiv would cede territory to Russia as part of a peace deal.
The European Union and the United States are in "detailed discussions" to put a price cap on Russian oil, as the invasion of Ukraine continues.
Later this week, US President Joe Biden will make a case for the Gulf states to increase oil production and bring prices down.
Germany would "invest more, provide more troops on NATO's eastern flank and comprehensively modernize the German Bundeswehr," Steinmeier stressed. "Together with you and all our partners, we are ready to defend every square inch of NATO territory."
A Moscow city councilor was jailed for seven years last week in one of the first cases using the new law.
Vaskov said that only four ships could be received per day along the Sulina route, while a rate of eight per day was needed. Kyiv was negotiating with Romanian authorities and European Commission representatives about increasing the rate of crossings, he said.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said she does not currently see peace talks with Moscow as an option to end Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The United States Treasury announced it will send an additional $1.7 billion E1.7 billion in economic aid to Ukraine to help continue funding the country's "essential services." Earlier, the Council of the European Union said it would "provide E1 billion $1 billion of additional macro-financial assistance MFA to Ukraine."
"In the last four days, 16 ships have passed through the Bystre rivermouth," Deputy Infrastructure Minister Yuriy Vaskov said. "We plan to maintain this pace."
The shelling with the high mobility artillery rocket system HIMARS launcher was confirmed by separatist representative Andrey Marochko on the Telegram news channel and by the Ukrainian military.
The ministry said that 16 ships passed through the newly reopened river mouth in the past 4 days. It added that passage of commercial ships became possible after Kyiv recaptured Snake Island from Russian forces and that this was an important step toward speeding up grain exports.
Germany stands by its commitments to the NATO military alliance while also recognizing "that we have to do more," Steinmeier said.
Talks between Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, and UN officials on resuming Black Sea exports of Ukraine grain resulted in an agreement to form a coordination center in order to ensure the safety of routes, the Turkish defense minister said.
The European Union will continue to not recognize new Russian passports issued to Ukrainians, the bloc's top diplomat Josep Borrell said on Wednesday.
Russian, Ukrainian and Turkish military delegations met with UN officials in Istanbul for talks on resuming exports of Ukrainian grain from the major Black Sea port of Odesa as a global food crisis worsens.
Ukraine's military warned that Russian troops were likely planning to launch some of their heaviest attacks yet in the eastern Donetsk region, targeting the cities of Kramatorsk and Bakhmut.Click here for more details on Monday's events in Russia's war against Ukraine.
The turbine, which was being repaired by German firm Siemens in Canada, is needed in the Nord Stream 1 pipeline which pumps Russian gas into Germany. The Canadian government said on Saturday that it was issuing a " time-limited and revocable permit" to exempt the return of turbines from sanctions on Moscow.
It also added that "the losses and damage suffered by Ukraine as a result of Russia's violations of international law require full and urgent reparation by Russia."
North Korea has become the third UN member state to recognize the independence of the DPR. Earlier this was done by Russia and Syria.
Kyiv launched artillery barragesthat destroyed a Russian arms depot in Ukraine's southern Kherson region, Ukrainian military officials said.
UNHCR and its partners interviewed 4,871 refugees from Ukraine in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania and Slovakia between May 16 and June 15.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the military is "planning and preparing for full liberation" of Russian-occupied cities near the country's Black Sea coast.
Russia can continue the rail transit of sanctioned goods bound for its Kaliningrad exclave though EU territory, but goods that serve a military purpose will be banned, a statement from the European Commission said.
The 1949 Geneva Conventions, which define international legal standards for humanitarian treatment in conflict, prohibit mass forcible transfers of civilians during a conflict to the territory of the occupying power, classifying it as a war crime.
"The Russian-appointed administration in Velykyy Burluk near Kharkiv acknowledged that one of its mayors was killed on 11 July 2022 by a car bombing," the UK Defense Ministry said. "The targeting of officials is likely to escalate, exacerbating the already significant challenges facing the Russian occupiers and potentially increasing the pressure on already reduced military and security formations."
Ukrainian forces shelled the pro-Russian separatist stronghold of Luhansk using US-supplied weapons, a separatist representative said.
Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko claimed that the West was developing "strategic plans for an attack against Russia."
Officials said that Ukraine carried out a "special operation" to free military captives in the region, which is under Russian control.
Ukrainians living under Russian occupation have been pushing back, and their resistance is likely to increase, according to British intelligence.
On Sunday, Canada has announced it will return to Germany a repaired turbine of the Russian Nord Stream 1 pipeline, which is a core source of the gas supply to Germany.
Baerbock added that she has not had direct contact with her Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, since Russia began its war against Ukraine.
According to the US State Department, Russia forcibly deported up to 1.6 million Ukrainian citizens, including 260,000 children, from their homes to Russia. Follow DW for the latest.  Turkey, UN say agreement on grain export from Ukraine will be signed next week  Kyiv will not cede territory to Moscow in order to secure a peace deal  Germany's top diplomat says negotiations with Russia are currently not an option  Ukrainian Infrastructure Ministry says grain exports can be increased by 500,000 through reopened waterway  Ukrainian forces strike arms depot in Russian-occupied southern Kherson region
Guterres said that although Ukraine and Russia had engaged, "for peace, we still have a long way to go."
Russian-backed authorities in the occupied Kherson region accused Ukrainian forces of damaging civilian infrastructure and killing at least seven people.
German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said his country's unity and resolve with the United States has "never been more important than in the face of Russian aggression."
"Russia will be free!" Yashin shouted in court after the judge agreed with state prosecutors' request to keep him in prison until September 12.
North Korea recognized the independence of the separatist Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics DPR and LPR, Russian news agency Interfax said on Wednesday citing North Korean embassy in Moscow.
The Group of Seven countries tentatively agreed to pay a fixed price for Russian oil at below-market rates. But China and India have maintained business-as-usual relationships with Russia since it invaded Ukraine.
"We think that ultimately countries around the world that are currently purchasing Russian oil will be very interested in paying as little as possible for that Russian oil," US Treasury Deputy Secretary Wally Adeyemo told the Associated Press.
"We reiterate that Russia must be held accountable for its actions. In this regard, we consider that Russia's violations of international law engage its international responsibility," the statement said.
"Gazprom does not have a single document to allow German company Siemens to take out of Canada the gas turbine engine currently being repaired there," Gazprom said in a statement.
Kuleba also accused Russia of attempting to annex key port cities like Mariupol and Kherson by imposing its own school curriculum, circulating the ruble, and offering Russian passports to civilians in those areas.
The strikes destroyed artillery, armored vehicles and a "warehouse with ammunition in the town of Nova Kakhovka, the officials said.
"This exemption to the sanctions regime against Russia is totally unacceptable," the Ukrainian World Congress said in a statement. "There are real alternatives to Germany's gas needs, including buying through Ukraine's pipeline."
The ministry also pointed to the recent fast-track process for Ukrainians to become Russian citizens, and a new scheme to establish sister cities between Ukraine and Russia, as evidence of Russian administrators "seeking to undermine the legitimacy of the Ukrainian state."
On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree to expand eligibility rules for Russian passports to residents living in all parts of Ukraine. Previously this was limited to breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed separatists, in a policy dating back to 2019.
Germany will completely stop buying Russian coal on August 1 and Russian oil on December 31, marking a major shift in the source of the country's energy supply, Joerg Kukies, state secretary in the German federal chancellery, said at a conference in Sydney.
"We are united in our support for Ukraine," Steinmeier told US soldiers in Grafenwhr, Bavaria, on Wednesday, according to the widely circulated text of his speech.
"Warehouses were hit, as were shops, a pharmacy, petrol stations and even a church," the head of Moscow's civilian-military administration in the Kherson region, Vladimir Leontiev, said on Telegram.
"We will be off Russian coal in a few weeks," he told the Sydney Energy Forum, co-hosted by the Australian government and the International Energy Agency.
"I'm pretty confident that once these territories are liberated, the vast majority of people will burn their Russian passports quietly in their fireplaces," he said.
"Next week, hopefully, we'll be able to have a final agreement. But, as I said, we still need a lot of goodwill and commitments by all parties," he told reporters in New York.
In response, Ukraine's Foreign Ministry announced it severed the diplomatic relations with North Korea. It also said that, due to the international sanctions imposed on Pyongyang, there were no political and economic contacts between the countries.
European Space Agency Director General Josef Aschbacher announced the official termination of cooperation with the Russian space agency Roscosmos on the ExoMars Rover and Surface Platform mission.
Baerbock rejected calls from a group of high-profile Germans in a recent open letter for an immediate ceasefire and talks.
A Ukrainian diaspora group said it was seeking a judicial review of Canada's decision to return a repaired turbine to Germany.
UN chief Antonio Guterres also said that an "important and substantive step" was made in Istanbul toward a comprehensive deal to resume Black Sea exports of Ukraine grain.
"Estimates from a variety of sources, including the Russian government, indicate that Russian authorities have interrogated, detained and forcibly deported between 900,000 and 1.6 million Ukrainian citizens, including 260,000 children, from their homes to Russia -- often to isolated regions in the Far East," Blinken said.
In a statement, these 40 countries said they supported Ukraine's proceedings before the International Court of Justice seeking "to establish that Russia has no lawful basis to take military action in Ukraine on the basis of unsubstantiated allegations of genocide."
The report said 65 of respondents planned to stay in their current host country and nine percent were planning to move to another host nation within the next month.
Russia can transport other EU sanctioned goods like iron and steel products in regular quantities, diplomatic sources said. Road transport through EU territory remains prohibited.
The United States called on Russia to immediately release Ukrainians it has forced out of their home country and allow outside observers. According to reports, Moscow was putting Ukrainian children up for adoption and "disappearing" thousands of others.
Russian energy giant Gazprom said Wednesday it could not guarantee the good functioning of Nord Stream, saying it did not know if a "critical" turbine engine would be returned from repair in Canada.
"Anti-Russian sentiment in occupied Ukraine is leading to Russian and pro-Russian officials being targeted," the UK defense ministry said in its daily update on the war.
Lithuania, which lies between Russia and Kaliningrad, will only be allowed to block rail shipments of certain goods that have dual civilian and military use.
The United Nations said Tuesday that more than 5,000 civilians had been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24, adding that the actual figure was probably much higher.
The death toll from a collapsed apartment block in the Donetsk region town of Chasiv Yar climbed to 45, Ukrainian emergency services said.
Russia is the world's second-largest oil producer, and exports remain a major source of revenue for the Kremlin as it weathers widespread sanctions.
Lavrov and Baerbock both attended the G20 foreign ministers' conference in Balilast week, but he left without listening to Baerbock's speech.
Russia passed new legislation after sending its army into Ukraine on February 24 that prohibits public statements which "discredit" its armed forces or cite information from non-official sources.
UNHCR, the UN's refugee agency, found that those who have fled abroad to escape the Russian war in Ukraine were consistently worried about their future and do not feel they can make long-term plans.
The instructions sent to EU member states are meant to defuse growing tensions between Russia and Lithuania, which restricted in mid-June the transit of goods on the EU sanctions list, like iron and steel, prompting Moscow to threaten countermeasures.
"If I were a Ukrainian, I would find that letter naive, disturbing and arrogant," she said. "What right does the German foreign minister have to decide for Ukraine which part of their country they should please give up, how many millions of their citizens to submit to Russian rule?"
A Moscow court ordered opposition politician Ilya Yashin be kept in jail for two months pending an investigation into the spreading of "fake information" about Russia's army, a charge carrying a jail term of up to 15 years.
United Nations chief Antonio Guterres said that "there is still a way to go" in talks to try and resume Ukraine's Black Sea grain exports.
According to the diplomatic mission, "the North Korean ambassador held a meeting with the DPR ambassador to the Russian Federation," during which he announced Pyongyang's decision. A meeting with the ambassador of the LPR is reportedly expected soon.
Germany is rapidly developing liquefied natural gas LNG import terminals to help fill the gas supply gap, but he highlighted that while the United States and Qatar could together supply around 30 bcm of gas in LNG form to Europe, that still left a huge gap.
The ministry said that the 16 ships were now waiting to be loaded with Ukrainian grain for export to foreign markets. Additionally, more than 90 vessels were waiting in Romania's Sulina canal.
"What can you negotiate about with someone who is not even ready to agree with the International Committee of the Red Cross to let civilians flee?" she said in an interview with Stern magazine.
In a statement, Turkey's Defence Minister Hulusi Akar said an agreement would be signed next week when all parties meet again, adding the parties had agreed on joint controls for checking grains at harbors.
The data showed that a further 16 were planning to return to Ukraine in the coming two months. In focus groups, the majority said they hoped to return home as soon as possible.
The group said it was requesting "a declaration that the decision to provide a permit to Siemens was unreasonable and unauthorized and an order quashing the permit" from Canada's federal court.
"That is not a process that will be completed in days. It will take time because of the number of elements that have to be worked through," White House national security advisor James Sullivan told reporters aboard Air Force 1 while en route to the Middle East on Wednesday.
At the UN, dozens of countries from around the world called on Russia to halt the war in Ukraine. These included the United States, members of the European Union and countries in Asia.
"In these circumstances, it is not possible to draw an objective conclusion about the development of the situation and ensuring the safe operation of the Portovaya station -- a critical facility for the Nord Stream gas pipeline."
The head of the Ukrainian military administration for the Luhansk region, Serhii Haidai, said the attack was concentrated on pro-Russian separatist military depots.
