US wary of deal to send fighter jets to Ukraine despite Kyiv government pleas
20220309
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/us-considers-a-deal-to-send-fighter-jets-to-ukraine-but-will-they-make-a-difference/ar-AAUMqtS
After Polish officials said they had no plans to transferjets to Ukraine, the Polish government announced Tuesday it's ready to send allitsMiG-29 fighter planes to a U.S. air base in Germany, which could have allowed the United States to give the planes to Ukraine and lessen Poland's risk of angering Russia by directly sending its planes.
On the U.S. backfilling issue, the complicated logistics include the time it takes to procure new planes, Psaki said.
Poland has a very strong interest in neighboring Ukraine remaining independent as it would be directly threatened as Russian troops push west.
One challenge is figuring out how to transfer the planes, includingwhere they would take off from and land,Psaki said when asked if theres concern that supplying the planes could draw other countries into the conflict.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: US wary of deal to send fighter jets to Ukraine, despite Kyiv government pleas
Its too soon to know with great specificity, he said, what a potential backfill would look like.
In the end, you have to control the ground, Tretler said. And you can't control the ground from the air, plain and simple. There have to be sufficient numbers of ground forces there, and that all depends on the level and the competence of Ukrainian ground opposition, whether it's military or paramilitary or whatever it might be.
Ukrainian pilots had shot down at least 37 Russian fixed-wing aircraft and 37 helicopters before Monday, including some in direct dogfight-style combat, and the numbers are probably higher today, Volker said.
Asked whether the United Stateshas planes it could quickly send to Poland, Kirby said Monday the administration is still working our way through all that.
Defense SecretaryLloyd Austin, however,told Polish leaders Wednesday morning that the United States does not support the transfer of additional fighter aircraft to the Ukrainian Air Force,Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said during a press briefing.
Those planes, Volker told USA TODAY, use the same technological platforms as Russian MiG fighters. Russia may have upgraded versions, he said, but they are fundamentally the same.
Given the civilian carnage wrought by Russian jets, the transfer of planes will help only if they get there immediately, experts told USA TODAY.
He warnedthe converse is true as well:If the Russians have control of the air, they are able to bring in more ground attack fighters or even heavier bombers, and then they'll be able to have their way with whatever is on the ground.
And we don't want to do that, Tretler said. There is nothing about Ukraine that is important enough to us to risk being in a war with a country that has as many nuclear weapons as we do.
Menendez specifically called for the United Statesto commit to replace any donated jets with upgraded Western aircraft, including through concessionary financingand loans as well as subsidized pricing as necessary.
What is a no-fly zone? Why Biden and NATO don't want to enforce one in Ukraine
I understand this is not an easy decision for these countries to make. Asking them to provide their own aircraft, especially as Russias military aggression edges closer to their own borders, would be unthinkable except in the direst circumstances, Menendez said in a letter to Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin. Unfortunately, that is the situation the world faces. Extraordinary times require extraordinary measures and sacrifices.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken reiterated Monday that a no-fly zone runs the considerable risk of creating a direct conflict between our countries and Russia, and thus a wider war, which is in no ones interest, including in the interest of the Ukrainian people.
By manyaccounts, yes. Even though a Pentagon spokesman said Monday that Ukraine still has the "vast majority" of its warplanes, U.S. analysts and international observers said Russia has significantly more.
I've heard it in more than one place, Volker said. But how do you know when everybody is putting out their own spin on the war?
It is substantially different from supplying Ukraine directly with that equipment, though Putin may not draw a distinction, Finkelstein said.
If other nations wont use their planes to patrol Ukraines airspace, Zelenskyy said, they should give jets to Ukraine.
It is absolutely urgent. Like, today would be good, because Putin is shelling the cities and population centers, killing thousands of civilians and creating millions of refugees, Volker said.
On Monday, Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Menendez, D-N.J., called on the Biden administration to make such a transfer happen immediately, saying, It is vital to the security of Europe and the United States that Ukrainians have every possible means of military assistance that we collectively can provide.
The United States has been considering backfilling those fighter planes with more modern American-made F-16s, plus additional security enhancements or protections to ease allies concerns about Kremlin retaliation.
I cant speak to a timeline, Blinken said Sunday, but I can just tell you were looking at it very actively.
Finkelstein said Ukraine has held an advantage in ground forces, an apparent combination of the determination of the Ukrainian army and the ineptitude of the Russian army. But Russia has the advantage in terms of air superiority and has displayed a willingness to target civilians.
A sudden influx of fighter jets would make a huge difference, he said, especially because the outnumbered Ukrainian air force has already been holding its own.
It depends on how many planes, and what kind they are. The discussions underway focus most on Poland contributing some of its fighterplanes, including Soviet-era MiG-29s that could be 40 years old, Volker said.
"We believe the best way to support Ukrainian defense is by providing them the weapons and the systems that they need most to defeat Russian aggression, in particular, anti-armor and air defense," Kirby said.
If the Ukrainians are able to gain enough control of the air, then they can slow Russian ground forces, Tretler said.
Given Russias numerical advantage, Ukraine will not have a fighting chance without more planes, said Claire Finkelstein, a national security law expert at the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School.
Everybody is very concerned about where the threshold of sending Mr. Putin over the limit and into the use of tactical nuclear weapons may be, Tierney said. His threats, as reprehensible as they are, certainly have to be taken into consideration.
Putin hasan enormous amount of military personnel and equipment that he is throwing at this, and they are not doing so well, Volker said. The Ukrainians have less, and they are doing very well. So anything additional would help. The more the better.
Although the Russian planes are much newer, jets donated from Poland or other countries under discussion probably have been modernized,  to be compatible with NATO systems. The Ukrainians may not be as familiar with those, Volker said, but that's a technical problem to figure out. I don't think it should be an obstacle.
Ukraine closely guards the number of working fighter jets it has, but it is likely a relatively small number "somewhere in the tens to dozens," according to Kurt Volker, former U.S. Ambassador to NATO who served as the U.S. special representative for Ukraine until September 2019.
For the past 13days, Ukraines military, and its civilians, have fought  invading Russian forces that have crossed their border by land and air.
Others, including influential lawmakers in Congress, are still pushing the Biden administration to find a way to approve such a transfer of planes.
Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.
Poland or possibly other eastern European countries such as Slovakia, Bulgaria and Romania would transfer Soviet-era jets to Ukraine to bolster its air defense against a bigger and more sophisticated Russian air force.
Tretler, a decorated fighter jet pilot who flew 250 combat missions in Vietnam, said supplying Ukraine with more fighter jets could help tip the balance.
We repeat every day: Close the sky over Ukraine! Zelenskyy implored in a video posted Sunday.
In practice, a no-fly zone like the ones Washington established in Libya, Iraq and Bosnia and Herzegovina, would inevitably lead to American or allied aircraft attacking Russian fighter planes and air defenses in Ukraine, said retired Air Force Lt. Col. David Tretler, former dean of the U.S. military's National War College in Washington. Such anescalation coulddraw the United States into a larger battle with Russia.
Amid Russias aerial bombardment of Ukrainian cities, the Biden administration and its allies have been scrambling to provide the Kyiv government with more fighter jets to give it a fighting chance to stop the casualties.
Without more warplanes for Ukraine, Russia can easily dominate, ultimately, in the air, Finkelstein said.
Why is Russia invading Ukraine? Could it be the start of WWIII? Here's what we know
Whether or not The Ghost of Kyiv is real, the Ukrainian air force has well-trained fighter pilots who could easily jump into the cockpits of donated planes and immediately head off in search of Russian fighters and mobile air defenses.
UkrainianPresident Volodymyr Zelenskyy has repeatedly asked the United Statesand NATO to establish no-fly zones over large parts of Ukraine to stop Russian planes from attacking.
Many members of Congress have pushed for the jet transfer, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.,and Sens. Rob Portman, R-Ohio,and Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H.
"If you do not do that, if you at least do not give us aircraft for us to be able to protect ourselves, there, there can only be one conclusion: You want us to be slowly killed," Zelenskyy said in the video.
One Ukrainian pilot, dubbed The Ghost of Kyiv, personally has shot down as many as 20 Russian aircraft, according to the country's air force, whichcirculated a poster of him. There has been speculation that the Ukrainian Air Ace, as the poster describes him, was made upas part of an anti-Russian propaganda effort, but Volker, citing official Ukraine sources, said it appearshe is real.
Monday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said there arechallenging practical questions about the swap to be considered both in getting Polands planes into Ukraine and getting new planes to Poland.
The two senators, both members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, sent a letter imploring Biden to quickly negotiate a deal to send American fighters to any eastern European country that sends older planes from its fleet to Ukraine.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby saidthe prospect of fighter jets controlled by the United Statesflying froma U.S.-NATO base into airspace that is contested with Russia over Ukraine "raises serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance."
Putin has an equally strong interest in other countries staying out of the fight, and he is unpredictable, said John Tierney, executive director of the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation.
Blinken said Biden is in regular contact with Zelenskyy on the subject and is working with Poland on how to backfill Polands aircraft if it gives planes to Ukraine.
"We will continue to consult with Poland and our other NATO allies about this issue,and the difficult logistical challenges it presents," Kirby said in a statement, "but we do not believe Polands proposal is a tenable one.
Polands or another country's contribution of planes to Ukraine would be less risky than a more direct U.S. involvement because Poland lacks a nuclear arsenal.
