Utah fundraiser for Ukraine brings in 1M in donations more supplies than expected
20220317
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/utah-fundraiser-for-ukraine-brings-in-1m-in-donations-more-supplies-than-expected/ar-AAVcchA
In a news release following the governors remarks, the Larry H. Miller Company and the Larry H.  Gail Miller Family Foundation announced that enough supplies had been donated to fill 13 semi-trucks. Volunteers are set to sort those donations in the next few days.
The governor said it was not clear yet when those supplies would be delivered. He also said students across the state have prepared letters for Ukrainian children.
A statewide humanitarian drive for Ukraine has brought in $1 million from Utahns along with more supplies for refugees than can currently be shipped.
Monetary donations are still being accepted for Ukraine through the end of March. You can donate here.
In addition to the $1 million received from Utahns, an additional $2 million to benefit refugees has been donated by business leaders and philanthropists. The United Nations earlier this week announced three million Ukrainians have fled the country.
Joy Reid: Never forget Tucker Carlson admitted under oath to never believing Trump's election lies
During his monthly news conference Thursday morning, Gov. Spencer Cox called those results Utah at its best. The governor and other leaders announced the drive two weeks ago as Ukraine battles an invasion by Russia.
We have a little logistical problem right now, Cox said, smiling, but were working with everyone we can  with Delta Airlines, with the National Guard, the Department of Defense. Well figure out a way to get them there.
The outpouring of generosity and love weve seen from this drive is absolutely astounding, said Gail Miller in a statement. Your donations from a pair of socks or one dollar up to pallets of blankets and truckloads of diapers add up, and each act of kindness matters.
We have stacks to the ceiling of letters from kids, Cox said. Some of them  a few classes  even figured out how to write in Ukrainian and to deliver those messages in their native languages. It was really amazing.
Cox noted that original plans called for an Intermountain Healthcare jet to transport those supplies to eastern Europe, but the amount donated exceeded that aircrafts capacity by five or six times.
