Vladimir Putin calls them scum and traitors Heres what life is like for Russias new exiles
20220430
https://www.msn.com/en-au/money/markets/vladimir-putin-calls-them-scum-and-traitors-here-s-what-life-is-like-for-russia-s-new-exiles/ar-AAWMYQY
"I was looking at countries where I didn't need a special visa ... but the prices were crazy, tens of thousands of dollars for one-way tickets," he said.
When Polina and Dimitri finally got on a flight to Sri Lanka,they said they felt a mixture of sadness and relief.
Video: 'I'm not hiding': Ukraines Volodymyr Zelensky declares he's 'not afraid' of Putin Sky News Australia
Clio, which can sleep up to 18 guests and features an elevator, sailed to Sri Lanka in the first weeks of the war.
Oleg had never been to Asia let alone Sri Lanka before he decided to call it home.
A week after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine, Oleg Yakovlev opened a flight booking website, frantically looking for any way out of Moscow.
"When you compare the situation of Russia with Sri Lanka, I see how much freedom people have here, they can't meet together in Russia, it's prohibited," he said.
Nearby Georgia, Turkey, and Armenia were still allowing Russians in, but the only country Oleg and his family could get plane tickets for was the island nation of Sri Lanka.
India receives billions of dollars' worth of weapons from Moscow while countries like Sri Lanka have historically relied on Russian tourists and trade links.
"We went to the beach and we realised this is life for a normal human...we started to find new possibilities and that life continues."
"There were system errors, I did it for hours with all of the available destinations, " Olegtold the ABC.
"Suddenly life became very difficult... I don't have my Apple Music anymore, I don't have my Google Docsanymore, I don't have my email anymore," she said.
Australia, for example, is only issuing visas to Russians in exceptional circumstances and there are no direct flights.
"The Russian people will always be able to distinguish true patriots from scum and traitors and will simply spit them out like an insect in their mouth, spit them onto the pavement," he said.
Polina Bykhovskaya said she loves what Russiaused to represent but can no longer connect with what it has become.
"With Sri Lanka, it finally worked, so I booked and had 24 hours to shut down my Russian life and move away."
He is one of at least 300,000 Russians who have left for political reasons since the war began.
"This does provide various people, entities, and companies in Russia some lifeline, " Mr Semenovich said.
"For me it's a lesson to see how people try to change their life here, maybe one day Russians will do it too."
"In the last few years, the film market was growing in Russia, we were working with Netflix. But now Netflix has decided not to work in Russia anymore," she said.
"I love my culture, I love my language, I love Russian literature and we are very rich in that, but what's going on now is beyond boundaries, I don't know how to deal with it."
India and Sri Lanka are among countries on the subcontinent refusing to join the West in financially blacklisting the Kremlin, turning it into a friendly and open place for Russian visitors.
"It was a night flight, and I opened the map and I was waiting to see when the plane crossed the Russian border and then I could finally sleep," she said.
Assets of Russia's super-elite have been seized around the world and they havebeen blocked from their favourite holiday spots in Europe.
"We have two government foundations that give grants for cinematography. Now we think they'll only support patriotic films including military movies... it's all propaganda in the end."
Another Russian exile, Polina Bykhovskaya, travelled to Sri Lanka just before the Ukraine invasion and decided not to return.
As a member of the LGBTQI community, he had been vocal about changes to the country's constitution that banned same-sex marriage in 2020.
"Airbnb doesn't work because I have a Russian account so I can't book an apartment."
"Putin and his defenders say 'it's no problem that the US sanctions us,we have friends like China and India, these are the biggest countries in the world in terms of population'," he said.
Visa, Mastercard, and American Express are just some of the companies thathave suspended all operations in Russia toprotestthe invasion, meaning clients can't use their cards abroad or for international payments online.
Polina the filmmaker said even though Sri Lanka is battling power cuts and fuel shortages at the moment, she believes it's better than staying in Russia.
Oleg Deripaska is one of several Russian billionairesfacing European and Australiansanctions imposed in March over his alleged links to Vladimir Putin.
"My initial idea was to go back to Russia by June because I have my mother there... but now I'm not going back to Russia because I'm not going to mess with the war," she said.
She believes that if shestayed, her only optionwould have been to makepropaganda materialfor the Kremlin.
In a meeting in March, Vladimir Putin spoke about the mass exodus of Russians since the invasion.
"It's a big decision to move anywhere but we had to... when we came to Sri Lanka, we realised life continues somewhere in the world, and we were so happy," she said.
"Yes, those countries will help Russia, but they'll only help Russia to the extent that it's profitable to them."
According to limited surveys on Russia's mass exodus, those leaving are mainly young professionals with the resources to get out.
Oleg spoke to the ABC just metresaway from where protests have been happening in thecapital Colombo every day.
But as well as being a haven for those he calls "scum", Sri Lanka couldbe a convenient location for his alleged allies to stash their assets.
Because of air space restrictions and strict visa conditions imposed after the war began, a Russian passport doesn't grant people access to many countries anymore.
Mr Deripaska has vigorously denied the claims and has even spoken out against the war in Ukraine.
As companies from the West started to pull out of Russia in protest, she felt she had no professional future in her home country.
Sergey Semenovich, a postdoctoral fellow at the Centrefor Information Technology Policy at Princeton University, is tracking the crackdown on the Kremlin.
But according to vessel tracking sites, a superyacht called Clio believed to be owned by Mr Deripaska, has been making a strange journey through the Indian Ocean during the war.
"I am convinced that a natural and necessary self-detoxification of society like this would strengthen our country, our solidarity and cohesion and our readiness to respond to any challenge."
They are against the war, worried about conscription, or simply feel like they have no job prospects in a country that has isolated itself from the rest of the world.
Somehave been tear-gassed but the demonstrations have been largely peaceful a luxury Oleg said would not be possible in Russia.
The aluminium tycoon has already been blacklisted by the US for three years amid allegations of money laundering, threatening his business rivals and links to Russian criminal gangs.
Escaping to countries like Sri Lanka doesn't mean these Russianscan leave behind the effects of global sanctions on the Kremlin.
"I understood it was very dangerous to stay in Russia because I was in opposition to the political regime, which is why I decided to move away as fast as I could," he said.
It then set sail for the Maldives, which doesn't have an extradition treaty with the West.
"My bank cards don't work here in Sri Lanka because they've disconnected Russians from international systems," he said.
