Vladimir Putin is losing information war in Ukraine says UK spy chief
20220819
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/vladimir-putin-is-losing-information-war-in-ukraine-says-uk-spy-chief/ar-AA10PGos
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
Although ineffective in the West, the Kremlins clumsy cyber and propaganda war could risk blunting international outrage over its invasion, he warned in an op-ed inThe Economist.
It is a very modern digital and cyber war, as much as it is a brutal and destructive physical one.
Sir Jeremy said Russia had waged its cyberwar before bullets were fired on 24 February  the date when Putin triggered the invasion.
The month prior to the start of the invasion, Russias military intelligence deployed WhisperGate malware to destroy and deface Ukrainian government systems, Sir Jeremy said.
Less than an hour before Russia invaded Ukraine, it targeted the countrys ViaSat satellite networks in an attack that spilled over into neighbouring countries causing collateral damage across a range of services, from wind farms to internet access before it was spotted by intelligence agencies, he added.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
But Putins plans have fallen short amid Russias irresponsible and indiscriminate use of destructive cyber tools, he said.
Although thats cause for celebration, we should not underestimate how Russian disinformation is playing out elsewhere in the world.
Russia has lost the information war in the West, the head of Britains GCHQ intelligence service has said almost six months after Vladimir Putin launched his invasion of Ukraine.
Sir Jeremy wrote: So far, president Putin has comprehensively lost the information war in Ukraine and in the West.
Just as with its land invasion, Russias initial online plans appear to have fallen short. The countrys use of offensive cyber tools has been irresponsible and indiscriminate.
Without providing further detail, Sir Jeremy said the UKs National Cyber Force could respond to Russias information war by deploying a UK military unit that employs offensive cyber tools.
Online disinformation distributed by Russia became a major part of its campaign to cause confusion and chaos in Ukraine and beyond, Sir Jeremy Fleming said.
But, he said, Ukraine has proved itself to be an extremely effective cyber defender with a digital fortress it has painstakingly built since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014.
Ukraine has also fought in the information war, he said  writing: Both sides know that they are engaged in a struggle for influence and opinion far beyond the immediate battlefield.
