Watch Ukrainian Forces Take Out Russian Amphibious Armored Vehicle
20220609
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/watch-ukrainian-forces-take-out-russian-amphibious-armored-vehicle/ar-AAYgWaJ
"BMP" refers to an amphibious infantry fighting vehicle first developed by the Soviet Union and currently used primarily by the Russian Armed Forces.
The Ukrainian military said that Ukrainian positions had come under "intense fire" around Avdiivka, Novopavlivska, and Zaporizhzhia.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russian attacks on the cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk has turned them into "dead cities." But he added that Ukrainian forces could still hold Severodonetsk despite being outnumbered.
It added that siege operations were underway around Slovyansk and that Russia had also intensified its aircraft use around Bakhmut.
The Ukrainian Center for Strategic Communications StratCom said Monday that Russian Major General Roman Kutuzov was killed in a battle near Popasna in the Luhansk region. That report was later confirmed by Russian state media.
A matter that is very effective and fruitful is the destruction of the enemy. The enemy BMP burns."
Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, Vassily Nebenzia, walked out of a Security Council meeting this week after his country was blamed by European Council president Charles Michel for triggering a global food crisis.
Zenger News contacted Russian and Ukrainian officials for comment but had not received a reply at the time of writing.
The European Parliament has adopted a resolution recommending that the European Union grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for EU membership. Some 438 members of the European Parliament voted in favor of the resolution, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
Russian missiles struck Kyiv on Sunday in the first assault on the Ukrainian capital in weeks.
A released video shows a military vehicle on a road in a forested area before it's hit, with explosions causing it to catch fire.
It is currently unclear where exactly the footage was filmed but the images were obtained from the 30th Mechanized Brigade of the Ukrainian Ground Forces on Wednesday.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." June 9 marks the 106th day of the campaign.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine has reported that between February 24 and June 8, Russia had lost 31,500 personnel, 1,393 tanks, 3,429 armored fighting vehicles, 703 artillery pieces, 213 multiple launch rocket systems, 96 anti-aircraft systems, 212 warplanes, 178 helicopters, 559 tactical unmanned aerial vehicles, 125 cruise missiles, 13 warships, 2,406 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, and 53 units of special equipment.
More than 1,000 Ukrainian troops, captured in Mariupol, have been transferred to Russia, according to Russian media.
Images released by Ukrainian military officials purport to show the moment their forces took out a Russian amphibious armored vehicle.
Satellite imagery has shown significant damage in the key eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk, where heavy fighting is ongoing.
The United Kingdom and the United States are sending long-range missile systems to Ukraine even though Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned of more attacks in Ukraine if the West sends long-range weapons.
The 30th Mechanized Brigade said: "Our tankers are aware of how important it is to save the country and people's lives, so without thinking, they just do their job.
