Watch Ukrainian Forces Target Russian Line of Trenches Camouflaged Dugouts
20220610
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/watch-ukrainian-forces-target-russian-line-of-trenches-camouflaged-dugouts/ar-AAYjDll
And Zelensky has requested that a corridor be set up so that the country may export grain currently stuck in Ukrainian ports.
More than 1,000 Ukrainian troops captured in Mariupol have been transferred to Russia, according to Russian media. Ukrainian officials estimate that at least 21,000 civilians have been killed in the city.
The current front lines in Ukraine have been described as evolving into World War I-style trench warfare.
The First Winter Campaign was fought by the Ukrainian People's Republic UPR against Bolshevik forces in Ukraine during the Ukrainian-Soviet War 1917-1921.
Images released by Ukraine purport to show the moment its forces targeted a Russian line of trenches and camouflaged dugouts.
Also, President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that the West will not be able to wean itself off from Russian oil and gas for years. U.S. officials have now also admitted that Russian profits on energy might even be higher than they were before the war started.
The footage then shows these positions being hit by ordnance, causing large explosions and black smoke to rise into the air.
The European Parliament also adopted a resolution recommending that the European Union grant Ukraine the status of candidate country for EU membership. Some 438 members of the European Parliament voted in favor of the resolution, with 65 voting against and 94 abstaining.
An aide to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Ukraine is losing up to 200 troops a day.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that between 24th February and 10th June, Russia had lost 31,900 personnel, 1,409 tanks, 3,450 armored fighting vehicles, 712 artillery pieces, 222 multiple launch rocket systems, 97 anti-aircraft systems, 212 warplanes, 178 helicopters, 2,438 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 warships, 572 tactical drones, 54 pieces of special equipment and 125 cruise missiles.
Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin is still calling a "special military operation." Friday marks the 107th day of the campaign.
The 28th Mechanized Brigade said: "Gunners from the 28th Mechanized Brigade named after the Knights of the First Winter Campaign skillfully hit and ruthlessly 'fry' the masked positions of the occupiers in the southern direction. Neither trenches nor camouflage will help the Russian invaders. Glory to the Armed Forces of Ukraine!"
The footage, which appears to have been shot by a drone and was obtained from the 28th Mechanized Brigade of the Ukrainian Ground Forces, shows a long line of fortified military positions that include what appear to be trenches and camouflaged dugouts.
It is currently unclear where exactly in Ukraine the footage was filmed but the 28th Mechanized Brigade is usually headquartered in the Odesa Oblast region in peacetime.
