Whats the Z Is the ship in Narragansett Bay supporting Russias invasion of Ukraine
20220316
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/whats-the-z-is-the-ship-in-narragansett-bay-supporting-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/ar-AAV9TXt
This article originally appeared on The Providence Journal: What's the Z? Is the ship in Narragansett Bay supporting Russia's invasion of Ukraine?
The Galissas, which has been in Narragansett Bay about two weeks now, is Greek, not Russian.
Those who are up on current events know that "Z" has become a symbol for those who support Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Have you seen the tanker ship anchored just north of the Pell Bridge with the big "Z" freshly painted on its smokestack?
He was referring to Sabin Tavern, in Providence, where Colonial Rhode Islanders plotted how to welcome another ship to Narragansett Bay: the British customs schooner Gaspee, which, of course, they burned to the waterline in 1772.
It's the corporate logo of the ship's owner, Zeus Lines Management, which recently acquired the tanker. While an exact date of sale couldn't be confirmed immediately, it's so recent that online ship-tracking services still list its previous owner: Benetech Shipping, also a Greek company.
This fuel tanker is currently in Narragansett Bay near Newport RI with a freshly painted Z. Greek ship, Panama flag, Russian crew. Unsettling! pic.twitter.comwYQUE4FyfL Barbara Sardinha  TinyBarb65 March 12, 2022
"Well, what's going on with that?" Ritz asked The Providence Journal in an interview Wednesday, after emailing the paper about the ship. "The port authority could refuse to let it dock if it's really a Russian ship."
A lot of people have taken to Facebook and Twitter and elsewhere online to wonder about the 600-foot oil tanker, called Galassis, parked in Rhode Island waters.
This fuel tanker is currently in Narragansett Bay near Newport RI with a freshly painted Z. Greek ship, Panama flag, Russian crew. Unsettling! pic.twitter.comwYQUE4FyfL
One of them is Mike Ritz, executive director of Leadership Rhode Island, who was alerted to the vessel's presence by a professor at the Naval War College who had gone through Leadership RI's program.
