What is potassium iodide The drug is in demand as Russias invasion stokes radiation fears
20220315
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/what-is-potassium-iodide-the-drug-is-in-demand-as-russia-s-invasion-stokes-radiation-fears/ar-AAV4vwD
It is a stable chemical relative of the element iodine. It is approved by the FDA for use after ones exposure to radioactive iodine, a harmful substance usually released into the atmosphere after a nuclear disaster.
Both facilities are staffed with Ukrainian nuclear technicians. But the working conditions inside are challenging, as workers remain confined there by Russian troops.
At Chernobyl, more than 20,000 spent fuel rods are housed and require consistent power to be kept cool. This month, the Kremlins troops disconnected Chernobyl from the national electricity grid, causing concern among experts that the spent fuel rods may be left overheated and vulnerable to leaks. Troops also damaged a high-power voltage line Monday after Ukraine had reconnected the facility to the grid over the weekend. The Zaporizhzhia plant, the largest of its kind in Europe, partly caught on fire after Russian shelling on March 4. But no essential equipment was affected, the IAEA said.
Twenty tablets of ThyroSafe, whose active ingredient is potassium iodide, can fetch as much as $175 on eBay. ThyroSafes official distributor has stopped taking new orders from its website, and existing ones will see a delay in shipping, according to a statement last week. Of the four companies approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to sell the compound, also known as KI, at least one other has sold out.
Demand has grown in Europe, too, prompting Belgiums federal nuclear control agency to assure the public on March 1 that the situation in Ukraine does not pose any danger to its residents and that there is no reason to buy or hoard supplies. Local media outlets have reported spikes in demand in Romania, Croatia, Poland and other countries.
The early 2000s also saw a surge in demand for potassium iodide, making it a staple in many household medicine cabinets, often stored next to supplies of Cipro to protect against anthrax. In the aftermath of 911, senior Bush administration officials accused Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein of pursuing nuclear capabilities. And India and Pakistan, both armed with nuclear weapons, were near the brink of war over territorial disputes in Kashmir.
Furthermore, potassium iodide should not be considered a panacea to all radioactive exposures. The compound does nothing to guard against other common radioactive fallout such as cesium isotopes, and the longer one waits to take it after being exposed to radioactive iodine, the less effective the medication becomes.
As news of nuclear contamination in Fukushima made its way to the United States, pharmaceutical companies such as Anbex were flooded with orders, and frantic customers begged for more supplies, even though public health officials said it was highly unlikely that significant amounts of dangerous material would travel across the Pacific Ocean. Chinese residents even emptied out shelves of iodized salt in the supermarket, prompting state media outlets to debunk the myth that the condiment could lessen radiation poisoning.
Every time Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld or Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge gets on TV, theres a sales spike, an Anbex distributor told The Washington Post in 2002. Ridge just says the word nuclear, and our phones start to ring.
The German city of Aachen distributed iodide tablets free in 2017 as residents feared that an aging Belgian nuclear power plant about 40 miles away might release radioactive material, the BBC reported.
After taking one of the FDA-approved medications, ones thyroid gland  a butterfly-shaped organ that is the most sensitive part of the body to radioactive iodine  would become too full to absorb more iodine, radioactive or not, for the next 24 hours, the CDC explained.
U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said Monday that the prospect of nuclear conflict is now back within the realm of possibility.
As Russias invasion of Ukraine nears its three-week mark, repercussions are being felt around the world as the prices of oil and grain climb. But a less common consumer product has also become a hot commodity as the war raises fears of global nuclear conflict: potassium iodide.
Clashes between Russian and Ukrainian forces near these sites have cast a pall over Europe and beyond as people fear a leak of radioactive materials. So far, Ukrainian officials and the International Atomic Energy Agency, a U.N. monitor, said there has been no observable uptick in radiation levels. But the IAEA warned last week that it has lost data transmission from the sites that normally allow outside monitoring of nuclear safety.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says people should take potassium iodide only on the advice of public health or emergency management officials because there are health risks associated with the substance. The CDC also warned that taking more than the recommended dosage does not offer more protection and may cause illness or even death.
Iodine, a key element needed for the production of thyroid hormones, is usually absorbed by the body through the consumption of foods such as iodized table salt or health supplements. Potassium iodide helps counteract the effects of radioactive exposure by blocking the bodys absorption of the radioactive form of iodine, according to the CDC.
Since Russia launched its invasion on Feb. 24, Moscows forces have captured and taken control of two nuclear facilities  the inactive site at Chernobyl and the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine.
Research has established a link between radioactive iodine exposure and thyroid cancer. The 1986 Chernobyl nuclear power plant meltdown, which resulted in a massive release of radioactive iodine, led to a large number of thyroid cancer cases in the region.
Over the years, spikes in potassium iodide sales have corresponded with increased public anxiety over radioactive leaks. In 2011, people stocked up on potassium iodide medication after a record-breaking earthquake in Japan resulted in a nuclear reactor meltdown and explosion at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant, the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.
Beyond fears of unintentional leaks, Russian President Vladimir Putins announcement that he had put his nuclear forces on alert  in response to what he called the Wests aggressive statements and escalating economic sanctions  has alarmed U.S. officials and other world leaders.
The substance, which does not require a prescription, can come in tablet or liquid form.
Food and supplements that contain iodine as opposed to potassium iodide do not contain enough iodine to protect one from radioactive exposure, the CDC cautioned.
