What if Russias army fails in Ukraine
20220619
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/what-if-russia-s-army-fails-in-ukraine/ar-AAYDz7b
Ukraines main weakness is afirepower gapwith Russiasartilleryforces, which helps to enableRussianincrementaladvances in eastern Ukraine. But Russias military suffers from severe deficiencies. Many troopslack the will to fight. Strong Ukrainian resistance and other factors prevented a Russianblitzkriegfrom succeeding in overthrowing Zelensky.
Since neither side seems ready to quit, fighting will likely continue. But battlefield advantages could continue to ebb and flow, and Ukraines fortunes remain uncertain.
Central to these fiascos was a lack of cohesion in military institutions, poor governance and corruption, and popular unwillingness to defend the state. Military theoristCarl von Clausewitzsemphasis on sound relationships between the army, government and societyappearsvalid.
Unlike Nasser, Putin possesses a large and diverse nuclear arsenal that he often touts and has ambiguously threatened to use in the Ukraine war if Russias existential interests are threatened. But this has not deterred Ukraine or the West from opposing Russias invasion.
Is such a defeat possible?Military history is replete with breakdowns. Last summer, theAfghan armed forcescollapsed amid weak governance andextreme corruption.So have other large or well-equipped armies  the demoralizedRussian army in 1917, the outmaneuveredFrencharmy in 1940 andBritisharmy in Singapore in 1942, and the weakenedSouth Vietnamesearmy in 1975 andIraqiarmy in Mosul in 2014.
Peter A. Wilson is an adjunct senior international and defenseresearcher at the nonprofit, nonpartisan RAND Corporation and teaches a course on the history of military technological innovation at the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute. WilliamCourtney is an adjunct senior fellow at RAND and was U.S. ambassador to Kazakhstan, Georgia and U.S.-USSR negotiations to implement the Threshold Test Ban Treaty.
In conventional or unlikely nuclear escalation scenarios, the West mightconsiderkeepingits negotiating powder dry until military and sanctions outcomes come into clearer focus.
A few weeks ago, euphoria reigned whenUkrainian forcespushed back Russian attempts to seizeKyiv,Kharkiv andOdesa Ukraines three largest cities. Now, pessimism is ascendant.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks of very fierce fighting in eastern Ukraine andhigh casualties. Ukrainians may be runningout of some ammunition.
A Russian military failure in Ukraine might give the West more confidence to challenge aggression elsewhere despite Moscowsnuclear weaponry. This would not be the first time. The U.S. confronted a nuclear-armed USSR in the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis and 1973 Yom Kippur War. Russia may understand better than the West that its weak conventional forces might not enable it effectively to exploit any opportunities in Ukraine that anuclear strikemight create.
Perhaps foreseeing a Russian win orstalematein Ukraine, some foreign policy experts urge that itcede territory. French President Emmanuel Macron calls for not humiliating Russia.These entreaties could miss the mark. The battlefield is fluid and could turn for or against Ukraine. The West should prudently prepare forUkrainian success as well as a less favorable outcome.
Russian forces have reverted toWorld War II tacticsof indiscriminate mass attacks with tube and rocket artillery to grind down Ukrainian defenses. But huge losses havedemoralizedRussian infantry and weakened armored units. This and the risk of opposition to a military draft may have deterred Russian President Vladimir Putin, in his May 9Victory Day speech, from calling for large-scale war mobilization. Instead, Russias military isstruggling to regeneratefighting units that have suffered heavy casualties. Some units are receiving ancientT-62 tanks.
Ukraines is fighting for every inch in Sievierodonetsk and mountingcounteroffensivesin the southern Kherson region.Ukraines army benefits from ageneral mobilization. Thewill to fightis strong. Westernsupport for Ukraineexceeds expectations. The West is supplying Ukraine with an ever-larger array of weapons and combat support systems, including artillery and rockets, counterbattery radars and armed drones. Ukraine is makingeffective use of these arms. But Kyiv seeks moreheavy weaponry, especially forcounteroffensives.
Russia dispersed its initial invading force ontoo many axes. Russian forces appear unable to counter Ukrainianaerial dronesand Javelin anti-armor and Stinger anti-air weapons. Russianlogisticshave been vulnerable to interdiction. Some Russian formations have lost discipline andraped and pillaged. Russian troops arestealingand shipping home Ukrainian goods.
A Russian military collapse might have several implications. First, it might encourage Western countries to boosttrain-and-equipprograms in other countries near Russia. In Ukraine, this effortseems to have helped it adopt more flexible and successful NATO-like tactics. Second, the collapse may cause Western intelligence analysts to reevaluate estimates of the vulnerability of the Baltics and Eastern Europe to Russian aggression. Against a Russian armythatmay be weaker than once thought, Baltic allies might consider defense options that go beyond tripwire postures.Third, Western militaries may sharplyincrease their stocks of weapons,which have worked so well in Ukraine  such as portable anti-armor and anti-air  but which have been consumed in larger numbers than expected.
Despite incremental gains in eastern Ukraine, a Russianmilitary collapseis possible. Russian forces could suffer catastrophic defeat akin to that ofEgyptianPresident Gamal Abdel Nassers army in the 1967 Six Day War, when more than 80 percent of its military materiel was lost.
