White House expects more brutality in Ukraine as Russian military reorganizes
20220403
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/white-house-expects-more-brutality-in-ukraine-as-russian-military-reorganizes/ar-AAW3Rmi
The horrid imagery coming out of Ukraine flooded the media last week, from scenes of massacre in Bucha to the mayor of Mariupol putting the number of dead civilians at more than 5,000. The reports from Bucha prompted President Joe Biden to call Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal.
The West has given Ukraine billions of dollars worth of weapons, and more equipment poured in over the weekend to prepare the country for the next phase of the war. Britain announced plans to send missiles that target aircraft, tanks and ships and Slovakia gave the Ukrainian military a long-range S-300 air defense system, a moved backed by Biden.
Tom Costello: We need to address air safety concerns as a country or something bad could happen
The reports we are seeing of a change in military leadership, and putting a general in charge who was responsible for the brutality and atrocities in Syria, shows that theres going to be a continuation of what weve already seen on the ground in Ukraine and thats what we are expecting, Psaki said.
Marc Morial: We have to make the continuing moral case for democracy and voting rights
The reorganization of Russias military comes after forces recently withdrew from Kyiv and surrounding regions, where troops failed to capture the capital. Dvornikovs elevation could be seen as a warning sign, as the war in Syria was notoriously brutal, particularly in the city of Aleppo.
If we cant meet what they need, we are working with our allies and partners, as we did with the S-300 and the back-filling of that with the Patriot battery this week. We are going to continue to do that so we can equip them on the battlefield and continue the success we've seen today, Psaki said.
Russia is reportedly appointing Gen. Alexander Dvornikov  the military leader who led the Russian military intervention in Syria  to oversee Moscows war efforts in Ukraine, a move that suggests there will be a continuation of the death and destruction in the country, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Fox News Sunday.
Jeremy Bash: Lethal aid from China could thaw 'frozen conflict' in Ukraine, giving edge to Russia
Psaki said the U.S. is reviewing daily requests from the Ukrainians as they determine how else Washington should assist the war effort.
