Will Russia attack Nato How close Putins troops are to the PolandUkraine border and what it means for the war
20220314
https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news/world/will-russia-attack-nato-how-close-putin-s-troops-are-to-the-poland-ukraine-border-and-what-it-means-for-the-war/ar-AAV1ZZa
The bulk of Russian forces are around 15 miles outside the capital, Kyiv, in central Ukraine, more than 500 miles from the Polish border.
Speaking on Monday morning, the Health Secretary Sajid Javid said that, although very unlikely, it is not impossible that Russian missiles could land in Nato territory.
The president, who has repeatedly appeared on social media from the capital, said some small towns no longer existed in the third week of Russian attacks, the biggest assault on a European country since World War Two.
Weve made it very clear to the Russians, even before the start of this conflict, even if a single Russian toecap steps into Nato territory, then it will be considered an act of war.
Russian missiles hit a large Ukrainian military training base near the border with Nato member Poland on Sunday, killing 35 people and wounding 134.
Western experts described the attack on the military base in Yavoriv as a middle finger to the US and Nato.
While Russias forces are strong, they would be dwarfed by Natos collective power, making touching a Nato member incredibly risky.
Nato member nations have so far supplied Ukraine with weapons and sought to isolate Mr Putin by imposing harsh economic sanctions, seeking to avoid becoming directly involved.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned Russian forces they face a fight to the death if they try to occupy the capital Kyiv, as air raid sirens again woke residents on Sunday.
According to Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister, several thousand people were evacuated on Sunday, while the citys authorities have said they have set aside a two-week reserve of essential foods in case of a blockade.
The cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and the key Black Sea port of Mariupol remain encircled under heavy Russian shelling, the Ministry of Defence said.
This means that if Russia was to attack a Nato state such as Poland, Latvia or Lithuania, it would be at war with all 30 Nato members.
Former Ukrainian national security chief Oleksandr Danylyuk said he fears Russia could begin provocations in Nato countries such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania very soon.
The attack on the Yavoriv International Centre for Peacekeeping and Security, a military training base just 25km from the Polish border, has brought the war to the doorstep of Nato.
Nato uses a system of collective security, whereby its independent member states agree to mutual defence in response to an attack by any external party.
Russian shelling has trapped thousands of people in besieged cities and sent 2.5 million Ukrainians fleeing to neighbouring countries.
Asked about the possibility after a weekend attack on a Ukrainian military training base near Poland, in Yavoriv, Mr Javid told BBC Radio: It is not impossible but I still think at this stage its very unlikely.
As Russian President Vladimir Putins army moves westwards across Ukraine, fears of a military conflict between Russia and Nato forces have grown.
Natos core task is to protect and defend all allies, Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has said. There must be no room for miscalculation or misunderstanding.
The closer Russia troops come to the Polish border, the more pressing questions about the extent of Natos involvement in the war will become.
Russian defence ministry spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said high-precision, long-range weapons were used to strike Yavoriv and a separate facility in the village of Starichi.
An attack on one will be regarded as an attack on all. This is our collective security guarantee.
If they decide to carpet bomb and simply erase the history of this region and destroy all of us, then they will enter Kyiv. If thats their goal, let them come in, but they will have to live on this land by themselves, Mr Zelensky said on Saturday.
Russian ground troops are yet to reach western Ukraine, having invaded the country from the north, south and east on 24 February.
