World Vision CEO speaks with KIRO 7 after dangerous trip to Ukraine border
20220321
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/world-vision-ceo-speaks-with-kiro-7-after-dangerous-trip-to-ukraine-border/ar-AAVkS7d
For Sandoval, World Vision staff heading into danger is nothing new, but he admits the group has never faced a situation that has become so severe so quickly.
The families, they are loving families, just like the ones we have here in our communities, Sandoval said. Fleeing Ukraine with a disabled child is not easy, so Vladimirs sister made the journey to Ukraine to help.
Ive got mixed feelings, Ranji. On the one hand, its a challenging time for the Ukrainian people, on the other hand, I saw a lot of reasons to be hopeful, Sandoval said.
KIRO 7s Ranji Sinha spoke with CEO Edgar Sandoval, who said he has not wavered from that commitment.
I saw a dad with a young man who was obviously a disabled individual. What I saw was an incredible connection between dad and son, he said.
Sandoval was on the ground for three days at two border points in Romania. He met a man named Vladimir and his special needs son, Bogdan, who had made it to a shelter run by World Vision.
Sandoval, who has a special needs daughter, said he was compelled to talk to them.
Were in the thousands of people that weve helped already, probably 12,000 to 15,000, Sandoval said.
The CEO of World Vision is back in the U.S. after making a dangerous trip to eastern Europe and the Ukraine border.
The work World Vision is doing is among the riskiest the group has ever undertaken, but staff have been in Romania for more than three decades.
As the refugee crisis escalated, some groups thought it would take months to hit such high numbers, but millions have fled the country in less than four weeks.
World Vision has focused on sending water, food and hygiene kits while setting up spaces for children.
We have been in the business of going to the most challenging places in the world for 70 years, Sandoval said. It is our calling and our mission to be where the most vulnerable are.
Sandoval said he will not be returning to eastern Europe soon but wants to raise awareness as World Vision continues to raise funds to help its mission.
The CEO said his tours of World Visions sites crystallized that most refugees are trying to get to cities far from the conflict and dont want to be waiting at borders.
What I saw was the statistics coming to life before my very eyes. It is already Europes fastest-growing refugee crisis since World War II, he said.
Scroll down to continue reading More news from KIRO 7    1 dead, others injured in crash that ended with 2 cars leaving I-5  Big catch: 7-foot, 240-pound lake sturgeon caught in Detroit River nearly 100 years old  Moscow sets 5 a.m. Monday deadline for Ukraine to surrender Mariupol Ukraine declines Do you have an investigative story tip? Send us an email at investigatekiro7.com    DOWNLOAD OUR FREE NEWS APP
