Youre playing a game with me Biden snaps at reporter over Russia sanctions question
20220324
http://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/world/you-re-playing-a-game-with-me-biden-snaps-at-reporter-over-russia-sanctions-question/ar-AAVsFW2
DA: Fentanyl, heroin found in 'significant number' of THC products seized from Pennsylvania smoke shops
Thats not what I said. Youre playing a game with me, Mr Biden responded during a press conference in Brussels.
When Ms Ruffini asked Mr Biden if the latest actions he took would do just that and have an impact on Russia changing course in Ukraine, Mr Biden snapped back. The answer is no, he said.
"Deterrence didn't work. What makes you think Vladimir Putin will alter course based on the action you've taken today?" EenaRuffiniasks Pres. Biden at NATO Headquarters after he announces new sanctions on Russian entities.
Joe Biden snapped at a CBS News reporter who questioned why new sanctions would have an impact on Russia changing course in Ukraine when previous sanctions failed to deter an invasion.
The President believes that sanctions are intended to deter. And in order for them to work  to deter, they have to be set up in a way where if Putin moves, then the costs are imposed, Mr Sullivan said.
From news to politics, travel to sport, culture to climate  The Independent has a host of free newsletters to suit your interests. To find the stories you want to read, and more, in your inbox, click here.
Marjorie Taylor Greene One of Two to Vote Nay On Symbolic Support for Turkey Quake Victims
Smoke rises from train after collision left at least 26 dead and scores injured in Greece
Journalist Christina Ruffini had asked how more sanctions would help in Ukraine when deterrance didnt work.
The single most important thing is for us to stay unified and the world continue to focus on what a brute this guy is and all the innocent peoples lives are being lost and ruined and whats going on. Thats the important thing, Mr Biden said.
Just weeks later, Mr Biden said the enforcement of sanctions would increase the pain on Putin and that they would be need to be implemented long-term for at least the remainder of the year.
Mr Biden did, in fact, believe that sanctions are intended to deter, according to national security adviser Jake Sullivan, speaking on 11 February.
But look, if youre Putin and think that Europe is going to crack in a month or six weeks or two months, why not  they can take anything for another month. But we have to demonstrate. The reason I asked for the meeting. We have to stay fully, totally, thoroughly united.
Lets get something straight, youd remember if youve covered me from the beginning, I did not say that, in fact, the sanctions would deter him.Sanctions never deter, Mr Biden said. You keep talking about that. Sanctions never deter.
