Zelensky Again Warns Of World War If Talks With Russia Fail
20220320
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/zelensky-again-warns-of-world-war-if-talks-with-russia-fail/ar-AAVhW34
If theres just 1 chance for us to stop this war, I think that we need to take this chance, said Zelensky.
Zelensky has repeatedly called for a direct meeting with Putin over the last month, most recently saying its time for the two to meet in a Saturday video address. Sunday isnt the first time Zelensky has invoked a warning about World War III, either, as he told NBC News on Wednesday a world war may have already started. Russian and Ukrainian delegations have held multiple rounds of peace talks without any major progress thus far. On Tuesday, Zelensky indicated a willingness to concede on a key Russian demand Tuesday, saying Ukraine must accept it will not be able to join NATO, though Ukraine has maintained it wont agree to Russias demand of Ukraine becoming a neutral country like Austria and Sweden.
A spokesperson for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose country has emerged as a key mediator in the conflict, said Saturday Putin is not ready to meet with Zelensky, though Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told a Turkish newspaper Sunday he is hopeful a ceasefire agreement will come soon, according to a Reuters translation.
Zelensky Says Russia-Ukraine Peace Talks Sounding More RealisticHeres Where Negotiations Stand And What To Watch For Forbes
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky again pleaded to negotiate directly with Russian President Vladimir Putin in a Sunday interview with CNN, warning a third World War may come if peace isnt reached between the two countries soon.
Kurt Volker, the former U.S. ambassador to NATO and special envoy to Ukraine, told CBS earlier this month he doesnt expect Putin to end the war through negotiations, explaining: We have to understand that Putin is bent on a military victory. He wants to destroy Ukraine, decapitate the leadership.
Speaking to CNNs Fareed Zakaria, Zelensky said hes ready to meet with Putin, saying negotiations between the two leaders are crucial to ending the war that began when Russia invaded Ukraine February 24.
