Zelensky knocks Russian plans to put captured Ukrainians on trial
20220822
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/zelensky-knocks-russian-plans-to-put-captured-ukrainians-on-trial/ar-AA10VCVz
Russia will cut itself off from the negotiations, he continued. There will be no more conversations. Our state has said everything.
But as the war approaches its seventh month, Ukrainian forces are trying to drive Russian forces out of regions they have controlled in the countrys south, areas located just north of Crimea, which Russia annexed and began controlling in 2014.
A Russian ammunition depot exploded last week in Crimea, the second recent suspected Ukrainian attack on the peninsula. Zelenskys government has not publicly claimed responsibility.
If this despicable show trial takes place, if our people are brought into this scenery in violation of all agreements, all international rules, if there is abuse  this will be the line beyond which any negotiations are impossible, Zelensky said on Monday.
Zelensky added that he spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan about the trial, and he also expects United Nations Secretary-General Antnio Guterres to react.
They understand what the occupiers are doing and what it threatens, Zelensky added. And they understand that Ukraine will not tolerate this. It will not tolerate tormenting of people about whom only one thing can be said: they are heroes of their homeland, they defended the freedom of their people from invaders on their land.
Ukraines military intelligence arm warned on Friday in a Telegram post that Russia has been remodeling the Mariupol Chamber Philharmonic and installing iron cages in the building for a trial on Wednesday, which marks Ukraines independence day and six months since the war began.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday said negotiations would be impossible with Russia if it holds a trial for captured defenders from Mariupol.
Fighting had been largely focused on Ukraines east in the Donbas region in recent months.
Mariupol, a major Ukrainian city located on the coast of the Sea of Azov, fell to Russia in May when hundreds of Ukrainian fighters abandoned the Azovstal steel plant, where they had held out for months as the final place of resistance in the city as it faced mass destruction. Many of the fighters were detained by Russian forces.
