Zelenskyys top aide praises Biden and says he does more for Ukraine than any of his predecessors
20220215
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/zelenskyy-s-top-aide-praises-biden-and-says-he-does-more-for-ukraine-than-any-of-his-predecessors/ar-AAVbTTD
"Grateful to the US, our reliable partner," the aide, Andriy Yermak, wrote in a tweet. "The POTUS does more for Ukraine than any of his predecessors."
Biden's predecessor, former President Donald Trump, was impeached in 2019 and charged with abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. The impeachment focused on Trump's efforts to strongarm Zelenskyy into launching political investigations into the Bidens by withholding nearly $400 million in military aid to Ukraine and dangling a White House meeting.
"I have President Putin. He just said it's not Russia," Trump said. "I will say this: I don't see any reason why it would be."
The hold on the security assistance wasliftedafter Politicoreported on Trump's actionsand House Democrats launched an investigation into the matter.
But Trump told reporters before that year's G7 summit that he believed Russia should be admitted back into the alliance, and he also reportedlywondered aloudat the summit why world leaders sided with Ukraine over Russia.
A top aide to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy praised US President Joe Biden on Thursday.
The former president walked back his statement following harsh blowback from allies, saying he misspoke and that he meant to say he didn't see any reason why it wouldn't be Russia that meddled in the election.
"Well, what went wrong was a rigged election and what went wrong is a candidate that shouldn't be there and a man that has no concept of what he's doing," Trump said on Fox News, adding that the invasion "never would have happened with us  had I been in office, not even thinkable. This would never have happened."
But days earlier, he praised Russian President Vladimir Putin's justification to launch the war as "genius" and "savvy."
"If I were in Office, this deadly Ukraine situation would never have happened!" he said in a statement last month.
Trump also asked Zelenskyy to investigate the nonsense conspiracy theory that Ukraine interfered in the 2016 election, and that Ukraine is in possession of a secret Democratic email server.
Trump was repeatedly criticized throughout his presidency for making public statements and policy decisions that benefited Russia and hurt Ukraine.
Trump also took Putin's side over the US intelligence community's during a bilateral summit with the Russian leader in 2018, saying he didn't "see any reason why" Russia would have interfered in the 2016 election.
Yermak, as a senior advisor to Zelenskyy, was privy to Trump's and his aides' efforts to force Ukraine to investigate the Bidens.
His comments stood in contrast to those of US officials, who warned that Putin's recognition of two Kremlin-backed separatist regions in Ukraine was part of an effort to create a false pretext and invade the country.
As the Russian offensive in Ukraine was beginning to unfold last month, he blamed the situation on the 2020 US election, which he called "rigged."
Trump, for his part, has insisted that Russia's invasion of Ukraine would not have happened if he was still in office.
At the center of the impeachment was a July 2019 phone call between Trump and Zelenskyy, in which Trump pressured the Ukrainian president to open investigations into purported corruption by Biden and his son, Hunter, ahead of the 2020 US election.
In 2018, he shocked American allies by eschewing years of US foreign policy and telling G7 leaders that the territory of Crimea was part of Russia. His remarks were especially jarring to the leaders of other member states given that it was Russia's decision to annex Crimea in 2014 that led to its expulsion from the G8.
