Zelenskyy says Putin is convinced that his special operation in Ukraine is going as planned
20220409
http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/zelenskyy-says-putin-is-convinced-that-his-special-operation-in-ukraine-is-going-as-planned/ar-AAW28qD
He continued: "We are the ones who suffer from this process. I told that to our negotiation circle."
"We were attacked from Russia and Belarus, and when our delegation was in Turkey, I already said this: When we are offered negotiations, we will take that chance," he said.
'SNL' pokes fun at Fox News following $1.6 billion lawsuit on 2020 election fraud claims
NATO has estimated that 7,000 to 15,000 Russian troops have died in the nearly two-month conflict, while Ukraine has put the total at 18,900, according to The Guardian.
WNBA legend Lisa Leslie shares her message to Brittney Griner as she returns to the court
Zelenskyy said in recent a Fox News interview that Ukrainians would not accept "any outcome" of the conflict not involving a defeat of Russian forces.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday said Russian President Vladimir Putin is "convinced" that his country's invasion of Ukraine is "going according to plan."
Russian and Ukrainian negotiators have sat down for peace talks in recent weeks, and Zelenskyy last week floated adopting a "neutral status" with Russia in order to stop the conflict. However, such an arrangement would require security guarantees from Ukraine.
The Kremlin on Friday said that their official total of Russian troop casualties is 1,351.
"I think he is convinced that his 'special operation' is going according to plan. I think he has more plans to fire rockets on Ukraine. He is not really interested in the real process of this war," Zelenskyy said.
Zelenskyy touched on a range of subjects, including his current feelings toward Russia, his thoughts on German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and the role of the United States as it has implemented a broad array of economic sanctions against Putin, among other topics.
Video: President Zelenskyy's message to the world one month after Russia's invasion of Ukraine USA TODAY
The European leader made the comments during an interview with reporter Paul Ronzheimer at BILD, the German-based newspaper.
When Zelenskyy was asked how he would react if Putin called him to have direct face-to-face talks, the Ukrainian leader said he would jump at the opportunity to come to a workable agreement.
Zelenskyy said that he felt as though Putin continued to harbor a sense that things are going smoothly for Russia in Ukraine.
