Russia launches invasion of Ukraine after Putin orders specialised military operation   by Barbados TodayFebruary 24 2022  Article by Barbados Today Published on                                     February 24 2022
20220224
https://barbadostoday.bb/2022/02/24/russia-launches-invasion-of-ukraine-after-putin-orders-specialised-military-operation/
Ukraine reported columns of troops pouring across its borders into the eastern Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Luhansk regions, and landing by sea at the cities of Odessa and Mariupol in the south.
Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba described the assault as a full-scale invasion that is not just in the eastern part of the country, but from multiple directions.
Border units, border patrols and checkpoints were targeted with artillery, heavy equipment and small arms, with attacks also taking place from Crimea, it said.
Skys Stuart Ramsay, who is in Kyiv, said he was woken up by loud blasts, is still hearing bangs and lights are out in certain areas.
Armed forces are fighting hard in the face of a massive Russian artillery bombardment of infrastructure facilities, an adviser in President Volodymyr Zelenskiys office said.
The state border of Ukraine was attacked by troops from Russia and Belarus, Ukraines border guards service said.
Ukraine said its Air Force is repelling a Russian air attack and the country is facing non-stop cyber attacks.
He claimed that Russia does not intend to occupy Ukraine but will move to demilitarise it and bring those who committed crimes to justice.
Explosions have been heard by Sky News in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, which seem to be close to the airport.
Ukrainska Pravda news outlet cited an interior ministry official saying that military command centres were hit by the air attacks.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy introduced martial law. urging people to stay home as much as possible and not panic.
Ukrainians have started fleeing some cities and the country has closed its airspace to civilian flights.
Ukrainian tanks were seen heading to the city by Reuters news agency and an airport there caught fire.
SOURCE: SKY NEWS: Russia has launched an invasion of Ukraine after President Vladimir Putin ordered a specialised military operation.
He accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russian demands to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO.
In comments directed towards the Ukrainian military, Mr Putin said your fathers and grandfathers did not fight so you could help neo-Nazis.
Five Russian planes and one helicopter were shot down over the Luhansk region, according to the Ukrainian military.
Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes, he said. This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win. The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
Earlier Skys John Sparks heard distant thuds that sound like artillery on the outskirts of Kharkiv and said there was little sign of the Ukrainian military.
Key developments at a glance: Explosions heard in major cities including Kyiv and Kharkiv Shelling in western city of Lviv reported by Ukrainian emergency service Ukraine says Russia has launched a full-scale invasion and war of aggression Vladimir Putin ordered a military operation in Ukraines Donbas region Joe Biden says US and its allies will respond amid global condemnation EU drawing up unprecedented sanctions Boris Johnson calls invasion a catastrophe for our continent
Explosions were heard in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odessa, and Sky News understands that borders have been breached in at least four areas of Ukraine.
Blasts have been reported in Mariupol, a southern port city less than 20km from the nearest trenches in the Donbas region.
Ukraines state emergency service said its ammunition depot in Kyiv is on fire and that it has disabled its website temporarily due to a cyber threat.
Ukraines leadership said at least 40 people have been killed and at least several dozen wounded in what it called a full-scale war targeting the country from the east, north and south.
Ukraine was hit by two waves of missile strikes  one shortly after Mr Putins announcement and another mid-morning.
A boy was killed after an apartment building was shelled in Kharkiv, a city in eastern Ukraine.
Whoever would try to stop us and further create threats to our country, to our people, should know that Russias response will be immediate and lead you to such consequences that you have never faced in your history, he said.
In a television address announcing the specialised military operation in the Donbas region, Mr Putin claimed the attack was needed to protect people.
