Russia evacuating embassy in Ukraine as crisis escalates   by Barbados TodayFebruary 23 2022  Article by Barbados Today Published on                                     February 23 2022
20220223
https://barbadostoday.bb/2022/02/23/russia-evacuating-embassy-in-ukraine-as-crisis-escalates/
The head of Ukraines National Security and Defence Council called for a nationwide state of emergency  subject to parliamentary approval. Oleksiy Danilov said it will be up to regional authorities to determine which measures to apply, but they could include additional protection for public facilities, restrictions on traffic, and additional transport and document checks.
Already, the threat of war hasshredded Ukraines economyand raised the spectre of massive casualties,energy shortages across Europeand global economic chaos.
SOURCE: AP: Russia began evacuating its embassy in Kyiv, and Ukraine urged its citizens to leave Russia on Wednesday as the region braced for further confrontation after President Vladimir Putin received authorisation to use military force outside his country and the West responded with sanctions.
Russia began pulling personnel from its diplomatic posts in Ukraine, state news agency Tass reported, a day after the Foreign Ministry announced a plan to evacuate, citing threats. By Wednesday afternoon, the Russian flag was no longer flying over the embassy in Kyiv, and police surrounded the building.
Hopes for a diplomatic way out of a new, potentially devastating war in Europe appeared all but sunk as the US and key European allies accused Moscow on Tuesday of crossing a red line in rolling over Ukraines border into separatist regions  withsome calling it an invasion.
Even as the conflict took a new, dangerous turn, leaders warned it could still get worse. Putin has yet to unleash the force of the 150,000 troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, while US President Joe Biden held back on even tougher sanctions that could cause economic turmoil for Russia but said they would go ahead if there is further aggression. AP
These were just the latest in a series of signs of escalating tensions. Kyiv recalled its ambassador to Russia and considered breaking all diplomatic ties with Moscow dozens of nationsfurther squeezed Russian oligarchs and banksout of international markets Germanyhalted a lucrative pipeline deal the USrepositioned additional troops to NATOs eastern flank bordering Russia and the top USdiplomat cancelled a meeting with his Russian counterpart.
After weeks of trying to project calm, Ukrainian authorities also signalled increasing concern on Wednesday. The Foreign Ministry advised against travel to Russia and recommended anyone there leave immediately, saying Moscows aggression could lead to a significant reduction in consular services.
