Freezing assets of Putin and Lavrov absolutely appropriate  Irish minister
20220225
https://www.johnogroat-journal.co.uk/news/national/freezing-assets-of-putin-and-lavrov-absolutely-appropriate-irish-minister-41868/
What were agreeing today is what has been possible to agree across all EU countries. I think thats a big, big package, Mr Coveney said.
President Putin has decided on this course of action. It is appalling and immoral and putting people at risk.
I think for many countries, wed like to even go further than that package. Certainly from an Irish perspective, we think that the strongest possible act of sanctions needs to be agreed and if we can add to what we are agreeing today then we should, in a third round of sanctions within the next few days.
Also offering the example of the use of French in Belgium, he added: I cant imagine that a law like that would last for more than a couple of days or even hours.
On Friday afternoon, Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald added her voice to calls for the Russian Ambassador to Ireland to be expelled.
He also defended the decision not to remove Russia from the Swift network, an international financial system.
Speaking in Brussels as he attended a meeting of EU foreign ministers, Simon Coveney said he understands the EU plans to introduce an asset freeze on the Russian president and Sergei Lavrov.
If in Ireland, if they prohibited English language, what would the UK think about it? Mr Lavrov said.
I also think we should have a third round of sanctions ready to add, for example, the Swift payment system as part of that package, but I think we should be open to other proposals as well, absolutely, to lengthen the list in terms of people who are being targeted with asset freezes and travel bans.
1 Struck by the extraordinary courage of Ukrainian President ZelenskyyUa who spoke at the EUCO meeting last night.
Mr Coveney, the Irish Foreign Affairs Minister, said his country also left open the possibility that the bloc might go further, suggesting Ireland would be open to harsher measures against Russia as war continues to rage in Ukraine.
He condemned the horrific images from Ukraine, as capital Kyiv prepares for an all-out assault from Russian forces.
He added: We are seeing a full-scale war being waged on one of Europes largest countries by a nuclear superpower next door, and we need to respond to that as the European Union.
We havent held things back. The rationale and logic of President Putin that underpins this attack has nothing to do with Swift. What he is doing is reckless, irresponsible and morally wrong, he said.
Earlier, Irish Government minister Thomas Byrne insisted there is EU unity over the latest package of sanctions.
To launch this brutal attack on the Ukrainian people, to attain some sort of historic ideal he Putin has in his head about restoration of empire, harking back to a bygone era.
But if there are other suggestions coming from Poland and other countries, we should be open to that.
She said this will help with the swift exit of both the Ukrainian family members of Irish citizens, and the family members of people from Ukraine who are resident in Ireland.
He did not rule out following the lead of Poland, which has decided to ban Russian airlines from its airspace.
He described them as the kind of images that I think most people on the continent of Europe felt were consigned to history.
People have different perspectives on the efficacy or value of Swift in itself, so I dont think we should singularly focus on Swift because the sanctions will hit hard at the industrial base, in terms of areas that will hurt the Russian economy, Mr Martin added.
The sanctions adopted are the largest and most severe ever and they will hit the Russia economy hard.WeStandWithUkraine pic.twitter.comM9ACRsITJQ
We need sanctions which can end Russian aggression against Ukraine and force a complete withdrawal of Russian military force, she said.
He said the actions by Mr Putin have caused a fundamental change to how Europe views security, but he stressed the immediate concern is supporting the people of Ukraine.
Mr Byrne played down disagreements with the EU and said the latest package of measures are the broadest sanctions the European Union has ever imposed on anybody.
Ms McEntee said the Irish Government will work with colleagues on any further EU-wide measures that might assist those fleeing Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Irish premier Micheal Martin described the package of measures agreed to punish Russia for its invasion of Ukraine as comprehensive and predicted it would attack the countrys finance, industry, trade, energy and transport sectors.
EU leaders agreed a fresh set of sanctions against Russia following an emergency summit in Brussels late on Thursday.
He admitted there will be a price to pay for European countries as a consequence of the sanctions.
I know that the decision has been, I think, made and agreed and we support it, to add the names of Vladimir Putin and Sergei Lavrov to the sanctions list, in terms of asset freeze.
Dont bring Ireland into an argument trying to justify and unjustifiable war. IrelandU.K. are an example of how 2 countries, with a difficult past, found a way to shape and sustain a peace process, guaranteeing an absence of violence. dfatirl https:t.codQlSfckRPs
On Friday, Irish Justice Minister Helen McEntee confirmed her department has removed visa requirements between Ukraine and Ireland.
Ireland backs EU plans to freeze the assets of Vladimir Putin and his foreign minister, a Government minister has said.
We need to get very clear messages that this is completely unacceptable, is breaching international law, is a breach of the UN Charter and is a breach of a countrys sovereignty and right to exist within its own recognised international borders.
In a strongly worded tweet, he said Russia should not try to use Ireland to justify an unjustifiable war.
Earlier, Mr Coveney had hit back at Mr Lavrov after he referenced the use of the English language in Ireland during a press conference on Ukraine.
It was a moment that caused considerable reflection afterwards, in terms of the political and existential plight that Ukraine is in right now and also the president himself, who said he was staying in Kyiv and really was pleading for any assistance that could be given.
He said the Irish-British relationship is an example of two countries with a difficult past that found a way to shape and sustain a peace process, guaranteeing an absence of violence.
Mr Martin said the invasion by Russia was a gross violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
We have to take that on board, that that is the mentality and rationale underpinning this.
He said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky spoke to EU leaders during the emergency summit on Thursday.
It will apply as an emergency measure to all Ukrainians travelling to Ireland with immediate effect.
