Johnson holds crisis meeting on Ukraine amid fears Russian invasion has begun
20220222
https://www.johnogroat-journal.co.uk/news/national/johnson-holds-crisis-meeting-on-ukraine-amid-fears-russian-invasion-has-begun-41476/
The European Union and United States were also imposing sanctions in response to the crisis.
Mr Johnson said on Monday the decision from Mr Putin to recognise Donetsk and Luhansk was an ill omen and a flagrant breach of international law.
Outlining his grave concern at recent developments in the region, the Prime Minister told President Zelensky that he believed an invasion was a real possibility in the coming hours and days.
The Government is preparing to slap sanctions on key Russian figures and businesses after President Putin recognised two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine as independent states.
On Monday night Mr Johnson outlined his grave concern at recent developments in the region in a call with the Ukrainian president and said he would consider further defensive support.
Following the meeting the Prime Minister will have calls with other world leaders and will update MPs on the sanctions package at around 12.30pm.
Health Secretary Sajid Javid said: We are waking up to a very dark day in Europe and its clear from what we have already seen and found out today that the Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity.
The Health Secretary told Sky News: We have seen that he has recognised these breakaway eastern regions in Ukraine and from the reports we can already tell that he has sent in tanks and troops.
She said the Security Council must be united in calling on Russia to de-escalate immediately, as well as condemning aggression against a sovereign nation and defending the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
Later, President Zelensky told his nation we are not afraid of anyone after Russia recognised the independence of the separatist regions.
Downing Street also said Mr Johnson told President Zelensky that he would explore sending further defensive support to Ukraine at the request of the countrys government.
The Cobra meeting will co-ordinate the UK response and agree a significant package of sanctions to be introduced immediately, No 10 said.
The Cobra meeting follows an emergency session of the UN Security Council where the UKs ambassador Dame Barbara Woodward said Russia has brought us to the brink, warning that the countrys actions will have severe and far-reaching consequences.
She said an invasion would unleash the forces of war, death and destruction on the people of Ukraine.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky this evening to discuss the deteriorating situation in and around Ukraine, they said.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine has already begun, a Cabinet minister said as Boris Johnson led a crisis meeting of ministers and senior officials to consider the response to Vladimir Putins actions.
The humanitarian impact will be terrible on civilians fleeing the fighting. We know that women and children will suffer most.
At the 0630 meeting of the Cobra committee the Prime Minister was briefed on the latest intelligence after Mr Putin ordered his troops to carry out peacekeeping duties in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss tweeted about the new sanctions from the UK on Monday evening after saying Mr Putins actions could not be allowed to go unpunished.
Russia has brought us to the brink, she said. We urge Russia to step back.
