Live updates  Zelenskyy Kyiv meeting set with US officials
20220423
https://www.wishtv.com/news/live-updates-zelenskyy-kyiv-meeting-set-with-us-officials/
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines president says he will meet Sunday in Kyiv with the U.S. secretary of state and secretary of defense.
ANKARA, Turkey  Turkeys top diplomat says Ankara has closed the Turkish airspace to Russian civilian and military flights between Russia and Syria.
Oleksiy Arestovich, an adviser to the head of Ukraines presidential office, said during a briefing on Saturday that the Russian forces have resumed air strikes on Azovstal and were trying to storm it.
The meeting comes as Russia gears up for what is expected to be a major offensive in eastern Ukraine.
The British leader told Zelenskyy that the United Kingdom is sending more weaponry including vehicles, drones and anti-tank missiles.
KYIV, Ukraine  An adviser to Ukraines president says five people including a three-month-old infant were killed in a missile attack in the Black Sea port city of Odesa.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines security chief said Friday that the main battles in the country are taking place in the Donbas, the industrial heartland in the east, with Russia deploying more and more troops every day.
LVIV, Ukraine  Lviv regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy has announced a curfew starting on Orthodox Easter night.
Ethnic Russians make up around 25 of the 1.9 million population in Latvia, a former Soviet republic. Adding other national groups, like Belarusians and Ukrainians, the share of Russian-speakers is about 30 of the all citizens.
BERLIN  Germanys former chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has rejected criticism of his work as a lobbyist for Russian energy companies since leaving office in 2005, telling the New York Times: I dont do mea culpa.
Organizers said the protest aimed to demonstrate that many of Latvias Russian-speakers are not aligned with Russian President Vladimir Putin. In a statement, they called Moscows actions criminal.
Zelenskyy has for weeks urged Western allies to send Ukraine more weapons to counter the Russian invasion.
Russian forces continue to partially block and shell Kharkiv, Ukraines second largest city, and are active in the area of Izyum, the update said.
The Russian Defense Ministry said Friday that one serviceman died, 27 more went missing and 396 were rescued after a fire on the flagship missile cruiser Moskva last week.
Putin ordered the Russian military to not to storm the plant and instead to block it off in an apparent attempt to stifle the remaining pocket of resistance there.
The discovery of mass graves has led to accusations that the Russians are trying to conceal the slaughter of civilians in the city.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on the Telegram messaging app there will be another attempt to evacuate women, children and the elderly from the strategic port city of Mariupol, which has been besieged by Russian forces for weeks and reduced largely to smoking rubble by constant bombardment.
In addition to the fact that street fighting continues in the city for several weeks, the Russian army constantly fires at multistory residential buildings and private houses. Just yesterday, local residents withstood five enemy artillery attacks. Not all survived, Haidai wrote.
Another young girl in the video says she and her relatives left home on Feb. 27. Since then, they have seen neither the sky, nor the sun. We really want to get out of here safely, so that no one gets hurt, the girl pleads.
It will bring them to the Western city of Chop near Ukraines border with Slovakia and Hungary, according to Haidai.
KYIV, Ukraine  A video released by the Azov regiment of Ukraines National Guard, part of a group currently holed up in the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, shows women and children sheltering underground. Some of them have been hiding in the plants tunnels for up to two months.
Citing new intelligence, Kozytskyy said the curfew would run from 11 p.m. Saturday to 5 a.m. Sunday, and then every day between those hours until further notice.
Schroeder, who met with Putin in Moscow last month on a private mission to broker peace with Ukraine, claimed the Russian president is interested in ending the war.
Arestovich says the Ukrainian fighters are still holding on despite the resumed attacks and are even trying to counter them.
Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko blamed the deaths of three more peaceful residents in a small town and two villages on Russian shelling.
In aninterview with the newspaperpublished Saturday, Schroeder also claims that his long-time friend President Vladimir Putin of Russia is interested in ending the war with Ukraine.
WASHINGTON  The Pentagon says U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will convene a meeting next week in Germany of defense officials and military leaders from more than 20 countries to discuss Ukraines immediate and long-term defense needs.
Kyrylo Tymoshenko, deputy head of Ukraines presidential office, said in a video address Saturday that in the regions most affected by the invasion  Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia, Kharkiv, Mykolaiv, Kherson  the curfew will run from 7 p.m. Saturday until 5 a.m. Sunday.
Mevlut Cavusoglu told a group of Turkish journalists during a visit to Uruguay that Russia had permission to use the Turkish airspace for flights to Syria until April.
In the interview, he called the war in Ukraine a mistake and said atrocities need to be investigated, but added that he did not believe Putin himself ordered killings of civilians such as those allegedly committed by Russian troops in Bucha.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke of the plans Saturday during a press conference. He did not immediately share more detail about the visit from Antony Blinken and Lloyd Austin.
Residents of the city heard explosions in different areas, Gerashchenko wrote. Residential buildings were hit.
LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnsons office said he promised more defense weaponry is on the way to Ukraine while speaking with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy by phone on Saturday afternoon, the latest chat between the two leaders who talk to each other regularly.
Vereshchuk said that if everything goes according to plan, the evacuation in Mariupol will begin at midday on Saturday. Many previous attempts to evacuate civilians from the city have failed.
KYIV, Ukraine  Efforts to evacuate civilians to safer areas will continue in Ukraine on Saturday, the countrys officials said.
KYIV, Ukraine  Luhansk Governor Serhiy Haidai says that two people were killed by Russian shelling in the city of Popasna.
Schroeder reportedly blasted German officials who now criticize his efforts to procure Russian energy supplies for Germany, saying that they all went along with it for the last 30 years.
The country has hosted a meeting between the Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers as well as talks between the two countries negotiating teams.
Russia has said that establishing full control over the Donbas, a large part of which has been in the hands of Russia-backed separatists since 2014, is currently one of the main goals of its operation in Ukraine.
We want to see peaceful skies, we want to breathe in fresh air, said one woman in the video that was released on Saturday. You have simply no idea what it means for us to simply eat, drink some sweetened tea. For us it is already happiness.
KYIV, Ukraine  Another mass grave has been found outside Mariupol, the city council and an adviser to the mayor said Friday.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukraine militarys General Staff says that Russian forces continue their offensive operations in eastern Ukraine with the goal of defeating Ukrainian forces, establishing full control over the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and securing a land route between these territories and the occupied Crimea.
Johnson also confirmed to Zelenskyy that the U.K. would reopen its embassy in Kyiv next week. He also updated the Ukrainian leader on new U.K. sanctions designations against members of the Russian military and told him the British government was helping to collect evidence of war crimes.
The governor of the eastern Luhansk region, Serhiy Haidai, said on Telegram that an evacuation train will depart Saturday from the eastern city of Pokrovsk. Residents of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which comprise Ukraines industrial heartland known as Donbas, will be able to take the train free of charge.
Cavusoglu did not elaborate and it was not clear if the move aimed to prevent the possible transfer of Syrian fighters to Ukraine.
Oleksiy Danilov, the secretary of Ukraines National Security and Defense Council, told The Associated Press that over 100,000 Russian troops are currently fighting in Ukraine, including mercenaries from Syria and Libya.
NATO-member Turkey has been trying to balance its close relations with Moscow and Kyiv and has positioned itself as a mediator between the two. It has not joined international sanctions against Russia but has closed the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea to some Russian warships.
Kozytskyy said the church leadership is in support of the decision and that all churches in the region will be postponing their Easter night services until the morning hours.
Ukrainian forces in the past 24 hours repelled eight Russian attacks in the two regions, destroying nine tanks, 18 armored units and 13 vehicles, a tanker and three artillery systems, the General Staff said on its Facebook page on Saturday morning.
KYIV, Ukraine  A top Ukrainian official has announced a country-wide curfew for the night of the Orthodox Easter.
KYIV, Ukraine  An adviser to Ukraines presidential office says Russian forces are attacking a steel plant that is the last defense stronghold of Ukrainian forces in the strategic port city of Mariupol.
The city council posted a satellite photo provided by Planet Labs showing what it said was a mass grave 45 meters 147.64 feet by 25 meters 82.02 feet that could hold the bodies of at least 1,000 Mariupol residents.
Danilov said a nighttime helicopter delivery brought weapons to Mariupols steel mill, the last stronghold of Ukrainian forces in the city. He urged Ukraines Western partners to speed up the delivery of weapons to his country.
Participants of Saturdays rally entitled The Russian Voice Against War waved Ukrainian flags and posters with inscriptions such as Stop the genocide in Ukraine and Complete Russian gas and oil embargo at the central Freedom Monument, Latvias public broadcaster LSM reported.
Shortly after the incident, the ministry said the entire crew of the ship, which was presumed by the media to be about 500 people, had been rescued. The ministry did not offer an explanation for the contradicting reports.
In the strategic port city of Mariupol, Russian troops continue to blockade Ukrainian units in the area of the Azovstal steelworks, the last remaining stronghold, and launch air strikes on the city, including with the use of long-range aircraft, the post said, adding that an engineering unit arrived to Mariupol in order to demine the port infrastructure.
The two also discussed the U.K.s work on long term security solutions and financial support with international partners.
Earlier this week, satellite photos from Maxar Technologies revealed what appeared to be rows upon rows of more than 200 freshly dug mass graves in the town of Manhush, located to the west of Mariupol.
Synehubov said on the messaging app Telegram on Saturday that over the past day Russian forces fired at the regions civilian infrastructure 56 times.
Ukrainian officials have estimated that about 2,000 of their troops are inside the plant along with about 1,000 sheltering in the facilitys underground tunnels.
The Pentagon press secretary, John Kirby, said Friday that about 40 nations, including NATO members, were invited and that responses are still arriving for the session to be held Tuesday at Ramstein air base. He did not identify the nations that have agreed to attend but said more details will be provided in coming days.
Unfortunately, the enemy doesnt have such a concept as a major religious holiday, Kozytskyy wrote. They are so beastly that they dont understand what Easter is.
It said the new reported mass grave is outside the village of Vynohradne, which is east of Mariupol.
KYIV, Ukraine  Kharkiv regional governor Oleh Synehubov says two people were killed and 19 more wounded by Russian shelling.
But Haberturk television reported that Cavusoglu said Saturday that he asked Moscow to stop using the airspace during a visit there in March, and that Moscow agreed to the Turkish request.
Azovs deputy commander Sviatoslav Palamar told the AP the video was shot on Thursday. Contents of the video could not be independently verified.
An adviser to Ukraines interior minister earlier said Russian forces fired at least six cruise missiles at the city.
Arestovichs statement came two days after Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu reported to President Vladimir Putin that the whole of Mariupol, with the exception of Azovstal, had been liberated by the Russians.
Earlier this week, Latvias Parliament unanimously declared killings of civilians in areas of Ukraine occupied by Russian forces, including Bucha, Irpin and Mariupol, to be acts of genocide.
Some of Russias elite military units have left the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, which was declared liberated by the Kremlin on Thursday, and are now moving to the east of the country to participate in the fighting there, Danilov said.
The Prime Minister ended by reiterating the UKs unwavering support for the people of Ukraine and committed to continue working with international partners to provide the assistance necessary to help Ukraine defend itself, Downing Street said in a statement.
Also on Friday, the local prosecutors office in the northeastern region of Kharkiv said in a Telegram post that charred bodies of two residents were discovered near the city of Izyum that same day. The post accused Russian soldiers of torturing the residents and burning their bodies.
Haidai said Saturday on the messaging app Telegram that residential buildings in the region were shelled 12 times the previous day, and Popasna got the most of it.
The agenda will include an updated assessment of the Ukraine battlefield as well as discussion of efforts to continue a steady flow of weapons and other military aid, Kirby said. It will include consultations on Ukraines post-war defense needs but is not expected to consider changes in the U.S. military posture in Europe, he said.
According to Ukrainian officials, some 1,000 civilians, including women and children, remain trapped at Azovstal together with the Ukrainian troops holed up there.
Anton Gerashchenko said in a Telegram post on Saturday that Ukrainian forces were able to shoot down several missiles, but at least one landed and exploded.
KYIV, Ukraine  At least three civilians died and seven more were injured in shelling attacks in the Donetsk region in eastern Ukraine on Friday, as Russian forces continue to roll into the countrys industrial east, the governor of the region said in a Telegram post.
The Kremlin earlier this week declared that Mariupol has been liberated, with the exception of the Azovstal steel mill, the last pocket of resistance where Ukrainian troops are holed up.
The White House declined to comment on Saturday. The U.S. State Department also declined comment.
In others regions, including Kyiv, Odesa, Chernihiv and Lviv, the curfew will run from 11 p.m. Saturday until 5 a.m. Sunday.
The enemy is trying to completely suppress resistance of the defenders of Mariupol in the area of Azovstal, Arestovich said.
HELSINKI  Hundreds of protesters belonging to Latvias sizable Russian-speaking community have taken part in a large-scale demonstration in the Baltic nations capital, Riga, condemning the Kremlin regime and Moscows aggression on Ukraine.
In a separate Telegram post earlier, Kyrylenko said that as of Friday afternoon, Russians had opened fire at 20 settlements in the region and destroyed or damaged 34 civilian infrastructure facilities.
But thats not so easy. There are a few points that need to be clarified, the New York Times quoted him saying, without elaborating.
