Russia claims advances in Ukraine amid barrages troop boost
20220607
https://www.wishtv.com/news/international/russia-claims-advances-in-ukraine-amid-barrages-troop-boost/
Its not clear whether Russia would try to expand its offensive elsewhere in Ukraine if it takes the Donbas. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov warned Monday that if the West provides Ukraine with long-range rockets capable of reaching Russian territory, Moscow will respond by pressing its offensive deeper into Ukraine.
Asked about a possible deal to allow grain shipments from Odesa, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters Tuesday that Ukraines removal of the mines would allow commercial vessels to dock in Odesa. He noted that the Russian military would need to check those ships to make sure they dont carry weapons.
Amid fears on international markets ofa global food crisis due to the war, the Kremlin says Ukraine needs to remove sea mines near its Black Sea port of Odesa to allow essential grain exports to resume from there.
Shoigu said 6,489 Ukrainian troops have been taken prisoner since the start of the military action in Ukraine, including 126 over the past five days.
Moscow is deploying troop reinforcements in eastern Ukraine as a Russian artillery barrage aimed to grind down Ukrainian defenses, a Ukrainian official said.
Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said the Russian artillery barrage destroyed other Ukrainian equipment in the countrys east while the Russian air force hit Ukrainian troops and equipment concentrations and artillery positions.
While insisting on Ukraines need to defeat Russian on the battlefield, Zelenskyy said he was still open to peace talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin, according to the Financial Times.
But Energoatom, the Ukrainian state company overseeing the countrys nuclear power plants, said in a blunt statement that Grossi wasnt welcome. It said his planned tour was yet another attempt to legitimize the occupiers presence there.
Early in the war, the Russian troops also took control of the entire Kherson region and a large part of the Zaporizhzhia region in the south. Russian officials and their local appointees have mulled plans for those regions to either declare their independence or be folded into Russia.
A total destruction of the city is underway, Russian shelling has intensified significantly over the past 24 hours. Russians are using scorched earth tactics, Haidai said.
Ukraine is receiving weapons and ammunition from the West to help fend off relentless Russian attacks. That assistance has become a target for Russian artillery and warplanes.
He added that after they are loaded with grain, Russia will help escort the ships to international waters.
Dont let the news that weve ceded something scare you, he said in a video address. It is clear that tactical maneuvers are ongoing. We cede something, we take something back.
Popasna is a town with a pre-war population of 20,000 located about 30 kilometers nearly 20 miles south of Sievierodonetsk.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak urged his people not to be downhearted about the battlefield reverses.
In all, Ukrainian forces had repelled 10 Russian attacks over the previous 24 hours, according to Haidai. His report couldnt be independently verified.
We are inferior in terms of equipment and therefore we are not capable of advancing, Zelenskyy said at a Financial Times Global Boardroom conference Tuesday
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy acknowledged that his countrys military is outgunned and still needed Western help to face down the Russians.
Shoigu, the Russian defense minister, claimed that Russian forces have seized the residential quarters of Sievierodonetsk and are fighting to take control of an industrial zone on its outskirts and the nearby towns.
David Keyton and Oleksandr Stashevskyi in Kyiv Yuras Karmanau in Lviv Andrea Rosa in Bakhmut and Sylvie Corbet in Colleville-sur-Mer, France, contributed to this story.
But while the Kremlins forces have superior firepower, the Ukrainians defenders  among them the countrys most well-trained forces  are entrenched and have shown the capability to counterattack.
Moscows strategy has suffered numerous setbacks, however, sinceRussia invaded Ukraineon Feb. 24, including a failed attempt to take Kyiv, the capital.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Moscows forces have control of 97 of the Luhansk region.
Sievierodonetsk, the administrative center of the Luhansk region, has recently been the focus of the Russian offensive. Sievierodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk are the only two Donbas cities holding out against the Russian invasion, which is being helped by local pro-Kremlin forces.
The International Atomic Energy Agencys director Rafael Mariano Grossi wants to visit to the Zaporizhzhia plant, the largest in Europe, to help maintain its safety and security after being taken by Russian troops in early March.
Russia has declared that fully capturing the entire Donbas, which includes the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and where Russia-backed separatists have fought the Ukrainian government since 2014, is its main goal in the invasion of its neighboring country which began Feb. 24. The region recently has been bearing the brunt of the Russian onslaught.
Shoigu added that the Russian troops were pressing their offensive toward the town of Popasna and noted that they have taken control of Lyman and Sviatohirsk and 15 other towns in the region.
The war brought a standoff Tuesday between the head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog and Ukrainian authorities over a power plant in southern Ukraine.
Moscows forces also kept up its artillery barrage of Lysychansk. Haidai said Russian troops shelled a local market, a school and a college building, destroying the latter. Three wounded people were sent to hospitals in other parts of Ukraine, he said.
Russia claimed Tuesday its forces took out two artillery systems given by the United States and a howitzer supplied by Norway.
Toughest street battles continue, with varying degrees of success, Haidai told The Associated Press. The situation constantly changes, but the Ukrainians are repelling attacks.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russia claimed Tuesday it has occupied large swaths of eastern Ukraine after a relentless, weekslong barrage and the recent deployment of more troops.
