Dad who left family for Ukrainian refugee drops first rap song about a breakup
20220714
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/dad-who-left-family-ukrainian-7334847
A dad who left his girlfriend to start a new life with a Ukrainian refugee who he'd known for little more than a week has launched his career as a rap artist.
Naming his rap number "Ukraine to UK rain", Tony talks about a difficult relationship he tried to make work but had to "leave regardless", rapping that he isn't "heartless".
The song, which he posted on Youtube on Wednesday, has lyrics in which Tony says he stands "by what I've done" in what appears to be a reference to running away with Sofiia, the Mirror reported. He also raps: "I'm now with a blonde, but my ex is a brunette."
The non-molestation restraining order, that Tony agreed to without admissions, prevents him from getting in touch with Lorna via phone, text message, email, or social media, the Sun reported. Lorna alleged Tony had sent her abusive texts.
Lorna, 28, told MailOnline she had watched the rap video and believed the lyrics "obviously" refer to her. She said allegations about her in the rap lyrics are "complete lies".
Tony told the title he'd also had legal advice and believed he was not breaking the court order with the rap video. He said: "It could be any ex Im referring to."
Tony Garnett, 29, broke up with ex-girlfriend Lorna, 28, just 10 days after the couple welcomed Sofiia Karkadym into their Bradford home after she was forced to flee the Russia-Ukraine war. Tony previously told Yorkshire Live that his 22-year-old girlfriend from Lviv has been unfairly branded a "homewrecker" and trolls have even started petitions for her to be deported.
She told the paper: "Hes broken the court order already by releasing this and Ive contacted my solicitor and the police as a result."
"I didnt turn up with a solicitor because I dont have anything to defend. Sadly, this is turning into an episode of Jeremy Kyle."
The dad has claimed his previous relationship had "numerous" difficulties but he had "put up with things for the sake of my kids". Now he has released a rap song about his decision to move out of the family home to be with Sofiia.
He told the paper: "If it helps her sleep at night then so be it. I know the truth. Ive done nothing wrong.
Read more: Family take in Ukrainian refugee  10 days later dad leaves with her
Tony also raps about doing the right thing by saving "someone from Ukraine". He released the song shortly after his ex Lorna  with whom he has two young daughters  was granted a court order against him, according to the title.
