Former Strictly star Kristina Rihanoff apologises for comments about Ukraine following an online backlash
20220228
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/former-strictly-star-kristina-rihanoff-6727239
The dancer and choreographer clarified that she was born in Russia but left the country 22 years ago and was now an American citizen.
The 44-year-old Russian-born dancer faced a backlash after posting a series of now-deleted tweets including one criticising Sky News reporting that Russia had been banned from the Eurovision Song Contest following the invasion of its neighbouring country.
The point is that this shouldnt ever taken place, it never should have happened. The country leaders should have found the way a long time ago to sort this peacefully but they didnt because war is profitable business and someone unfortunately making profit on this.
Rihanoff added: So you can hate me if this will give you comfort, but if I didnt say something you wanted me to say its because sadly Im powerless doing anything to help anyone in both countries and I dont believe in useless posts which cant help to safe lives.
Its absolutely devastating for someone like me whos grandad is from Ukraine and I gave Ukrainian name to my daughter  Milena.
Kristina Rihanoff, a former Strictly Come Dancing professional, has apologised for posting tweets that were deemed insensitive amid the escalating situation with Russian troops and their attacks on Ukraine.
She continued: The awful thing is that there is casualties on both sides and on both sides mums and dads will cry for their lost relatives.
Im not supporting Putin, war, invasion, lost lives and politics. I hate it as much as a human being possibly can. If I offended anyone it wasnt my intention and Im deeply sorry.
This comes as Russian troops draw closer to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv and Vladimir Putin announcing he was putting Moscows nuclear forces on a special regime of combat duty in response to aggressive statements coming from Western powers.
Boris Johnson has dismissed the Russian leaders warning, suggesting his actions were more to do with the fact that his forces were meeting with more resistance than the Kremlin had bargained for.
In a statement posted on Twitter, Rihanoff said she made fun of the report as she thought there was far more important information on that day other than the Eurovision update, but clarified that she did not support Putin, war, invasion, lost lives and politics.
My best friend is also from Ukraine. I grew up with knowledge that we were one nation and one country. Im not into politics and hate politicians because they all lie. Seeing the news is breaking my heart as I have Russian friends who live in Ukraine and vice versa.
I can only hope and pray like everyone that this is over soon. And its really sad that the hate is so powerful everywhere you look at the moment. The whole world is burning in it.
Rihanoff wrote: I made fun of Eurovision tweet by Sky. I did think there was far more important information on that day that Eurovision. This is in any form says I was supporting whats happening at the moment between Russia  Ukraine.
The Russian-born dancer clarified her tweets by saying she was 'not supporting Putin, war, invasion, lost lives and politics'
