Netflix considers crackdown on password sharing and new subscription with adverts
20220420
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/netflix-considers-crackdown-password-sharing-6973457
It has been suggested the streaming service may launch a crackdown on password sharing and start a cheaper subscription with adverts after its first drop in subscribers for more than 10 years. It is estimated the US streaming giant reaches an additional 100 million homes on top of 222 million paying households, reports The Mirror.
The US streaming giant has announced a fall in customers for the first time in 10 years
Mr Hastings did not give details of how password sharing might be addressed and whether there would be a limit on the number of people who can use an account. The company has plans to expand a trial programme it has been running in Chile, Costa Rica and Peru, where subscribers can extend service to another household for a discounted price.
Netflix has been grappling with slowing revenue growth caused by stiffer competition from rival services in recent months. Yesterday it announced that it ended the first quarter of 2022 with 200,00 fewer subscribers than the three months before - missing its growth projection by 2.7million customers.
The firm offered no additional information about how a cheaper ad-supported version would work or how much it would cost.
Netflix is considering making some major changes to its subscription model following a huge drop in customers at the beginning of this year.
Those who have followed Netflix know that Ive been against the complexity of advertising and a big fan of the simplicity of subscription, Mr Hastings said, the Wall Street Journal reported. But as much as Im a fan of that, Im a bigger fan of consumer choice.
Netflix says it expects to lose two million more customers worldwide this quarter. The end of pandemic lockdowns, which led people to binge-watch television, and the rise of rival platforms such as Apple and Disney, has chipped away at Netflix's dominant position.
Chief executive Reed Hastings says the company is testing password-sharing subscription models at the moment. Those who are piggy-backing on someone else's Netflix account can breathe easy for the time being, as the company's boss has said reducing sharing wasnt a high priority to be working on.
The firm's drop in users stemmed in part from it decision to withdraw from Russia in protest at the war against Ukraine, resulting in a loss of 700,000 subscribers. Netflix's boss has said a separate, cheaper subscription plan with adverts is being considered.
Read More: ITV's The Thief, His Wife and The Canoe creator speaks out after viewers complain about accents and 'kayak' confusion
