North Lincolnshire man who died fighting in Ukraine was killed by Russian mortar strike
20220615
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/news/grimsby-news/north-lincolnshire-man-who-died-7212109
Senior coroner Darren Salter said: "Often it is the case that the information might not be 100 per cent accurate, as there has not been the time to collect all of the evidence.
The dad, who previously served in the British Army, was killed as he took cover from Russian shelling, Oxford Coroner's Court heard.
The HGV driver's cause of death was listed as "penetrative fragment injuries" to his chest and abdomen, reports Mirror Online.
Mr Salter continued: "Mr Sibley was identified by his dental records on May 25 at the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford. The details of this 36-year-old was that he was a former petroleum operator for the British Army. He joined the Ukraine army and was deployed to the Foreign Nationals.
A North Lincolnshire man who was the first Brit to be killed while fighting in Ukraine died after being hit by a mortar, an inquest has heard.
The coroner explained that Mr Sibley's body was returned to the UK following his death in Ukraine as a result of him being struck by a mortar.
"Mr Sibley then moved to the next foxhole when a mortar struck him, causing him fatal injuries."
The inquest heard that Mr Sibley's cause of death was listed as penetrative fragment injuries to his chest and abdomen. However the coroner said: "The full post-mortem examination report is yet to be received."
"There is a statement from David Freeman, our coroner's officer, which reads: 'Scott Edward Sibley was a 36-year-old divorced male from Grimsby, Lincolnshire. On April 22 this year he died in Lymany in the Mykolaiv region of Ukraine.
He was the first Brit to die fighting the war and an inquest has now opened
"His death was verified by Dr R V Gerasimov. Mr Sibley travelled to Ukraine on March 13 this year and joined the Ukrainian armed forces as an HGV driver. He sustained injuries during a shelling attack."
READ MORE: North Lincs man becomes first known British casualty of the war in Ukraine
Scott Sibley, 36, from South Killingholme, was officially declared dead on April 22, little more than a month after he had entered the conflict.
"Mr Sibley volunteered for a task and spent three days in a foxhole. On the third day a new team arrived to replace his position but the foxhole came under attack. Shelling started and a shell landed beside the foxhole.
