The A180 petrol station where prices just keep falling
20220722
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/news/grimsby-news/a180-petrol-station-prices-just-7367110
On Wednesday, 20 July, the price of petrol stood at 179.9p per litre, but only yesterday, Thursday 21 July, prices dropped even further and now stand at a very competitive 174.9p per litre. Compared to elsewhere across Grimsby and Cleethorpes, this is one of the cheapest prices in the area.
Currently, the cheapest petrol elsewhere, according to petrolprices.com, is at Asda on Holles Street, coming in at 184.7p per litre, making the A180 10p cheaper than anywhere else. Many drivers were panicking over the increasing price of petrol when the Doncaster services station was seen offering petrol at over 2 a litre back in June.
Rat droppings, urine pools and mould - Grimsby takeaway closed over public health risk for second time
Many of us are worried about the rising price of fuel  but a petrol station along the A180 might be a saviour for us all.
The Jet garage just before the South Killingholme junction is very handy for when you're starting a long journey and need to fill up. It would now seem it's even more useful if you want cheap fuel.
The price hike was said to have been caused by the price of oil changing due to the war between Ukraine and Russia, with Russia being one of the main exporters of the commodity. As well, it was suggested petrol companies were 'profiteering' and raising their prices simply to gain more money.
Read more:   'I could see the evil in his eyes' - the brave officer stabbed by double murderer Daniel Boulton
"Motorists are having to endure successive months of rising prices and, sadly, it doesnt look as though February will be the last. While prices were rising due to oil production not being able to keep up with demand as life becomes more normal again, Russias invasion of Ukraine caused the barrel price to shoot past the $100 a barrel mark for the first time in nearly eight years making wholesale fuel far more expensive."
At the time of the initial price rise, RAC fuel spokesman Simon Williams said: "February was undoubtedly a shocking month for drivers. A rise of 4.5p in any month is bad enough but when it takes pump prices to record levels, its bound to hurt households across the UK.
Currently, the most expensive petrol, according to the latest figures, is at Shell on Barton Street in Laceby. Petrol stands at 188.9p per litre, just under 15p more expensive per litre than the Jet on the A180.
The garage on the A180 has seen its fair share of high prices at the start of the petrol price rise with petrol and diesel costing well over 180p a litre only a short time ago. Now though, the price just keeps falling it would seem, with some days seeing a reduction by 5p on petrol.
