Ukraine officials flee to bomb shelter during shelling attack as invasion fears grow
20220219
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-officials-flee-bomb-shelter-6689836
Denis Pushilin, head of the pro-Russian separatist government in the Donetsk region, released a statement on Saturday announcing a full troop mobilisation and urging reservists to show up at military enlistment offices.
The officials were on a tour of the frontline, where Ukrainian soldiers and Russian backed separatists are already fighting in the east of the country.
Military officials from Ukraine were forced to take cover in a bomb shelter during a shelling attack, as fears of a Russian invasion grow.
But Ukraine and the two regions of the country held by Russian backed rebels accused each other of escalating tensions.
He said: I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need.
Asked about Western warnings of a possible Russian invasion on Wednesday that did not materialise, Mr Putin said: There are so many false claims, and constantly reacting to them is more trouble than its worth.
Ukraine will continue to follow only the diplomatic path for the sake of a peaceful settlement.
After weeks of saying the US was not sure if Mr Putin had made the final decision, Mr Biden said that his judgement had changed, citing American intelligence.
An increase in skirmishes is seen as Russia looking for an excuse to launch an attack.
US president Joe Biden said on Friday he is now convinced Mr Putin has decided to invade Ukraine and assault the capital, Kyiv.
The announcement came as a mass evacuation of women, children and the elderly from the rebel-held territories in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions to neighbouring Russia got under way.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet him and seek a resolution to the crisis.
Mr Pushilin cited an immediate threat of aggression from Ukrainian forces, accusations that Ukrainian officials vehemently denied earlier.
Boris Johnson warned on Saturday Putin would be "absolutely crazy" to invade Ukraine, saying that it would result in a long war which could kill Russians and Ukrainians alike.
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops now posted around Ukraines borders, the long-simmering separatist conflict could provide the spark for a broader attack.
There has been a spike in violence, which Western leaders - such as US President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson - have said could be signs Russia is gearing up for war.
I dont know what the president of the Russian Federation wants, so I am proposing a meeting, Mr Zelenskyy said at the Munich Security Conference, which is seeking a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
It came after Russia claimed on Saturday at least two shells fired from a government-held part of eastern Ukraine landed across the border.
On Friday, the rebels began evacuating civilians to Russia with an announcement that appeared to be part of their and Moscows efforts to paint Ukraine as the aggressor.
Ukrainian forces have been fighting pro-Russia rebels since 2014 in a conflict that has killed some 14,000 people.
A journalist from The Associated Press, who was accompanying the Ukrainian officials on the tour, witnessed the attack and how they had to seek shelter.
Ukraines military said shelling killed a soldier early on Saturday in the government-held part of the Donetsk region and that separatist forces were placing artillery in residential areas to try to provoke a response.
