Ukrainian and Russian diplomats to meet as Putin puts nuclear forces on alert
20220227
https://www.grimsbytelegraph.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukrainian-russian-diplomats-meet-putin-6726588
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss warned that Mr Putin could use the most unsavoury means, including banned chemical or biological weapons, to defeat Ukraine.
But he has also expressed scorn about Ukraines right to exist as an independent state.
The United Nations refugee agency said on Sunday that about 368,000 Ukrainians have arrived in neighbouring countries since the invasion started Thursday.
Intelligence reported by the Daily Mirror has also suggested that Belarussian troops are preparing to join the attack on behalf of Russia.
Flames billowed from an oil depot near an airbase in Vasylkiv, a city 37 kilometres 23 miles south of Kyiv where there has been intense fighting, according to the mayor.
He did not specify whether the move applied to prisoners convicted of all levels of crimes.
The US ambassador to the United Nations responded to the comments from Moscow while appearing on a Sunday news programme.
The capital Kyiv was eerily quiet after huge explosions lit up the morning sky and authorities reported blasts at one of the airports.
The number of casualties so far from Europes largest land conflict since the Second World War remains unclear amid the fog of combat.
Ukraines health minister reported on Saturday that 198 people, including three children, had been killed and more than 1,000 others wounded.
As Russia pushes ahead with its offensive, the West is working to equip the outnumbered Ukrainian forces with weapons and ammunition while punishing Russia with far-reaching sanctions intended to further isolate Moscow.
Videos posted on Ukrainian media and social networks showed Russian vehicles moving across Kharkiv and Russian troops roaming the city in small groups.
The past night was tough  more shelling, more bombing of residential areas and civilian infrastructure, Mr Zelenskyy said.
The office of Ukraines president has said that a delegation will meet with Russian officials as Moscows troops draw closer to Kyiv.
Ukraines government is also releasing prisoners with military experience who want to fight for the country, a prosecutors office official, Andriy Sinyuk, told the Hromadske TV channel on Sunday.
The UN has estimated the conflict could produce as many as 4 million refugees, depending how long it continues.
He claims the West has failed to take seriously Russias security concerns about Nato, the Western military alliance that Ukraine aspires to join.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys office said on the Telegram messaging app that the two sides would meet at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border and did not give a precise time for the meeting.
Until Sunday, Russias troops had remained on the outskirts of Kharkiv, a city of 1.4 million about 20 kilometres 12.4 miles south of the border with Russia, while other forces rolled past to press the offensive deeper into Ukraine.
He said the attacks on Ukrainian cities should be investigated by an international war crimes tribunal and cost Russia its place as one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
Speaking at a meeting with his top officials, Mr Putin directed the Russian defence minister and the chief of the militarys General Staff to put the nuclear deterrent forces in a special regime of combat duty.
The US pledged an additional 350 million dollars 261 million in military assistance to Ukraine, including anti-tank weapons, body armour and small arms.
Germany said it would send missiles and anti-tank weapons to the besieged country and that it would close its airspace to Russian planes.
I urge the Russians not to escalate this conflict, but we do need to be prepared for Russia to seek to use even worse weapons, Ms Truss told Sky News.
Following its gains to the east in the city of Kharkiv and multiple ports, Russia sent a delegation to Belarus for peace talks with Ukraine, according to the Kremlin.
It could also allow Moscow to build a land corridor to Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014 and until now was connected to Russia by a 19-kilometre 12-mile bridge, the longest bridge in Europe which opened in 2018.
The news came shortly after President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian nuclear forces to be put on high alert in response to what he called aggressive statements by leading Nato powers.
Cutting Ukraines access to its sea ports would deal a major blow to the countrys economy.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, meanwhile, said on Sunday that his country is committing 100 billion euros 84 billion to a special fund for its armed forces, raising its defence spending above 2 per cent of gross domestic product.
Mr Putin sent troops into Ukraine after denying for weeks that he intended to do so, all the while building up a force of almost 200,000 troops along the countries borders.
Only an occasional car appeared on a deserted main boulevard as a strict 39-hour curfew kept people off the streets.
And we have to continue to condemn his actions in the most strong, strongest possible way.
Ukrainians have volunteered en masse to help defend the capital Kyiv and other cities, taking guns distributed by authorities and preparing firebombs to fight Russian forces.
There is not a single facility in the country that the occupiers wouldnt consider as admissible targets.
One showed Ukrainian troops firing at the Russians and damaged Russian light utility vehicles abandoned nearby.
Russia has taken the path of evil, and the world should come to depriving it of its UN Security Council seat, he said.
Mr Putin has not disclosed his ultimate plans, but Western officials believe he is determined to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own stepping up his influence in the region.
The US, European Union and United Kingdom agreed to block selected Russian banks from the Swift global financial messaging system, which moves money around more than 11,000 banks and other financial institutions worldwide, part of a new round of sanctions aiming to impose a severe cost on Moscow for the invasion.
Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, prompting the government to warn people to cover their windows with damp cloth or gauze as protection from smoke, the presidents office said.
A Russian Defence Ministry spokesman, Major General Igor Konashenkov, said Russian forces had blocked the cities of Kherson on the Black Sea and the port of Berdyansk on the Azov Sea.
The alarming step came as street fighting broke out in Ukraines second-largest city and Russian troops squeezed strategic ports in the countrys south, advances that appeared to mark a new phase of Russias invasion following a wave of attacks on airfields and fuel facilities elsewhere in the country.
The images underscored the determined resistance Russian troops face while attempting to enter Ukraines bigger cities.
Ukrainian officials initially rejected the move, saying any talks should take place somewhere other than Belarus, where Russia has placed a large contingent of troops.
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading Nato members made aggressive statements regarding our country, Mr Putin said in televised comments.
He said the Russian forces also took control of an airbase near Kherson and the Azov Sea city of Henichesk.
Responding to a request from Ukraines minister of digital transformation, tech billionaire Elon Musk said on Twitter that his satellite-based internet system Starlink was now active in Ukraine and that there were more terminals en route.
Russia claims its assault on Ukraine is aimed only at military targets, but bridges, schools and residential neighbourhoods have been hit.
Terrified residents instead hunkered down in homes, underground garages and subway stations in anticipation of a full-scale Russian assault.
The pressure on strategic ports in the south of Ukraine appeared aimed at seizing control of the countrys coastline stretching from the border with Romania in the west to the border with Russia in the east.
Mr Zelenskyy suggested other locations, saying his country was unwilling to meet in Belarus because it served as a staging ground for the invasion.
Laetitia Courtois, the ICRCs permanent observer to the UN, told the Associated Press that the situation in Ukraine was a limitation for our teams on the ground and we therefore cannot confirm numbers or other details.
It was unclear whether those figures included both military and civilian casualties. Russia has not released any casualty information.
President Putin is continuing to escalate this war in a manner that is totally unacceptable, ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said.
Ukraines UN ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya, tweeted on Saturday that Ukraine appealed to the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC to facilitate repatriation of thousands of bodies of Russian soldiers.
Mr Scholz told a special session of the Bundestag the investment was needed to protect our freedom and our democracy.
Ukraines ambassador to the US, Oksana Markarova, said Ukraine was gathering evidence of shelling of residential areas, nurseries and hospitals to submit to an international war crimes court in The Hague as possible crimes against humanity.
The announcement on Sunday came hours after Russia announced that its delegation had flown to Belarus to await talks.
