The Army Brief Protecting NATO allies Defending Pacific bases Veteran health care enrollment and more
20220121
https://www.defenseone.com/threats/2022/01/army-brief-protecting-nato-allies-defending-pacific-bases-veteran-health-care-enrollment-and-more/360995/
Protecting Pacific bases. Air Force Secretary Frank Kendall is the latest defense official to call for more protection of base infrastructure in the Pacific from missile threats posed by China, Defense One reports. The top soldier in Japan has also called for more missile defense protection in the first island chain, and U.S. Indo-Pacific Commands deputy commander said protecting Guam has been a top funding priority for years.
Ukraine Needs Help Surviving Airstrikes, Not Just Killing Tanks  Dara Massicot: A Russian invasion would likely start with a punishing bombardment intended to induce quick capitulation.
Welcome to The Army Brief, a weekly look at the news and ideas shaping the services future.
Blinken Delivers Closing Argument In Rebuke of Russia  Jacqueline Feldscher: Americas top diplomat refuted Russias claims that it is acting in self-defense on the Ukrainian border.
Sign up to get The Army Brief every Friday morning from Caitlin M. Kenney, Defense Ones military services reporter. On Jan 17, 1991, Operation Desert Storm began with air strikes in Iraq and Kuwait.
The Embry-Riddle Army ROTC Ranger Challenge team heads out on the 12-mile road march after completing the timed obstacle course event of the 6th Brigade Army ROTC Ranger Challenge, January 14, 2022, at Fort Benning, Ga.
Article 5 promise. More American troops will be sent to eastern NATO countries like Poland and Romania to protect them if Russian forces invade Ukraine, Defense One reports. Allies in the region have been asking for years for a greater U.S. troop presence to deter Russian aggression.
VA enrollment. The House passed a bill to automatically enroll eligible transitioning service members into the Veterans Affairs healthcare system. The change would affect about 60,000 new veterans every year, Military Times reports.
New Report Offers Glimpse Of How AI Will Remake Spywork  Patrick Tucker: AI could accelerate intelligence use, if the government can get out of the way, new report says.
