A clear stand against Putins war of choice US EU to impose new sanctions against Russia six charred bodies found April 5 recap
20220405
https://www.cantonrep.com/story/news/politics/2022/04/05/ukraine-russia-invasion-putin-updates/9465033002/
The U.S. should establish permanent baseswith rotating forces in new Eastern European locationsas a hedge against Russian aggression,the top U.S military officer told Congress on Tuesday.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM:Join our new Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone.
One charred body had arms raised in supplication, the face contorted in a scream. The skull of another had a bullet hole in the left temple. A child's small, blackened foot could be seen in the tangle of bodies.
The financial system in Russia is near the brink of collapse, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said, defending the effectiveness of sanctions to date. It is more and more difficult for President Putin to fund this war every single day. That has an impact.
I believe that a lot of our European allies, especially those such as the Baltics or Poland and Romania, and elsewhere  theyre very, very willing to establish permanent bases,'' Milley said. "Theyll build them, theyll pay for them.
Russian forces are using banned anti-personnel mines as they pull back from cities in Ukraine, aHuman Rights Watch reportsays.
The result: More than 10 million Ukrainians have fled their homes and more than 4 million of them havefled the country.
The Pentagon announced late Tuesday that $100 million worth of Javelin anti-tank missiles will be sent to Ukraine to meet an urgent need, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement.
Russia is using adevice known as thePom-3 Medallion, a mine capable of killing people within a 50-foot radius, Human Rights Watch said.
The Czech Republic is shipping old Soviet-built infantry vehicles andtanks to Ukraine, Czech lawmaker Ondrej Benesik said in a Twitter post. The Czech Republic is the first country to provide tanks to Ukraine.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres addressed the Security Council before Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Tuesday, saying the world is "dealing with a full-fledged invasion" in violation of the U.N.Charter.
Zelenskyy told the U.N. Security Council that satellite images show what really happenedduring the attacks on Bucha, adding, "we can conduct full andtransparent investigations."
Atrocities near Kyiv fuel global outrage. Will it be a tipping point in the war?
He also called for soldiers whosavagely attacked civilians  and those who issued the orders  to face trialfor the apparent massacre by Russian forces in and around Kyivand other major cities.
French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said Tuesday there is a total determination from all 27 E.U. countries for more severe sanctions targeting oil and coal.Europes dependence on Russian oil, natural gas and coal had left energy sanctions off the table amid fears the entire continent could plungeinto recession.
A group of Harvard University students have created a website to help Ukrainian refugees find housing around the world.
Others were dumped in mass graves.As theyve retreated, Russians have also left behind land mines and booby traps to injure more Ukrainians and slow recovery, Price said.
"Today we are proposing a 5th package of sanctions. To take a clear stand is crucial for the whole world," the E.U. Commission said in a Twitter post. "A clear stand against Putins war of choice. Against the massacre of civilians."
Biden on Monday called for a war crimes trial for Putin. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy detailed the carnage in towns around Kyiv during an address to NATO on Tuesday, accusing Russian troops of killing entire families, adults and children.
Russian troops allowed 1,496 civilians to evacuate the besieged city of Mariupol by private vehicle but blocked the entry of a convoy of evacuation buses accompanied by Red Cross workers, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
Germanys president is admitting mistakes in policy toward Russia in his previous job as foreign minister.President Frank-Walter Steinmeier served twice as foreign minister, most recently from 2013 to 2017, and pursued dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin to cultivate energy ties. Russia provides Germany with about one-third of it oil and gas and more than half its coal.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyydrew parallels between the Russian attacks on Ukrainian cities and the 1937 bombing of the Basque town of Guernica by Nazi aircraft during the Spanish Civil War as he urgedSpanish companies to cease all business with Russiain a video address to the Spanish Parliament.
Maxar Technologies provided nine images taken of Bucha on March 18, 19 and 31 to Reuters, and at least four of the images appear to show bodies on the street. Ukraine forces took back the city last week.
As a result of sanctions on Russia following PresidentVladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine, Russias economy is forecast to contract as much as 15 or more in 2022, according to the official.
Allies are already discussing additional sanctions and ways to help Ukraine document war crimes for a criminal prosecution, Price said. The U.S. has contributed both money and manpower to help Ukraines prosecutor general compile a case.
Ukraine and Polish officials have criticized Steinmeier for being too close to Russia. Ukraine's ambassador to Berlin boycotted a peace concert with Russian artists organized by Steinmeier.
Satellite images taken weeks ago of the town of Bucha outside Kyiv show bodies of civilians on a street, undercutting the Russianclaims that Ukrainian forces staged the scene when they retook the city, Reuters reported.
The United States and the European Union plan to impose stiff new sanctions against Russiain retaliation for its war crimes in Ukraine after revelations of atrocities in towns near Kyiv, including the discovery Tuesday of six burned and blackened corpses.
The Biden administration will announce new sanctions Wednesday that include a ban on new investment in Russia in response to atrocities in Ukraine, among them recent revelations of barbaric acts in the town of Bucha that show further evidence of war crimes, according to sources familiar with the decision.
The penalties, made in coordination with G7 and European Union allies, also involve increased sanctions on financial institutions and state-owned enterprises and also on Russian government officials and their family members.
In his address to the U.N. Security Council on Tuesday, Ukrainian President VolodymyrZelenskyyreiterated that Russia had committed war crimes and said the U.N. must hold Russia leaders accountableto show other potentialwar criminals "howthey will be punished if thebiggest one is punished."
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko, addressing a mayors forum organized by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, urgedcountries to halt all businesswith Russia "because every euro, every cent, they receive from Russians  or what you send to Russia  has the blood of Ukrainians on it."
"They are mining all this territory," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in avideo address."Mining houses, equipment, even the bodies of killed people. Too many tripwire mines, too many other dangers." Read more here.
The war's victims, Guterres said, also include more than 1.2 billion citizens of developing nations struggling with rising prices and other economic issues aggravated by the war.
The evidence of heinous acts committed in the towns around the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv gets more horrific by the day.
However, there is growing momentum in Europe to ban Russian coal, and possibly to impose sanctions on imports of its oil and natural gas, which could deliver a majorblow to the struggling Russian economy.
The credible reports of torture, rapeand civilian executions in Ukraine are probably not the acts of rogue soldiers, State Department spokesman Ned Price said Monday.
While Russian officials deny responsibility and claim the abhorrent images seen worldwide were staged, eyewitness accounts, journalists' reports and satellite imagery confirm a tale of unspeakable savagery committed upon civilians young and old.
The circumstances regarding their death remain a mystery, but they join the growing list of atrocities discovered after Russian troops withdrew from the areas around Kyiv.
"They killed entire families, adults and children, and they tried to burn their bodies," said Zelenskyy, whourged the U.N. to provide security guarantees to Ukraine. Since Russia holds veto power, though, the Security Councilwill be unable to act.
The European Unions executive branch on Tuesday proposed a ban on coal imports from Russia, in what would be the first sanctions targeting Moscow's lucrativeenergy income for its war in Ukraine.The coal imports amount to an estimated 4 billion euros $4.4 billion per year.
Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the bases could be funded by other countries such asPolandand theBaltic nations  Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania -- that want more U.S. troops to provide protection from Russia.Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said any effort to expand security in Eastern Europe is a work in progress that probably will be discussed at the NATO summit in June.
The apparent atrocities will be one of the topics of discussion when Secretary of State Antony Blinken meets with his NATO counterparts in Belgium this week.
Ukraine says 410 dead civilians were found in Kyiv-area towns recently retaken from Russian forces. In Bucha, 280 people were buried in mass graves, according to Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.The Ukrainian prosecutor-generals office has described one room discovered in Bucha as a torture chamber.
Steinmeier told ZDF television Tuesday that we failed on many points, including efforts to encourage Russia toward democracy and respecting human rights.
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Tuesday, April 5. Follow here for the latest updates and news from Wednesday, April 6, as Russia's invasion continues.
The news comes afterUkrainian President VolodymyrZelenskyytold the U.N. Security Council earlierTuesday that the U.N. must bring war crimes charges against Russian leaders.
Weve heard all sorts of amazing stories of hosts and refugees getting connected all over the world, Burstein said. We have hosts in almost any country you can imagine from Hungary and Romania and Poland to Canada to Australia."
A Biden administration official said the measures are designed to degrade key instruments of Russian state power, impose acute and immediate economic harm on Russia, and hold accountable the Russian kleptocracy that funds and supports Putins war.
Ukrainetakeshelter.com, created byAvi SchiffmannandMarco Burstein, encourages everyone with space in their homes to post a listing. Refugees and hosts must provideidentity verification either through government issued ID card or passport. Over18,000 prospective hosts have signed up on the site. On a recent day, Burstein and Schiffman logged 800,000 users.
The Russian military killed "anyone whoserved our country," Zelenskyy said Tuesday. Women were shot outside their homes as they searched for friends and loves ones, he said, and some were raped in front of their children. Zelenskyy reaffirmed that Ukrainian forces that retook cities found mass graves, revelations of atrocities and infrastructure destroyed by Russian forces.
Burstein said he, Schiffman and Irish software engineerDaniel Conlon have been "blown away" by the response.
THE NEWS COMES TO YOU:Get the latest updates on the situation in Ukraine. Sign up here
The1997 International Mine Ban Treatyprohibits the manufacture and use of antipersonnel mines. Ukraine is one of 164 nations that signed the treaty.The United Statesand Russia have not signed it.
Price said the world has been shocked by the horrifying images of the Kremlin's brutality in Bucha and other cities near Kyiv. Civilians, many with their hands tied, were apparently executed in the streets.
The missiles have helped Ukrainian forces mount a fierce, effective resistance to Russian troops who invaded Ukraine in late February.
'They are part of a broader, troubling campaign, he said at a State Department briefing.
On Tuesday, Associated Press journalists sawsix burned and blackened corpses piled togetherjust off a residential street near a playground,the latest gruesome scene to emerge from Bucha as world leaders push for Russia to be held accountable.
The new penalties by the U.S. and its allies, which will be announced Wednesday, include aban on new investment in Russia and are intended in part to"impose acute and immediate economic harm on Russia."
