Biden says Putin will pay dear price if he invades Ukraine
20220119
https://infotel.ca/newsitem/eu-united-states-ukraine/cp1808264036
This military support not only speaks to our strategic plans of Ukraine joining the alliance, but more importantly to the level of our military, our military supplies, he said, referring to Kyivs desire to join NATO.
Blinken, though, said no such formal response was coming. I wont be presenting a paper at that time to Foreign Minister Lavrov, he said. "We need to see where we are and see if there remain opportunities to pursue the diplomacy and pursue the dialogue.
Zelenskyy released a video address to the nation on Wednesday evening, urging Ukrainians not to panic over fears of a possible invasion. But he said the country has been living with the Russian threat for many years and should always be prepared for war. He called on all Ukrainians, especially the elderly, to breathe and calm down.
Ukraines president also gave assurances that the country was strengthening its defense capabilities and doing everything possible to resolve the crisis through diplomacy.
Biden, who spoke with Putin twice last month, said he's made it clear to him that Russia would face severe sanctions. Still, he said the decision for Putin could come down to what side of the bed" he wakes up on.
The U.S. and its allies have said the Russian demands are non-starters, that Russia knows they are and that Putin is using them in part to create a pretext for invading Ukraine, which has strong ethnic and historical ties to Russia. The former Soviet republic aspires to join the alliance, though has little hope of doing so in the foreseeable future.
Biden, speaking at a news conference to mark his one-year anniversary in office, also said he believes that Russia is preparing to take action on Ukraine, though he doesn't think the Russian president has made a final decision. He suggested that he would limit Russia's access to the international banking system if it did further invade Ukraine.
Washington and its allies have kept the door open to possible further talks on arms control and confidence-building measures to reduce the potential for hostilities.
WASHINGTON AP  President Joe Biden said he believes Vladimir Putin doesnt want full blown war in Ukraine and would pay a dear price if he moves forward with a military incursion.
On Wednesday, French President Emmanuel Macron called on the European Union to draw up a plan to ease tensions with Russia, We should build it among Europeans, then share it with our allies in the framework of NATO, and then propose it for negotiation to Russia, he said.
Im not so sure that he is certain what is he going to do, Biden said. He added, My guess is he will move in."
Blinken told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that the U.S. and its allies were steadfast in backing his country and its democratic aspirations against Russian attempts to incite division and discord through relentless aggression."
Blinkens visit to the Ukrainian capital came two days before he is to meet in Geneva with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. That follows a series of inconclusive talks last week that failed to ease rising tensions.
Biden's comments came hours after U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a visit to Kyiv accused Russia of planning to reinforce the more than 100,000 troops it has deployed along the Ukrainian border and suggested that number could double on relatively short order. Blinken did not elaborate, but Russia has sent an unspecified number of troops from the countrys far east to its ally Belarus, which also shares a border with Ukraine, for major war games next month.
Lee reported from Kyiv. Associated Press writers Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow and Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv contributed to this report.
Ryabkov insisted, however, that there cant be any meaningful talks on those issues if the West doesnt heed the main Russian requests for the non-expansion of NATO with a formal response. He said the Russian demands are "a package, and were not prepared to divide it into different parts, to start processing some of those at the expense of standing idle on others.
Ukraine, meanwhile, said it was prepared for the worst and would survive whatever difficulties come its way. The president urged the country not to panic.
Russia has brushed off calls to withdraw its troops by saying it has a right to deploy its forces wherever it likes on its own territory. It also has rejected U.S. allegations that its preparing a false flag operation" to use as a pretext for intervention. Russia has angrily denied the charge.
The U.S. president said he believes the decision will solely be Putin's and suggested he was not fully confident that Russian officials with whom top White House advisers have been negotiating are fully informed about Putin's thinking.
Our strength depends on preserving our unity and that includes unity within Ukraine, he told Zelenskyy. I think one of Moscows long-standing goals has been to try to sow divisions between and within our countries, and quite simply we cannot and will not let them do that.
The Biden administration had said earlier it was providing an additional $200 million in defensive military aid to Ukraine. Blinken said more assistance is coming and that it would only increase should Russia invade.
Russia in 2014 seized the Crimean Peninsula after the ouster of Ukraines Moscow-friendly leader and also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting between the Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the countrys industrial heartland, called Donbas.
Blinken urged Western nations to remain united in the face of Russian aggression. He also reassured Ukraine's leader of NATO support while calling for Ukrainians to stand strong.
In Kyiv, Blinken reiterated Washington's demands for Russia to de-escalate the situation by removing its forces from the border area, something that Moscow has flatly refused to do. And, Blinken said he wouldn't give Russia the written response it expects to its demands when he and Lavrov meet in Geneva.
Your visit is very important, Zelenskyy said. "It underlines once again your powerful support of our independence and sovereignty.
The Biden administration and its allies have accused Putin of creating the crisis and say it is up to him and the Russians to decide whether to invade and suffer severe economic consequences.
From Kyiv, Blinken plans a short trip to Berlin for talks with German and other European allies on Thursday before meeting with Lavrov.
Russian military activity has been increasing in recent weeks, but the U.S. has not concluded whether Putin plans to invade or whether the show of force is intended to squeeze the security concessions without an actual conflict.
Theres a question of whether the people theyre talking to know what hes going to do, Biden said.
Before Blinken's visit to Kyiv, a delegation of U.S. senators traveled to Ukraine to emphasize congressional support for the country.
Hes never seen sanctions like the ones I promised will be imposed if he moves, No. 1, Biden warned. This is not all just a cake walk for Russia, Biden said. Theyll pay a stiff price immediately" and in the medium and long term "if they do it.
Zelenskyy thanked Blinken for the aid, which was approved in late December but not confirmed until Wednesday.
Biden also suggested a minor incursion would elicit a lesser response than a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, saying "it's very important that we keep everyone in NATO on the same page." Biden later in the news conference sought to clarify that he was referring to a non-military action, such as a cyberattack, that would be met with a similar reciprocal response.
Meanwhile, a top Russian diplomat said Moscow would not back down from its insistence that the U.S. formally ban Ukraine from ever joining NATO and reduce its and the alliance's military presence in Eastern Europe. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said Moscow had no intention of invading Ukraine but that its demands for security guarantees were non-negotiable.
