No politics allowed in Kelownas Russian and Ukrainian Deli
20220304
https://infotel.ca/newsitem/no-politics-allowed-in-kelownas-russian-and-ukrainian-deli/it89309
This sign in the Russian and Ukrainian Deli in Kelowna makes it clear that politics is not allowed.ROB MUNRO  iNFOnews.ca
We dont have Russian flags, Ukrainian flags, any flags or anything symbolic, Smironova said. Only the name: Russian and Ukrainian Deli.
We support Ukraine, yes, Smironova said. It is a terrible situation when people die, especially women and children and old people.
To contact a reporter for this story, email Rob Munroor call 250-808-0143 or email the editor. You can also submit photos, videos or news tips to the newsroomand be entered to win a monthly prize draw.
She and husband Alex Smirnov hold Canadian and Israeli citizenship and are originally from Belarus. They bought the store seven years ago and did not want to change the name.
READ MORE:'I am not OK': Canadian Ukrainian in Kamloops in emotional pain as Russia invades homeland
Customers come from many Eastern European countries, including Georgia, Latvia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Lithuania and Poland. And Canada.
While most customers, including Russians seem to support Ukraine, the deli is not the place to discuss any opposing views on the war.
A Kelowna deli catering to Eastern European tastes  with lots of Russian and Ukrainian customers  is not the place to talk about the war in Ukraine.
We welcome your comments and opinions on our stories but play nice. We won't censor or delete comments unless they contain off-topic statements or links, unnecessary vulgarity, false facts, spam or obviously fake profiles. If you have any concerns about what you see in comments, email the editor in the link above.
Russian people are different than Ukrainian, store co-owner Alena Smironova told iNFOnews.ca. Thats why I dont want to speak about politics the way it is right now. To see and hear about it is very hard.
In my store, I dont want to see it and that is why I put the sign up: No politics here, Smironova said.
