Rally for those impacted by Russian invasion of Ukraine held in Kamloops
20220311
https://infotel.ca/newsitem/rally-for-those-impacted-by-russian-invasion-of-ukrainian-held-in-kamloops/it89463
Around thirty faculty members and students stood quietly in the chilly weather outside the campus activity centre at 11 a.m. today, March 10, many holding Ukrainian flags.
Representatives from the university relations department spoke about the impact the war is having on students, encouraging everyone to reach out to those who may be suffering.
We welcome your comments and opinions on our stories but play nice. We won't censor or delete comments unless they contain off-topic statements or links, unnecessary vulgarity, false facts, spam or obviously fake profiles. If you have any concerns about what you see in comments, email the editor in the link above.
The two hour rally, held by the Thompson Rivers University Faculty Association, was a show of support and solidarity with Ukrainian colleagues, and included speeches from the Kamloops-Thompson-Cariboo MP, professors and members of the university relations department. It was an expression of concern for those impacted by Russian state terror and violence.
The first speaker to share her thoughts was Melanie Reed, a professor in the business department with family living in Ukraine. She first went to Ukraine to meet her cousins in 2019.
My immediate concern as a member of parliament is for the people who are fleeing Ukraine, particularly people who are stuck in Ukraine, people who fled to Poland or Romania or Turkey or anywhere else, he said. If you know of anybody who needs assistance, please contact my office well do our best.
Kamloops-Thompson-Cariboo federal MP Frank Caputo expressed his appreciation and gratitude for the faculty and students who showed up for the rally.
Caputo has asked the government to review the visa requirement for those entering Canada, to enable Ukrainians to come here immediately. He said the best thing for people to do to help is initiate the visa process, and donate time and money generously.
To contact a reporter for this story, email Shannon Ainslieor call 250-819-6089 or email the editor. You can also submit photos, videos or news tips to the newsroomand be entered to win a monthly prize draw.
READ MORE:TRU faculty to rally in support of those impacted by Russian invasion of Ukraine
Reed said she receives daily updates from her family, and is seeing the same values play out today.
I saw a culture of hardworking, peaceful, resilient, loving people, she said. People who took care of each other, took care of their communities and people who helped out those who needed it without having to be persuaded to do so. I felt I was at home.
We are showing what it means to be a community here today, Caputo said. It gives me some joy to see people here because they believe in Ukrainian sovereignty and in the humanity of all Ukrainians.
