Johnson warns of dangerous moment in Ukraine tensions
20220210
https://www.lancashiretelegraph.co.uk/news/national/19915032.johnson-warns-dangerous-moment-ukraine-tensions/
Rejecting Ms Trusss call for forces to pull back, Mr Lavrov said: The demands to remove the Russian troops from the Russian territory cause regret. We dont want to threaten anyone. Its us who are facing threats.
At an earlier press conference, speaking alongside Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg at the alliances headquarters in Brussels, the Prime Minister called on Russia to engage in meaningful talks because it was far better to begin a discussion now than to have a catastrophe.
Speaking to broadcasters in Warsaw, Mr Johnson said there had to be a diplomatic solution to the crisis.
Its possible, I dont want to rule this out, but at the moment we think the package is the right one.
The visit to Moscow was the first by a foreign secretary in four years, with the relationship between the UK and Russia severely strained by incidents including the 2018 Salisbury nerve agent attack.
In a sign of the chilly atmosphere at the talks, Mr Lavrov said ideological approaches, ultimatums and moralising is a road to nowhere and accused Ms Truss of being ill-prepared for the negotiations.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Asked if he could authorise military support to an insurgency in Ukraine in the event of an invasion, he said: We will consider what more we can conceivably offer.
Russia has insisted it has no plans to invade Ukraine but the Nato alliance is alarmed by the build-up of more than 100,000 troops on the borders with its neighbour.
Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss was involved in testy exchanges with Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov, with no sign of a diplomatic breakthrough being achieved following their meeting in Moscow.
We wont accept, Poland and the UK, wont accept a world in which a powerful neighbour can bully or attack their neighbours.
She added: There is still time for Russia to end its aggression towards Ukraine and pursue the path of diplomacy.
Ms Truss said: If Russia is serious about diplomacy they need to move those troops and desist from the threats.
I think today, February 10 2022, we stand on the edge of a precipice and things are as dangerous as I have seen them in Europe for a very, very long time, he said.
But he indicated force levels would fall once military exercises had been completed, at which point the West will likely claim that it has forced Russia to de-escalate.
The Ukrainians are well prepared, there are things weve offered that they, in fact, dont seem to need because they think they have them in enough numbers already.
He later told broadcasters in Warsaw there must be an automatic package of sanctions ready to go if Russia attacks Ukraine, and said they must include the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
The UK has already supplied 2,000 anti-tank missiles, body armour, helmets and combat boots to Ukraine and Mr Johnson indicated he could go further.
Ukraine is not part of Nato. What we are sticking up for is the right of Ukraine like any other sovereign independent country to aspire to that.
It has also pledged extra help for Nato allies, with 350 Royal Marines arriving in Poland to coincide with the Prime Ministers visit.
Standing alongside Polish counterpart Mateusz Morawiecki in Warsaw, Mr Johnson said: We need to work together now to achieve de-escalation, to persuade Vladimir Putin to de-escalate and to disengage.
But Mr Johnson made clear that Britain could not intervene militarily if Ukraine was attacked.
But I want to stress it would be an absolute disaster if it was to come to that and if there was to be serious bloodshed on Ukrainian soil.
It is up to Vladimir Putin to disengage and de-escalate and the way forward is diplomacy.
He characterised the meeting as a conversation between deaf and dumb, but Ms Truss said: I was not mute in our discussions earlier, I put forward the UKs point of view on the current situation and the fact that as well as seeking to deter Russia from an invasion into Ukraine, we are also very resolute in pursuing the diplomatic path.
But Nato is very clear that if that path is not chosen there will be severe consequences for Russia, Ukraine and the whole of Europe.
Vladimir Putin must not be allowed to bully eastern Europe, Boris Johnson said as he warned the continent faced its biggest security crisis in decades.
In a pooled clip for broadcasters at a military base in Warsaw, he said: The UK has been supplying some defensive weaponry in the form of anti-tank missiles, we have been training Ukrainian troops. That is as far as we can go at the moment.
The Prime Minister indicated further military support could be offered to Ukraine if Russia invades as he carried out engagements at Nato headquarters in Brussels and alongside his Polish counterpart in Warsaw.
Ms Truss called for Russia to pull its troops back from the border to ease tensions.
There had also been cyberattacks and other attempts to undermine the activities of a sovereign nation.
The UK has put 1,000 troops on standby in case of a humanitarian crisis in the east if the current Russian military build-up leads to war.
Speaking at the press conference in Brussels, Mr Johnson said the intelligence on the prospect of an invasion was grim but he did not believe Mr Putin had yet decided on whether to act.
There is no doubt that the stationing of over 100,000 troops on the Ukrainian border is directly put in place to threaten Ukraine, she said.
This is probably the most dangerous moment in the course of the next few days in what is the biggest security crisis Europe has faced for decades, he said.
