Thanks as Lancashire welcomes 1000th Ukrainian refugee
20220816
https://www.lancashiretelegraph.co.uk/news/20661493.thanks-lancashire-welcomes-1-000th-ukrainian-refugee/
"Six months on and the message is the same  Lancashire stands ready, willing, and able to play our part in the UKs response to the horrors taking place in Ukraine.
"Through the kindness of our residents, the UK Government has been able to find homes in our county for more than a thousand individuals who desperately need one.
Over the past six months, hundreds of individuals and families fleeing Ukraine following the invasion of Russia have begun a new life in Lancashire via the Homes for Ukraine scheme.
Leader of the county council, Cllr Phillippa Williamson said: "From the very outset of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Lancashire has stood firm in its support with our European neighbours.
As of August 12, 541 sponsors in Lancashire have been matched with 1,342 people via the scheme. So far, 1,002 people have arrived in Lancashire.
Residents, volunteers and organisations across the county are being thanked for their part in aiding the people of Ukraine, as Lancashire welcomes its 1,000th arrival.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
"I would also like to thank the many organisations and volunteers who have been working round the clock to make sure our new guests settle into their new lives in Lancashire."
It comes as the people of Ukraine prepare to celebrate Independence Day of Ukraine on August 24  six months to the day after Russia's invasion, with County Hall set to be lit up in yellow and blue in a further show of solidarity.
The scheme is being led by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, with Lancashire Refugee Integration Team and Lancashire Resilience Forum coordinating the Lancashire-wide response, which also includes accessing healthcare, welfare and schools.
