We are realising this war will last much longer than expected  Ukrainian MP
20220823
https://www.lancashiretelegraph.co.uk/news/national/20723691.we-realising-war-will-last-much-longer-expected---ukrainian-mp/
Ms Sovsun, who has a nine-year-old son named Martyn, has largely remained in Kyiv since military action began and attempted to adjust to life in the capital where citizens can expect up to three air raid sirens a day.
I remember my feelings at the end of February, I would think: I so much want this to be over, I want to go back to my home.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
I feel like my life has been taken away from me  I cannot see my boyfriend, I have to constantly worry about whether hes alive or not because hes fighting in the war.
Deputy leader of the Holos Party Inna Sovsun said she has realised the conflict will not be over for some time and though she feels her life has been taken away from her, the war has allowed Ukrainians to appreciate this independence so much more.
Wednesday marks six months since Russia invaded on February 24, and is a day that coincides with the Independence Day of Ukraine  when the Declaration of Independence from the Soviet Union was issued in 1991.
They have grown to realise that its valuable, its something important, not just a day where you can go picnicking with your friends.
And we have a different path  and we are willing to fight for that.
Ms Sovsun said she is overly emotional when thinking about the national holiday for her country this year.
She said reflecting on the last six months is very uncomfortable as Ukrainians come to accept that the war is going to last longer than they had initially hoped.
Its very uncomfortable, but I think were trying to start living with the thought that it will last much longer than we expected, she said.
She also said she has been willing Western allies to provide tanks for her countrys military.
There is a revived interest in this national identity, Ms Sovsun said. And the absolute majority, like 95 of people, say we will win.
But I think everybody is just so much more aware that we need to be independent because we are different from Russia.
There is lots of information online saying you should be wary of increased dangers and increased threats on the 24th, she said.
Ms Sovsun said that many Ukrainians are voicing concern about what Vladimir Putin has planned for Ukraines Independence Day.
A Ukrainian MP has described the ongoing conflict as our real war for real independence from Russia on Ukraines Independence Day, despite admitting that many are starting to grapple with the thought that the war will last much longer than expected.
This is our real war for real independence from Russia, Ms Sovsun, 37, told the PA news agency.
There is information that they have gathered quite a lot of military power over there, in terms of missiles and aircraft.
I still want this to be over, but its not my overwhelming thought because Im trying to grapple with this idea that it can take much longer.
She added that the Ukrainian Government would not be allowing any mass celebrations on Wednesday and has recommended people leave Kyiv.
She noted many people, while not able to celebrate through usual parades or larger celebrations, have bought traditional Ukrainian shirts, vyshyvankas.
