Western leaders allege Russia sending troops to eastern Ukraine
20220222
https://www.lancashiretelegraph.co.uk/news/national/19943019.western-leaders-allege-russia-sending-troops-eastern-ukraine/
Russia has long denied it has any plans to invade Ukraine, instead blaming the US and its allies for the current crisis and describing Ukraines bid to join Nato as an existential challenge to Russia.
Amid the soaring tensions, US President Joe Biden and Mr Putin tentatively agreed to a meeting in a last-ditch effort to avoid war.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitri Peskov said Russia has recognised the rebel regions independence in borders that existed when they proclaimed their independence in 2014  broad territories that extend far beyond the areas now under rebel control and that include the major Black Sea port of Mariupol.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The Russian moves also pushed Germany to suspend the certification process for the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that was to bring natural gas from Russia.
The Kremlin then raised the stakes further on Tuesday, by saying that recognition extends even to parts held by Ukrainian forces.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin on Tuesday said China would continue to stay in engagement with all parties, continuing to steer clear from committing to back Russia despite the close ties between Moscow and Beijing.
While he said that Russian tanks have already rolled into eastern Ukraine, he warned a full-scale offensive would bring further powerful sanctions.
But the US always said that if Russia moved in, the meeting would be off.
Even as alarm spread across the globe, Mr Zelenskyy sought to project calm, telling Ukraine in an address overnight: We are not afraid of anyone or anything. We dont owe anyone anything. And we wont give anything to anyone.
The Kremlin has not confirmed any troop deployments to the rebel east, saying it will depend on the security situation.
For weeks, Western powers have been bracing for an invasion as Russia massed an estimated 150,000 troops on three sides of neighbouring Ukraine.
Polands Defence Ministry and British Health Secretary Sajid Javid also said Russian forces had entered Ukraines east, with Mr Javid telling Sky News that the invasion of Ukraine has begun.
His foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba will be in Washington on Tuesday to meet US secretary of state Antony Blinken, the State Department said.
Western leaders said Russian troops have moved into rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine after President Vladimir Putin recognised their independence  but some indicated it was not yet the long-feared fully fledged invasion as confusion reigned in the region.
They have also warned Moscow would look for cover to invade  and just such a pretext appeared to come on Monday, when Mr Putin recognised as independent two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, where government troops have long fought Russia-backed rebels.
Moscow has also demanded the alliance halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from eastern Europe  demands flatly rejected by the West.
We are ready to show you what the real decommunisation would mean for Ukraine, Mr Putin added ominously in an apparent signal of his readiness to raise new land claims.
The Bills, which sailed quickly through the Kremlin-controlled parliament, envisage military ties between Moscow and the separatist regions, including possible deployment of Russian military bases in the separatist regions.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson also said the UK would slap sanctions on five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals.
Mr Putin reiterated those accusations in an hour-long televised speech on Monday, when he announced that Russia would recognise the rebels.
Ukrainian forces later reclaimed control of a large part of both regions early in the nearly eight-year separatist conflict that has killed more than 14,000 people.
Russian troops have entered in Donbas, the name for the area where the two separatist regions are located, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in Paris on Tuesday.
Sweeping through more than a century of history, Mr Putin painted todays Ukraine as a modern construct used by the West to contain Russia despite the neighbours inextricable links.
Russia says it wants Western guarantees that Nato will not allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members.
But in a distinction that is sure to complicate a European and Western response, he added: I wouldnt say that it is a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil.
In response to the moves thus far, top EU officials said the bloc was prepared to impose sanctions on several Russian officials and banks financing the Russian armed forces and move to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
Mr Putin warned on Monday that the Western rejection of Moscows demands gives Russia the right to take other steps to protect its security.
The White House has also moved to respond, issuing an executive order to prohibit US investment and trade in the separatist regions, and additional measures  probably sanctions  were to be announced on Tuesday.
The pipeline was built to help Germany meet its energy needs, particularly as it switches off its last three nuclear power plants and phases out the use of coal, and it has resisted calls by the US and others to halt the project.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he would consider breaking diplomatic ties with Russia and Kyiv recalled its ambassador in Moscow.
Those sanctions are independent of what Washington has prepared in the event of a Russian invasion, according to a senior administration official.
They warned an attack would cause massive casualties, energy shortages in Europe and economic chaos around the globe  and promised swift and severe sanctions if it materialised.
But confusion over what exactly was happening on the border threatened to hobble a Western response.
EU foreign ministers are meeting later to discuss the measures  but they did not appear to include the massive punishment repeatedly promised in case of a fully fledged invasion.
The recognition move opened the door for Mr Putin to formalise his hold on the regions and send forces in, though Ukraine and its Western allies have long claimed Russian troops have been fighting there for years.
As world leaders scrambled to decide on their response, legislation that is likely to set the stage for a deeper move into Ukrainian territory moved through Russias parliament.
Vladislav Brig, a member of the separatist local council in Donetsk, told reporters that the Russian troops had already moved in, but more senior rebel leaders did not confirm that.
In a stark warning to Ukraine, the Russian leader claimed that it has unfairly inherited Russias historic land granted to it by the Communist rulers of the Soviet Union and mocked its effort to shed the Communist past in a so-called decommunisation campaign.
