Money Report
20220823
https://www.nbcdfw.com/news/business/money-report/state-department-urges-americans-to-leave-ukraine-un-says-world-is-at-a-moment-of-maximum-danger/3054712/
"Growing instability and violent extremism across the region and the war on Ukraine have exacerbated existing issues with food insecurity and malnutrition," the British government wrote in a statement.
The British government said that it would provide nearly $47 million in humanitarian funding across Mali, Burkina Faso, Chad, Nigeria and Niger as Russia's war in Ukraine further exacerbates food shortages.
Polish President Andrzej Duda arrived in Kyiv to hold bilateral discussions with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The United Nations estimates that humanitarian organizations have scaled up operations in order to reach 11.7 million people since Russia's war in Ukraine began six months ago.
The U.N. also warned that the crisis will affect more people as the harsh winter season approaches.
"They discussed their shared commitment to supporting Ukraine as it defends its democracy against Russian aggression, as well as the importance of efforts to alleviate the impacts of Russia's war in Ukraine on global food security," the readout said.
Moscow has made a request for a U.N. Security Council meeting today to discuss what is going on at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which has been under Russian occupation and surrounded by shelling and fighting since March.
"The Department of State has information that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine's civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days," the embassy said in an alert on its website. Russia has already positioned more of its missile-bearing warships in the Black Sea, government officials have said.
A supply of weapons costing as much as or less than a Russian oligarch's yacht could enable Ukraine to have firepower parity with Russia, Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyaksaid in a tweet.
"Sanctions should be tightened and loopholes closed. Russian citizens should face a Schengen Zone tourist visa ban, with only humanitarian cases permitted to enter the EU," Reznikov wrote for the Atlantic Council.
The request was made by Russia's ambassador to the U.N., Dmitry Polyanskyy, Russian state news agency RIA reported. It has not yet been confirmed as to whether the meeting will happen today.
Currently the British government pays sponsors who host refugees a 350-monthly $412 "thank you" payment. The minimum sponsorship period is six months, and Harrington wants to see that payment doubled for hosts who house refugees for longer than that. He said he has been pushing the government "very hard" to achieve that aim.
"As things stand, there will be close to 20 million people across the region in need of humanitarian aid by the end of the year," the statement added.
The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights said the death toll in Ukraine is likely higher, because the armed conflict can delay fatality reports.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an end to "nuclear saber-rattling," warning that the world is facing an extremely dangerous precipice as fighting continues around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine, Europe's largest plant of its kind.
"We have information that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine's civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days," the official said, according to Reuters.
The U.K. said that a significant portion of the money will focus on feeding malnourished women and children in the region.
The organization overseeing the export of agricultural products from Ukraine said that so far a total of 721,449 metric tons of grains and other foodstuffs have departed through the humanitarian sea corridor under the Black Sea Grain Initiative.
"Given Russia's track record in Ukraine, we are concerned about the continued threat that Russian strikes pose to civilians and civilian infrastructure," the official added.
"These incidents show why the IAEA must be able to send a mission to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant very soon. I'm continuing to consult very actively and intensively with all parties so that this vital IAEA mission can take place without further delay," Grossi said.
"The current war is not just about Ukraine. It is a struggle to determine who gets to set the rules the whole world will live by," he wrote.
The U.S. State Department issued a warning over the threat of increased Russian strikes on Ukraine during the week of its independence day on Aug. 24, urging remaining Americans in Ukraine to leave the country. Kyiv is bracing itself for fresh Russian attacks that its President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has warned may be "particularly nasty."
Portugal has provided financial support, military training and temporary status for Ukrainian citizens fleeing the Kremlin's war.
The U.S. State Department issued a security alert over increased Russian strikes on Ukraine and urged U.S. citizens to leave the country.
Himar stands for High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, and is a multiple rocket launcher originally designed for the U.S. military by Lockheed Martin and mounted onto trucks. The powerful system has been described as a "game changer" by U.S. officials, particularly for its long range and ability to inflict serious damage on enemy targets.
Poland has received the lion's share of Ukrainian refugees fleeing Russian President Vladimir Putin's war.
Russian forces are building an improvised bridge across the Dnipro River in Ukraine, the U.K. Ministry of Intelligence said.
U.S. national security advisor Jake Sullivan spoke with Portuguese Foreign Minister Joao Gomes Cravinho about additional ways to back Ukraine, according to a White House readout of the call.
The weapons in question are 50 U.S.-supplied Himars, each of which cost $4 million, Podolyak wrote.
The U.K. will continue to support Ukraine with military and financial aid until the Kremlin "ends this hideous war and withdraws its forces from the entirety of Ukraine," Johnson said, speaking via video call to the Crimea Platform conference.
Some 25,000 households in the U.K. are hosting refugees under the Homes for Ukraine initiative, with each sponsor hosting an average of three refugees, Harrington said. More than115,000 Ukrainians have come to the U.K. via its visa programs since Russia launched its invasion in February, with an additional 4,000 to 5,000 new arrivals weekly, he added.
Ukraine told the International Atomic Energy Agency that Russia renewed shelling over the weekend at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
The Joint Coordination Center, or JCC, said that more than 25 ships carrying grains and other crops have left Ukrainian ports.
The United Nations has confirmed 5,587 civilian deaths and 7,890 injuries in Ukraine since Russia invaded on Feb. 24.
"The costs  they're paying maybe a big chunk of rent themselves, the mortgage payments have gone up and everything, and I think it's perfectly reasonable, in my view, to increase the amount that we're paying them," Richard Harrington said in an interview with local media.
This is a moment of "maximum danger for our world," the U.N. chief said, stressing that "humanity's future is in our hands" and that conflict must be placed with diplomacy and dialogue to "save succeeding generations from the scourge of war."
"He was treated, but he died in intensive care in a few hours from his severe injuries. Sincere condolences to the relatives and friends of the deceased," the company added.
Moscow says it will be following the will of the people. Russia's referendum held in Crimea in 2014 that helped seal its authority there was widely viewed by Ukrainian and Western leaders as illegitimate.
"Nuclear saber-rattling must stop  come to the negotiating table to ease tensions and end the nuclear arms race, once and for all," Guterres said in a statement after a meeting with ambassadors at the U.N. Security Council.
Ukraino, dopki nas potrzebujecie, jestemy i bdziemy przy Was  Prezydent AndrzejDuda podczas crimeaplatform. pic.twitter.com0An36wEobz
Monthly government payments to British households hosting Ukrainian refugees should be doubled to keep up with soaring inflation and enable them to continue hosting for longer than six months, the minister in charge of the program said.
Russian forces have occupied the plant since March, and its many employees still continue to work but describe having to operate in an atmosphere of terror.
1 HiMARS system  $4 million. 50 systems  $200 million  ammunition. The price of achieving fire parity and destroying  army logistics is less than...ru-oligarch's yacht. It is not an enormous amount of money, but something that would completely change the course of this war.
"Over the weekend, Russia probably started moving barges into position to construct a substantial floating bridge over the Dnipro river, immediately beside the damaged Antonivsky road bridge," the U.K. Ministry of Intelligence wrote in a tweet.
Ukraine's state nuclear generating companysaid one of its employees at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant was killed by Russian shelling in the nearby town of Energodar.
He added that a site visit by IAEA inspectors is expected to take place within the next few days provided that ongoing negotiations succeed.
Ukraine reported damage to a laboratory and chemical facilities at the nuclear facility from Russian shelling, IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi said in a statement. Grossi said that there were Ukrainian reports that some of the transformers were also damaged.
"During the visit, there will be bilateral talks between the presidents and delegations devoted to the situation on Ukraine, support in the military, economic and humanitarian dimension and bilateral cooperation," wrote the Polish president's office on Twitter.
"50 systems  $200 million  ammunition. The price of achieving fire parity and destroying army logistics is less than...ru-oligarch's yacht. It is not an enormous amount of money, but something that would completely change the course of this war," the Ukrainian advisor said.
The JCC also said that it authorized the movement of one outbound merchant vessel named Kafkam Etler to depart tomorrow fromthe Ukrainian port of Chornomorsk. The vessel was approved tocarry 2,437 metric tons of corn to Turkey.
International leaders have for months sounded the alarm over the potential for a nuclear disaster at the plant, which is Europe's largest of its kind. U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres has pleaded for the demilitarization of the area and warned the situation has created a moment of "maximum danger for our world."
"It is also a wake-up call for the many Europeans still in denial over the threat facing the continent from a hostile Russia," he added.
Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov called for additional weapons and tighter sanctions on Russia as the Kremlin's war approaches its sixth month, a somber milestone that coincides with Ukraine's Independence Day.
"Putin is planning to do to other parts of Ukraine  indeed all of Ukraine  what he has done to Crimea," Johnson said. He added that Putin had more annexations and more sham referendums planned. Ukrainian officials have warned that Russia is planning a "sham referendum" in the southern Ukrainian-occupied city of Kherson in an effort to legitimize Russian rule there.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has also warned his citizens of increased Russian attacks this week ahead of Ukraine's Independence Day on Aug. 24, which will commemorate its 31st year of independence. Kyiv has banned large gatherings for most of the week.
This has been CNBC's live blog covering updates on the war in Ukraine.Follow the latest updates here.
Russia's war in Ukraine has left about 17.7 million people in serious need of humanitarian aid, according to United Nations estimates.
Reuters reported that the official's statement was based on U.S. intelligence that has been downgraded.
"If Russia completes the improvised bridge, it will almost certainly increase the capacity of the crossing point compared to the ferry. A floating bridge would likely still be vulnerable to Ukrainian offensive action," the British intelligence added.
Reznikov also called on Western governments to support Ukraine with more weapons and humanitarian aid.
"As a result of the shelling of a taxi car in Energodar, an employee of the Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant, Vladyslav Mitin, born in 1996, a mechanic at the thermal automation and measurement shop, was injured," Energoaton wrote in a statement on the Telegram messaging app.
Meanwhile, the volume of grain leaving Ukraine's ports for export has increased to more than 700,000 metric tons.
Russia could be planning to attack Ukraine's civilian infrastructure and government facilities soon, Reuters reported, citing a U.S. official.
The international organization said most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multiple launch rocket systems, as well as missiles and airstrikes.
The U.N. continued to sound the alarm over the situation at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe's largest, demanding a demilitarization of the area and warning that the world is facing a moment of "maximum danger." A worker at the plant died of his injuries due to Russian shelling near the facility, Ukraine's state energy company said.
Outgoing U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that Russia's annexations in Ukraine must never be recognized and called on the international community to prevent Russian leader Vladimir Putin from taking more Ukrainian land as he did with Crimea in 2014.
