Why did Russia invade Ukraine  Callum Hothi GGSK College
20220330
https://www.thisislocallondon.co.uk/news/20033077.russia-invade-ukraine---callum-hothi-ggsk-college/
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The Russians feel that they need tobe protectedby the Ukrainian government and dematerialise the country in order to feel safe. The Ukrainian government have not threatened military action against the Russians before the invasion so these claims are unfounded.
Many people across the world are struggling to understand why the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion ofUkraine. For many months, there was a lot of speculation as to whether Russia would invade Ukraine and itwas hopedthat the invasion could be avoided. There have been many reports that the Russian president believes that Russia is under threat from Ukraine. Russia wantsto take control ofUkraine anditsgovernment as they feel that Ukraine would be manipulated by countries in the West if they joined the western defensive alliance NATO. Since Ukraine achieved independence in 1991, following the collapse of the Soviet Union,it has gradually veered towards the West, the European Union and NATO.
On 24 February 2022,Putin launched the invasion on Ukraine,which sent shockwaves across the world. People weresaddened to witness the first major war in Europe for decades.TheRussian governmentclaim that Ukrainians and Russians are one people but believe that Russia should be in charge of the country. The majority of Ukrainians do not support this view, that want peace and they want their own independence. In Russia, the people are often spoon fed information as the media is controlled and they are unable to obtain information from outside sources easily. Some Russians have spoken up against the invasion as they have family who are both Russian and Ukrainian, theybelieve,as do many in the world that Ukraineshould be allowedto decide their own future.
