Berlin Bulletin Kaiser Scholz  Tanks no tanks  Xinjiang Police Files
20220527
https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/berlin-bulletin/berlin-bulletin-kaiser-scholz-tanks-no-tanks-xinjiang-police-files/
Heres an essential read by my colleagues Laurenz Gehrke, Matthew Kartnitschnig and myself about whats behind the German tank controversy.
MISSION ACCOMPLISHED IN AFRICA: The chancellor had a lot to live up to during his three-day trip to Senegal, Niger and South Africa this week, as his predecessor Merkel has been a popular figure on the African continent, writes Deutsche Welles Claus Stcker. But overall, the trip was a success, the author argues. What Scholz will have gained from the trip is a greater understanding of the neighboring continent. The war in Ukraine puts a new strain on Germanys ties to Africa but also brings new opportunities.
Dont look away:Ofcourse,China is a global player, again, one should add, because historically that has always been the case throughout much of world history. But just as this does not imply the need to isolate China, it does not implyChinas entitlement tohegemony in Asia and beyond, Scholz said. Yet he added that we can justas little look away when human rights are violated, as we see in Xinjiang at the moment. The chancellor did not, however, specify what not looking away should entail.
MOIN! Welcome back to our weekly Berlin Bulletin, coming to you today from Hans von der Burchard, who feels like hes getting some late added value from his military duty some 15 years ago: A lot of the coverage of German politics these days is about tanks, guns and howitzers  and which ones of those can help Ukraine in its fight for survival against Russia.
CHINA RED-HANDED:The publication earlier this week of the so-called Xinjiang Police Files about human-rights violations in Chinas Xinjiang region against Uyghurs has prompted reactions from politicians across the world, including Germany, which has a particularly delicate relationship with China due to its heavy economic dependence and copious business ties. Accordingly, during aspeechat the World Economic Forum, Scholz did not go out of his way to condemn Beijing over its treatment of the Uyghurs.
How to spend: Without the votes of the CDU and its Bavarian CSU sister party, the government coalition wont be able to reach the two-thirds majority that is necessary to establish such a special fund and avoid that the 100 billion form part of Germanys regular budget, which would be difficult to accept for Finance Minister Christian Lindner and his Free Democratic Party who have pledged fiscal discipline. Nonetheless, the Social Democrats parliamentary group leader Rolf Mtzenich suggested earlier this week that the 100 billion could also be adopted as regular debt via a simple majority  raising new questions about the legal basis and the feasibility of the mega defense investment project.
STRAWBERRY LIES:Manuela Schwesig, the state premier of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, is dishonest, complained Judith Sevin Basad in aBildcommentary, leading with Schwesigs claim on Twitter this week that astrawberry cake for her birthday had been self-made my her agriculture minister, an assertion that was later retracted. This is not about cake. This is about the issue of a state premier fibbing and sugarcoating instead of telling the truth, Sevin Basad wrote.
It is all the more incomprehensible that the governing coalition sent practically no members of the Bundestag to Davos to explain its policies  eleven representatives of the House of Representatives and twelve senators came from the U.S., he said, adding that Ukraine understandably expects more from Germany than others, given eight million Ukrainians were killed during Hitlers war in the 1940s. You have to be able to afford that much disinterest, he said.
SCHOLZS UKRAINE TANK BATTLE: Germany continues to face scoldings from Ukraine and NATO allies for not delivering sufficient military support for Ukraine. The latest attack came this week from Polish President Andrzej Duda, who accused Scholzs government ofbreaking its promises on a tank deal a charge that Berlin rejects. While its true that Germany has recently stepped up its deliveries of heavy weapons to Kyiv, theres also criticism from within the governments ruling coalition that Scholz could and should do more.
Another comparison to Germanys past was previously drawn by Christoph Heusgen, the foreign policy adviser of former Chancellor Angela Merkel and now chief of the Munich Security Conference, who came to a different conclusion: Heusgen argued that Germany should look at its role in World War II, during which it devastated much of Europe and particularly Ukraine, and therefore provide the country with strong support to defend itself against Russias aggression.
According to their coalition agreement, the traffic-lightcoalitionwant toaddressChinas human-rights violations, whichcan mean anythingand is supposed to: address it, nudge it a bit,check, done. Olaf Scholz is behaving like Angela Merkel used to, he said, warning that Russia served as an example of how unsustainable Berlins approach is. What we see today proves conclusively: the concept of change through trade was a delusion. It is failing in China just as it failed in Russia.
SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook  London Playbook  Playbook Paris  EU Confidential  Sunday Crunch  EU Influence  London Influence  AI: Decoded  Digital Bridge  China Direct  Berlin Bulletin  D.C. Playbook  All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters
BATTLE OVER BILLIONS: Meanwhile, the political battle continues in Berlin over a special 100 billion fund, dedicated to swiftly upgrading the German armed forces. Opposition leader Friedrich Merz has threatened that his Christian Democratic Union CDU might not provide sufficient votes in favor of the fund unless there is a clear and long-lasting commitment to adhere to the NATO goal of spending 2 percent of GDP on defense, but that is controversial among Social Democratic and Green lawmakers.
She argued that strawberry cake gate is representative of the state premiers fibbing and sugarcoating style, which she also demonstrated in the scandal surrounding her environmental foundation, referring to an organization Schwesigs government conceived to evade U.S. sanctions on companies involved in the construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. Even when it came out that Schwesigs foundation was less about saving the environment than about saving the Gazprom business of war criminal Vladimir Putin, Schwesig switched to strawberry mode she denied accusations, withheld an expert opinion and placated the scandal, the commentary ends. One thing is certain: Even a cake baked by Schwesig herself would have been of little use against the ever louder demands for her resignation.
Ukraines struggles: Scholzs comments suggest that Ukraine is rather unlikely to expect more German tanks soon more on that below  at least as long as other allies dont step up their deliveries and thereby pressure the chancellor to also do more. Thats bad news for Ukraine, which is struggling to contain a new Russian offensive in the east of the country and has faced quite significant losses recently, meaning that Kyiv could use more German gear urgently. As previously reported, Scholz has at least clarified his position on a potential peace deal between Moscow and Kyiv and said that Russia cannot be allowed to keep occupied territories under such an arrangement.
History lessons: Scholzs comparison is not only debatable from a historical point of view  the renowned historian Christopher Clark, who wrote about how Europe sleepwalked into World War I, said he doesnt see a strong analogy between 1914 and todays situation, quite to the contrary  but also strategically, as other politicians such as the Greens Anton Hofreiter argue that Russian President Vladimir Putin will exploit any perceived reluctance or weakness of his adversaries and could be encouraged to start further invasions if his armies dont get stopped by resolute resistance in Ukraine.
LOST TRUST:Scholz has forfeited the trust of the Ukrainian people, wrote Wolfgang Krach in an opinion piece for theSddeutsche Zeitung. After 1990, a reunified Germany earned a lot of trust in  the Baltic States, in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and also in Poland. This trust has now been shattered, Krach wrote, arguing that Berlins slow pace in delivering weapons to Ukraine has been alienating and disappointing many.
RULE LIKE ITS 1914: Olaf Scholz has sparked controversy by arguing that his military support for Ukraine has limits because he does not want to repeat the mistakes of Wilhelm II, the last German Kaiser emperor, who in 1914 led his country and most of Europe into a fatal descent toward World War I. Chancellor Scholz first made his historic comparison in a background discussion with journalists two weeks ago, but it attracted broader attention after he repeated it during his trip to Africa this week, about which Der Spiegels Dirk Kurbjuweit wrote this remarkable report.
Keep calm, make amendments:Without mentioning China specifically, Scholz touched on the issue of economic and supply-chain dependence. More economic resilience is the order of the day in this multipolar crisis-prone world, and here, too, the answer must be diversification  for business and politics alike, he said, stressing the need to reduce some strategic dependencies as the COVID-19 pandemic has shown how dangerous they can be not only in pharmaceuticals and protective equipment. Scholz also warned, however, that diversification must not lead to protectionism. Deglobalization is the wrong way to go. It will not work, he said.
Disturbing:Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock of the traditionally more China-skeptic Greens was a bit more outspoken when she reacted to the files. The images from Xinjiang are disturbing. They underpin what has been in the air for a long time: that the worst human-rights violations are being committed in Xinjiang, Baerbock said onTwitter, adding that she had asked Chinas Foreign Minister Wang Yi for clarification. During a video conference with Yi, Baerbock said international cooperation must take place on the basis of the fundamental norms of the international order, which need to be respected by everyone. She also asked China to officially condemn Russias war against Ukraine, which Beijing has so far refrained from doing.
Mircea Geoan, deputy secretary general of NATO will join POLITICO Lives event War in Ukraine: a watershed moment for European defense policy and transatlantic security? on June 9 at 11 a.m. CEST. Will you? Register now!
SOFT ON CHINA:Germany needs to get its act together on China, argued Achim Wendler of Bavarian public broadcasterBR, one of the group of media outlets who jointly published leaked footage this week of how Beijing has been treating the Uyghur minority in Xinjiang. Wendler dismissed German politicians shocked reaction this week as merely emotional and politically completely insufficient, criticizing Olaf Scholzs traffic-light coalition for not being outspoken enough on China.
Scholzs pledge: The chancellor referred to the 100 billion in a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos this week, saying: It is about the security of our country, and it is about sending an unmistakable message to our allies: Germany can be relied upon!
NATO excuses: This week, German Deputy Defense Minister Siemtje Mller presented a new justification why Germany isnt delivering any Marder or Leopard tanks to Ukraine, claiming that NATO countries had collectively agreed to not send any Western-type battle tanks or infantry fighting vehicles to Ukraine. Mllers comments triggered an immediate backlash from the center-right opposition. Such an agreement does not exist, said Roderich Kiesewetter, a lawmaker from the Christian Democratic Union, arguing that Mller had promulgated false information. The absence of any agreement is confirmed by different sources, among others, directly by NATO, he added.
