Brussels Playbook Summit prep  Energy debate at boiling point  Kyiv calls for more
20220322
https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/brussels-playbook/summit-prep-energy-debate-at-boiling-point-playbook-interview/
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this newsletter misstated the acronym for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC.
NATURE PACKAGE DELAYED: The European Commission will delay the debut of a nature package of environmental initiatives, including new rules on pesticides to protect bees and nature restoration targets, EU officials told Playbook and our POLITICO Pro colleagues Louise Guillot and Eddy Wax. Major farm industry group Copa  Cogeca has been lobbying governments hard to delay or shelve certain green legislation, arguing the war in Ukraine means certain measures should be put on hold to ease the strain on agricultural production and supply chains.
Germany and the Netherlands have been playing the role of the evil liberals, reminding their fellow leaders that if the EU decides to pay less for gas, suppliers may well decide to sell elsewhere. And if electricity companies can no longer pass on the cost of their most expensive input, one diplomat questioned how smaller utilities will pay for it.
In an attempt to have something to show after their two-day meeting, EU leaders are now focusing on enforcement and closing loopholes. But even here, there are big doubts about how far the Europeans will really go, considering that the biggest loopholes for the sanctions involve other countries that have so far refused to impose similar punishments, such as Israel, India and China.
Send tips here  Tweet HankeVela or suzannelynch1  Listen to Playbook and view in your browser
Amid talks about further sanctions, the EU is facing growing pressure to target crude oil  a key source of export earnings for the Kremlin. America Hernandez has more on why hitting these exports would be especially painful for Moscow.
Whats clear is that energy prices will only normalize in the long term if the EU finds more supplies  thats one reason why the nuclear deal with Tehran is key, since it could make Irans oil and in the medium term gas reserves available. A meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC later this month will also be important.
NEW PUSH TO GRANT UKRAINE EU CANDIDATE STATUS: The foreign ministers of Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Bulgaria and Croatia on Monday called for Thursdays summit to explicitly recognize a clear European perspective for Ukraine and that it will soon be granted a candidate status.
The Commission proposed a set of options to a meeting of EU ambassadors, which attendees described as one of the most technical so-called Coreper discussions they had ever been to.
But the question is how realistic some of these proposals are  and whether they are meant more as a signal for domestic audiences, as leaders scramble to show voters at home that they are on top of the issue.
Going all in on SWIFT ban:Zhovkva said that not only seven minor banks should be cut off from the SWIFT international payments system, arguing all major banks in Russia should be cut off and foremost, first and foremost, Sberbank, which  has the huge meaning for the Russian system.
Baerbock wants to establish an airlift for refugees arriving in Moldova, one of Europes poorest countries with a population of just 2.6 million, which has been welcoming hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees.
EU COUNTRIES BACK NEW DEFENSE STRATEGY: EU defense and foreign ministers on Monday greenlit the so-called Strategic Compass plans, which set out more ambitious ways for the EU to become a global player in defense, through measures such as joint development and procurement of weapons, as well as better cooperation on security policy. It also includes a joint 5,000-strong military entity called the rapid deployment capacity, which is seen by its most ardent proponents as a first step toward an EU army, but due to its very limited size will focus on more modest emergency military missions, such as evacuations.
THANKS TO: David Herszenhorn, Zosia Wanat, Jacopo Barigazzi, Camille Gijs, Stuart Lau, Eddy Wax, Louise Guillot, our editorEmma Andersonand producerGrace Stranger.
In a bold six-point plan, Greeces Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis proposed a gas price cap in a POLITICO op-ed earlier this month.
The conflict in Ukraine brings unprecedented political, economic, social and humanitarian consequences for Europe. At a critical time when Western leaders are showing solidarity and unity,POLITICO Europe is dedicating its annualPOLITICO 28 eventto the Ukrainian people, including a fundraiserto support the humanitarian situation in Ukraine, and will itself contribute by making a donation to the Belgian Red Cross. You can find out more anddonate to the Belgian Red Cross here.
 POLITICO LIVEs Annual Gala Dinner, including interviews with EU Commissioners Maro efovi, Ylva Johansson and Karen Donfried, assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian Affairs at the U.S. State Department. Begins 7 p.m.
 Commissioners Janez Lenari and Jutta Urpilainen meet David Beasley, executive director of the World Food Programme.
A message from Google: Google Safety Engineering Centre GSEC Munich is Googles global hub of privacy and security engineering, located in the heart of Europe. Established in 2019, its where over 200 dedicated engineers work to create products and tools that will help keep people everywhere safe online, and their information private and secure.
Russias war against Ukraine will dominate the discussions, but after the first few rounds of sanctions, fatigue seems to be setting in for certain Western EU countries. While Eastern EU countries like Poland and Lithuania want the EU to keep up the pressure on Moscow by ramping up its penalties, some such as Germany are signaling support for taking a pause to review the effect of the sanctions imposed so far, as POLITICOs Barbara Moens and Jacopo Barigazzi report this morning.
FRANCES LE DRIAN WARNS OF POTENTIAL GLOBAL FAMINE: Frances Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said the EU must get to grips with the prospect that the war in Ukraine could prompt an extremely serious global food crisis. Russia and Ukraine are both gigantic exporters of grain, and half of Africas wheat imports come from the two countries.
KYIV CALLS FOR MORE: Ukraine is deeply grateful for all the help and support it has received from international allies, but its still not enough because the war is still raging, according to Ihor Zhovkva, deputy head of the Ukrainian presidential administration.
Enough would be when the Russian aggression stops, Zhovkva told POLITICOs David Herszenhorn in a Skype interview from Kyiv, as air raid sirens screamed in the background.
So what does Ukraine wantmostfrom NATO? A no-fly zone over Ukraine, Zhovkva said. We do understand that there is a lack of will for the time being to have this zone established, he said, adding that short of this, Ukraine has asked allies to consider such a zone over at least part of Ukraine which is the same western borders of Ukraineto have a kind of humanitarian no-fly zone over these parts of Ukraine that could protect refugees and shipments from the EU into the country.
Have no fear: European Union members should not be afraid ofanembargo on oil and gas sector. Absolutely. Becausethis is what brings additional money to Russia now,which uses it for war against Ukraine  Lets start from something. If gas is too dangerous, then lets start with oil embargo.
A Belgian so-called non-paper, seen by POLITICO, calls for a gas price cap at 120 per megawatt-hour, which could be pegged to American and Asian prices to remain competitive.
GERMANYS BAERBOCK WARNS OF UP TO 8 MILLION UKRAINIAN REFUGEES: I think we have to be very aware that over 3 million people have already fled, but that many, many more millions of people will flee, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Monday in Brussels. The estimates go up to 8 million refugees, she added, proposing the creation of humanitarian hubs to distribute refugees across EU countries, but also across the Atlantic to the U.S.
SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook  London Playbook  Playbook Paris  EU Confidential  Sunday Crunch  EU Influence  London Influence  AI: Decoded  Digital Bridge  China Direct  Berlin Bulletin  D.C. Playbook  All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters
 Commissioner Margrethe Vestager speaks to the European Parliaments Committee on International Trade takes part in the Digital Education Stakeholder Forum.
SPAIN TO PROPOSE CAP ON GAS PRICES FOR POWER PLANTS: Officials close to Spains Prime Minister Pedro Snchez pushed back against Northern skeptics, saying Madrid was well aware of the mechanics of the free market and favored a more complex reference price mechanism rather than an outright cap on all gas prices. Such a mechanism would seek to intervene only in the gas prices paid by electricity companies, with the aim of lowering the electricity price which is effectively pegged to the price utilities pay for gas.
Added to the list: Spain, which has seen street protests over high energy prices, has been calling for emergency measures since last September. It has been joined by Southern and Eastern European countries, but also France and Belgium.
Zhovkva noted that Israel is still allowing flights to operate from Russia but has ended visa-free travel for Ukrainians, and he accused Bennetts government of staying silent after Ukraine said a Russian airstrike hit near the Babi Yar memorial, where German Nazis killed tens of thousands of Jews during World War II. I didnt hear a clear position from the leadership of Israel.
Israel, the only Western holdout?Asked about Israeli PM Naftali Bennetts reluctance to follow the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada, Japan and others in imposing sanctions on Russia, Zhovkva said it was time for the country to decide where it stood. As far as Israel is concerned, yeah, I think they should be more decisive in finding their place in this Ukraine-Russian war  so where do they stand? he said.
GRAND PLANS  OR GRANDSTANDING? EU countries are today set to discuss proposals to address soaring electricity prices  with the aim of agreeing on a text that national leaders can endorse at their summit on Thursday and Friday.
Speaking to Playbook over the phone, Austrian Defense Minister Klaudia Tanner hailed the adoption as an important first step, but said the focus should now be on implementation. We need to be able to react to a crisis, Tanner said, adding that the EUs credibility is at stake.
 Commissioner Paolo Gentiloni delivers a speech to the University of Oxfords Department of Politics and International Relations on the implications of Putins war for Europes economic and political choices, 11 a.m. CET.
MORE COUNTRIES BACK GAS PRICE LIMITS: The list of countries backing an emergency intervention to decouple soaring gas prices from electricity prices is growing. The fight between EU leaders is now as much about the details of any intervention as it is about claiming ownership: It seems dozens of leaders will go to Brussels on Thursday with the aim of convincing each other that something must be done to lower energy prices.
Background: Last Friday, the prime ministers of Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece announced they would put forward joint proposals to limit energy prices. Polands PM Mateusz Morawiecki later said he fully supports the plan. Frances President Emmanuel Macron has also called for a reform of the EUs electricity pricing system.
However, Trudeau will speakduring the European Parliaments plenary session Wednesday, the chambers President Roberta Metsola announced.
Geopolitics: Snchez has also been involved in some high-stakes diplomacy over the past few weeks, seeking to square the circle of solving a long-running standoff with Morocco over the contested region of Western Sahara, while at the same time strengthening ties with Algeria, Moroccos archrival and Spains largest natural gas provider.
The war in Ukraine is leaving no policy debate untouched.Join our POLITICO Pro Briefing Call and pick up all policy intelligence you need. Find out more here. Not a pro yet, but interested? Request a demo here or contact us for more info
Canada also not invited: Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who will also be in town for the G7 and NATO meetings, was not invited to the European Council either.
More discussions today: On Monday, Belgiums Prime Minister Alexander De Croo jumped on the bandwagon with a call for a cap on gas prices. He will today speak with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz as well as Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and will also be in touch with counterparts in Benelux and Scandinavian countries, our colleague Camille Gijs writes in to report.
The fight between Morocco and Algeria last year led to the closing of the Maghreb-Europe pipeline, which supplied gas to Morocco and Spain. The hope is that if Spain manages to salvage the relationship, Algeria could send more gas to the EU. However, Madrids plan seemed to backfire last weekend, as Algiers recalled its ambassador to Spain for consultations after Madrid effectively recognized Moroccos sovereignty over Western Sahara.
Only adults at the table? Theres been a lot of goodwill in Brussels to look past Brexit for the sake of unity in the face of much more existential threats, but the British prime ministers remarks suggested the same thinking may not prevail in London. Indeed, having Johnson in Brussels for the NATO and G7 talks may be close enough for comfort for some.
EU needs to step it up: Somecountriesare quite active and imposing sanctions on Russia, Zhovkva said, but added that unfortunately, if you ask me about the European Union, for instance, theEuropean Union is lagging behind in the sanctions policy. Its sometimes, you know, only half what we need.
NO INVITE FOR BOJO: European Council President Charles Michel and the U.K.s Boris Johnson spoke by phone Monday  but Michel didnt offer his British counterpart an invitation to the EUCO talks, while U.S. President Joe Biden is set to join EU leaders after the NATO meeting. Doubtful Johnsons recent comments comparing Ukraines ongoing fight for survival to Britains vote to leave the EU helped any case he might have had to be included 
Zelenskyy has conducted a series of virtual cameos at public meetings, trying to rally allies in Brussels, the U.S. Congress and Germanys Bundestag. He will also speak to the French National Assembly this week.
 European Parliament President Roberta Metsola is in Berlin to meet German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier,Speaker of the Bundestag Brbel Bas, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock and Chancellor Olaf Scholz press conference 5 p.m..
BIRTHDAYS: MEPs Bert-Jan Ruissen, former MEP Norbert Neuser Latvias Deputy PM and Defense Minister and former MEP Artis Pabriks PMCGs Marion Soury Rachael Bishop Daniel Knowles of the Economist ZDFs Gunnar Krger.
A message from Google: Meet the Privacy  Security team at the Google Safety Engineering Center in Munich dedicated to protecting users around the world.
Thats leading to some unnerved reactions from countries opposed to granting Ukraine that status. No minister or ambassador for that matter is prepared to tell their leaders they have to have another discussion about something they have just found a solution for 1,5 week ago, one EU diplomat said in a text message. Are we going to make Biden suffer through another 10 hours debate on an issue that weve just resolved?
WOLVES AND BEARS AND FARMERS, OH MY! Farmers, landowners and hunters complain that EU nature legislation has been too successful in protecting large carnivores like wolves and bears, which are now wreaking havoc on commercial activities and other species. They want Brussels to adapt the EUs Habitats Directive, which was adopted in 1992, to reflect species population development and conservation status. Louise Guillot has the story.
IN MEMORIAM: To the 32 victims of the Brussels terrorist attacks, which happened six years ago today.
Ukrainian refugees find spare rooms in Poland: More than 2 million Ukrainians have found shelter in Poland, many as guests in peoples houses. Zosia Wanat tells the stories of these refugees, featuring stunning photos by Dawid Zieliski for POLITICO.
Let Zelenskyy speak again: We would appreciate if President Volodymyr Zelenskyy would be given a word online in the European Council meeting on Thursday  It wouldbe very important for all the leaders of the European Union members  to hear personally from the president what is going on, Zhovkva said.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell announced the landmark decision on the plan at a news conference Monday evening, where he also said member countries had clinched an agreement in principle to provide an additional 500 million in military aid from the European Peace Facility.
Weapons and fighter planes:Again, we do know the countries who can help Ukraine but what all of them lack is political will, he said.
BRUSSELS IS THE PLACE TO BE THIS WEEK: European affairs ministers are meeting in Brussels at 10 a.m. today while ambassadors will meet this afternoon to lay the groundwork for a trio of high-level summits in the Belgian capital on Thursday  for NATO, the European Council and the G7.
