Brussels Playbook Bigwigs and big talks  Energy on the table  Weber backs Borissov
20220321
https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/brussels-playbook/eu-foreign-ministers-meet-eu-leaders-to-discuss-energy-weber-backs-borissov/
 The European Parliaments foreign affairs committee will speak withNorth Macedonias Bujar Osmani and EU Ambassador to the United Kingdom Joo Vale de Almeida, 1:45 p.m.
Snchez in Brussels: Spanish leader Pedro Snchez is in Brussels today to meet Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, continuing his efforts to highlight Europes energy problem. Spain had been calling for an EU-wide response to rising prices even before the war in Ukraine, and Snchez is expected to make his case for more intervention in the wholesale energy market at the summit this week. But while the Commission will present leaders with a suggestion of measures, it is unlikely to go as far as the Southern European countries want.
Transatlantic talks: Biden will speak with U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian PM Mario Draghi to discuss their coordinated responses to Russias unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine, the White House announced in the early hours of this morning. Biden will head to Europe later this week as part of diplomatic efforts related to the Russia-Ukraine war, first stopping in Brussels for talks with EU, NATO and G7 allies before visiting Poland on Friday.
Germany looks to LNG: The German government, in contrast, showed no signs it is prepared to rethink the countrys controversial decision to abandon nuclear energy, instead trumpeting a new deal with Qatar on liquefied natural gas LNG. Germanys Economy and Climate Minister Robert Habeck announced a long-term gas supply agreement Sunday during a visit to Doha, though details were slim. Habeck is in the United Arab Emirates for the next leg of his trip, as Germany seeks to diversify its energy sources.
ANOTHER WAY TO HIT RUSSIA: Real estate. Britains move to freeze the London properties of the Libyan sovereign wealth fund after the Arab Spring uprising in 2011 offers a stark lesson for sanctioned Russians with plush London mansions: A decade on, theres no sign of a thaw and Libyas investments remain locked up in the U.K. capital. Hannah Brenton has more on why Russian oligarchs may never get their London mansions back.
SOFIA RETHINKS RUSSIAN DEPENDENCE:Bulgaria, meanwhile, has said it will look beyond Russia to meet its natural gas needs when its 10-year deal with Russias Gazprom expires at the end of 2022. It comes just a few months ahead of the planned completion of a pipeline linking Bulgarias network with Greece as it seeks to chart a more pro-Western trajectory.
FARM FACTORS: National EU agriculture and fisheries ministers are also gathering today to discuss the impacts of the Russian invasion. As reported in Fridays Playbook, the Commission is considering delaying key agricultural proposals that were due to be unveiled this week, with EU Agriculture Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski and French President Macron calling for a reassessment of the EUs green farming goals in light of the Ukraine war. Macron said the EUs sustainability plan was based on a pre-Ukraine war world. A decision by von der Leyen is expected as early as today.
History lesson: As Boryana Dzhambazova reports for POLITICO from Sofia, Bulgaria has a complex history of ties to Moscow to untangle. For years, the country has played a cautious double act, trying to balance itself between East and West and not anger Moscow. While Russias invasion of Ukraine united Europe in condemning the war, the conflict has exacerbated old divisions within Bulgarian politics and society. Read Boryanas full story for more on how the Ukraine war has exposed the Kremlins lingering reach.
A message from Google: Each Center has its own specialty, led by teams of experts in their respective privacy, security, and content responsibility fields. In Munich there are over 200 dedicated engineers working to create products and tools that will help keep people everywhere safe online, and their information private and secure. In Dublin our specialists are dedicated to tackling the spread of illegal and harmful content and the Center is the place where we can share this work with policymakers, academics and regulators.
BORISSOV RELEASED:Bulgarias former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov  a long-time member of the European Peoples Party EPP  was released 24 hours after being detained Thursday in connection with investigations by the European Public Prosecutors Office EPPO.
The conflict in Ukraine brings unprecedented political, economic, social and humanitarian consequences for Europe. At a critical time when Western leaders are showing solidarity and unity,POLITICO Europe is dedicating its annualPOLITICO 28 eventto the Ukrainian people, including a fundraiserto support the humanitarian situation in Ukraine, and will itself contribute by making a donation to the Belgian Red Cross. You can find out more anddonate to the Belgian Red Cross here.
MEANWHILE, IN AFRICA  Also on todays agenda will be the situation in Mali, following the recent withdrawal of French troops from the country, with growing uncertainty around the EUs engagement there and in the wider Sahel region. The possibility of enhancing defense support for Burkina Faso and Niger, as well as more help for coastal states, will form part of that discussion ahead of a presentation of a review into CSDP common security and defense policy missions in the coming weeks.
Send tips here  Tweet suzannelynch1 or HankeVela  Listen to Playbook and view in your browser
Polish push: Poland, which along with the Baltic states has been leading calls at the EU and NATO for tougher action toward Russia, made a public call for more draconian measures over the weekend, with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki advocating a total trade ban. Poland is proposing to add a trade blockade to this package of sanctions as soon as possible, including both of its seaports  but also a ban on land trade, he said.Fully cutting off Russias trade would further force Russia to consider whether it would be better to stop this cruel war.
Chilling deadline: Russia imposed an arbitrary deadline on Ukraine to surrender the city by 5 a.m. local time this morning, warning that, if it did not, its forces may face a military tribunal. Ukrainian officials in turn have defiantly rejected Moscows calls.
Military capability: Enhancing the EUs defense capabilities is also front and center in the document, which runs to more than 40 pages. Echoing a pledge from European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen last week, it says that by the middle of this year, we will define objectives on increased and improved defence spending, with the Commission developing additional incentives to stimulate Member States collaborative investments in strategic defence capabilities. One policy priority to watch will be the pledge to deploy so-called EU battle groups, comprising land, sea and air components.
ENERGY PRICES IN FOCUS: Europes deepening energy price crisis is shaping up to be one of the big themes of this weeks European Council summit as leaders grapple with the politically fraught issue of spiraling costs. At a meeting hosted in Rome Friday by Prime Minister Draghi, he and the leaders of Spain, Portugal and Greece called for specific, feasible and implementable proposals to reduce electricity prices and advocated a cap on the price of gas imports, setting up what is expected to be a robust debate on Thursday and Friday.
Sanctions debate: A major focus of debate at todays foreign ministers meeting will be sanctions ahead of a fuller discussion between EU leaders later in the week at the European Council. The key question is how far the EU is prepared to go in punishing Russia and what would be the possible trigger for a fifth round of penalties. Its going to dominate and its not going to be easy, said one diplomat, referring to todays sanctions debate.
Russian influence: While Russia was not even mentioned in the original version, the impact of the war in Ukraine can now be seen throughout the document, which is littered with references to Russia. Jacopo Barigazzi, Camille Gijs and Stuart Lau have the details. The bloc now says it wants to go after those responsible for  crimes perpetrated in Ukraine, and that they will be held accountable.
REUTERS STAFF FUMING OVER PARTNERSHIP WITH RUSSIAN SERVICE: Employees at Reuters are privately fuming over their companys ongoing partnership with a Russian state-controlled media organization that has published unverified information about the war in Ukraine. Multiple journalists at Reuters told POLITICO that staff are frustrated and embarrassed by the companys continued partnership with Tass, the wire service owned by the Russian government. Max Tani has the story.
SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook  London Playbook  Playbook Paris  EU Confidential  Sunday Crunch  EU Influence  London Influence  AI: Decoded  Digital Bridge  China Direct  Berlin Bulletin  D.C. Playbook  All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters
Checkered past: While the EU has fared better recently, the bloc once had a spotty court record on sanctions and local governments didnt always enforce them.Jacopo Barigazzi explains more about the potential court battles and enforcement challenges ahead for the new sanctions against Russia.
Strategic autonomy: Also on the agenda today is the EUs Strategic Compass policy document  a blueprint for EU foreign and defense policy that has been in the works since November 2020 and was presented to ministers last November.
AUSTRIA BRINGS BACK RULES: Austria has become the first European country to reintroduce COVID rules during the current wave of the pandemic, announcing that people will be required to wear FFP2 face masks indoors from the middle of this week. The country dropped its planned vaccination mandate earlier this month, stating that it would reconsider the controversial measure in three months time. COVID cases have been on the rise, increasing to 3,600 cases per 100,000 inhabitants.
A message from Google: Today, we have Google teams working across privacy, security, content responsibility and family safety around the world. Our Google Safety Engineering Centers in Munich and Dublin help guide this Internet safety work, led by experienced teams of engineers, policy specialists and subject matter experts.
Context is key: Todays talks are happening under the shadow of a devastating war on the European continent that shows no sign of abating. Russia intensified its attack on the city of Mariupol over the weekend, bombing a school that had sheltered up to 400 civilians, Ukrainian authorities said.Drone footage captures the scale of destruction that has destroyed the besieged southern port city. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy described the bombardment of the city as a terror that will be remembered for centuries to come.
Belgium goes nuclear: Belgium is experiencing its own internal wrangling over energy policy. On Friday, the country said it would delay plans to abolish nuclear energy due to the Ukraine crisis, after a mammoth Cabinet session. The operating lives of the countrys two nuclear reactors will be extended until 2035, rather than 2025. De Croo said such steps were necessary to strengthen the countrys independence from fossil fuels in light of the current geopolitical environment.
Weber weighs in: The head of the EPP in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, leaped to Borissovs defense. The detention of opposition leader and former Prime Minister of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov raises many questions which need to be clarified urgently, Weber said in a statement.
BIG WEEK OF BIG TALKS:U.S. President Joe Biden will hold a call with some of his European counterparts today while EU foreign and defense ministers meet in Brussels, kicking off a week of high stakes diplomacy culminating in a bumper meeting of EU, NATO and G7 leaders in Brussels at the end of the week. The EU ministers will meet at 9.30 a.m., and will be joined by defense ministers in the afternoon. Ukraines Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov is due to brief ministers, while Moldovas Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Nicu Popescu will also attend.
The war in Ukraine is leaving no policy debate untouched.Join our POLITICO Pro Briefing Call and pick up all policy intelligence you need. Find out more here. Not a pro yet, but interested? Request a demo here or contact us for more info
STUCK IN WASHINGTON: At least one member of the European Council looks set to miss this weeks summit due to COVID-19. Irelands leader Michel Martin is quarantining in Washington, having tested positive on the eve of a meeting with U.S. President Biden last week. He may miss this weeks European Council in Brussels due to U.S. travel rules.
TRAGEDY STRIKES: Six people were killed and dozens injured in the southern Belgian town of Strepy-Bracquegnies after a car plowed into a crowd gathered for a carnival parade. Authorities said there was no indication that the incident in the small town 50 kilometers south of Brussels was terrorism-related. The driver of the car and a second person were arrested at the scene.
In particular, Weber raised questions about allegations linking Borissov to the potential misuse of EU funds, saying this needs to be investigated without exception. Playbook is told that Weber is sending a mission of MEPs to Sofia to investigate.
BIRTHDAYS: MEPs Dimitrios Papadimoulis, Giuseppe Ferrandino and Angel Dzhambazki former MEP Pl Csky Alex Spillius RAND Europes Stijn Hoorens former Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones.
What wont be decided: Foreign ministers will not sign off today on a new round of funding from the European Peace Facility for Ukraine, despite pledges of another 500 million at the recent Versailles summit from top diplomat Josep Borrell and European Council President Charles Michel. That figure is likely to be endorsed at the leaders level after it emerged that it needs parliamentary scrutiny, including in Germany.
 Commissioners on tour: Ylva Johansson is in Tallinn to meet Estonias Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and Interior Minister Kristian Jaani as well as visit the Estonia-Russia border and the eu-LISA agency  Mariya Gabriel participates in a launch event for Horizon Europe in Turkey   Olivr Vrhelyi meets North Macedonias Foreign Minister Bujar Osmani  Dubravka uica meets Croatian Agriculture Minister Marija Vukovi  Janez Lenari participates in the European Humanitarian Forum and meets U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi.
GERMANYS NOT SO FREE: Two years after the start of COVID restrictions, Germany welcomed Freedom Day over the weekend. But the decision toend all restrictions just as cases are soaring in the country has proved controversial and some have branded the move a mistake. Many regional governments have decided to delay lifting certain restrictions until April 2, exercising the option of a grace period offered by the federal government. Germany registered around 300,000 cases on Friday alone.
Not so fast Several EU countries, including Germany, are holding back from going further, particularly when it comes to energy. Nonetheless, some diplomats hinted that one possibility is that oil, rather than gas, could be targeted in any next sanctions round, which would be less damaging to the European economy.
Food crisis brewing:A new report to be released by the ONE anti-poverty campaign group today  seen by Playbook  outlines the impact the war in Ukraine is having on African countries in particular. About 50 percent of Africas wheat imports come from Ukraine and Russia, a figure that rises to 70 percent or more for Eritrea, Egypt, Benin, Sudan, Djibouti and Tanzania. Rocketing prices and problems with supplies will exacerbate a food crisis that was already hitting millions of the worlds most vulnerable people, the report warns.
 European Parliament President Roberta Metsola also meets U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi,2 p.m.
