Brussels Playbook 6 months of war  Greek spy scandal returns  Finns go bare
20220824
https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/brussels-playbook/6-months-of-war-greek-spy-scandal-returns-finns-go-bare/
Recap: The former head of the security agency, Panagiotis Kontoleon, resigned earlier this month over revelations that the EVP had illegally tapped the phones of MEP Nikos Androulakis, the leader of the PASOK party, and journalists.
MORE FINN FUN: Finlands Sanna Marin has had to apologize again  this time for a picture of two topless women taken inside the prime ministers residence last month. The snap was taken after the Ruisrock music festival in July. The picture is not appropriate, Marin acknowledged, after the photo leaked on social media.
Tensions are high: In Kyiv, large gatherings have been banned until Friday, amid fears of attacks. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Moscow that any attempts to target Independence Day celebrations would incite a powerful response. He also pledged to liberate Crimea from Russian occupation.
 Commissioner Helena Dalli participates in the G20 ministerial on womens empowerment in Bali, Indonesia.
CLIMATE WAKE-UP CALL: Almost half the EU is under a drought alert, according to a report by EU scientists released Tuesday. The stark picture of the reality of climate change has particularly worrisome implications for Spain and Portugal, with parts of the Iberian Peninsula predicted to remain hot and dry until November, according to the report from the Joint Research Centre. But as our colleague Karl Mathiesen reports, there could be some respite as weather returns to close to normal later this fall.
Send tips here  Tweet suzannelynch1 or HankeVela  Listen to Playbook and view in your browser
REFUGEE DIARIES: This morning, POLITICO publishes the third instalment of our Refugee Diaries project. We asked five Ukrainian refugees to reflect on past commemorations, share their hopes for the future, and write a letter to fellow refugees spending this years Independence Day away from home.Worth your time.
 Ukrainian Independence Day. Celebrations across Europe. In Brussels, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen participates in event at the Grand Place at 11:30 a.m. Watch.
Speaking of gas: While Russia is in a strong position when it comes to gas in the short run, the long game for state-controlled Gazprom is fraught, argue Amy Myers Jaffe, the managing director of the Climate Policy Lab, and Joe Webster of the Atlantic Council in this op-ed for POLITICO. Unlike oil, which has more fungible transport, they write, Gazprom is finding it hard to divert its Siberian gas.
Inquiry call: PASOK has called for a parliamentary inquiry into the use of wiretapping under the current government, which Syriza said it will back. The proposal will be voted on during a parliament plenary session next Monday. Mitsotakis New Democracy party, however, will seek to expand the scope of the inquiry so that it stretches back to 2012  a period that covers the activities of previous governments. Surprise, surprise.
But the long-term financial consequences of the invasion are only beginning to be felt. Some 40 percent of Ukraines GDP derived from exports before the war, Ustenko told our colleague Leonie Kijewski  a figure that has now plummeted, regardless of the recent resumption of exports from the Black Sea.
 Quo Vadis Europa conference continues at the Menndez Pelayo International University. EEAS chief Josep Borrell attends.
 Commissioner Dubravka uica attends eventahead of the annual conference of ambassadors, general consuls and military attachs of Croatia.
NOW READ THIS: Our colleague Matt Karnitschnig reports that Western diplomats are concerned that Russia plans to use Iran as a backdoor to circumvent international sanctions if Tehrans nuclear deal comes back into force. Moscow dispatched teams of trade and finance officials and execs from Gazprom and other companies to Tehran in July following Putins meeting with the Iranian leadershipto lay the groundwork for closer cooperation, Matt writes.
SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook  London Playbook  Playbook Paris  POLITICO Confidential  Sunday Crunch  EU Influence  London Influence  Digital Bridge  China Direct  Berlin Bulletin  D.C. Playbook   D.C. Influence   Global Insider  All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters
SHOWING SOLIDARITY: A host of European and world leaders lined up to pledge solidarity with Ukraine at Tuesdays Crimea Platform summit, with most delivering video messages, though Polands President Andrzej Duda attended in person. French President Emmanuel Macron, significantly, said Paris would continue to support Ukraine in the long term.
Piqued response: Following the European Commissions letter to Athens on July 29 looking for answers on Predatorgate, the response is in. In a letter dated August 2, the Greek permanent representative to the EU had this reply for the Commissions Directorate General for Justice, according to officials familiar with the content of the letter: Taking into account the fact that national security should be treated with utmost sensitivity, we would consider it prudent in the future to avoid hastily endorsing verbatim specific publications coming from political media that do not always distinguish themselves for accuracy and objectivity.
NEW JOB: Patrick Grady has joined the Center for Data Innovation to cover artificial intelligence and digital policy issues in Europe. He was previously project lead at the Internet Commission.
Bulgaria not toeing the line: But as POLITICOs Boryana Dzhambazova writes in this despatch from Sofia, Bulgaria is risking a relapse in its Gazprom addiction, with the countrys caretaker government slipping back into old habits.
CELEBRATE UKRAINE INDEPENDENCE DAY IN BRUSSELS TODAY: Theres a picnic and concert at the Grand Hospice from noon to 5:30 p.m. info here  Plus the Nakhati NGO is holding an event in Ixelles featuring art and performances  details here.
Get the message: While the response insists that Greek authorities are at the Commissions disposal in a spirit of cooperation and working together as a team for our common cause of protecting the rule of law, Athens message is loud and clear: butt out. I truly believe that such a first step would be more constructive and instrumental, rather than promptly engaging in written correspondence based on media reports that amply remain to prove substantiated, the letter adds, according to the same officials, Nektaria reports.
FOOTBALL CALL: Royal Brussels British FC are looking for football players to join their international club for the new season. There are teams for varying levels and two veterans teams aged 39. Training is on Monday or Wednesday evenings at Kraainem and matches are on Saturdays. More info here.
Oil price cap call: Ustenko had a message for Europe when it comes to Russian oil, arguing that an international price cap is needed and predicting that it will be introduced by year end. By the end of the year for sure, the issue is going to be solved. Russia is going to lose their oil revenues  My understanding is that we are very close to a final decision, he told Leonie, estimating that the price capcould be around half the current $80 per barrel Russia receives.
CANADA-GERMANY DEAL: Ottawa and Berlin signed the Canada-Germany Hydrogen Alliance on Tuesday, setting a goal to begin transatlantic deliveries in 2025. More from AP.
In Prague, outside the Russian Embassy, a giant sculpture is being erected of a woman giving Moscow the two-fingered salute.
NUCLEAR FEARS: Meanwhile, U.N. political affairs chief Rosemary DiCarlo warned the Security Council on Tuesday that an agreement is urgently needed to stop all military activity around the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine, to prevent a catastrophic disaster. The facility must not be used as part of any military operation, and an agreement on a safe perimeter of demilitarization to ensure the safety of the area should be reached, she said. The U.N. reiterated its call for the International Atomic Energy Agency to get access to the plant.
ECONOMIC WOES: New figures published Tuesday have revived fears that Europe could be heading toward recession, as the eurozone purchasing managers index  a key economic indicator  plunged to its lowest level in more than two years. The figures helped push the euro to a new 20-year low, as Europe battles rising inflation and surging energy costs.
With a team of 100 expert journalists in Brussels, London, Paris and Berlin, POLITICO Pro provides forward-looking granular policy insights, breaking scoops and in-depth analysis, keeping you one step ahead of the rest. Request a free demo.
RIP: Ursula von der Leyen led the tributes to Mauro Petriccione, director general for climate action and a leading figure in the European Commission, who has died. The Italian native had worked at the Commission since 1987. Mauro was a dear, respected colleague. His work earned him respect and friendships in Europe  beyond, said von der Leyen. Our condolences to his loved ones.
BIRTHDAYS: MEP Johan Van Overtveldt Former MEPs Aileen Mcleod, Riikka Pakarinen Former European Commissioner and MEP Pavel Telika Member of the Bundestag Franziska Katharina Brantner, a former MEP POLITICOs Nadia Chabane-De Viron European Commissions Cecilia Thorfinn EU Observers Eszter Zalan Rasmussen Globals Fabrice Pothier Capital Strategys Trey Barnes Sauli Niinist, president of Finland.
Not just oil: Ukraine also hasnt forgotten that Europe is still buying Russian gas  even if the flows have significantly slowed. Ustenko argued that the international community should also impose a price cap on Russian gas, a proposal that has so far been a no-no.
Brussels has a jam-packed day of activities, beginning with a church service in the Cathedral of St. Michael and St. Gudula, and culminating with the illumination of the EU buildings and the Grand Place in Ukrainian colors tonight.The Berlaymont lit up in yellow and blue last night. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will be among those participating in the unfurling of a giant 30-meter Ukrainian flag in the Grand Place at 11:30 a.m. this morning.And the Manneken Pis will don a national Ukrainian costume today.
SUPER SALE: Axioma, a super yacht linked to Russian steel billionaire Dmitry Pumpyansky, was auctioned off in Gibraltar on Tuesday, in the first sale of an oligarchs assets since the February 24 invasion. Gibraltars government seized the yacht in early March, and in July JP Morgan secured its sale because its formal owner, Pyrene Investments, owed the bank more than $20 million. Its unknown who bought the Axioma. The Guardian has a write-up.
Not happy: But already, Greek opposition parties are crying foul. The main opposition party, Syriza, as well as senior PASOK figures say they will not support Demiris appointment, Nektaria Stamouli writes in to report. He is not a bipartisan choice, he is the choice of Mitsotakis, who is the mastermind of the scandal and is obviously taking over with a mandate to cover up and not to clear up the surveillance scandal, Syriza said in a statement.
Counting the cost: Six months into the war, Zelenskyys economic adviser Oleg Ustenko told POLITICO in an interview that Ukraine is currently running a $5 billion deficit each month, which is mostly being covered by financial assistance from its allies.
FLYING THE YELLOW AND BLUE:Despite the tensions, today is also a day of celebration. Throughout Europe, events are being planned to mark Ukraines national holiday, six months into the brutal war.
PREDATORGATE LATEST: The spying scandal involving Predator malware that engulfed the government of Greek Prime MinisterKyriakos Mitsotakis is back on the agenda today, with the House Committee on Institutions and Transparency convening in the parliament to discuss the appointment of ThemistoklisDemiris as the new chief of the National Intelligence Service EVP.
KYIV ON EDGE: Ukrainians are bracing for a possible barrage of Russian military strikes today as they mark Independence Day  the anniversary of Ukraines break with the Soviet Union in 1991. Its also exactly six months since Russian President Vladimir Putin announced his invasion of Ukraine.
MERKEL AWARDED: A jury on Tuesday awarded former German Chancellor Angela Merkel the Flix Houphout-Boigny-UNESCO Peace Prize for her decision in 2015 to welcome more than 1.2 million refugees to Germany. Heres the press release.
