China Direct Ukraine quagmire  MacronXi call  April Fools Day
20220217
https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/china-direct/ukraine-quagmire-macron-xi-call-april-fools-day/
NATOs war of words: NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg pulled no punches on China on Tuesday. Responding to a question by POLITICOs David Herszenhorn at a press conference, Stoltenberg said: Fundamentally what we see is that two authoritarian powers, Russia and China, are operating together. Because they dont like the rules-based international order. They dont share our values, freedom, democracy. And thats also the reason why they tried to deny sovereign, democratic nations the right to choose their own future. They want a world where big powers can decide what smaller powers and countries can do.
No regrets on China:Di Stefanos party, 5Star Movement, has been accused of beingtoo close toBeijing, especially when Rome became the first G7 country to join Chinas Belt and Road Initiative in 2019 with a controversial Memorandum of Understanding. We vindicate that choice. Italys exports to China increased also thanks to that memorandum, Di Stefano said, arguing that the ItalyChina MoU defends European values such as a level playing field better than similar deals between Beijing and other European countries.
Not the easiest push: The step wasnt an easy one for Britains Brexit-minded officials to take, diplomats say, since it would be seen as U.K. jumping on the EUs bandwagon. Apart from the U.K., several countries also asked to join the consultation, including Australia, Japan, the U.S., Canada and, interestingly, Taiwan.
ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM: The EU-Beijing Comprehensive Agreement on Investment remains unratified owing to Chinese sanctions on members of the European Parliament.
Been a journey: The past 15 months have seen plenty of ups and downs. While the EU and China celebrated the conclusion of the investment pact in December 2020, Joe Bidens entry into the White House a few weeks later marked a big geopolitical shift. China has since slapped sanctions on EU diplomats and lawmakers, while Lithuania, a member of the EUs sacrosanct single market, has been hit hard with a Chinese trade embargo for getting too close to Taiwan.
PUSHING FOR FOREIGN SUBSIDIES RULES: China may want non-discriminatory access to the EU, but France is using its current presidency of the Council of EU to push for tougher rules on foreign subsidies.
The outcome of the French election will reverberate across Europe. Are you ready for that? No? Don't worry, we've got your coveredwith apop up election Playbook building on our must-read Playbook Paris and bringing readers up to speed on the news that matters about the French election in English in an essential midday read. Sign up in one click to receive POLITICO's France Election Playbook, starting March 7.
Keep things separate:Di Stefano made clear that the EU should be firm with China, when it comes to economic coercion, like that Beijing is exerting on Lithuania.
BORIS INSIDE THE GREAT FIREWALL: If you think U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has ceased to surprise, you are wrong. On Tuesday he wrote a message for Putin on de-escalation on  Chinas Sina Weibo. In Chinese of course. We are on the verge of a cliff. Yet, President Putin still has time to step back and think. We urge everyone to get involved into dialogue. The Russian government should avoid doing what would be a disastrous mistake for the country, he by which of course we mean his translator wrote.
But but but: He was also quick to note that China is not the only country to have used economic coercion and that geopolitical tensions are not a good reason to stop trading with Beijing. You dont limit your ability to trade with China because of a problem of China with the United States, he said. Countries have the freedom and the autonomy to pursue their own commercial policy towards China and the same time support EUs policies in defense on Lithuania, he said.
NEXT: BEYOND CHINA. Paris is also seeking a better balance of power amid the rise of China. Next week, Paris will host 20 EU foreign ministers and a similar number of Indo-Pacific counterparts without China. The focus will be on security and defence, connectivity and global challenges. In addition, France was also pre-hosting African leaders this week ahead of a summit between the EU and the African Union, where Brussels will roll out a new package for Africas infrastructure under the Global Gateway scheme that it hopes will be an effective alternative to Beijings Belt and Road initiative.
HAT IN THE RING:The U.K.s request to join the growing World Trade Organization consultation against China in its row over Lithuania has been published. In itssubmission, the U.K. expresses significant concerns about Beijings actions and insists it has a systemic interest in the case.
SURVEILLANCE CONCERNS: The Foreign Office and Cabinet Office are considering new guidance on surveillance firms with regard to modern slavery and human rights abuses concerns, according to a letter by the Biometrics and Surveillance Camera Commissioner. Ht Beijing to Britain. This is widely seen as a prelude to precluding Hikvision, widely used across not only in Europe but also Xinjiang.
XI FINALLY SPEAKS OUT ON UKRAINE: Keep talking  Thats basically Chinese President Xi Jinpings message to Europe, which is experiencing the most alarming standoff with Russia since the Cold War. A fortnight after he signed a partnership pact with Vladimir Putin, the Russian leader massing more than 100,000 troops around Ukraine, Xi seemingly sought to dial down the tension by focusing on Franco-German dialogue with Russia and Ukraine, known as the Normandy Format. Speaking to French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday, Xi emphasized that all sides should adhere to the main direction of political settlement, and make full use of multilateral platforms such as the Normandy Format, in order to seek a comprehensive settlement of the Ukraine question through dialogue and consultation, according to the Chinese readout. In a way, it serves the French leaders purpose of trying to make China publicly endorse a preference for diplomacy and de-escalation.
Xi is looking forward: The Chinese side is willing to work with the French side to push for the successful holding of the China-EU leaders meeting, Xi told Macron on Wednesday. He added that five high-level China-EU dialogues  on strategic affairs trade green topics digital and people-to-people matters  should also be conducted. From the EU side, European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen are expected to attend.
NO ITS NOT A JOKE: The summit is scheduled for April 1. Thats according to a senior EU official who tipped off POLITICO last week, as both sides finally managed to settle on a day to talk after repeated delays.
China knows EU concerns very well: EU officials say Xi and his officials are well aware of the need for Beijing to withdraw those sanctions before the deal can be ratified. And then there are a couple more hurdles
MACRON SEEKS DEALS WITH XI: Macron is clear about what he wants from China: As part of the Franco-Chinese strategic and comprehensive partnership, the authorities of our countries will redouble their efforts to support projects in the aeronautics, civil nuclear and space sectors.
Send tips here Follow me on Twitter Subscribe for free  View in your browser
Di Stefano, Italys junior minister for trade, is known for his stance on engaging China. An MP from the anti-establishment 5Star Movement, Di Stefano managed to keep his trade portfolio under three different coalition governments: From the anti-establishment coalition led by the 5Stars Giuseppe Conte to Mario Draghis europhile executive. What remains unchanged is his mind.
Playing both sides against the middle? Xi made no mention of respecting Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, which Macron stressed in the call, according to the lyses press release. The Chinese leader also signed an agreement with Putin to call on NATO to stop expansion read: no membership for Ukraine. Thats not all. According to Ukraines digital minister Mykhailo Fedorov, Chinese hackers were involved in a series of cyberattacks targeting banks and the defense ministry on Tuesday, my colleague Laurens Cerulus writes in to report, based on the ministers Telegram account. Meanwhile, Chinese media are mocking the U.S. warning of Russian invasion on February 16, with The Paper, a prominent online news portal, proclaiming: Maybe Russias maximum pressure on Ukraine is working already.
Six pledges: Macron and Xi arrived at the following, according to the Chinese version: 1 Cooperation on agricultural technology and welcoming more French agri-companies that match Chinas requirements 2 Fair, non-discriminatory business environment for each other Read: let Huawei do business in France 3 Allowing French banks to use renminbi-payment systems and actively processing more registrations by French banks 4 Aviation deals read: possibly more deals for Airbus? 5 Third-market cooperation read: Africa et al. 6 Discussion on space and cyber policies on polar and ocean issues and between military units.
VISIT CHINAS EXPANDING ARMY: Xian has some venerable additions to its defense forces. The world-famous terracotta army reported another 20 well-preserved warriors, who have only just been unearthed, the South China Morning Post reported. First discovered in 1974, some 2,000 pieces have so far been excavated, while archaeologists believe another 6,000 statues remain buried.
Xinjiang: Macron recalled French and European expectations regarding the ratification of the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization, in particular on forced labor, and expressed his concern about the situation in Xinjiang, the lyse said. Chinese statements these days no longer continually mention their leaders lecturing Western counterparts on Xinjiang or Hong Kong.
Lithuania: Macron made clear to Xi that China should stop punishing Lithuania, the highest-profile intervention about the spat to date. He encouraged China to lift sanctions against Lithuania and address Chinas demands through dialogue, the French statement said. Beijing has repeatedly asked Lithuania to correct its mistake by allowing Taiwan to call its new office in Vilnius Taiwanese instead of Taipei, but such a change of name will neither make the Lithuanian government look good nor necessarily even guarantee a change of heart from Beijing.
GOOD THURSDAY MORNING! Welcome back to China Direct, and this is your host Stuart Lau. We might not know how President Xi celebrated Valentines Day, but we do know what his plan is for April Fools Day.
Response from his 1 million followers: The state newspaper Global Times describes the followers reaction as amused and puzzled. Why is a U.K. Prime Minister sending a message to the Russian President on Chinese Sina Weibo? Putin has no account on this social platform, one netizen asked, according to the article.
AND FOCUS ON AFRICA: EU leaders are today meeting their African counterparts to promote, among other things, an ambitious large-scale investment package in Africa. Heres the agenda. The focus on respecting Africas sovereignty and sustainability is also a dig at what many see as Chinas debt diplomacy and aggressive control over African facilities in case of default. Ive done this explainer with my colleague Barbara Moens. And do subscribe to Barbaras amazing pop-up EU-Africa Playbook!
On the calendar: The EUs competition ministers next week will discuss an upcoming foreign subsidies instrument,according to a French EU presidency note. Paris hopes to reach anagreementon the issue during its rotating presidency, which runs through June.
The EUs 27 trade ministers met along the southern French coast over the weekend. POLITICOs Giorgio Leali met with one of the most interesting figures, Italys Manlio Di Stefano, between a family photo of ministers and a lunch with a view over Marseilles old port.
