China Direct April fools summit  Lavrov in China  UK judges coming home
20220331
https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/china-direct/april-fools-summit-lavrov-in-china-uk-judges-coming-home/
No deal: For the time being, unlocking talks on the EU-China investment deal was out of question as China is maintaining its sanctions against European officials, POLITICOs Giorgio Leali writes in to report, quoting French officials.
Dual resignations: Lord Reed of Allermuir and Lord Hodge, respectively the President and Deputy President of the U.K. Supreme Court, both stood down as non-permanent judges of the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal, Hong Kongs Chief Justice Andrew Cheung said in a statement. Throughout the years, they have made valuable contributions to the work of the Court for which we in Hong Kong are grateful.
LAVROV IN CHINA: Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov is in China attending a conference for Afghanistans neighboring countries. The focus, though, is on Ukraine.
NATOs fault: The Ukraine issue has a complex history and origins, according to the Chinese top envoy. It is not only the result of the long-term accumulation of security conflicts in Europe, but also of the Cold War mentality and bloc confrontation. This has been the line-to-take for Chinese officials since the war started, with the unmistakable inference that it was the U.S. push for NATO expansion that was to blame for Ukraines plight.
MOMENT OF TRUTH: The EU-China summit will start in less than 24 hours. With Russian tanks and missiles still killing civilians in Ukraine each day, European Union leaders are desperate to persuade Chinas Xi Jinping to help bring to an end to the war. But the price of getting Xi to exert pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin  someone he calls his best friend  wont be low, if hes interested in playing an active role at all. We will try to convince China that it would not be a good choice, in our opinion, to support Russia, to allow Russia to circumvent the consequences of sanctions, European Council President Charles Michel said earlier this week. The moment in which we are living on the international level is perhaps a moment of truth for Chinese authorities.
NO BREAKTHROUGH ON SANCTIONS: Borrells call with Wang on Tuesday also yielded no breakthrough on the single biggest irritant for EU-China relations: the mutual sanctions imposed by China on EU diplomats, lawmakers and academics and by the EU on officials involved in the mass internment of Uyghurs in Xinjiang. Its like a vicious cycle, a senior diplomat said. Its a difficult, difficult conversation, and China refused to stop the sanctions on MEPs and so on. Which means.
REST OF THE AGENDA: Apart from Ukraine, the EU and China will also talk about topics where they share more common ground, such as climate change, biodiversity and health. The EU will also discuss trade, a matter well within the Commissions mandate, as China continues to punish Lithuanian companies with a trade embargo after a new Taiwanese government office was set up in Vilnius last year.
The crux is the Xi-Putin friendship: If Wang isnt senior enough in the Chinese system to make any major policy change hes not part of the Politburo, which consists of the top 25 Communist Party members then the EU leaders will have to try their best to lobby directly with Xi, who has over recent years assumed unchallenged supreme power. Thats easier said than done. Xi has been calling Putin his best friend, and the Russian leader was one of the few dignitaries to attend the Winter Olympics opening this year, which was otherwise widely boycotted by diplomats. Still, Chinas economy relies significantly more on the West than Russia, which gives EU leaders somewhat of a leverage.
FRIDAYS SCHEDULE: Michel and von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, will start the session at 10 a.m. Brussels time with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang. Theyll then move on to Xi at 2 p.m. and the afternoon session is expected to last three hours.
Top of the agenda: The EU side would like to focus the attention on Ukraine. The main focus of the summit will be on the war inUkraine, the engagement of the international community to support Ukraine, thedramatic humanitarian crisis created by Russias aggression, its destabilizing nature for the international order and its inherent global impact, an EU statement said.
But but but: China would not want to focus too much on Ukraine, according to diplomats. Indeed, European officials say the preparatory call on Tuesday between EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi was a bit difficult, leaving the EU side with little expectation of any major breakthrough on Friday. Indeed, theres also a feeling in the EU that the Chinese side is not keen at all to talk about Ukraine.
Think Taiwan: We know both Presidents Xi and Putin place great value on their personal relationships. But Xis calculus is more nuanced. Hes not publicly condemned the invasion, presumably calculating that it helps him oppose the U.S. And, with an eye on retaking Taiwan, China doesnt want to do anything which may constrain its ability to move in the future, Fleming said.
GCHQ WARNING: Speaking in Australia, Britains GCHQ spy chief Jeremy Fleming said: Russias position on this is clear. It has made a strategic choice to align with China as China has become more powerful and in direct opposition to the United States. In the current crisis, Russia sees China as a supplier of weapons, as a provider of technology, a market for its hydro-carbons and as a means to circumvent sanctions.
More cooperation: Both sides are more determined to develop bilateral relations and more confident in advancing cooperation in various fields, Wang said, adding that China is willing to promote bilateral relations to a higher level in the new era guided by the important consensus reached by the two heads of state.
What you dont need to expect: The EU is not expected to come up with a joint statement with China. Indeed, this has been the norm rather than the exception in recent years.
Send tips here Follow me on Twitter Subscribe for free  View in your browser
SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook  London Playbook  Playbook Paris  EU Confidential  Sunday Crunch  EU Influence  London Influence  AI: Decoded  Digital Bridge  China Direct  Berlin Bulletin  D.C. Playbook  All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters
WELCOME TO CHINA DIRECT! This is your host Stuart Lau, Europe-China Correspondent at POLITICO. This week is definitely not one of the quieter ones for us.
Ivan Barto, deputy prime minister for digitization and minister of regional development, Czech Republic, will close POLITICO Lives AI  Tech Summit on April 21 with an interview to set the scene for tech policy in the rest of 2022. Dont miss it  confirm your registration today.
Expert view 2: The hawks are not only gaining traction but are also growing in number as more dovish China watchers have been steadily pushed towards the other side of the aisle by Xi Jinpings leadership, Jacob Gunter, senior analyst at Berlin-based MERICS think tank who was previously based in Beijing for the EU Chamber of Commerce. The longer China supports Russia with its neutrality, or even throws its support behind Moscow, the stronger the hawk chorus will grow. But he noted the unlikelihood of Beijing overstepping the mark given the domestic political consideration: the upcoming Communist Party congress in the fall that will see Xi assume the presidency for a tradition-breaking third term.
EXPERT VIEW 1: There was a significant amount of hope in Brussels and in European capitals that China would limit its support to Russia after the invasion of Ukraine and provide help in ending the war. These hopes have now been shattered, making EU-China relations even more fraught in the future, Janka Oertel, head of Asia at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said. The best outcome, she said, would be for the EU to at least secure a commitment by China to provide real support in addressing the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine.
BEIJING HAS PICKED A SIDE: A day after his phone call with Borrell, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang told Lavrov that all is going well between Beijing and Moscow. Wang stated that China-Russia relations have withstood the test of the changing international situation, ensured the right direction and demonstrated a strong momentum of development. Absolutely no room for misinterpretation.
Further reading: Heres my longread explaining how EU-China relations has gone from manageably bad to unpredictably worse.
END OF AN ERA: For the first time in more than a century and a half, British judges will no longer serve in Hong Kongs top court. This comes after the U.K. government decided on Wednesday to pull out all judges as a result of the national security law that Beijing imposed on Hong Kong in 2020.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss says in a statement: We have seen a systematic erosion of liberty and democracy in Hong Kong. Since the National Security Law was imposed, authorities have cracked down on free speech, the free press and free association. The situation has reached a tipping point where it is no longer tenable for British judges to sit on Hong Kongs leading court, and would risk legitimising oppression. I welcome and wholeheartedly support the decision to withdraw British judges from the court.
Mixed feelings: Activists hail this as a victory. The Hong Kong legal system is a tool of oppression, and it should have taken this long for foreign judges to withdraw. There are questions still to answer about judges from other common law countries who still have their snouts in the Communist Partys trough, said Luke de Pulford, coordinator of the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China. A senior Hong Kong lawyer, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, told China Direct that while they understood the reasoning, its still sad to see even less overseas scrutiny of how the justice system operates here.
EUS SCRIPT GOES LIKE THIS: The EU leaders are expected to tell Xi that Putin is a pariah who has lost all credibility in Europe, diplomats say, while sending a strong signal that falls short of a threat, that any attempts by China to help Russia circumvent the sanctions would result in serious consequences. Asked if they will follow U.S. President Joe Bidens strategy of listing to Xi the number of companies that left Russia  seen as a scaring tactic to Beijing  a senior EU official said: Well see.
Redrawing power relations: Its also a moment of truth for Europe. For the grand strategists in Berlin or Paris alike, the decades-long diplomacy led by the mindset of change through trade has proven to be a bloody, fatal mistake vis--vis Russia. For now, Beijing and Moscow are comfortably doubling down on their pre-war friendship. The Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov  whose stepdaughter was sanctioned by the U.K. where she owns a luxury 4 million property  traveled to China for the first time since the war started, meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. Stressing a strong momentum for development, Wang gave no sign whatsoever of joining the West in condemning Moscow.
Now read this: Among all the not-so-coded messages the Chinese foreign minister gave Lavrov, which well unscramble in detail below, he said that Beijing supports efforts made by Russia and other parties to prevent a large-scale humanitarian crisis. Gulp.
