EU targets Putins oil banks and propaganda in new sanctions plan
20220504
https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-target-vladimir-putin-oil-bank-propaganda-new-russia-sanction-plan/
Russia is the EU's biggest supplier of oil and gas. By April 27, the bloc had imported about 44 billion of fossil fuels from Russia by shipments and pipelines since the invasion began, according to the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.
There are broader questions over how much damage an EU ban will do to Russia's revenue stream from fossil fuels as it continues to export oil elsewhere in the world. According to Ajay Parmar, senior oil analyst at energy intelligence service ICIS, the proposed ban will likely raise prices but the fact it is phased over time will mitigate the impact  both on markets and on the Kremlin's finances.
Imports of Russian crude oil will cease within six months and refined products by the end of the year in the bloc's draft sixth sanctions package, proposed by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday.
The one-stop-shop solution for policy professionals fusing the depth of POLITICO journalism with the power of technology
The European Union will hit Russia's lucrative oil industry, as well as its biggest bank and multiple media outlets, under plans to intensify economic pressure on President Vladimir Putin over his war in Ukraine.
"The phased nature of the sanctions will give Russia time to find alternative buyers of their crude  there are plenty of willing buyers in India, China, and other parts of Southeast Asia," Parmar said.
Ending imports of oil from Russia would represent a landmark moment in Europe's response to the war and a decision that would permanently reshape global politics and energy markets.
America Hernandez, Cory Bennett, Camille Gijs, Andrew Gray, Mark Scott and Tim Ross contributed reporting.
"Let us be clear, it will not be easy," von der Leyen told the European Parliament. "Some member states are strongly dependent on Russian oil, but we simply have to do it. So today we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe. This will be a complete ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined."
"Europe has a very special responsibility towards Ukraine," she said. "Today I propose to you that we start working on an ambitious recovery package for our Ukrainian friends."
In her speech, von der Leyen also proposed "massive" EU investment in a recovery plan for Ukraine, noting the war was having a devastating impact on the country's economy and infrastructure. She did not put a figure on the size of the package.
According to documents seen by POLITICO, the plan put forward by von der Leyen includes:
The key question is whether the bloc is moving fast enough to have an impact on Putin's war effort. Some EU countries have called for a swift oil ban to hit Putin hard right away. One Central European diplomat dismissed U.S. warnings that a complete EU ban on Russian oil would drive up international prices: "They are afraid for the impact on their November elections."
Political pressure from Ukraine for tougher action has pushed EU leaders to find ways to end the bloc's addiction to Russian fossil fuels. The last sanctions package saw the EU agree to phase out imports of Russian coal in the months ahead. But oil and gas is where the big money is.
The next step is for EU countries to discuss the Commissions plan, which may change as member countries examine the details of the proposal. Some that are highly dependent on Russian oil have said they want to be sure they will get alternative supplies before they sign off on any ban.
But the blueprint requires unanimous support from all 27 EU countries and there are already signs of potential divisions over the details.
It is the proposal to hit Russian fossil fuels, income from which helps to finance Putin's war, that marks the most significant part of the package.
But von der Leyen stressed the need to act in an "orderly fashion," to exert maximum pressure on the Kremlin's war effort while minimizing disruption to global markets.
OPEC countries are unlikely to boost production to resolve any shortages of oil supplies, a move that will keep crude prices at their current high level above $100 a barrel, Parmar added.
For more hawkish countries such as Poland and the Baltics, the proposed timeline is already likely to feel painfully slow.
Despite a special arrangement to give Hungary and Slovakia an extra year to adjust to the ban on oil imports, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbn's government signaled major reservations and suggested it may not be able to support the moves. Slovakia's government told POLITICO the country would need until at least 2025 to prepare.
