MEPs vote to fasttrack Ukraine financial aid package
20220215
https://www.politico.eu/article/mep-green-light-european-parliament-financial-aid-ukraine/
An urgent procedure prioritizes the item over other things on the Parliaments agenda. It allows for faster parliamentary scrutiny over the Commissions proposal, while respecting the Parliaments democratic prerogatives.
In a vote held Monday in Strasbourg, a majority of MEPs supported an urgent procedure for the package with 598 voting in favor, 53 voting against and 43 abstaining, the Parliament announced Tuesday morning.
The package contains a mixture of loans and grants that Commission President Ursula von der Leyenvowedwould help Ukraine now to address its financing needs due to the conflict. If approved, she added, the EU could begin the rapid disbursement to Ukraine of600 million.
Correction: This story has been updated to correct the inaccurate account of what the European Parliament voted for on Monday.
European Parliament lawmakers have thrown their support behind fast-tracking the European Commissions new 1.2 billion support package for Ukraine.
Last Friday, the Council of the European Union also endorsed the macro-financial assistance to Ukraine.
In January, the European Commission proposed 1.2 billion in new funding for Ukraine, urging the bloc to act swiftly amid looming fears of a Russian attack.
A vote on the proposal itself will now take place Wednesday. Votes are expected to be announced on Wednesday evening if there are no amendments, or Thursday morning if there are.
The Parliament has struggled to find unanimity over Russia. A small but vocal minority of MEPs have a pro-Russian agenda  a reality that has complicated the Parliaments efforts to present a united front on the Ukraine crisis.All MEPs from French presidential candidate Marine Le Pens far-right party, National Rally, voted against the the package, as did others from the Identityand DemocracyGroup, a handful from the European Conservatives and Reformists and several from The Left.
On Wednesday, MEPs andEU foreign policy chiefJosep Borrell will debate the latest diplomatic attempts to de-escalate tensions between Russia and the West over Ukraine.
