On a Ukrainian train disbelief and fear as passengers flee Kyiv
20220225
https://www.politico.eu/article/ukraine-war-disbelief-fear-train-passengers-flee-kyiv/
Goncharova was not as blunt. She said that the Western countries are not quite doing enough to help Ukraine. She suggested they need to wake up to the broader danger posed by Putins belligerence.
After that, they may try to move on to another country. Maybe it will be Turkey, maybe we will fly to our friends in Luxembourg. We shall see. The most important thing is to get out of the no-fly zone, Vladislav said.
There was so little room that some had to stand and talk in the corridor through the night, or sleep on the floor. They would much rather endure that small discomfort than stay in Kyiv while Russian forces attack the city with missiles. As the train hurtled toward Lviv, the Russian military was rapidly advancing toward the capital from the north.
But no one can guarantee that it will not be sounding again soon for more ominous reasons.
What Putins goal may be, I guess only he himself knows. Maybe those who whisper advice to him know as well, said Vladislav. The Ukrainian population is negatively disposed toward Russia. When 40 million people are against you, it will take a large effort to keep it all under control.
I keep thinking that this is a dream, maybe we are dreaming, said Alena Borisova, 30, for whom this was also the second time in eight years she was fleeing from war. The English teacher had previously fled Mariupol, a city on the shores of the Sea of Azov, when heavy fighting between Moscow-backed separatists and the Ukrainian military broke out in 2014.
Goncharova, a former resident of the eastern city of Donetsk, had been unable to buy a ticket beforehand due to frantic demand at the central stations ticket office throughout the day. A passenger on the train made room for Goncharova on a long bench-like seat in one of the carriages.
In 2014, Goncharova was forced to flee her home in Donetsk under heavy shelling. She was wounded in the legs during the attack. I dropped everything then  my job, my home, she said.
The train arrived in Lviv early on Friday morning. After most of the passengers had stepped onto the platform, an air raid siren started sounding over the city. The passengers rushed to the underpass beneath the railway tracks, which seemed to offer the best available shelter from a possible air attack.
He said he can understand the West not wanting to unleash a war with Russia over Ukraine. They are trying not to get involved in a military conflict, but at the same time they are trying to stop it.
The 52-year-old interpreter persuaded the conductors of a train traveling on Thursday evening from Kyiv to the western city of Lviv to let her board without a ticket as Russian forces closed in on the Ukrainian capital.
Borisova was travelling with her husband Vladislav Borisov, 31, and their 6-year old son. Their tentative plan was to escape to Poland, which has opened its borders to Ukrainian refugees.
Once this kind of war has started, Russian military aggression can spread to other countries, also those in NATO. They need to help Ukraine, she said.
After some time, it emerged that the alarm was part of a drill organized by the city authorities.
Its a catastrophe. Just a catastrophe. You need to be a genuinely insane person to do this, she said of Russian President Vladimir Putins order to launch an invasion of Ukraine.
Other passengers in the same packed train carriage had also rushed to get on board for the 12-hour journey to Lviv without being able to buy a ticket.
Goncharova said few Ukrainians had believed that the capital city would come under fire. But, she said, we have hope. We are placing our hope in our armed forces and in help from our allies.
However, a few hours after the train left Kyiv, the familys plans to go abroad were suddenly undone. Ukrainian authorities announced a general mobilization, under which men aged 18 to 60 are prohibited from leaving the country.
The passengers on the train hoped to find relative safety in Lviv, the city to which many Western embassies evacuated their diplomats on the eve of the Russian strike, or by leaving Ukraine altogether.
Now we are shocked. We did not expect that Putin would decide on this. We hoped that his prudence, some remnants of adequacy would prevail. But no, she said, her voice breaking with emotion.
KYIVLVIV, Ukraine  For Elena Goncharova, this is the second time she has had to flee from war in the past eight years.
Mariupol, where the family lived before their escape to Kyiv in 2014, is a mostly Russian-speaking city. Previously, pro-Russian sentiments were strong there.
Ukrainians will know in the coming days whether that hope is justified and whether that help will be enough. Their leaders have fiercely criticized Western countries for not doing more to assist the country.
Putin wants to recreate the Soviet Union. He has one goal  to show his voters that he has won this land, Goncharova said.
But now, Vladislav said  even among acquaintances with pro-Russian views  he does not know anyone who supports Putins latest war. They dont understand whats going on. The Russian-speaking population that remained in the territories controlled by Ukraine do not see any benefit for themselves.
