Out to lunch Russian envoy to EU claims packed schedule despite public freezeout
20220525
https://www.politico.eu/article/russia-moscow-vladimir-chizhov-envoy-to-eu-says-schedule-packed-despite-icy-diplomatic-ties/
Before retreating into his chambers, Chizhov put in a final bid for rebuilding the EU-Russia relationship.
Chizhov also said that, despite Russias public rejection in Brussels, behind the scenes hes still getting plenty of face time with envoys from other countries, including EU ones. This week I had three lunches in five days, he told POLITICO in the Russian embassys tea room on Friday, patting his belly and gesturing toward the dining room next door. Unlike the Russian ambassador to Washington, Chizhov has not yet seen his chef expelled. The diplomat added that he was in touch with lots of people, keeping a schedule full of Zoom calls and diplomat lunches, though he repeatedly declined to identify who hed met or what countries they represented.
But the diplomat declined to offer details about his activities in Brussels, and he has a reputation for stating falsehoods. In January, a few days before Russia invaded Ukraine, he called Western government warnings about said invasion hysterical. More recently, he told Sky News that any civilian deaths in Ukraine could not be at the hands of Russian armed forces.
The end of those summits also meant he got a lot less direct contact with Vladimir Putin. Theyre not regularly in direct touch  but Chizhov said with pride that he had played a role in facilitating last months call between European Council President Charles Michel and the Russian president. A spokesperson for Michel declined to comment in a way that shed any light on Chizhovs role or answer questions about Russian contacts with Michels team.
Take European lawmakers. When you talk to them one-to-one, they seem to be understanding, he said.
Sporting a blue-gray suit and sky blue tie, Chizhov remained wryly chipper even as he lamented the growing misperceptions that have, in his view, poisoned Moscow-Brussels relations for more than a decade.
I havent forgiven the European Union for failing to come, Chizhov said. I was planning to go there myself.
But as the war in Ukraine drags on, European unity on the severity and scope of the sanctions has fissured. The bloc has stopped short of imposing an oil or gas import ban, and some countries have gone so far as to accede to Russian demands to pay for energy imports in rubles  a concession that Chizhov claims a hand in.
He is someone who will say absolutely anything no matter how absurdly untrue, said former U.S. Ambassador to the EU Anthony Gardner, adding that hed chosen not to meet with Chizhov during his tenure from 2014 to 2017. I knew it would be a waste of time.
None of which stops Chizhov from making further claims, including that he, and Moscow, have more friends than public statements from Western leaders would suggest.
Its the kind of claim thats led diplomats from some other countries to write off Chizhov as not being worth their time.
Moscows top envoy to Brussels has devoted the past 17 years to fostering EU-Russia relations.
Most direct travel routes have been cut off, putting a damper on his trips home  but Chizhov added that there are ways to travel back, via Dubai for example.
Adding to Chizhovs workload: picking up the slack from the unprecedented expulsion of 19 Russian diplomats from the EU mission, including experts on energy, transport and the Iran nuclear deal. Some 40 remain, he said.
The EU no longer considers my country to be a strategic partner, added Chizhov, who called himself a living monument to the idea of a strategic partnership between Europe and Russia.
Instead of a partnership, Russias relations with the EU could be described, generously, as icy. The bloc has thumped Moscow with sanctions on everything from luxury goods to banking and dozens of Russian diplomats have been sent home.
Practically next door to the U.S. Mission on Brussels Rue du Regent, Russias art nouveau embassy has exhibits about happier times with parts of the West, including the shared fight against the Nazis in World War II and a timeline of bilateral Russian-EU summits. The last one of those was in January 2014  the planned summertime gathering in the Russian city of Sochi was canceled after the annexation of Crimea.
He said that nothing about the Wests response to Russias war on Ukraine surprises him although, in his eyes, its all misguided. Commenting on Finlands recent request to join NATO, he said the country would go from punching above its weight to a backwater of NATO, and that European economies will suffer more from fossil fuel sanctions than Russia so-called sanctions, he quipped, arguing that only the U.N. can impose those beyond the national level.
CORRECTION: This article has been updated to correct the policy areas in which experts in Russias mission to the EU were expelled.
Its an unusually long Brussels sojourn that has seen Chizhov remain in his post while many of his peers have moved onto their fifth or sixth diplomatic posting. That said, the ambassador said he could be recalled at any time and that psychologically, he was prepared for any development.
Chizhov, 68, has been devoted to European affairs even before his 2005 arrival in Brussels, with stints at Russian embassies in Cyprus and Greece an OSCE posting in Vienna and various roles related to Europe and U.K. policy at the foreign ministry.
Before you guys burn all the bridges, think of the effort you will need to repair them, he said. As for Russia, he added, We are not burning any bridges.
In the wake of Russias invasion of Ukraine, relations between the EU and his bosses in Moscow have  in the words of ambassador Vladimir Chizhov himself  hit their lowest point since their inception 30 years ago.
Asked if his communication playbook, which includes lots of blanket denials about reported Russian misdeeds, had proved effective in any way, Chizhov said: Its not for me to judge whether my persuasion strategy is successful, highly successful or partially successful. Its up to others, adding: Its certainly not a total disaster, or else they wouldnt have kept me for so long here.
Sure, when they get together and vote in the European Parliament, those same MEPs often vote for resolutions that are, on many occasions, outrageous, he said. Yet theres one good thing about those resolutions, he said: Theyre non-binding.
