Peace putsch or European Syria 3 endgames for Ukraine
20220403
https://www.politico.eu/article/peace-putsch-europe-syria-refugees-ukraine-russia/
For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power. In the ad-lib heard round the world, U.S. President Joe Biden uttered what many Western leaders have been thinking. They dont understand Putins thinking, theyre tired of his nuclear saber-rattling, and they dont trust a damn word he says.
With NATO powers adamant in their refusal to step in on Ukraines behalf, Western officials increasingly see three broad categories for how this conflict could end. No matter which scenario plays out  Putins ouster, a negotiated settlement or an ongoing stalemate  theres no going back to the old post-war order.
Were we to have a negotiated settlement to this conflict that got Russian forces out of Ukraine, that protected Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity going forward, that ensured the rebuilding of Ukraine, then sanctions could be rolled back, U.S. Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland told the U.S.-backed, Russian-language channel Current Time TV on Wednesday.
In this vision, Ukrainian resistance with just enough Western help to avoid escalation keeps Putin stuck in a protracted conflict.
The ongoing military conflict starts to look like a Syria in Eastern Europe. NATO stands firm and united in its refusal to put troops on the ground or shoot Russian planes out of the sky. The Ukrainians, despite their passion and discipline, are spread too thin defending Kyiv and other key spots from Russian harassment to launch a real counteroffensive.
Reality check: Putin has broken almost every promise hes made over the past month, whether its withdrawing from Kyiv or allowing humanitarian escape routes from Mariupol. My own view is Putin is plainly not to be trusted, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Wednesday, as he questioned whether Macrons negotiations with the Kremlin had much value.
Western European countries are highly motivated to get back to economic normalcy. Amid signs that the effect of the sanctions is waning, the punishments would only have to get tougher, and that doesnt just hurt Russia. Rising costs of living look set to be the biggest threat to Macrons reelection bid, for example, and in Germany, Chancellor Olaf Scholz warned that eschewing Russian oil and gas would cause a recession.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has already expressed some openness to forswearing NATO membership for Ukraine. Putin might also be able to extract some territory  say, walking away with Crimea and Donbas without further Ukrainian contestation in exchange for a Russian withdrawal from the rest of the country.
Motivated by ideology, Putin is not some cost-benefit analysis kind of thinker, quipped ex-U.S. Ambassador to Moscow Michael McFaul. That means there may not have been much the West could have done to deter Putin from picking this fight in the first place, nor much to convince him to end it.
Reality check: The last time Russians abruptly overthrew their leader was in 1917  and given the complete absence of organized opposition, theres zero guarantee that a Putin successor would have a different mindset. Meanwhile, it could be a mistake to think Russias experience would give Beijing any second thoughts about Taiwan, as the historian Niall Ferguson argued. China, which has a much bigger economy than Russias, may take comfort in the Wests inability to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels and NATOs refusal to directly risk its members own security to help Ukraine.
Pols in Berlin and Paris feel their guts unclenching just thinking about this outcome, with its potential for soft-power victories over the long term. If Ukraine splits in two, the EU can take showy responsibility for reconstructing the free side. That creates an appealing West-East Germany-style contrast to make the point about how bad Moscows lifestyle offer is. Remember: We still want Putin out. And having a clean de facto EU-Russia frontier at the Dnieper River is also appealing  especially when the alternative would have been the borders of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania if Putin had managed to capture all of Ukraine.
Russian elites will likely create a circular firing squad for Russias disastrous progress in its war with Ukraine, one Western official said. People are going to be being quite defensive about their own failures and, I think, looking to point the finger at others.
Russians revolutionary fervor and Ukrainians triumph brings about a new zest for liberal democracy not seen since the early 1990s.
So instead, Washington and London are dreaming about what a post-Putin world could look like. And they like it.
The U.S. Defense Department estimates the conflict could continue for a decade. Indeed, theres no sign that either party will be ready for serious peace negotiations any time soon.
Ukraine becomes an object lesson, not just for Moscow, but also for Beijing. Chinese President Xi Jinping, who may be more of a cost-benefit analysis kind of thinker looks at Russias humiliation in the face of a united Western front and realizes making a play for Taiwan just wouldnt be worth it.
Moscows announcement on Tuesday that it would shift its focus away from Kyiv to Donbas seemed like a sign that President Vladimir Putin was preparing to pursue a more modest victory. Yet that speculation was quickly discarded as his forces continued their bombardment around the Ukrainian capital.
Even if Putin does stick to a deal, any gains achieved through unprovoked violence deeply undermine the rules-based national order. The Eastern EU countries that have been hawkish on Russia would see such a deal as appeasement for a bully that threatens their own security.Putin might see it as an invitation to try again to invade a neighbor  and this time he could be better prepared.
How can this nightmare end?From the darkened bomb shelters of Mariupol to the airy corridors of NATO, the question is no less urgent, and no more clear, than when Russian forces trundled into Ukraine on February 24.
Zelenskyy is refusing to even broach surrendering territory until Russians move troops back to pre-February 24 positions, and his other potential concession  avowed Ukrainian neutrality  requires a constitutional referendum thats all but impossible to organize. Meanwhile, Western intelligence assessments argue that Putin doesnt even know how bad things are going for him advisers are keeping him in blissful ignorance. The waning effect of sanctions in Russia hardens Moscows resolve, while Western leaders show increasing reluctance to ratchet up the pain on their own voters.
French President Emmanuel Macron has been adamant that a negotiated peace deal is still possible. The contours of a potential settlement vary considerably, and theres no clarity on how many Ukrainian concessions the West  and the Ukrainian people themselves  could accept.
As Russians manage to take towns, Ukrainian forces best hope will be using guerilla-style techniques to prevent a military operation from becoming a political reality. That means pulling Russian resources away from hardened front lines, a very costly change of posture, said Jennifer Cafarella, chief of staff at the U.S.-based Institute for the Study of War.
Therell be a moment in time when Russian forces will decide theyve done enough in Mariupol and then they will look towards  moving to the north and trying to mount this broader envelopment operation of Ukrainian forces in the Donbas, a Western official said.
Reality check: NATO is staying out in order to avoid a Third World War. But a drawn-out war has global consequences. Ukrainian refugees flooding into the West wont be able to go home. And they wont be the only new arrivals: People from the Middle East, Africa and Central Asia imperiled by the crashing Russian economy and halted food exports would renew migration as a wedge issue in Western democracies.
Without much hope of actually holding Ukraine, Putin opts for systematic destruction, making the cost of rebuilding the country prohibitively expensive. Russia never actually wins, but Ukraine loses its population and its economy.
To stay in the game, Putin has to conscript more and more soldiers. They in turn come home in body bags that even his propaganda machine cant whitewash  prompting mothers to take to the streets as they did during Russias failed occupation of Afghanistan. Meanwhile, increasingly punishing sanctions prompt the Russian middle class  now accustomed to capitalist treats like Ikea and McDonalds  to radicalize and sour on the war.
Eventually, Russias generals and spymasters  many of whom are under house arrest  decide to give Putin a dose of his own poison and get rid of him by force. As the coup coincides with mass protests, a pro-Western generation of leaders emerges from the chaos in Moscow.
You could see a scenario where, with steps to get Russian forces out of Ukraine, you sequenced the rolling back of sanctions, she said, though we are a long, long way from there.
There has been considerable evidence of unease about the way in which the invasion has panned out for Russia amongst the Russian elite broadly defined, added the same official.
