UN report 90 percent of Ukrainians could face poverty within a year
20220316
https://www.politico.eu/article/un-report-90-percent-of-ukraine-could-face-poverty-within-a-year-russia-war/
Talks between Russia and Ukraine aimed at ending the conflict continued on Tuesday, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy hinting at a compromise. Meanwhile, U.S. President Joe Biden is set to travel to Brussels later this month to meet European leaders at a special NATO summit on March 24  exactly one month after Russian forces first began their full-scale assault on Ukraine.
Nine in 10 Ukrainians could face poverty within the next 12 months and the country could be set back by almost two decades in terms of economic advancement if Russias invasion continues, according to U.N. projections.
The UNDP recommended large-scale cash assistance to help mitigate this rise in poverty levels. It also urged other countries to help fund a daily temporary basic income for Ukrainians and said donating $250 million a month to the country could prevent 2.6 million people from falling into poverty.
While the need for immediate humanitarian assistance to Ukrainians is of the utmost importance, the acute development impacts of a protracted war are now becoming more apparent, said UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner, adding there is still time to halt this grim trajectory.
The three weeks of war in Ukraine have so far resulted in more than 1,700 civilian casualties pushed more than 3 million refugees across the countrys borders and destroyed around $100 billion worth of infrastructure, according to Ukrainian government estimates. A report by UNICEF on Tuesday also estimated the conflict was creating a new child refugee almost every second.
The early data released Wednesday by the U.N. Development Programme UNDP estimates that if Russian President Vladimir Putins war in Ukraine becomes protracted, almost one-third of the countrys citizens would fall below the poverty line and another 62 percent would face a serious risk of doing so. It also estimates that 18 years of socio-economic progress would be undone.
