West slaps penalties on Russia over Ukraine invasion leaves room for more
20220222
https://www.politico.eu/article/west-sanctions-ukraine-putin-biden-von-der-leyen-scholz-johnson-moscow-russia-nord-stream-2-gas-banks/
While Nord Stream 2 had long been an expected economic casualty of a Russian invasion, Germany had been reluctant to join its allies in admitting as much. Scholz had even avoided uttering the pipelines name when pressed about the issue.
This is the first tranche, the first barrage, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson vowed. We hold further sanctions.
Ukraine has long described the 10 billion project  whose construction was completed in September but which has yet to start operating  as a threat to its security. Nord Stream 2 bypasses the country, and Kyiv had raised concerns that it would allow Russia to shut off gas transport via existing land pipelines, costing Ukraine billions in transit fees.
Meanwhile, in London, Johnson trumpeted the U.K.s sanctions, stressing that the three Russian executives are very close to the Kremlin and will have their assets in the U.K. frozen. Britain said it will also sanction Russian parliament members who voted for recognition, identify more oligarchs to target and explore possible legislation to, among other things, target high-tech exports toRussia.
In Paris, EU foreign ministers scheduled an emergency meeting for late Tuesday afternoon and put the finishing touches to their package. According to one EU diplomat, the blocs sanctions package will hit a range of lawmakers, military commanders and organizations assisting the troop deployment in Donbass.
The logic is to deprive the Russian state and government bodies access to European capital markets, an EU official said.
Johnson hinted, however, that not all allies were on the same page in terms of penalties.
In Washington, Biden unveiled his own economic punishments on Tuesday afternoon. The U.S. sanctions target Russian elites and their family members, as well as two financial institutions  VEB and Russia's military bank. Washington is also hitting Russia's sovereign debt. "That means we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing," Biden said. "It can no longer raise money from the West, and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either."
So far, EU officials have been reluctant to sanction Russian oligarchs assets in the European Union, citing fears that the bloc could be defeated in court if it did not have a strong legal basis for its actions.
The U.K. penalties, meanwhile, will hit five Russian banks and three high-profile Russian executives, before being expanded in the coming days.
While Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba praised the move as a morally, politically and practically correct step in the current circumstances, it also drew attention to Europes reliance on Russian gas  and the spiking prices likely to get worse if the conflict mushrooms in Ukraine.
The situation today is fundamentally different, Scholz said, responding to Putin's move to recognize two separatist-held areas of eastern Ukraine as independent republics and deploy Russian forces there.
Details started leaking out Tuesday morning, as officials moved to enact their initial punishments and frame the situation.
Josep Borrell, the EU's top diplomat, told a news conference in Paris: "We keep ammunition in our toolbox in order to continue sanctioning ... Russian behavior, if needed. He vowed that the sanctions will hurt Russia and will hurt a lot.
Still, Johnson warned, we should now brace ourselves for the worst possible stages of Putins plan.
Johnson termed Russias behavior a renewed invasion and a pretext for a full-scale offensive. On Tuesday morning, Borrell said he wouldnt call the troop deployment a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil. The U.S. initially held back before declaring on Tuesday, This is the beginning of an invasion.
Different countries have different priorities and considerations, he told British lawmakers. What we want to do is prioritize unity among the alliance and among our friends and work in lockstep with them. There will be more to come.
"Russia is not respecting its international obligations and it is violating core principles of international law. Russia has manufactured this crisis and is responsible for the current escalation. We will now quickly finalize the sanctions package," von der Leyen said.
The EU sanctions, for instance, are designed to target state-owned entities and public banks, and limit Russias ability to access European markets and fund its activities in the contested areas  but they are not intended to cut off the EUs entire economic relationship with Russia. They also target scores of Russian lawmakers but they are not expected to hit key senior Kremlin officials. Similarly, the U.S. said its penalties would be an initial step, leaving options for escalation later.
While EU countries, the U.K. and the U.S. raced overnight to compile an initial list of people and banks to sanction, the big surprise came when German Chancellor Olaf Scholz halted the Nord Stream 2 Russia-to-Germany natural gas pipeline  a move the country had refused to commit to in recent weeks.
Western allies on Tuesday moved quickly to ramp up economic pressure on Moscow over Vladimir Putin's decision to send troops into Ukraine, while still leaving scope for tougher measures if Moscow launches further military action.
The latest EU sanctions list will include the 351 Russian parliament members who voted in favor of recognizing the breakaway regions as independent, as well as the 11 lawmakers who proposed the initiative, the EU diplomat said. Additionally, the diplomat added, Russias military commanders on the ground in Donbass will be sanctioned, as will a slate of people and companies linked to the campaign.
As Putin escalated the crisis overnight, officials jockeyed behind the scenes, trying to settle some thorny questions: Did Putins behavior constitute an invasion of Ukraine? What did it mean that Russia already had a presence in Donbass, where it has been supporting separatist fighters for years? What penalties should the allies keep in reserve?
Not on anyones list: Vladimir Putin, despite his role as the ultimate decision-maker and the one who has massed up to 190,000 troops on Ukraine's borders.
Yet countries fumbled throughout the day over what to call Russias move, eventually offering up the term invasion with a number of caveats. And several cautioned that they needed to hold back their most severe responses in the hopes of deterring an even more catastrophic war, despite calls from Ukrainian officials for the West to unleash strident penalties now.
The European Union agreed on a package of measures, including curbs on Moscows ability to raise capital on the EUs financial markets, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said.
The EU, U.S. and U.K. held intense talks through the night and into Tuesday, preparing slightly different packages based on the sanctions each entity already had in place, according to one Western official.
Putin set Moscow on a path to sanctions on Monday night when he recognized two breakaway territories in eastern Ukraines Donbass region as independent and deployed Russian forces there, ostensibly as peacekeepers  moves widely condemned as violations of international law and seen as a possible prelude to a full-scale invasion.
The first tranche of penalties unveiled Tuesday was limited in several areas, crafted to display international unity and to ensure Western allies retained the ability to ramp up punishment should Putin choose to march his troops deeper into Ukraine.
Who in the Lords name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbors? Biden asked.
At the news conference after the EU ministers' meeting, Borrell said the bloc's measures would limit the ability of the Russian government to finance its policies. He also said he was willing to widen the sanctions net "to capture those who provide support to or benefit from the Russian government  I mean the oligarchs.
