Western leaders implore Putin to step back from real risk of war
20220219
https://www.politico.eu/article/western-leaders-vladimir-putin-ukraine-war-munich-security-conference-nato-us-europe/
Still, Scholz reiterated what has become his pitch for a diplomatic pathway with Russia: Ukraines NATO membership is not on the agenda, and theres room to negotiate over arms control and transparency measures.
Russia continues to claim it is ready for talks, while at the same time it narrows the avenues for diplomacy, said U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris. Their actions simply do not match their words.
We must not be naive, that is of the utmost importance, Scholz said. We have to see what can be seen. We cannot ignore it.
At the same time, he added, it will always be our task  and continue to be our task  to use any opening, however minor they may be, to open the road toward negotiations.
The impasse has resulted in heightening fears that Russia is on the precipice of launching a deadly invasion.
A senior U.S. official on Friday publicly put the estimated number of Russian forces lining up for a potential attack at between 169,000 to 190,000. That figure appears to include separatist fighters Russia has backed in Ukraines east since it last invaded in 2014, who could be important players in a new invasion.
If Kremlins aim is to have less NATO on its borders, it will only get more NATO, Stoltenberg said.
There is no decision pending on the issue whatsoever, he said of Ukraine joining NATO, even as he affirmed the countrys right to join if it and NATO allies agreed.
Western leaders on Saturday reiterated their long-standing vow that if such an attack occurs, they will respond with swift, severe and united economic sanctions, as Harris put it.
Stoltenberg described Russias massing of troops as the biggest military build-up since the Cold War.
The U.S. has similarly emphasized it is willing to discuss issues like new arms control agreements.
These are dangerous days for Europe, Stoltenberg said, noting that Moscow has shown no sign of withdrawal or de-escalation so far, despite the occasional pronouncement from the Kremlin that it was pulling back some troops. On the contrary, Russias military build-up continues.
Overall, the leaders said Putins actions had only served to strengthen unity among Western allies.
The U.S. and some of its allies have also already shipped weapons to Ukraine. But the U.S. has ruled out sending American troops into Ukraine if Russia attacks. Germany has also thus far refused to send Ukraine weapons.
It is not too late for Russia to change course, to step back from the brink, stop preparing for war and start working for a peaceful solution, said NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
The comments come just hours after U.S. President Joe Biden revealed he was convinced Putin had made the decision to invade Ukraine. And they represent what may be an increasingly futile attempt to keep Putin at the negotiating table. In recent months, Moscow has encircled Ukraine with well over 100,000 troops and threatened to take military-technical action unless Western allies withdraw from Eastern Europe and vow never to admit Ukraine to NATO  demands seen as nonstarters in the West.
And, Harris added, we will not stop with economic measures. The U.S. will further reinforce our NATO allies on the eastern flank.
But Russia has said such overtures ignore the countrys key concerns  the NATO and U.S. military expansion into Eastern Europe starting in the 1990s. And on that point, Western allies have remained firm that they will not negotiate.
Speaking at the annual Munich Security Conference, European, U.S. and NATO leaders insisted that a standoff over the Russian troops threatening Ukraine did not have to end in war even as they stressed that armed conflict remained a distinct possibility and Western allies were ready to respond forcefully.
The crisis escalated over the past two days, as shelling increased in Ukraines contested Donbass region, where Kyiv has been fighting Russian-backed separatists for years. Western leaders were quick to point out that the mushrooming violence fits the pattern of a fabricated provocation that Putin could use to justify a military strike or invasion.
Western leaders on Saturday appealed to Vladimir Putin to not give up on diplomacy amid warnings that the Russian president has already decided to invade Ukraine.
