Ukraine president orders full military mobilisation
20220224
https://www.stalbansreview.co.uk/news/national/19950945.ukraines-health-minister-says-57-killed-russian-invasion/
AP confirmed video showing Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukrainian-held territory in the north from Belarus and from Russian-annexed Crimea in the south.
Large explosions were heard in the capital and in other cities, and people massed in train stations and took to roads, as the government said the former Soviet republic was seeing a long-anticipated invasion from the east, north and south.
Later Ukrainian authorities described ground invasions in multiple regions, and border guards released footage showing a line of Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukraines government-held territory.
Biden administration officials have signalled that two of the measures they were considering most strongly include hitting Russias biggest banks and slapping on new export controls meant to starve Russias industries and military of US semiconductors and other high-tech components.
Condemnation rained down not only from the US and Europe, but from South Korea, Australia and beyond  and many governments readied new sanctions.
Ukrainians who had long braced for the prospect of an assault were urged to shelter in place and not to panic despite the dire warnings.
The Second World War looms large in Russia, after the Soviet Union suffered more deaths than any country while fighting Adolf Hitlers forces.
The chief of the Nato alliance said the brutal act of war shattered peace in Europe, joining a chorus of world leaders who decried the attack, which could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraines democratically elected government and upend the post-Cold War security order.
In Washington, President Joe Biden convened a meeting of the National Security Council on Thursday to discuss Ukraine as the US prepares new sanctions.
In unleashing Moscows most aggressive action since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, President Vladimir Putin deflected global condemnation and cascading new sanctions  and chillingly referred to his countrys nuclear arsenal.
He tasked the militarys general staff with determining the number of people eligible for service and the number of reservists as well as the order of the call-up.
Kherson sits on a reservoir providing the bulk of fresh water for Crimea until Ukraine cut it off with a dam in 2017 in response to Moscows 2014 annexation of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula.
World stock markets plunged and oil prices on both sides of the Atlantic surged towards or above 100 dollars per barrel over unease about possible disruption of Russian supplies, while the rouble sank.
The attack began even as the UN Security Council was meeting to hold off an invasion.
Russia earlier launched a wide-ranging attack on the eastern European country, hitting cities and bases with air strikes or shelling, as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee.
Even friendly leaders such as Hungarys Viktor Orban sought to distance themselves from Mr Putin.
The conflict was already shaking global financial markets  stocks plunged and oil prices soared amid concerns that heating bills and food prices would skyrocket.
After weeks of denying plans to invade, Mr Putin launched the operation on a country that has increasingly tilted towards the democratic West and away from Moscows sway.
Anticipating international condemnation and countermeasures, Mr Putin issued a stark warning to other countries not to meddle.
Ukraine is now led by a Jewish president who lost relatives in the Holocaust and angrily dismissed the Russian claims.
The autocratic leader made clear earlier this week that he sees no reason for Ukraine to exist, raising fears of possible broader conflict in the vast space that the Soviet Union once ruled.
Russian officials said separatist forces backed by Russia in the east have taken a new strip of territory from Ukrainian forces, but have not acknowledged ground troops elsewhere in the country.
Adviser Myhailo Podolyak told The Associated Press that Ukrainian authorities did not know the current condition of the facilities at Chernobyl, the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster.
They instead mobilised troops and equipment around Ukraines western flank  as Ukraine pleaded for defence assistance and help protecting its airspace.
They reported at least 40 soldiers dead, and said a military plane carrying 14 people crashed south of Kyiv.
After the absolutely senseless attack of the Russians in this direction, it is impossible to say that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe, he said.
With social media amplifying a torrent of military claims and counter-claims, it was difficult to determine exactly what was happening on the ground.
In his words: Theyre killing people and turning peaceful cities into military targets. Its foul and will never be forgiven.
The president says all border guards on Zmiinyi island in the Odesa region were killed on Thursday. Ukraines border guard service earlier in the day reported that the island was taken by the Russians.
Ukraines government said Russian tanks and troops rolled across the border in a full-scale war that could rewrite the geopolitical order and whose fallout has already reverberated around the world.
Ukraine has also lost control of the Chernobyl nuclear site, where forces had waged a fierce battle with Russian troops.
Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and wont give up its freedom.
Mr Putin justified his actions in an overnight televised address, asserting that the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a false claim the US had predicted he would make as a pretext for an invasion.
Mr Zelensky said he asked to arrange a call with Mr Putin late on Wednesday, but the Kremlin did not respond.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
As of today, our countries are on different sides of world history, Mr Zelensky tweeted.
His adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said: A full-scale war in Europe has begun.  Russia is not only attacking Ukraine, but the rules of normal life in the modern world.
He accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russias demands to prevent Ukraine from joining Nato and for security guarantees.
President Zelensky said 137 civilians and military personnel have been killed so far in the invasion of his country.
Ukraines military chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi said his troops were fighting Russian forces just seven kilometres four miles from the capital  in Hostomel, which is home to the Antonov aircraft maker and has a runway that is long enough to handle even the biggest cargo planes.
Ukraines president said Russian forces were trying to seize the Chernobyl nuclear plant, site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, and Ukrainian forces were battling other troops just miles from Kyiv for control of a strategic airport.
Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said the Russian troops move allowed the water supply to Crimea to resume.
In a decree issued late on Thursday, he said the the mobilisation would last 90 days.
Russias Defence Ministry said it had destroyed scores of Ukrainian air bases, military facilities and drones, and confirmed the loss of a Su-25 attack jet, blaming it on pilot error.
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace, Mr Zelensky said in an emotional overnight address, speaking in Russian in a direct appeal to Russian citizens.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has ordered a full military mobilisation to counter the Russian invasion.
Members still unaware of Mr Putins announcement of the operation appealed to him to stand down.
He called them heroes in a video address released early Friday in which he also said hundreds more have been wounded.
While some nervous Europeans speculated about a possible new world war, the US and its Nato partners have so far shown no indication they would join in a war against Russia.
The Russian Defence Ministry said its ground forces have moved into Ukraine from Crimea, the first confirmation from Moscow that its ground forces have moved in, advancing towards the city of Kherson, north west of Crimea.
She planned to flee the city and try to eventually get to Poland to join her daughter.
In a reminder of Russias nuclear power, he warned that no-one should have any doubts that a direct attack on our country will lead to the destruction and horrible consequences for any potential aggressor.
Kremlin propaganda paints members of Ukrainian right-wing groups as neo-Nazis, exploiting their admiration for Second World War-era Ukrainian nationalist leaders who sided with the Nazis.
Mr Putins announcement came just hours after the Ukrainian president rejected Moscows claims that his country poses a threat to Russia and made a passionate, last-minute plea for peace.
Mr Zelensky said that despite Russias claim it is attacking only military targets, civilian sites also have been struck.
It said it was not targeting cities, but using precision weapons and claimed that there is no threat to the civilian population.
UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres opened the emergency meeting, telling Mr Putin: Give peace a chance.
But hours later, Natos Jens Stoltenberg indicated it was too late: Peace on our continent has been shattered.
Polands military increased its readiness level, and Lithuania and Moldova moved towards doing the same.
Associated Press AP reporters saw or confirmed explosions in the capital, in Mariupol on the Azov Sea, Kharkiv in the east and beyond.
We are facing a war and horror. What could be worse? 64-year-old Liudmila Gireyeva said in Kyiv.
