GRIM VEEPER Kamala Says Time for Diplomacy Narrowing as Ukraine Getting Shelled
20220221
https://hannity.com/media-room/grim-veeper-kamala-says-time-for-diplomacy-narrowing-as-ukraine-getting-shelled/
Her comments come after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pleaded for the U.S. and allies to impose sanctions against Russia now  before a potential invasion of Ukraine happens.
According to Fox News, Vice President KamalaHarris spoke to reporters at the Munich Security Conference in Germany on Sunday amid fears of a Russian invasion in Ukraine. Harris talked Russian sanctions despite the fact that Putin is currently bombarding the region with shells.
Harris was asked by a reporter if she felt the looming threat of sanctions would deter Putin, despite saying the president has already made a decision on Ukraine.
The Sheer Ineptitude of the Biden-Harris Administration is Monumental: VP Harris says sanctions would absolutely deter Putin, despite saying he made up his mind on invading Ukraine
The Sheer Ineptitude of the Biden-Harris Administration is Monumental: VP Harris says sanctions would absolutely deter Putin, despite saying he made up his mind on invading Ukraine TheGreatAmericaShow https:t.coibSo2cuNNY FoxNews
On Sunday, shelling in Ukraine increased in areas helped by Russia-backed rebels. Putin has amassed more than 150,000 Russian forces at the Ukrainian border and recently oversaw tests of nuclear-capable missiles, Fox reports.
The sanctions are directed at institutions  in particular, financial institutions  and individuals, and it will exact absolute harm for the Russian economy and their government, Harris said.
And within the context then of the fact that that window is still opening, altho-  open, although it is absolutely narrowing  but within the context of a diplomatic path still being open, the deterrence effect, we believe, has merit, she added.
Absolut-  we strongly believe  and remember also that the sanctions are a product not only of our perspective as the United States but a shared perspective among our Allies. And the Allied relationship is such that we have agreed that the deterrence effect of these sanctions is still a meaningful one, especially because  remember, also  we still sincerely hope that there is a diplomatic path out of this moment, Harris said, according to the White House.
We dont need your sanctions after the bombardment will happen, and after our country will be fired at or after we will have no borders or after we will have no economy or parts of our country will be occupied, Zelenskyy said at the security conference. Why would we need those sanctions then?
