NEWSam digest Azerbaijan doesnt pull back its troops in Karabakh RussiaUkraine news
20220330
https://news.am/eng/news/694128.html
More than 608,000 have entered Romania, over 387,000 have gone to Moldova, and about 364,000 have entered Hungary since the war began on Feb. 24, based on counts provided by governments.
The Armenian side had confirmed the receipt of these proposals, and said it had applied to the OSCE Minsk Group Co-Chairs regarding this matter.
The Artsakh authorities, together with the command staff of the Russian peacekeeping contingent continue the consistent work to withdraw the Azerbaijani troops to their original positions.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters it was a positive factor that Ukraine submitted its written proposals during the discussions in Istanbul, but added that we cant say there has been anything promising or any breakthroughs.
Moreover, Armenia announced at various levels that these proposals are acceptable. But those in Azerbaijan, apparently, prefer not to notice this.
However, the Kremlin has said there was no breakthrough during the latest round of talks between delegations from Moscow and Kyiv..
According to APA news agency, Azerbaijani deputy FM Elnur Mammadov on Wednesday said that a while ago that the Azerbaijani MFA has officially presented to the Armenian side 5 basic principles that will form the basis of this agreement and waits for a meaningful response from the opposite side for some time.
Meanwhile, Moscow will actively promote the conclusion of a peace treaty between Yerevan and Baku, said Russian MFA spokesperson Maria Zakharova.
Turkeys Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said the talks at the Dolmabahce Palace on the Bosphorus strait marked most significant progress since war broke out between the two countries.
Some time ago, the Armenian public learned from the media that Azerbaijan had sent some five-point proposals to Armenia to start discussing a peace agreement.
Ukrainian assertions that it was pushing back Russian forces near Kyiv generally appear to be true, according to a Washington Post reporter on the ground. But new satellite images of the bombed-out southern port city of Mariupol document severe damage to civilian infrastructure. The photos depict long lines outside a grocery store in the city, where local leaders have warned of a severe shortage of basic necessities.
On Tuesday, Ukraine set out a detailed framework for a peace deal under which the country would remain neutral but its security would be guaranteed by a group of third countries. It said it would also be willing to hold talks over a 15-year period on the future of the Crimean Peninsula, which was annexed by Russia in 2014.
On Tuesday night and as of 10am Wednesday, no significant ceasefire violations were registered along the line of contact of Artsakh Nagorno-Karabakh, and the operative-tactical situation remained tense.
The United Nations, in turn, welcomes the efforts to decrease tension in Nagorno Karabakh in the trilateral format as well as by the OSCE Minsk Group, said the official representative of the head of the world organization, Stphane Dujarric.
Ukraine has seen some troop movements from the Kyiv and Chernihiv areas, but no mass scale withdrawal, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian military said.
Aid workers say the numbers have eased in recent days as many people await developments in the war. An estimated 6.5 million people have also been displaced from their homes within the country.
Various state agencies in Artsakh are doing their job to resolve the issues arising from the situation, said Artsakh Minister of State Artak Beglaryan.
More than 2.3 million have arrived in Poland, but many have traveled onward to other countries and a small number have even returned to Ukraine, either to help fight against the Russians or care for relatives.
Beglaryan noted that about 200 children, women, and the elderly of Khramort and Parukh villages, have been evacuated.
However, Russian attacks have not eased in Chernihiv despite a Russian promise to scale back, the northern regions governor said.
