Putin discuss situation in Ukraine by phone with Macron and Scholz
20220528
https://news.am/eng/news/704465.html
As stated in the statement, "the President of Russia also sharpened the issue of the dangerous nature of the ongoing pumping of Ukraine with Western weapons, warning in this regard of the risks of further destabilization of the situation and aggravation of the humanitarian crisis."
As the Kremlin noted, an increase in the supply of Russian fertilizers and agricultural products will also help reduce tensions on the global food market, which, of course, will require the lifting of the relevant sanctions restrictions.
Vladimir Putin reasonably and on the basis of specific data explained the real reasons for the difficulties with food supplies, which were the result of the erroneous economic and financial policies of Western countries, as well as the anti-Russian sanctions they imposed. For its part, Russia is ready to help find options for the unimpeded export of grain, including the export of Ukrainian grain from the Black Sea ports, the press service said.
In continuation of contacts in this format, an in-depth exchange of views on topical aspects of the situation in Ukraine was held. The President of Russia informed in detail about the latest developments in the context of the ongoing special military operation, noting that the Russian Armed Forces strictly observe the norms of international humanitarian law. He reported how systematic work is organized to establish a peaceful life in Mariupol and other liberated cities of Donbass, the statement says.
It is noted that "the situation in the sphere of ensuring global food security" was "examined in detail."
Russian President Vladimir Putin had a telephone conversation with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Interfax reports citing the Kremlin press service.
Special attention was paid to the state of affairs on the negotiation track, which is frozen due to the fault of Kyiv, the Kremlin noted. Vladimir Putin confirmed the openness of the Russian side to the resumption of dialogue.
