Busy Vladimir Putin said to be expecting a daughter with reputed exgymnast baby mama
20220710
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/07/10/busy-vladimir-putin-said-to-be-expecting-a-daughter-with-reputed-ex-gymnast-baby-mama-1260160/
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
Putin has never officially verified that he is in a relationship with the Olympic gold medal winner and has gone on record stating, I have a private life in which I do not permit interference. It must be respected. I have always reacted negatively to those who with their snotty noses and erotic fantasies prowl into others lives.
At the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, it was reported that Kabaeva had been secreted away at a private chalet in Switzerland to keep her and Putins four young children safe.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
His first two children were had with his ex-wife Lyudmila. Daughters Maria Vorotsova, 37, and Katerina Tikhonova, 35, have remained the only officially recognized children of Putins.However, it has been reported that he fathered twin daughters born in 2015 and twin sons born in 2019 with Kabaeva. In addition to those children, 18-year-old fashion designer and DJ Luiza Rozova is also believed to be a daughter of Putins after an alleged extra-marital affair with Svetlana Krivonogikh whom the Daily Mail described as a cleaner-turned-multimillionaire and current part-owner of a large Russian bank.
Since the onset of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in late February the sanctions imposed against the nation and its leader, President Vladimir Putin, have done little in the way of detriment or deterrence against further aggression. While the Russian economy is said to be doing well, it seems Putin may now be facing another wholly unexpected boon as reports claimed his mistress is expecting a child.
Putin hiding Olympic gymnast lover, mother of his children in very secure Switzerland chalet https:t.coibCf2gA34u pic.twitter.comFK06EWxfic
The Mail also noted that Rozova, who had 84,000 followers on Instagram, had stopped posting when Russian forces prepared to enter Ukraine and that as of last week her account went from visible to now displaying a message in Russian that reads User not found.
We have already reported that Alina Kabaeva, the cohabitant of the President of Russia, is pregnant, the channel reminded of the news they had shared in May. Yesterday the sex of the unborn child became known  this is a girl.
The insiders went on to claim Putin reacted to the news by stating, I have enough children as it is, and had enough daughters long ago.
The gruff Russian leader has remained cagey about his personal life but that has not stopped those close to him from spreading details about intimate matters. The Telegram channel Generall SVR, which is said to be run by Kremlin insiders, posted Friday that the ex-gymnast lover of Putin, 39-year-old Alina Kabaeva, is pregnant with a girl according to The Sun.
Despite his efforts, the Telegram account noted that the news did not at all please the future father and president of Russia, and further added, Putin found out his mistress is yet again pregnant  and by the looks of it this wasnt planned.
