Chuck Todd to NATO chief How long can NATO standby and watch Russia target civilians
20220321
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/21/chuck-todd-to-nato-chief-how-long-can-nato-standby-and-watch-russia-target-civilians-1215330/
NATO allies are stepping up their support to Ukraine, Stoltenberg explained, partly by delivering military support, human battalion support, and billions and billions of financial support to Ukraine.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
Weve seen an increased targeting of civilians, Mr. Secretary General, in Ukraine. How long can NATO stand by and watch Russia target civilians without finding a way to help more when it comes to the Ukrainian resistance? Todd asked.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
I have convened an extraordinary Summit on 24 March at NATO HQ. We will address Russias invasion of Ukraine, our strong support for Ukraine, and further strengthening NATOs deterrence  defence. At this critical time, North America  Europe must continue to stand together.
And then, of course, we also imposed unprecedented sanctions on Russia, the secretary-general added about the various avenues that have been taken to attempt to deescalate the conflict that has continued to worsen for nearly four weeks.
WATCH: jensstoltenberg: Any use of chemical weapons would be a blatant and brutal violation of international law. pic.twitter.comlo83p7xCgH
Stoltenberg addressed the upcoming summit in Brussels meant to further strengthen NATOs deterrence  defence, but that didnt stop Todd from seeking answers on what it would take to begin a counteroffensive against Russia.
This is something we take extremely serious, the secretary-general assured, but at the same time we are very much aware that we need to act in a way that prevents this conflict from being a very bloody, ugly, horrific conflict in Ukraine to something that turns out to be a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia in Europe.
NBCs Chuck Todd pressured NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg to help more following reports of Russians targeting civilians while the alliance continues to stand by and watch.
Todds insistence on these matters echoes calls from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy who has been addressing the governing bodies of various nations, including his recent speech to Congress, where he has stated the failure to meet his express needs puts blood on the hands of those who could have acted.
Sunday on Meet the Press, Stoltenberg joined Todd from Brussels for a discussion on the current situation in Ukraine and repeatedly found himself on the defensive. The host was unrelenting on the moral imperative for action and questioned what level of atrocity must take place before NATO would meet the vague threshold of more set by Todd.
These statements reiterate the position publicly held by NATO throughout the invasion that diplomacy should be the primary focus and that escalation to a full-blown war is by no means a desired outcome.
Stoltenbergs measured response included a reminder of actions taken before the invasion as well, where NATO alliesactually trained and supported Ukrainian armed forces for years in special operations and command and control logistics that have proved invaluable to the sovereign nations defense.
Stoltenberg relayed his concerns and the understanding of Russias possession of chemical weapons and the facilitation of their use in Syria.
NATO Defence Ministers addressed Russias invasion, which creates a new security reality. So Ministers agreed concrete steps to reset our collective deterrence  defence for the longer term  to continue our significant support to Ukraine to resist President Putins war. pic.twitter.comKltPAYfED8
After providing a diplomatic response to concerns about chemical weapons, Todd pushed again, It does sound like what youre saying is you dont have an answer yet on what the use of chemical weapons would do to NATOs stance about Ukraine.
Specifically, Zelenskyy said, All the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you, because of your weakness, because of your lack of unity, on the failure to implement a no-fly zone.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
To that notion, Stoltenberg had sated, The only way to implement a no-fly zone is to send NATO planes  fighter planes  into Ukrainian airspace, and then impose that no-fly zone by shooting down Russian planes.
