Countries snubbing Biden signs of postAmerican era Blind CNN finds a truth nut
20220314
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/14/countries-snubbing-biden-signs-of-post-american-era-blind-cnn-finds-a-truth-nut-1212377/
You can see the signs everywhere, he put forth. Consider that according to The Wall Street Journal the leaders of the UAE and Saudi Arabia, two countries that have depended on Washington for their security for decades, refuse to even take phone calls from the American president.
He also alluded to Bidens seeming inability to lead a united global joint response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine as being evidence of Americas further decline. However, once again, the buck stops with the president, not the entire nation on that front.
Consider as well that Israel initially in the Security Council vote and India have refused to describe Putins actions as an invasion and that all four countries have made it clear they will continue to do business with Russia, Zakaria pointed out.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
The rise of the rest is at heart an economic phenomenon, but it has consequences for nearly every other sphere of life. At the politicomilitary level, we remain in a singlesuperpower world. But in all other dimensions  industrial, financial, educational, social, cultural  the distribution of power is shifting, moving away from American dominance. That does not mean we are entering an anti  American world. But we are moving into a post  American world, one defined and directed from many places and by many people.
CNN political commentator and host Fareed Zakaria claimed on Sunday that America is losing its standing as the top dog globally, asserting that the signs are everywhere while using the Gulf countries snubbing of President Joe Biden over oil as a dubious example.
He did make the valid point that a more-heavily armed Europe would benefit the United States. But that has always been the case. It is in essence why NATO exists and why Trump was insistent on nations paying their fair share as members of the alliance.
At first glance, it might seem that this is a new global order stacked against America, but that is not necessarily so. The U.S. remains the worlds leading power, still stronger than all the rest by far, he remarked.
The greatest strategic opportunity lies with Europe, which could use this challenge to stop being the passive international actor it has been for decades. We now see signs that the Europeans are ready to end the era of free security by raising defense spending and securing NATOs eastern border, he commented, pushing a flawed conclusion. If Europe becomes a strategic player on the world stage, that could be the biggest geopolitical shift to emerge from this war. A United States joined by a focused and unified Europe would be a super alliance in support of liberal values.
In 2011, Zakaria was also pushing his vision of a post-American world via his progressive liberal outlook.
One of the defining features of the new era is that it is post-American. By that I mean that the Pax Americana of the past three decades is over, he posited, expressing a view that he has been promoting for well over a decade.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
His whole premise is now based on Russias war in Ukraine and how it will change the global landscape. Zakaria stated that Europe will now become more security-conscious and independent of the United States. He contends that the U.S. will remain the strongest nation on the playing board, we just wont wield the influence we once had. Many contend that what he misses is that the current situation is not so much about America herself, but her weak, addled, ineffectual leadership.
But for the west to become newly united and powerful, there is one essential condition. It must succeed in Ukraine. That is why the urgent necessity of the moment is to do what it takes, bearing costs and risks to ensure that Vladimir Putin does not prevail, he warned.
All of it comes back to Ukraine as Zakaria warned it was necessary to protect democracy against the scourge of Russia.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
Zakaria used UAE and Saudi Arabias blunt rejection of Bidens groveling for oil as an argument to bolster his opinion that America is in decline.
