Done talking MSNBC analyst leaves to join fight in Ukraine but some folks have questions
20220419
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/04/19/former-msnbc-analyst-says-he-joined-the-fight-in-ukraine-but-some-folks-have-questions-1227279/
You know, the more I saw of the war going on, the more I thought, Im done talking, all right? he asserted from a proclaimed secure location. Its time to take action here. So, about a month ago, I joined the International Legion here in Ukraine and I am here to help this country fight, you know, what essentially is a war of extermination.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Stephen Lowell, a GOP candidate in Minnesota for the Senate, also dissed the getup, Nobody slings a rifle like that. Not even at rest. The devil really is in the details.
Nance said that they were fighting side by side, elbow to elbow with Ukrainian forces. He reported that the Russians are barely attacking Ukrainian troops. Their emphasis seems to be the mass murder of civilians, which seems to be against all laws of war. These are war crimes, he charged.
One Twitter commenter unceremoniously tore into him over his gear, Glorfied airsofter. Look at that geardo with his SoF helmet and gear. That helmet doesnt protect your ears or side against shrapnel effectively. Its meant for specialized raiding units like SF.
I am here to help this country fight what is essentially a war of extermination. This is an existential war, and Russia has brought it to these people and they are mass murdering civilians. And there are people here like me who are here to do something about it, he stated.
The war that is being waged here is being waged against everybody. They are not going around hunting for American flag patches or to see whos black, whos Asian, whos Latino, he noted.
WARNING: 62 days before 16 I warned on RealTimers that Trump would start a politicalparamilitary insurgency to seize American democracy. It has begun. I detail the Trump Insurgency in my coming book: pic.twitter.comXHF2wvAJFU
Nance spent 20 years in the US Navy and has now joined the International Legion of Territorial Defense of Ukraine. He has reportedly left MSNBC to do so which explains his absence in recent weeks and why he has not been covering the war. He allegedly left the US shortly following Russia invading Ukraine after watching what was going on. His title now is evidently executive director of The Terror Asymmetrics Project on Strategy, Tactics and Radical Ideologies.
Were here for one purpose and one purpose only, and that is to protect the innocent people of Ukraine from this Russian aggression. Its not a conventional war, Nance asserted to Reid. They are destroying infrastructure and go to the cities and they massacre men, women, and children and that is the fundamental reason everyone is here.
Former MSNBC national security analyst Malcolm Nance appeared on The ReidOut Monday with host Joy Reid and announced that he has joined Ukrainian forces in their fight against the brutal Russian invasion, raising a whole host of questions about his actions.
Well, as you know, I spent quite a bit of time here in the pre-war period, and when the invasion happened I had friends in Donetsk in the Ukrainian army who are writing to us and telling us were not going to survive tonight. Weve been hit 500 times, Nance dramatically told Reid during a live interview from an undisclosed location.
A number of people who watched the clip had comments and questions about the validity of Nances joining up with the Ukrainians and his apparently scripted appearance on The ReidOut.
Decked out in fatigues bearing American and Ukrainian flags while slinging a rifle in an unconventional manner, Nance proclaimed that his mission was to protect civilians. His appearance on the network ostensibly looked staged and smacked of propaganda to many who watched his interview.
 Wearing your rifle sling all the way around your neck bc you dont know what its for pic.twitter.com1Qf0FvHg77
According to Nance, the legion is comprised of men and women from all over the world who have come to Ukraine to fight what he calls an extermination of civilians and culture.
It should also be noted that Nance was with MSNBC since 2007 and wrote the book, They Want to Kill Americans  The Militias, Terrorists, and Degranged Ideology of the Trump Insurgency.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
Nance claimed that he is one of thousands who have joined the fight with Ukrainian troops against Russia.
