Joe Walsh creates fake Tucker quote in tweet has absurd excuse after Carlson confronts him on TV
20220406
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/04/06/joe-walsh-creates-fake-tucker-quote-in-tweet-has-absurd-excuse-after-carlson-confronts-him-on-tv-1222061/
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
Apparently being given a platform to state that his fake quote was, exactly the kind of sht Tucker always says, wasnt enough for Walsh. Simply allowing the former lawmaker to say, He accuses me of lying, then he lies about my tweet making it seem like I tweetedafter his show, didnt further the desired narrative that Walsh attempted to peddle.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
.TuckerCarlson tonight: What if these bodies of tortured, dead civilians were staged? What if theyre fake? What if the Ukrainian military killed them  then blamed Russia? Im not saying any of this is true, Im just asking the questions. Why cant we ask these questions?
The incomparably dumb and unhinged AdamKinzinger took a fabricated quote from long-time-deadbeat-dad-turned-liberal-hero WalshFreedom, believed it true, and used it to declare a journalist a Russian asset  just as hordes of dumb liberals did with TheRickWilsons fake quote. pic.twitter.comvhRaKDy6wE
Walsh wrote, TuckerCarlson tonight: What if these bodies of tortured, dead civilians were staged? What if theyre fake? What if the Ukrainian military killed them  then blamed Russia? Im not saying any of this is true, Im just asking the questions. Why cant we ask these questions?'
As a result, our social media platforms are dominated by unscrupulous liars like Joe Walsh, Carlson surmised in fashion with Greenwalds tweet. Controlling the narrative like this is not by accident, thats a reelection strategy.
Ultimately, the Fox News host concluded, If you dont restore free speech to social media, it doesnt matter who you vote for.
Given the claim is that fake quotes that go viral are just satire  even though hundreds of thousands of dumb liberals clearly believe them  make up some twisted quotes and attribute them to Joy Reid, Pete Buttigieg, or Anderson Cooper and see if you get away with it.
That is why, Carlson pointed out, its important to address these issues on social media. Greenwald rightly pointed out the danger of this and how it wouldnt be as readily perpetuated by the opposition.
Tucker Carlson set the record straight Tuesday after former Rep. Joe Walsh R-IL falsely attributed a quote to the Fox News host and later doubled down on his satire defaming Carlson as a supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin with his manufactured lie.
However, those facts didnt stop the lies from spreading. Carlson pointed out that Twitter did not force Walsh to delete the tweet, or any of the follow-up tweets perpetuating the lie like Rep. Adam Kinzinger R-IL who, in addition to sharing a video, wrote, I gotta say, if TuckerCarlson is not a Russian asset he should be, he is absolutely over-qualified for the job. Is he a Russian asset? I dont know, just asking questions.
Even that simple fact, easily verifiable, Walsh decried as a lie until he was later corrected by someone on Twitter, after he wrote, Why did TuckerCarlson lie to his audience about my tweet? Why did Tucker lie and tell his audience he is currently suspended from Twitter? Hes not. Why is Tucker so easily triggered? Why DOES Tucker root for Putin? Hey, Im just asking questions.
Carlson made clear he could have done the same, but we couldnt do that because weve been locked out of our own Twitter account for more than a week. Why? Because we suggested that President Joe Bidens most famous admiral, Rachel Levine, was born a man, which is actually true. But Twitter banned us anyway. See how that works? You take one side off the field so the other side wins.
Referring to Walsh as a political extremist, the host asserted on Tucker Carlson Tonight, Walsh is known for his willingness to say anything that might help the Democratic Party whether or not its true. In this instance, the former Illinois lawmaker chose to react to developing news about reported atrocities that had taken place in the town of Bucha near Kyiv, Ukraine.
On a positive note, journalists like Glenn Greenwald saw fit to step in and correct the matter, calling out Kinzinger for being incomparably dumb and unhinged.
Well, last night he lived up to his reputation, Carlson added before presenting a tweet that Walsh had evidently published Monday morning.
Of course, Walsh isnt just asking questions. Hes engaged in a smear campaign designed to perpetuate a narrative. His zealotry is so all-consuming that he even went after Mediaite which offered him a chance to counter Carlsons defense.
Its completely made up  utterly, Carlson explained, We didnt say that, we didnt say anything like that. We didnt even address the topic on the air in any way. So everything about Joe Walshs tweet is a manufactured lie. Its pure disinformation as they now say.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
Three points Mediaite: 1. It wasnt a fake quote. I was predicting what TuckerCarlson would say on that nights show.2. Tucker can dish it out, but he cant take it.3. Tucker admitted hes rooting for Putin. Thats the main point here. https:t.coWnsdCaymFu
