MSNBC guest goes on deranged rant claims Trump installed as POTUS to clear way for Putin invasion
20220227
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/02/27/msnbc-guest-goes-on-deranged-rant-claims-trump-installed-as-potus-to-clear-way-for-putin-invasion-1206364/
Another MSNBC guest and so-called journalistscholar has falsely linked Russias invasion of Ukraine to former President Donald Trump.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
She concluded by throwing shade at Fox News: And Fox News in this sense is just an extension of that long-running destructive pattern, she said.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Moreover, the facts show that Trump was far kinder to Ukraine and tougher onRussia, the country that supposedly installed him in office, than either his predecessor, Barack Obama, or his successor, Joe Biden.
And he was also put in as  a bulldozer to the Constitution, to our system of checks and balances, to our system of institutional trust, Kendzior continued.
Alliances like NATO, our relationship with our European partners, our relationship with Ukraine. Trump was put in as a bulldozer, she added.
Its also Biden who illegally extended the eviction moratorium last year, injected racial essentialism into the federal government and tried to impose an authoritarian COVID vaccine diktat on the American people 
Demanding NATO to step up and fund the organization is not weakening the alliances NATO is stronger due to them paying their share
Sarah Kendzior, a so-called journalist who even once wrote a book about Trump, claimed specifically  and without any evidence  that the former president was purposefully installed as the president of the United States in order to weaken the alliances that were preventing Putin from achieving his goals.
In May 2018, after Ukraine tested its new Javelin missiles, then-Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko exulted on Twitter Finally this day has come! and personally thanked Trump for supporting Ukraine and adopting a decision to provide Javelin antitank missile systems, according to a 3-year-old report from The Washington Post.
I dont think so. Trump increased our military. Alliances among EU nations should not have been effected in your argument.
Cruz on Ukraine: Joe Biden becoming president is best thing that ever happened, tragically, for Putin https:t.coLh6zpymZoU
As previously reported, former President Obama refused to supply Ukraine with Javelin anti-tank missiles, even when Russia invaded Crimea in 2014. Not til Trump stepped into office in 2017 did Ukraine finally receive these weapons.
I dont want to single out Japan. I dont want to single out Saudi Arabia. But these are countries that people understand the kind of wealth were talking about.  There are many other countries  taking tremendous advantage of this. If you look at the payments that were making to NATO, theyre totally disproportionate with everybody elses. And its ridiculous, he said.
And the unwillingness of people in the United States to confront the brokenness of those institutions, whether through financial corruption in recent years or age-old systemic problems like the endemic racism that holds our country up, has contributed to that.
Joe Biden cancelled Keystone XL on his first day in office. A few months later, he allowed Putin to build Nord Stream 2. He made us more reliable on energy from Russia and is now going to sanction them. Why is Joe Biden stopping America from being energy independent? CA26
Meanwhile, upon taking office, current President Biden began handing Putin gift after gift after gift.
This is a goofy statement. Trump is on the record trying to get Europeans to increase their defense funding, multiple times, to discourage Russian military threats. He also called out Germanys reliance on Russian energy imports as a liability for the alliance.
If we can solve this, then were able to take care of something that I consider to be ultimately of ultimate importance, and that is the homeless situation, that is the farmers, that is the sick. We dont have any money. This country is busted, and its busted because were doing things that we shouldnt be doing.
As for Kendziors claim that its Trump whod acted like a a bulldozer to the Constitution, to our system of checks and balances, to our system of institutional trust, it should be noted that it was Biden who eagerly shattered a record for signing the most executive orders in a single week.
Trumps complaints about NATO date back to at least 1987, when he complained to then-CNN host Larry King about other countries not paying their fair share.
While Trump was fairly aggressive toward NATO during his four years in office, his disdain for the organization spans decades, and largely because of the financial aspect.
In a time of war, can we keep the cuckoo clocks off the air please?
When MSNBC shared a clip of her speaking to Twitter, respondents replied with a great deal of befuddlement and mockery given that the facts so clearly belie everything Kendzior had claimed.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
