Panicked Ukrainians flee Kyiv as 15k Russian troops descend on city Putin warns civilians leave or DIE
20220302
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/02/panicked-ukrainians-flee-kyiv-as-15k-russian-troops-descend-on-city-putin-warns-civilians-leave-or-die-1207363/
The Russians took out Kyivs 1,300 ft. TV tower and a Holocaust memorial with bombs on Tuesday. The Daily Mail is reporting that up to 150,000 people were killed by the Nazis at that location, including 34,000 Jews in 1941.
Citizens ran with their children for bomb shelters and subways as hospitals raced to treat victims of the onslaught.
At Ukraines border, families tearfully said goodbye to one another as the men returned to fight off the Russian invasion. Over 880,000 have now fled to neighboring countries and that number is set to explode in the coming days according to the United Nations refugee agency. The UN is also reporting that at least 136 people have been killed in the siege so far, including 13 children. Over 400 have been wounded.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
To the world: what is the point of saying never again for 80 years, if the world stays silent when a bomb drops on the same site of Babyn Yar? At least 5 killed. History repeating
The cities of Kharkiv, Kherson, and Mariupol are all said to be encircled by Russian forces according to the UK Ministry of Defence.
Russia reportedly warned residents in Kyiv to leave their homes or die as strikes on crucial intelligence targets in the city are set to take place. The Russian defense ministry said on Tuesday, We urge Ukrainian citizens involved by Ukrainian nationalists in provocations against Russia, as well as Kyiv residents living near relay stations, to leave their homes.
Because of Putins madness, Europe is again on the brink of a nuclear catastrophe, Anton Gerashchenko, who is the adviser to Ukraines interior ministry, wrote on Facebook. The city where the largest nuclear power plant in Europe is located is preparing for a battle with the invaders. An accident can happen like at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant or the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Russian generals  think again! Radiation does not know nationalities, does not spare anyone!
Chechnyan forces have been deployed by the Russians and Belarus has sent troops to fight for the communists as well.
We are coming for your ill-begotten gains, Biden vowed in reference to Russian oligarchs. And tonight I am announcing that we will join our allies in closing off American air space to all Russian flights  further isolating Russia and adding an additional squeeze on their economy.
Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, also warned if a WWIII were to begin in Europe, it would be nuclear and destructive in a thinly veiled threat towards NATO, according to the Daily Mail.
Zelenskyy is now residing in a bomb shelter, refusing to leave Kyiv, and is bravely defiant as the Russians close in.
We resist the invasive aggression, he wrote on Twitter Tuesday. Today, more than ever, it is important for us to feel that we are not alone.
The real toll is likely to be much higher, Liz Throssell, who is a spokesperson for the UN human rights office OHCHR stated.
Not only is the 40-mile-long convoy approaching the city another is also said to be moving towards Kyiv from the southeast in an effort to encircle the city for a killing blow. The convoys are meant to instill fear in the Ukrainians.
The rush to get out occurred as massive explosions ripped through the residential areas of Kyiv. Footage of civilians with children shows Ukrainians packing into Kyiv station desperately trying to shove their way onto trains in an effort to escape war and death at the hands of the Russians.
Olena and I are sincerely grateful to Their Majesties King Willem-Alexander and Queen Mxima koninklijkhuis for their warm words of support to the people of Ukraine. We resist the invasive aggression. Today, more than ever, it is important for us to feel that we are not alone.
Putin thought he could divide us here at home, the president said. But Putin was wrong. We are ready.
President Joe Biden called Putin a dictator in his State of the Union address on Tuesday and warned that sanctions to cripple Russias economy would escalate and its oligarchs were being targeted.
Reports are coming in that a family of five was burned alive in the blasts as they were walking together.
Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko also seemed to suggest that Putins forces have plans to invade Moldova, another country bordering Ukraine.
Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, was also shelled. At least 11 people were killed in the attack and dozens were wounded. The central square of the city was hit by a missile, according to the Daily Mail.
.POTUS: Tonight I am announcing that we will join our allies in closing off American air space to all Russian flights. the Russian economy is reeling and Putin alone is the one to blame. SOTU pic.twitter.comTUBqaxRnxt
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
Zelenskyy also told Ukrainians in a statement that Russians know nothing about our capital. About our history. But they have an order to erase our history. Erase our country. Erase us all.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy tweeted after the brutal attack, To the world: what is the point of saying never again for 80 years, if the world stays silent when a bomb drops on the same site of Babyn Yar? At least 5 killed. History repeating
A viral video showing the sheer panic of thousands of Ukrainian citizens fighting to board trains and get out of Kyiv surfaced on Tuesday in the wake of 15,000 troops via a 40-mile-long convoy descending on the city while Russia told them to leave or die.
Ukrainian troops set up defenses around the reactors of the Energodar nuclear power plant in an effort to protect it.
