Putins troops reportedly shooting themselves in the legs so they can go home
20220319
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/19/demoralized-russian-troops-reportedly-shooting-themselves-in-the-legs-so-they-can-go-home-1214649/
The Sun is also reporting that Russian troops are threatening an uprising against President Vladimir Putin. They reportedly called one particular airstrike on a maternity hospital the most perverse fing form of neo-Nazism.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
According to the media outlet, Russian soldiers have allegedly warned Putin he wont hide this for long, adding, we all will be judged.
Comrade president of Russia, you are lying  at your whim you commit such crimes here. Putin you are wrong, you are guilty. I ask to end all of this. Please give the order to all servicemen to return home, he begged.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
A young soldier told his mother that troops were using 7.62mm bullets fired by their enemies rather than 5.62 rounds fired by their own AK-47 assault rifles, according to the Mirror.
Theyve been shooting at us for 14 days. Were scared. Were stealing food, breaking into houses. Were killing civilians. Russian officers shoot themselves in the legs to go home. There are corpses everywhere, one soldier said, according to The Sun.
Incredible drone footage of the Ukrainian 8th Mountain Assault Battalion attacking a unit of Russian soldiers holding a village and chasing them out of town.
Children are dying for nothing. Putin is a liar. I want to go home, I dont want to be here, I am ashamed, forgive me, one soldier said at a press conference.
Another at the event stated, You wont hide this for long. There are many like us here. Sooner or later, well come home.
Russian soldiers claim that they are being sent in to fight and die like meat.
We are meat, we are being killed by aircraft and artillery bombing peaceful cities, one soldier claimed according to The Sun.
A reconnaissance officer named Vladimir said at a briefing this week, I want to tell our commander-in-chief to stop terror acts in Ukraine because when we come back well rise against him.
Another soldier also said his comrades are looking for Ukrainian ammunition in order to shoot themselves in the legs and go to hospital.
A number of Russian troops who have been captured have been videoed crying and apologizing for killing Ukrainians, including children. They admit the invasion was a terrible mistake. The collapse of morale among the ranks seems prevalent.
The Russian forces, some of whom have been conscripted, have reportedly been searching for Ukrainian ammo to shoot themselves in an effort to make it look like they have been wounded by the opposing army. Soldiers have no choice in fighting for Russia, if they refuse they can be sent to prison for many years so getting home is a matter of being wounded during the fighting.
Phone calls obtained by Belarusian media outlet NEXTA allegedly show how desperate and demoralized the Russian army has become during the invasion of Ukraine, with one soldier telling his mother that troops have been shooting themselves in their legs so they can be sent home.
It has been widely reported that Russian soldiers are deeply demoralized over the fighting which has claimed as many as 14,000 of their forces according to an estimate from the Ukrainian government.
I dont know, what can justify, f, the tears of a child, or even worse, the deaths of innocent people, children, Maxim, a Russian fighter pilot told CNN.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
