Putin shocks world by firing on huge nuclear plant for the first time in history
20220304
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/04/putin-shocks-world-by-firing-on-huge-nuclear-plant-for-the-first-time-in-history-1208394/
Earlier on Friday as the facility was bombed, Zelenskyy posted to Facebook just how dangerous and lethal the situation was.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
Fortunately, Fox News is reporting that the power units remained intact according to Ukraines nuclear authority. There were no radiation leaks detected. However, the Russians now control the nuclear plant.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Fire has already broken out, he stated. If it blows up, it will be 10 times larger than Chernobyl.
Only urgent action by Europe can stop the Russian troops, he said. Do not allow the death of Europe from a catastrophe at a nuclear power station.
For the first time ever in our history, in the history of humankind, the terrorist country has reverted to nuclear terror, Zelenskyy solemnly and sadly commented. Russian propaganda had warned in the past to cover the world in nuclear ash. Now, this isnt just a warning, this is real.
Currently, the site of the Zaporizhzhia NPP is occupied by the military forces of the Russian Federation, the agency reported.
There are six reactors at the plant. Unit one is non-functional. Units two and three have been decoupled from the power grid. Unit four is operational as units five and six are being cooled down. Slowly, the plant is apparently being taken down which will cut power to a fifth of Ukraine.
Russian army is firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia NPP, the largest nuclear power plant in Europe. Fire has already broke out. If it blows up, it will be 10 times larger than Chornobyl! Russians must IMMEDIATELY cease the fire, allow firefighters, establish a security zone!
Unfortunately, there are dead and wounded among the Ukrainian defenders of the station, Ukraines nuclear power operator, Energoatom, said in a statement posted to Telegram, CNN reported.
Russian tanks, equipped with thermal imagery, are shooting at the atomic blocks. They know what they are shooting at. Theyve been preparing for this attack, Zelenskyy said in his post, adding our guys are keeping the atomic power station secure.
The biggest nuclear power plant in Europe is on fire right now, Zelenskyy remarked during the attack, according to Fox News.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is accusing the Russians of unleashing nuclear terror on his country as the war dramatically escalates. There is no word on the number of dead or injured in the attack.
There are 15 nuclear reactors in Ukraine. If one of them blows, thats the end for everyone, thats the end of Europe. All of Europe will have to evacuate, he warned. No country besides Russia has ever fired upon an atomic power plants reactors. The first time, the first time in history.
While the United States activated its Nuclear Incident Response Team and was monitoring events in consultation with the Department of Defense, the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the White House, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council to address the attack.
Ukraines Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dmytro Kuleba, tweeted while the facility was under attack that the Russians were firing from all sides.
Russian President Vladimir Putins forces bombed Europes largest nuclear plant, Zaporizhzhia, in Eerhodar, Ukraine, on Friday setting it on fire and ginning up fear of a nuclear disaster greater than the one at Chernobyl, only to occupy it later after having extinguished the flames.
Continued dialogue with  PM kishida230. Informed about Russia's nuclear terrorism at the Zaporizhzhia NPP. We both agree on the gravity of threats to global security. Thanked  for the diverse assistance to   the sanctions pressure on RF. Together we oppose the aggressor
The Prime Minister said the reckless actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin could now directly threaten the safety of all of Europe, Johnsons office said in a statement. He said the United Kingdom would do everything it could to ensure the situation did not deteriorate further.
ZNPP power units remain intact, unit 1 reactor compartment auxiliary buildings have been damaged, which does not affect the safety of the unit, the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate SNRI reported. The systems and components important to the safety of the NPP are operational.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
