Russian businessman places 1 million bounty on Putins head  dead or alive
20220303
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/03/russian-businessman-places-1-million-bounty-on-putins-head-dead-or-alive-1207888/
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
Konanykhin and his wife left Russia in 1992 and were eventually granted asylum by the United States where he has built a fortune by founding multiple businesses, he also appears on the streaming reality television show Unicorn Hunters where he appears with other panel members including Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Alex Konanykhin, Russian billionaire, offers a $1 million bounty for the officer who fulfills their constitutional duty of arresting war criminal Vladimir Putin.
Russian entrepreneur and businessman Alex Konanykhin made his offer via social media, seeking to entice military officers into helping to bring an end to hostilities in Russias neighboring country by undertaking the dangerous mission that would effectively be a decapitation strike on the Russian government,
I promise to pay $1,000,000 to the officers who, complying with their constitutional duty, arrests Putin as a war criminal under Russian and international laws, Konanykhin wrote. Putin is not the Russian president as he came to power as the result of a special operation of blowing up apartment buildings in Russia, then violated the Constitution by eliminating free elections and murdering his opponents.
sounds like at least one of the russian oligarchs has put a $1 million bounty on putin. it's all well and good using billionaires to stay in power until you do something they don't like.
Some reports suggest that I promised to pay for the assassination of Putin. It is NOT correct. While such an outcome would be cheered by millions of people around the world, I believe that Putin must be brought to justice, Konanykhin wrote.
According to his website, Alex Konanykhin is the CEO of TransparentBusiness, a company which develops technology to curtail corruption in the public procurement of IT services. He defected to the United States in 1992 and became the first person to be granted political asylum in the United States for opposing corruption in post-Soviet Russia.
One version of Konanykhins bounty offer included a wanted poster with Putins image with the caption Wanted: Dead or alive. Vladimir Putin for mass murder.
Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine hasnt only resulted in international condemnation as well as harsh economic sanctions but a $1 million bounty on his head, money that can be collected dead or alive for the kingpin of the Kremlin.
The Jerusalem Post cites a 1996 Washington Post article for additional background info on Konanykhin who studied at the Moscow Physics and Technical Institute before abandoning his studies and opening a student construction cooperative. He then branched out into a number of other businesses, including banking, stocks and real estate.
Konanykhin told Business Insider, If enough other people make similar statements, it may increase the chances of Putin getting arrested and brought to justice,
I told yall these billionaires are gonna get his ass. They do not like their yachts and villas being confiscated https:t.coWDHYt4dvvS
If a thousand people chip in a million each, itd add up to a billion.
Russian businessman Alex Konanykhin in offering a $1 million bounty on Putin, Dead or Alive. Does this mean Putin is going to do his meetings by Zoom now? pic.twitter.com7A6DUrtd4y
As an ethnic Russian and a Russian citizen, I see it as my moral duty to facilitate the denazification of Russia. I will continue my assistance to Ukraine in its heroic efforts to withstand the onslaught of Putins Orda, he added, a Russian word for horde, a predatory, plundering gang, according to the Jerusalem Post.
Exactly. If a Russian billionaire is offering a $1M Bounty for Putin for War Crimes out in the open can you imagine how many oligarchs are making offers in secret? https:t.coAg1LKeDdCm
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
The original post was taken down by Facebook censors and in a subsequent posting, the billionaire clarified that he was not calling for Putins assassination.
