Russias demands for peace are now more realistic Zelenskyy says
20220317
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/17/russias-demands-for-peace-are-now-more-realistic-zelenskyy-says-1213754/
Ukrainian presidential aid Mykhailo Podolyak, a member of the peace talk delegation,tweetedthat fundamental contradictions remained with Russia, but there is certainly room for compromise, Axiosreported. Talks are scheduled to continue Wednesday.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
I am glad that our people are beginning to understand this and rely on themselves and our partners who help us, he said.
Efforts are still needed, patience is needed,Zelenskyysaid during a televised address on Wednesday, Axios reported. Any war ends with an agreement.
ZelenskyysaidTuesday that Ukraine must admit that some countries do not want it to join the alliance.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
The work is difficult, and in the current situation the very fact that the talks are continuing is probably positive, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said, Reutersreported. He noted, however, that it was too early to determine if the talks would be successful.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russias peace talk demands now sound more realistic, Axios reported.
In alist of demandsmade on March 7, Russia said it would stop its invasion if Ukraine ceased all military action, altered its constitution to enshrine its neutrality from Western pacts and NATO, recognized Crimea as part of Russia and recognized its two the separatist republics of Donetsk and Lugansk as independent.
It is clear that Ukraine is not a member of NATO, we understand that, we are adequate people, he said. For years we have heard about the supposedly open door, but we have also heard lately that we should not enter, and this is true and we must admit it.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
