Russia sends medical units to front lines at Ukrainian border
20220129
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/01/29/russia-sends-medical-units-to-front-lines-at-ukrainian-border-1194477/
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
Russia sent medical units to its front lines at the Ukrainian border, fueling speculation Russia is on the precipice of an invasion, The Wall Street Journal reported.
The deployment of medical units escalated the conflict to a stage previous buildups never did, Western defense officialstoldthe WSJ. Though the development does not mean an attack is inevitable, it is a prerequisite for battle.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
The spokesperson said that Russian President Vladimir Putin would take his time considering theproposalsgiven by the U.S. and NATO. Russiademandedthat NATO rescind its promises to Ukraine and Georgia that they would be allowed to join the organization, which the alliance has ruled out.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
The State Departmentadvisedall American citizens to leave Ukraine, and it authorized an evacuation process for some staff members at the U.S. embassy in Kyiv on Sunday. Ukrainian officials previouslyinsistedthat an invasion by Russia is not imminent, but they acknowledged there were some risky scenarios.
U.S. officials indicated that they are not sure if Putin made up his mind on whether to invade Ukraine, including Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, the WSJ reported. I have no idea whether hes made the ultimate decision, but we certainly see every indication that he is going to use military force sometime, perhaps now and middle of February, Sherman said on Wednesday.
A spokesperson for the Kremlin said there was little optimism in Moscow that the West would adequately address the security concerns it claims to have, the WSJ reported. It cannot be said that our considerations were taken into account or that any willingness to take into account our concerns was demonstrated, the spokesperson said.
