SNL mocks Biden over vow to tap black woman for SC Hope its not because he wants to sniff new type of hair
20220130
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/01/30/snl-mocks-biden-over-vow-to-tap-black-woman-for-sc-hope-its-not-because-he-wants-to-sniff-new-type-of-hair-1194866/
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
On that front, a new ABC NewsIpsos poll showed that 76 percent of Americans wanted Biden to consider all possible nominees, including 54 percent of Democrats surveyed. Just 23 percent overall wanted the president to only consider black women for the nomination.
The stock market is plummeting and theres a threat of a land war in Europe, so it looks like Democrats were right: Joe Biden is the next FDR, stated SNL c0-host Colin Jost in a parody news cast that has been a constant of the show over the years.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
After the usual jabs at Republican lawmakers like Senator Mitch McConnell R-KY, Jost went back to Biden and referenced the seemingly incoherent appearance of Biden in public, which has drawn widespread speculation about dementia and other mental infirmities resulting from age. Jost noted that the economy last year grew at the fastest rate since the presidency of Ronald Reagan and that Biden had even adopted Reagans old catchphrase: where am I?
Its been a rough year for President Joe Biden, and in spite of his many claimed victories, the setbacks and issues have mounted to the point that even liberal Saturday Night Live SNL took aim at him.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Bidens oval office was the stage of another part of the opening skits, with Biden himself played by James Austin Johnson, though it quickly segued into spinoff skits. The skit noted Russias infamous misinformation campaigns, and their tendency to sometimes veer into the ridiculous in order to push Russias propaganda goals. A mock briefing for Biden shows various faked tweets other misinformation, stating that the Ukrainian border is rapidly encroaching on Russian troops, and similar jabs at Russias attempts to portray itself as some kind of victim, instead of an aggressor looking to conquer territory.
The remark being a snarky reference to Bidens strange proclivity for grabbing women by the shoulders from behind and leaning awkwardly close in to them.
The comedy show with mixed reviews of its actual comedy took one of its rare jabs at a Democratic president by comparing Biden with former President Franklin D. Roosevelt popularly known as FDR, particularly in regards to the rapid escalation situation in Europe, which increasingly resembles the fateful late 1930s, and its impact on the economy here at home.
A fake Allstate commercial played in which a man with a broken down car notes like a good neighbor, Russia is there! which is followed by the Allstate theme and the assertion that you are now Russia! In another skit, a fake dating website, SoldiersOnly.com promises single Ukrainian women that 100,000 Russian soldiers were standing by to talk to them.
We thank Justice Breyer for upholding the rights of every American, said liberals that have been tweeting Retire, b-! for the last year, Che said, taking a crack at Democrats whove been clamoring for the 83-year-old jurist to retire, before adding that he gets those same tweets every Saturday around this time.
Jost also commented on Bidens assertion that a recent video call with European allies about the crisis involving Russias threatening stance towards Ukraine going very, very, very well, stating that the third very worried him because you only say that when youre trying to cover up something, sarcastically comparing it to a parody of Representative Matt Gaetz R-FL saying that girl was very, very, very over 18.
President Biden promised to nominate the first Black woman to the Supreme Court, Che then said. But I hope its not because he wants to sniff a new type of hair.
Co-host Michael Che also took a jab at Biden, noting that Biden promised to nominate the first black woman to the Supreme Court to replace Justice Steven Breyer, who is retiring.
While SNL is hardly a cultural bellwether, there have been some signs that the media is starting to sour on Biden, as his gaffes seem to get worse and more public, and his treatment of the media, even friendly liberal media, seems to worsen.
