Top military adviser reportedly floats arming citizens if Russia gets too close
20211211
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2021/12/11/top-military-adviser-reportedly-floats-arming-citizens-if-russia-gets-too-close-1174252/
Budanov outlined a nightmare scenario where Russia begins its assault with airstrikes and rockets that target Ukraines ammunition depots and troops in the trenches, the NYT reported. Such an attack could lead to the Ukrainian militarys incapacitation.
They need to decide, either were allies as they declare  and in that case allies help one another  or they need to say that this is not exactly the case, Budanov said. If the civilized world wants to avoid catastrophe  and this will be a catastrophe for everyone  we need military technical support now, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, not in year. Now.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
A senior Ukrainian military adviser floated the idea of handing over the countrys own weapons to its citizens in the event of a Russian invasion, The New York Times reported.
If Russia really wants to unleash its conventional capabilities, they could inflict massive damage in a very short period of time, Robert Lee, a U.S. Marine Corps veteran and Russian military expert, told the NYT. They can devastate the Ukrainian military in the east really quickly, within the first 30-40 minutes.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
They will hold up as long as there are bullets, Budanov said of the frontline commanders who would be forced to fight without leadership supplying the front. Theyll be able to use what they have in their hands, but believe me without delivery of reserves, theres not an army in the world that can hold out.
PresidentJoe Bidenreportedly told Russian President Vladimir Putin in their call on Tuesday that the U.S. will implement harsher economic penalties than it did when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 if it invaded Ukraine. He did not specify what the measures entailed, and thelack of commitmentfrom Western allies has created anxiety among Ukrainian officials, the NYT reported.
There are not sufficient military resources for repelling a full-scale attack by Russia if it begins without the support of Western forces, Budanov said, the NYT reported.
Up to half a million Ukrainians have military experience and there are many who are prepared with weapons in their hands to fight, Gen. Oleksandr PavlyuktoldRadio Liberty this month, the NYT reported.
Ukrainian generals told the NYT that Russian forces would overwhelm their nearly 100,000 troops if aninvasionwere to happen. Gen. Kyrylo O. Budanov, the head of Ukraines military intelligence service, told the NYT that Ukraine needs to be objective at this stage.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
The officialtoldthe NYT that the government might have to open its weapons depots to its population so that people could defend their families if the Ukrainian military were to be defeated.
The Ministry of Defenses estimated number of enlisted soldiers and officers in Ukraines entire military is only slightly larger than the 175,000 Russian troops the U.S. intelligence community estimates are a part of Moscows plans for an offensive, the NYT reported.
