Ukrainian defense minister says Russian invasion would result in bloody massacre
20211208
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2021/12/08/ukrainian-defense-minister-says-russian-invasion-would-result-in-bloody-massacre-1172915/
The armed conflict would have disastrous consequences for Europe as an estimated 4 to 5 million Ukrainians would attempt to seek refuge throughout the continent, ReznikovtoldCNN. He warned that Ukraine would not be the only country to suffer losses, as Russian guys also will come back in the coffins.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
There will be a really bloody massacre if Russia invades Ukraine, Oleksiy Reznikov, the Ukrainian defense minister, told CNN.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
Reznikov urged Biden, who had yet to speak with Putin when interviewed, to notback downagainst Moscow, emphasizing that avoiding the provocation of Russia would not lead to success.
Reznikov said he requested further military equipment from its allies, but did not expect foreign troops to be necessary for the countrys defense.
The Kremlin has denied it is planning to attack Ukraine, instead arguing the North Atlantic Treaty Organizations NATO support for the country is a threat to Russia, CNN reported. Reznikov said the real goal of Russias aggressions is likely to inspire fear within Ukraine and prevent it from becoming a member of NATO and the European Union.
If we share or spread panic in our country and inside of our society, it will be the gift to the Kremlin, because they trying to do that, he said. Because this gathering of their troops alongside of our border, its a main goal of them to make destabilization process inside of our country, to stop us in our way. But we go into the NATO ally, were going to EU.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
If I can advise President Biden, I would like him to articulate to Mr. Putin that no red lines from the Kremlin side should be here, Reznikov said. The red line is here in Ukraine and the civilized world will react without hesitation.
We dont need troops, because I think its not so fair that American soldiers will die in Ukraine, he told CNN. No, we dont need it.
Increased Russiantroops and military effortsnear the Russia-Ukraine border have raised alarms about a potential invasion, the Associated Press reported. President Joe Bidenspoke with Russian President Vladimir Putinon Tuesday amid tensions surrounding the troop movements.
The U.S. estimated 175,000 Russian troops could be assembled for an invasion, but Reznikov said the battle-hardened Ukrainian forces should not be underestimated. So, we have 250,000 official  members of our army. Plus, I said 400,000 veterans and 200,000 reservists. 175,000 is not enough to go to Ukraine, he told CNN.
