Ukraine forces say entire Kyiv region liberated amid Russian retreat Pentagon says Putins repositioning
20220403
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/04/03/ukraine-forces-say-entire-kyiv-region-liberated-amid-russian-retreat-pentagon-says-putins-repositioning-1220946/
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
What remains unknown is when. Whats known is that the longer they wait to meet, the more people wholl die 
The Russian militaries are being accumulated in Donbas, in the Kharkiv direction. They are preparing for new powerful blows. We are preparing for even more active defense, Zelensky added.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Ukrainian and U.S Defense Officials have both announced that Ukrainian Military Forces have now Re-Captured the entire Kyiv Region all the way to the Southern Border of Belarus where Russian Forces continue to withdraw to, this area includes the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. pic.twitter.com62lsukfN0w
Irpin, Bucha, Gostomel and the whole Kyiv region were liberated from the invader, Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Ganna Maliar announced Saturday afternoon Eastern Standard Time on Facebook
Arakhamia further indicated there was a high probability that such a meeting could take place in Turkey.
Irpin, Bucha and Gostomel are bordering cities that lie to the immediate northwest of Kyiv and have in recent weeks sustained heavy destruction and civilian causalities.
Bucha, Kyiv region. The bodies of people with tied hands, who were shot dead by  soldiers lie in the streets. These people were not in the military. They had no weapons. They posed no threat. How many more such cases are happening right now in the occupied territories? 12 pic.twitter.comAJloZ81JIt
So Putin wanted just Donbas all along? Did he want to arm Germany to the teeth too then! Or push Finland, Sweden towards NATO and other countries too. Or have the US massively bolster Polands capacity to defend itself. Or have 1000s of Russian soldiers die in a foreign land!
Some suspect Putin purposefully invaded all of Ukraine as a negotiation tactic, so that he could later pull back into the Donbas region and say something along the lines of, Well look, though I wanted all of Ukraine, how about we just settle with us, the Russians, taking Donbas?
And indeed, something Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in remarks Saturday seems to substantiate this Biden administration theory.
What remains unclear is the reason for Russian forces withdrawing from the Kyiv region. Ukrainian government officials say its a consequence of their side winning the war. Others, including U.S. President Joe Biden, view the matter differently.
The Donbas region on the eastern edge of Ukraine has had a separatist movement since 2014around the same time as the Russian annexation of Crimea. This region has been contested for almost a decade, according to WBND.
After first celebrating that the occupiers are withdrawing forces in the north of our country, he admitted that in the east of our country, the situation remains extremely difficult.
Ukraine :meanwhile this footage claims to show troops being redeployed to the Donbass to reinforce the Russian invasion force over there. pic.twitter.comdhIRR32gew
Donbas is of special importance to Russian President Vladimir Putin because its home to millions of Russian separatists who resent the Ukrainian government.
Ukrainian forces have reportedly retaken all of Kyiv and the areas surrounding the capital as Russian forces continue to retreat toward the Donbas region and the governments of both nations move closer to reaching a peace agreement.
Putins troops were destroyed, expelled, andor forced to retreat in town after town in Kyiv region following an incredible effort by Ukrainian forces. Now, as Ukraine reclaims that territory, new images show the devastation caused by Russian occupation. This is Irpin.  MVSUA pic.twitter.comiKJa8Le2oy
Im honestly living for Russia pretending that everything in Ukraine is going according to plan. Yes yes were just backing off from Kyiv because, for reasons, we never wanted it in the first place! Freedom to Donbas! LMAO. Fuck you.
We believe this is a repositioning, not a real withdrawal, and that we all should be prepared to watch for a major offensive against other areas of Ukraine. It does not mean the threat to Kyiv is over, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said last Tuesday.
Watching all the Putin Bros switch to We never meant to take Kyiv, we just wanted Donbas all along, but RUSSIA IS STILL GOING TO CRUSH UKRAINE AND TRIUMPH
In separate news, Ukrainian negotiator David Arakhamia said Saturday that draft peace treaty documents between Ukraine and Russia were at an advanced enough stage to allow for direct talks between Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Zelenskyy, according to NBC News.
Experts expected Russia to take the territories in the Donbas region much like the Crimean annexation because of their friendliness toward Russia, but they instead invaded all of Ukraine.
However, many critics doubt this narrative given the stunning losses the Russian military has sustained Language warning:
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
