Visa Mastercard immediately suspend operations in Russia over unprovoked Ukraine invasion
20220306
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/06/visa-mastercard-immediately-suspend-operations-in-russia-over-unprovoked-ukraine-invasion-1209252/
PayPal, a non-traditional online payment system that serves as an alternative to credit card payments, also suspended its operations Saturday.
Effective immediately, Visa will work with its clients and partners within Russia to cease all Visa transactions over the coming days, Visa said in a statement.
Fedorovs Twitter feed contains a plethora of additional letters. However, most of them appear to be letters written by him and designed to shame companies and people, including U.S. governors, into doing more for the Ukrainian people.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
The Russian Central Bank has dismissed this move as a nothing burger, reportedly arguing that all Visa and Mastercard bank cards issued by Russian banks will continue to operate normally on Russian territory until their expiration date.
The Russian war in Ukraine is a genocide! Please, support Ukraine GavinNewsom! If we all resist this aggression  everybody in the way they can  the russians will impel their terrorist government to withdraw their troops from Ukraine.
Supporting Russia means  supporting blood and crimes against humanity. Hopefully maxmind is different. We ask you to stop providing your services to geolocation and geoprotection bases for Russian state-owned companies. MAXMIND have to block access to Russia. pic.twitter.comhbYGX0ffj7
PayPal supports the Ukrainian people and stands with the international community in condemning Russias violent military aggression in Ukraine.  Under the current circumstances, we are suspending PayPal services in Russia, the statement reads.
The suspensions were announced Saturday afternoon after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pleaded for Visa and Mastercard to end services in Russia during a call with U.S. lawmakers, according to Newsweek.
Visa chairman and CEO Al Kelly added in a quote that he feels compelled to act following Russias unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed.
We received a letter from DanSchulman, CEO PayPal. So now its official: PayPal shuts down its services in Russia citing Ukraine aggression. Thank you PayPal for your supporting! Hope that soon you will open it in for  pic.twitter.comRaJxEMSLQe
Visa and Mastercard have suspended all operations in Russia, a move that could potentially lead to Russian citizens being deprived of access to 90 percent of all debtcredit cards in existence on Earth once their current cards expire.
Visa and Mastercards suspension of operations in Russia comes amid a flurry of other suspensions by BP, Exxon, Shell, Boeing, Ford, Toyota, Volkswagen, Disney, Ikea, Nike, Apple, Google and many more.
In a similarly themed statement of its own, Mastercard announced that it too has decided to suspend our network services in Russia.
The announcement was made not to the world at large but rather to Ukrianian Depty Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov, bizarrely enough.
Apple Google An hour ago eight Russian cruise missiles attacked Vinnytsia, a peaceful city in the very center of Ukraine. timcook sundarpichai You can do more for peace  block access to AppStore and GooglePlay from Russia! pic.twitter.comeR37MtLwWN
All this is true. However, if the ongoing conflict persists for years on end, as some analysts have predicted will happen, Russian citizens could  once all their cards expire  eventually find themselves locked out of 90 percent of the market.
We regret the impact this will have on our valued colleagues, and on the clients, partners, merchants and cardholders we serve in Russia. This war and the ongoing threat to peace and stability demand we respond in line with our values, he said.
According to a Reuters report published in 2020, Visa holds a 60 share of the credit and debit card market, followed by Mastercard with 30. The remainder of the market is controlled by American Express 8.5 percent and Discover.
Once complete, all transactions initiated with Visa cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside the country and any Visa cards issued by financial institutions outside of Russia will no longer work within the Russian Federation.
Big companies make a huge impact on the world. Figma product is universal and has no analogues today. Do not let russias aggressor use modern technology and craft propagandistic websites and applications. Please stop supplying Figma for Russia! This will help to save Ukraine! pic.twitter.comxwpPiTLSBj
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
In a statement issued through Telegram, Russias largest lender, Sberbank, reassured customers that their cards can still be used for operations in the Russian territory  to withdraw cash, make transfers using the card number, and for payment at offline as well as at online Russian stores, as reported by The Moscow Times.
The cards would continue to work on Russian territory, it said, because all payments in Russia are made through a national system and do not depend on foreign systems. However, the Central Bank warned that Russians traveling abroad should carry alternate means of payment, according to the Times.
