Yes Sherlock theres a pattern Psaki shoves foot in her mouth when noting timing of Putins aggression
20220302
https://www.bizpacreview.com/2022/03/02/yes-sherlock-theres-a-pattern-psaki-shoves-foot-in-her-mouth-when-noting-timing-of-putins-aggression-1207791/
Jen is right, Russia's invasions of Ukraine do follow a pattern, and this pattern always happens when Democrats are in the White House. https:t.coYb2pEZzsJH
Rep. Byron Donalds R-FL was surprised to find that there was something he could agree with Psaki on.
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!
I hope you get a chance to ask him, Blinken responded. The State Department head can now find solace in knowing that he need not wait for Putin to sit down for a post-invasion exclusive with Todd. Psaki has stepped up to clear up the mystery.
PLEASE JOIN OUR NEW COMMENT SYSTEM! We love hearing from our readers and invite you to join us for feedback and great conversation. If you've commented with us before, we'll need you to re-input your email address for this. The public will not see it and we do not share it.
Also featured is former secretary of state, and current climate czar, John Kerry who has stated while Putins forces continue to invade Ukraine that he hopes President Putin will help us to stay on track with respect to what we need to do for the climate.
Jen Psaki: Biden "was the vice president the last time Russia invaded Ukraine, this is a pattern" pic.twitter.comfFwbYLKyRi
The Heritage Foundations John Cooper hinted that maybe this wasnt the best public relations strategy.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki seemed to only just now figure the connection between Russian President Vladimir Putins timing on invading Ukraine that everyone not in the administration has known from the get-go.
Lest it be forgotten, Psaki wasnt just talking about President Joe Bidens involvement in the previous and current invasions of Ukraine. She proudly reminded CNN that she was at the State Department during the 2014 attack against Ukraine.
Matt Whitlock who used to work for the National Republican Senatorial Committee disagreed. He felt Psakis message was a great reminder, you know, In case you werent aware of the way adversaries have consistently taken advantage of Joe Bidens weakness.
To echo BarackObama today-proud to stand UnitedForUkraine World should stand together with one voice pic.twitter.comVeMt578UdY
In the days leading up to the invasion, members of the corporate media unexpectedly began asking some real questions pertaining to Putins threats against the neighboring country. NBCs Chuck Todd asked Secretary of State Antony Blinken why Putin hadnt invaded during President Trumps administration.
Heres Jen Psaki hugging Russia's Foreign Minister and Russias chief foreign affairs propagandist while wearing a pink hammer and sickle hat pic.twitter.comWMJytaxd7J
Reminding people that a top adversary has taken advantage of your boss not just once, but twice, isnot great messaging. Ukraine https:t.coZj7l6T9zZN
Here is a flashback of Psaki united with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. That would be the same Sergey Lavrov who had a majority of the United Nations Human Rights Council walk out on him while he accused the European Union of a Russophobic frenzy Tuesday.
You know, I was at the State Department, Psaki began. The President was the vice president the last time Russia invaded Ukraine. This is a pattern of horror from this pres- from President Putin and from the cronies around him.
bragging about the fact this cabal of stooges was in power for the last 3 invasions of Ukraine ?
Alec Sears from the Washington Examiner suggested Psaki hadnt actually figured anything out but was just saying the quiet part out loud.
We have no tolerance for comments containing violence, racism, profanity, vulgarity, doxing, or discourteous behavior. If a comment is spam, instead of replying to it please click the  icon below and to the right of that comment. Thank you for partnering with us to maintain fruitful conversation.
