Council to cut any ties with Russia as it pledges support for Ukraine
20220302
https://www.cravenherald.co.uk/news/19964265.council-cut-ties-russia-pledges-support-ukraine/
We understand that many people want to help immediately and centres have been set up to receive donations of goods and clothing.
The county council says it also stands shoulder to shoulder with Ukrainians living in North Yorkshire and with all residents and staff with friends and family living in Ukraine.
We are also encouraging individuals to support the emergency appeals established by recognised agencies such as the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR, UNICEF and Red Cross. They are seeking cash because it a much more efficient, effective and quicker way to get help from the UK.
We do not believe we have such contracts, but we are going through our procurement records with a fine toothcomb.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Cllr Les said: We will be working with all our partners across the region and nationally in the most effective way we can to support our people who are affected by this unprovoked Russian aggression and the atrocities we are currently witnessing.
NORTH Yorkshire will 'cut any ties' it has with Russia as part of the county council'spledge to do 'everything possible' to support the people of Ukraine.
The Russian people are not our enemy nor are all their businesses, but they must be made to realise the damage that their leader, and his self-serving regime, is inflicting foremost on the independent sovereign state of Ukraine, but also on the world and on themselves. They have the ability to stop this illegal aggression."
He added: We are also ready in North Yorkshire to provide welcome for people from Ukraine, as we have done for Syrian and Afghan refugees, and await details of the arrangements from the UK Government to do whatever is needed.
Councillor Carl Les, leader of the county council, said: We stand ready to do whatever is necessary to help Ukrainians in this war and to cut any ties we may have with Russia.
It is going through all investments, contracts and procurement arrangements to ensure it is not trading with Russian companies and says it will take immediate action to end contracts if necessary.
The county council says it is also ready to accept Ukrainian refugees wanting to flee their country after it was attacked by the 'self-serving regime' of Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
