Cotton Repeatedly Refuses To Condemn Trumps Praise Of Putin Amid Ukraine Invasion
20220227
https://talkingpointsmemo.com/news/cotton-trump-putin-russia-ukraine
George, if you want to know what Donald Trump thinks about Vladimir Putin or any other topic, Id encourage you to invite him on your show. I dont speak on behalf of other politicians. They can speak for themselves, Cotton said. I speak on behalf of Arkansans, who I talked to this week and who are appalled at what they saw in Ukraine and they want me right now to fight in Washington to support those brave Ukrainians.
Sen. Tom Cotton refuses to condemn former Pres. Trumps praise of Russian leader Vladimir Putin when repeatedly pressed by GStephanopoulos.I don't speak on behalf of other politicians, they can all speak for themselves," Cotton says. https:t.co0FDYRx2QU2 pic.twitter.comH8rvN7JBcp
Stephanopolous then asked Cotton about why he cant condemn Trump saying that he has no message for Putin even as Russia continues to attack Ukraine during a recent interview on Fox News.
Appearing on ABC News, Cotton was asked whether he would condemn the former presidents repeated praise of Putin. During remarks at CPAC on Saturday night, Trump heaped more praise onto Putin by calling the Russian president smart, despite criticizing Russias attack on Ukraine as appalling.
After declining to state whether he would support the former president if he were to run for re-election, Cotton was given one more chance to answer why he wont condemn Trumps praise of Putin.
George, again, I dont speak on behalf of other politicians. They can all speak for themselves  Vladimir Putin has been a ruthless dictator for years, Cotton said.
Cotton once again insisted to Stephanopolous that he should ask the former president himself about his views.
George, you heard what I had to say about Vladimir Putin, Cotton said. That he is a ruthless dictator whos launched a naked, unprovoked war of aggression.
My message to Vladimir Putin is quite clear. He needs to leave Ukraine unless he wants to face moms and teenagers with Molotov cocktails and grandmothers and grandfathers with AK-47s for years to come, Cotton said. Im speaking on behalf of all Arkansas who want me to send that message to him.
Sen. Tom Cotton R-AR on Sunday repeatedly refused to condemn former President Trumps glowing praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
In the days following Russias invasion of Ukraine, Trump has continued to praise Putin, despite condemning Russias attacks. The former president has also repeatedly pushed his wild claim that Russias invasion of Ukraine wouldnt have happened if the 2020 presidential election wasnt rigged. Trumps election fraud falsehoods produced fruitless legal challenges that failed to overturn the results.
Thankfully, the Ukrainian army has anti-tank missiles that President Obama would not supply, that we did supply last time Republicans were in charge in Washington, Cotton said. Thats why its so urgent that we continue to supply those weapons to Ukraine.
Pressed again on why he cant condemn Trump for praising Putin amid Russias invasion of Ukraine, Cotton continued to sidestep the question.
In addition to calling Putin smart during his remarks at CPAC, Trump expressed his admiration for the Russian president when he called into Fox News host Laura Ingrahams show last week. The former president said that Russias invasion of Ukraine never would have happened under his administration because he and Putin get along fantastically.
