How Baby Formula Shortage Turned Into Racist Attack On Immigrants
20220513
https://talkingpointsmemo.com/morning-memo/baby-formula-shortage-immigrants-border
A new investigative front has opened on the Trump White Houses handling of classified materials and presidential records that ended up at Mar-A-Lago post-presidency.
CBP had to issue a statement today explaining that it is has a legal responsibility to feed babies in custody because Republican lawmakers are expressing outrage that CBP had formula to feed babies in migrant detention centers pic.twitter.comO8NbanfG77
Theres a way to report this that sounds the alarm about the rise of fascism in America then theres the Axios way which is more like LOOK WHAT YOU MADE THEM DO!! https:t.coWbWpkjyeyY
A lot of things happened. Here are some of the things. This is TPMs Morning Memo.
Trump-era Special Counsel John Durham is kicking open a new can of worms around Justice Department policy on journalists ahead of next weeks trial of DC lawyer Michael Sussmann:
After focusing much of its firepower on Ukraines second-largest city in the initial stages of the invasion, Russia is now withdrawing troops from around Kharkiv, which is only about 30 miles from the Russian border.
The junior senator from Kentucky singlehandedly held up the $40 billion Ukrainian aid bill, forcing a series of procedural steps that will slow but not ultimately block passage in the Senate.
The tropes of American campaign and election coverage were bad enough before one of the major U.S. political parties became a safe haven for revanchist neo-fascist insurrectionists:
Just like that you can turn the baby formula shortage into a  racist attack on immigrants?
Durham says that he doesn't have to follow Merrick Garland's policy on journalists bc I'm not sure the logic. pic.twitter.comf1aDK09ZXI
Twitter deal temporarily on hold pending details supporting calculation that spamfake accounts do indeed represent less than 5 of usershttps:t.coY2t0QMuuyn
A Great Plains haboob stirred up by 100 mph thunderstorm winds raced across the Upper Midwest Thursday:
The NYTs David A. Fahrenthold talks about his latest story on a UN financial scandal.
Many perceive global warming as a sort of moral and economic debt, accumulated since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution and now come due after several centuries. In fact, more than half of the carbon exhaled into the atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels has been emitted in just the past three decades. Which means we have done as much damage to the fate of the planet and its ability to sustain human life and civilization since Al Gore published his first book on climate than in all the centuriesall the millenniathat came before.
Even staunch anti-abortion groups like Louisiana Right to Life, the Louisiana Conference of Catholic Bishops, and the National Right to Life Committee opposed the measure.
It played out quickly Thursday. The credit for the bank shot from baby formula shortage to xenophobic attack on immigrants to blaming Biden for it all appears to belong to Rep. Kat Cammack R-FL. Well played, well played.
With 55 significant 75 mph preliminary wind gust reports so far, today 5122022 is the day with the 2nd most preliminary hurricane force wind gusts since at least 2004. The top 4 have all occurred within the last 2 years, and in 4 different months. pic.twitter.comH5GIjbYv0L
