How The Kremlin Dehumanizing Ukraine Set The Stage For Bucha
20220405
https://talkingpointsmemo.com/muckraker/russia-bucha-massacre-rhetoric-ukraine
Reports from the ground in Ukraine suggest how troops may have interpretedthat objective. Reports from liberated Ukrainian towns suggest that Russian forces targeted vocal supporters of Ukrainian sovereignty. In Motyzhyn, a village outside Kyiv, theyreportedlykilled the towns mayor and her family.
Putin suggested in his speech that the war was aimed only at a small slice of Ukraines population. He cast Ukrainians as a docile people supposedly under the yoke of bandits and drug-addicts who took over the Ukrainian state, and who were perpetrating a genocide on ethnic Russians in Ukraine.
The problem is that on our neighboring territories  I note, on our historical territories  a hostile anti-Russia is being created under full external control, Putin said in his Feb. 24 announcement of the war.
He then suggested that this was the plan all along: But in reality, nothing is changing for us.
On the ground in Ukraine, mass graves have been found after Russian soldiers left the Kyiv area. In Bucha, hundreds of people appear to have been buried during the Russian occupation. Ukrainian officials have said that the situation in other towns may be far worse.
Denazifying Ukraine no longer means removing the upper leadership and, in Russias view, a few nationalists. Now, the Kremlin seems to be using it to mean the cleansing of Ukrainian society.
OnFeb. 26, whenRussian tanks were supposed to be rolling into Kyiv, state news outlet RIA Novostibriefly published an articleprematurely proclaiming the capture of Ukraines capital.
Sergeytsev added that beyond senior leadership in Ukraine, a significant part of the masses are guilty, who are passive Nazis, enablers of Nazism.
The article reflected the Kremlins belief in who it thought its enemy was in Ukraine: a thin layer of pro-Western elites, who would be quickly swept away by a Russian offensive.
That change came as Ukraines military and society mobilized against the invasion and put up a defense that was far stronger than Russia anticipated, forcing the country to move its forces away from the Kyiv region and abandon its early objective of quickly taking the capital city.
The irony is that, as a result of Ukraines staunch defense, Russias narrative has now become even more violent, going from casting Ukrainians as a pliant people controlled by Western puppets to something more akin to the German people under the Third Reich  brainwashed, active participants in evil who, at best, must be defeated and re-educated.
He added that the special operation was aimed at defending people who, over the past eight years, have sustained abuse, genocide from the Kyiv regime. Its for this that we will aim for the demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine, and for those who committed multiple, bloody crimes against civilians, including Russian citizens, to face judgment.
As Ukrainians defended the city, the article was quickly taken down from the internet.Accessible now via the Internet Archive, the column, written by Pyotr Akopov, announced that Ukraine has returned to Russia. Thatdidnot mean, he insisted,that its statehood will be liquidated.
Its one example of a broader feature in Russian rhetoric  from Putin, from high-ranking officials, and from propagandists  that has shifted over the past six weeks. What started off, in Putins telling, as a battle with a limited number of people at the top  the bandits and drug-addicts who took over the Ukrainian state  has turned out to be a showdown with the Ukrainian people as a whole.
Unfortunately, and to our silent astonishment, a significant part of Ukrainian people  and not everyone  turn out to have been captured by the insanity of Nazism, RT Editor-in-Chief Margarita Simonyan said last month. Before this, I also thought that there were a few of them, but I couldnt have imagined that there were so many of them.
Putin cannot come out and directly say that we are liquidating Ukraine as a state, Akopov told a Russian government news website on Friday.
Changing the bloody and fully false myths of the consciousness of a segment of todays Ukrainians is a most important aim, he added.
Without a drop of exaggeration, Vladimir Putin assumed a historical responsibility, deciding not to leave the Ukrainian question without a solution for future generations, Akopov wrote.
That impression seems to have changed in the rhetoric over the past six weeks, as Ukrainian society recognized the invasion as an attack on the countrys independence.
His column partly attempts to define what denazification really means  a term that Putin left ambiguous in his speech.
But now, six weeks into agruelingcampaign that has seen Russiawithdrawforces after a failed attack on Kyiv, Akopov is taking a new tonefromthe onein his speculative piece on Russiasswiftvictory. Russia, henowsays,aims todo just the opposite: It aims todismantle Ukraine as a state.
In Bucha, mass graves have been found with hundreds of bodies potentially buried inside. Refugees leaving the towndescribedRussian soldiers indiscriminately shooting at civilians.
Akopovs initial article was one of many explanations, sometimes self-appointed, made in the wake of Vladimir Putins statement that the aim of the war was to demilitarize and denazify Ukraine.
Denazification will unavoidably be deukrainianization, wrote political consultant Timofei Sergeitsev in a widely discussed column posted on RIA Novosti.
Dmitry Medvedev, Russias former president and current security council deputy chair, wrote on Telegram on Tuesday that the wars aims will be decided not only on the fields of battle.
The war was simply a matter of Ukraine being returned to Russia, with its upper echelons being denazified. The country would then simply be nudged back toward Moscow.
The shift reflects a total lack of understanding of Ukrainian society before the war, and suggests increasing rage as the reality of the countrys attitudes becomes clearer.
A just punishment of this part of the population is only possible by bearing the inevitable hardships of just war against the Nazi system, conducted as carefully and delicately as possible with regard to civilians, he wrote.
