Where Things Stand A Reminder That Even Tucker Carlsons Lawyers Dont Think He Should Be Taken Seriously
20220225
https://talkingpointsmemo.com/edblog/reminder-tucker-carlsons-lawyers-dont-take-seriously
These are fair questions, and the answer to all of them is no. Vladimir Putin didnt do any of that, he said. So, why does permanent Washington hate him so much?
Sullivan surfaced a crucial anecdote in her coverage of Putins war today, reminding readers that Carlsons lawyers argued  and a federal judge concurred  in 2020 that Carlson is hardly an arbiter of actual facts. And that comments made on his high-ratings show should not be taken seriously.
She added: Fox persuasively argues, that given Mr. Carlsons reputation, any reasonable viewer arrives with an appropriate amount of skepticism about the statement he makes.
As weve noted in our live coverage of Russias declaration of war and subsequent full-scale military attack on Ukraine in the last 24 hours, there is a schism growing in the Republican Party on whether Vladimir Putin is a mortal enemy, or a brilliant friend. The wildly divergent thinking within the GOP has been on display repeatedly in recent days and weeks.
White House science office to hold first event on countering climate change denial and delay  Maxine Joselow
Even before last nights invasion, some Republicans in the vestiges of the GOP establishment criticized Carlsons trolly perspective on Putin. Sen. John Cornyn R-TX told Politico last month that Carlson is obviously not the right person to rely upon to address the matter in any serious way.
Perhaps Tucker Carlson is not meant to be taken seriously. But, of course, he also very much is. He is a  and perhapsthe leading voice of an American ideological movement as the U.S. faces down a series of crises, of which Putins war is just the latest. While at least one side of the GOPs current schism is bear hugging pro-Putinism, the leading voice in that problematic faction is not even pretending to be anything more than a shock-jock big boy, a hyperbolic entertainer.
He then went on to ask viewers whether Putin was responsible for a litany of Republican grievances  has he pushed racial discrimination in public schools? Tried to snuff out Christianity in the United States? Or eaten  dogs? I dont really have an origin point for this one. All, apparently, in the hope of leading readers to the conclusion that the Russian president, who was in the process of starting the first land war in Europe in decades, was not a cause for concern. The real enemy, one might conclude, was BidenDemocratsthe radical leftprobably AOC.
Why not? Because, Vyskocil decided, the whole tenor ofCarlsons show makes it clear to viewers that he is not stating actual facts about his topics.
The latest from Josh Kovensky, TPM reporter and our own specialist on all things Ukraine: How Russias War On Ukraine Risks Entangling NATO
U.S. District Court Judge Mary Kay Vyskocil echoed Foxs own arguments in finding that Carlson didnt commit slander when he accused a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, of extortion, after the National Enquirer bought her story of an affair with Trump and then promptly shelved it on his behalf.
It just so happens, as Washington Post columnist Margaret Sullivan reminded us today, Carlsons own lawyers agree.
And viewers, it would seem, are not arriving at their TV sets for primetime happy hour with an appropriate amount of skepticism about the statements he makes.
The hawkish, more traditional wing  to the extent it has survived the MAGA onslaught  is today condemning Putins actions and calling for tougher sanctions on Russia. The Trump adherents are taking cues from their leader, applauding the invasion and demonizing Ukraine as some sort of failed democratic pet project of the United States. All sides have a common straw man at which they direct their ire: President Biden, with his administrations supposed foreign policy weakness.
But few have taken the Trumpian affinity for Putin as far as Fox News host Tucker Carlson  not even Trump himself. In the days leading up to Putins declaration of war, Carlson downplayed Russias weeks-long campaign of aggression and threats toward Ukraine as a mere border dispute, while challenging viewers to dig deep within themselves and question why they hate the Russian president so much.
Hes obviously not in a position of being responsible for those decisions, Cornyn told Politico. And we are.
Marjorie Taylor Greene Claims Violence Needed To Stand Up To Trans People  Ewan Palmer
Whether the Court frames Mr. Carlsons statements as exaggeration, non-literal commentary, or simply bloviating for his audience,she wrote, the conclusion remains the same  the statements are not actionable.
It may be worth asking yourself, since it is getting pretty serious, what is this really about? Why do I hate Putin so much? hewondered Tuesday night. Has Putin ever called me a racist? Has he threatened to get me fired for disagreeing with him?
