No lows too low no lies too blatant
20220223
https://www.concordmonitor.com/Russia-pushes-into-Ukraine-West-hits-back-with-sanctions-45222643
Outside the EU, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson named five Russian banks and three wealth individuals who the UK hit with sanctions on Tuesday.
Germany made the first big move, taking steps to halt the process of certifying the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia  a massive, lucrative deal long sought by Moscow, but criticized by the U.S. for increasing Europes reliance on Russian energy supplies.
Hopes are dwindling that a major conflict can be averted. Putins directive came hours after he recognized the two Ukrainian separatist regions, setting up Russian military support and antagonizing Western leaders who regard it as a breach of world order.
We will make it as difficult as possible for the Kremlin to pursue its aggressive policies, said EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
This is a first step, agreed French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian. We have more ammunition.
Putin has blamed NATO for the current crisis and called the U.S.-led alliance an existential threat to Russia.
They stopped short of the massive package threatened by the EU and Washington for a full military invasion into national territory that Kyiv still controls.
British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace didnt mince words. Russia has already invaded Ukraine. They did it in 2014, occupied illegally Crimea and Donbas. This is a further invasion of their sovereign territory, Wallace said.
No lows too low, no lies too blatant, no red lines too red to cross, Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte said in summing up the political disgust felt by nations from Europe to North America and the democracies hugging Russias borders in Asia like Japan and South Korea.
This package of sanctions  will hurt Russia, and it will hurt a lot, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after chairing a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Paris.
Russia said it was sending what it called peacekeepers into eastern Ukraine, but EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell stressed they were troops on sovereign Ukrainian territory.
Whatever the description, the latest developments were enough to force the 27-nation bloc into a mode of high alert, and the EUs foreign ministers stressed the sanctions announced Tuesday were done in close consultation with the United States and other Western allies.
And if Putin pushes further into Ukraine, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg insisted the West would move in lockstep. If Russia decides once again to use force against Ukraine, there will be even stronger sanctions, even a higher price to pay, he said.
However, Putin continued to knock the world off-kilter with a strategy where confusion about the true extent of an invasion, which would automatically kick in major sanctions, remained unclear and debatable.
The United States was moving closer to sanctions too, with the White House calling Russias troop deployments an invasion  a red line that President Joe Biden has said would result in heavy U.S. sanctions against Moscow.
The global condemnation came amid rising skirmishes in the eastern regions of Ukraine that Western powers believe Russia could use as a pretext for an attack on the Europe-leaning democracy that has defied Moscows attempts to pull it back into its orbit.
The rest of the European Union soon followed, with a first set of sanctions taking aim at the 351 Duma legislators who voted in favor of recognizing separatist regions in Ukraine, as well as 27 other Russian officials and institutions from the defense and banking world. They also sought to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
The West insisted Putins bold moves in Ukraine violated countless international agreements and since diplomacy has failed, it was time to move towards action.
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, the U.S. has warned that Moscow has already decided to invade. Still, Biden and Putin tentatively agreed to a meeting brokered by French President Emmanuel Macron in a last-ditch effort to avoid war.
Too much too soon, though, could also hurt the international response, said Britains Johnson. This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed, he told British lawmakers.
Western powers have long made clear the fate of Ukraine wasnt worth a direct military confrontation with Russia and the potential of a world war, so sanctions were the only limited option to channel their anger.
BRUSSELS  Shocked by Russian President Vladimir Putins order to deploy troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, world leaders moved quickly Tuesday to impose as forceful a response as possible in hopes of averting a full-blown war in Europe.
