Putin puts Russias nuclear forces on alert
20220227
https://www.thetottenhamindependent.co.uk/news/19955817.ukrainian-russian-diplomats-meet-putin-puts-nuclear-forces-alert/
If Mr Putin is arming or otherwise raising the nuclear combat readiness of his bombers, or if he is ordering more ballistic missile submarines to sea, then the United States might feel compelled to respond in kind, said Hans Kristensen, a nuclear analyst at the Federation of American Scientists.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, meanwhile, said on Sunday that his country is committing 100 billion euros 84 billion to a special fund for its armed forces, raising its defence spending above 2 of gross domestic product.
The UN refugee agency said on Sunday that about 368,000 Ukrainians have arrived in neighbouring countries since the invasion started on Thursday.
But he has also expressed scorn about Ukraines right to exist as an independent state.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss warned that Mr Putin could use the most unsavoury means, including banned chemical or biological weapons, to defeat Ukraine.
It was unclear whether those figures included both military and civilian casualties. Russia has not released any casualty information.
Things could spiral out of control, said Mr Bergmann, now a senior fellow at the Centre for American Progress.
Ukrainian officials initially rejected the move, saying any talks should take place elsewhere than Belarus, since it has allowed its territory to be used by Russian troops as a staging ground for the invasion.
Russia has taken the path of evil, and the world should come to depriving it of its UN Security Council seat, he said.
The announcement came hours after Russia announced that its delegation had flown to Belarus to await talks.
Unload your weapons, raise your hands so that our servicemen and civilians can understand that you have heard us. This is your ticket home, Lt Gen Moisiuk said in a Facebook video.
Speaking at a meeting with his top officials, Mr Putin told his defence minister and the chief of the militarys General Staff to put nuclear forces in a special regime of combat duty.
Ukrainians have volunteered en masse to help defend the capital Kyiv and other cities, taking guns distributed by authorities and preparing firebombs to fight Russian forces.
The United Nations refugee agency said on Sunday that about 368,000 Ukrainians have arrived in neighbouring countries since the invasion started Thursday.
Ukraines UN ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya, tweeted on Saturday that Ukraine appealed to the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC to facilitate repatriation of thousands of bodies of Russian soldiers.
Around the same time as Mr Putins nuclear move, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys office said on the Telegram messaging app that the two sides would meet at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border.
Earlier on Sunday, the capital Kyiv was eerily quiet after huge explosions lit up the morning sky and authorities reported blasts at one of the airports.
A Russian Defence Ministry spokesman, Major General Igor Konashenkov, said Russian forces had blocked the cities of Kherson on the Black Sea and the port of Berdyansk on the Azov Sea.
One showed Ukrainian troops firing at the Russians and damaged Russian light utility vehicles abandoned nearby.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov gave no figures on Russias dead and wounded on Sunday but said his countrys losses were many times lower than Ukraines.
I urge the Russians not to escalate this conflict, but we do need to be prepared for Russia to seek to use even worse weapons, Ms Truss told Sky News.
The fast-moving developments came as Russian troops drew closer to Kyiv, a city of almost three million, street fighting broke out in Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, and strategic ports in the countrys south came under pressure from the invading forces.
Responding to a request from Ukraines minister of digital transformation, tech billionaire Elon Musk said on Twitter that his satellite-based internet system Starlink was now active in Ukraine and that there were more terminals en route.
Laetitia Courtois, the ICRCs permanent observer to the UN, told the Associated Press that the situation in Ukraine was a limitation for our teams on the ground and we therefore cannot confirm numbers or other details.
The US, European Union and United Kingdom agreed to block selected Russian banks from the Swift global financial messaging system, which moves money around more than 11,000 banks and other financial institutions worldwide, part of a new round of sanctions aiming to impose a severe cost on Moscow for the invasion.
Mr Putin sent troops into Ukraine after denying for weeks that he intended to do so, all the while building up a force of almost 200,000 troops along the countries borders.
The US pledged an additional 350 million dollars 261 million in military assistance to Ukraine, including anti-tank weapons, body armour and small arms.
Terrified residents instead hunkered down in homes, underground garages and subway stations in anticipation of a full-scale Russian assault.
Until Sunday, Russias troops had remained on the outskirts of Kharkiv, a city of 1.4 million about 20 kilometres 12.4 miles south of the border with Russia, while other forces rolled past to press the offensive deeper into Ukraine.
Amid the mounting tensions, Ukraine announced that a delegation would meet with Russian officials for talks.
In a dramatic escalation of East-West tensions over Russias invasion of Ukraine, President Vladimir Putin has ordered Russian nuclear forces to be put on high alert in response to what he called aggressive statements by leading Nato powers.
But the Kremlins ultimate intentions towards Ukraine  and what steps might be enough to satisfy Moscow  remained unclear.
The images underscored the determined resistance Russian troops face while attempting to enter Ukraines bigger cities.
The number of casualties so far from Europes largest land conflict since the Second World War remains unclear amid the fog of combat.
There is not a single facility in the country that the occupiers wouldnt consider as admissible targets.
As Russia pushes ahead with its offensive, the West is working to equip the outnumbered Ukrainian forces with weapons and ammunition while punishing Russia with far-reaching sanctions intended to further isolate Moscow.
It could also allow Moscow to build a land corridor to Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014 and until now was connected to Russia by a 19-kilometre 12-mile bridge, the longest bridge in Europe which opened in 2018.
Only an occasional car appeared on a deserted main boulevard as a strict 39-hour curfew kept people off the streets.
Ukraines ambassador to the US, Oksana Markarova, said Ukraine was gathering evidence of shelling of residential areas, nurseries and hospitals to submit to an international war crimes court in The Hague as possible crimes against humanity.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Cutting Ukraines access to its sea ports would deal a major blow to the countrys economy.
Mr Putin, in giving the nuclear alert directive, cited not only statements by Nato members but the hard-hitting financial sanctions imposed by the West against Russia, including the Russian leader himself.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Mr Putin is resorting to a pattern he used in the weeks before launching the invasion, which is to manufacture threats that dont exist in order to justify further aggression.
Videos posted on Ukrainian media and social networks showed Russian vehicles moving across Kharkiv and Russian troops roaming the city in small groups.
Flames billowed from an oil depot near an airbase in Vasylkiv, a city 37 kilometres 23 miles south of Kyiv where there has been intense fighting, according to the mayor.
Germany said it would send missiles and anti-tank weapons to the besieged country and that it would close its airspace to Russian planes.
He said the attacks on Ukrainian cities should be investigated by an international war crimes tribunal and cost Russia its place as one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
Ukraines health minister reported on Saturday that 198 people, including three children, had been killed and more than 1,000 others wounded.
The pressure on strategic ports in the south of Ukraine appeared aimed at seizing control of the countrys coastline stretching from the border with Romania in the west to the border with Russia in the east.
Mr Scholz told a special session of the Bundestag the investment was needed to protect our freedom and our democracy.
Max Bergmann, a former US State Department official, called Mr Putins talk predictable but dangerous sabre rattling.
She told ABCs This Week that Russia has not been under threat from Nato or Ukraine.
Russia claims its assault on Ukraine is aimed only at military targets, but bridges, schools and residential neighbourhoods have been hit.
Hours after Mr Putins announcement, the top official in the European Union said the 27-nation bloc will close its airspace to Russian airlines and fund the purchase of weapons for Ukraine.
Mr Putin has not disclosed his ultimate plans, but Western officials believe he is determined to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, redrawing the map of Europe and reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
Ukraine is also releasing prisoners with military experience who want to fight for the country, authorities said.
Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, prompting the government to warn people to cover their windows with damp cloth or gauze as protection from smoke, the presidents office said.
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading Nato members made aggressive statements regarding our country, the Russian president said in televised comments.
For the first time ever, the European Union will finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and other equipment to a country that is under attack, said European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen.
Ukrainian military deputy commander Lt Gen Yevhen Moisiuk sounded a defiant note in a message aimed at Russian troops.
The UN has estimated the conflict could produce as many as 4 million refugees, depending how long it continues.
The order to put Russias nuclear weapons in an increased state of readiness for launch raised fears that the crisis could boil over into nuclear warfare, whether by design or miscalculation.
The past night was tough  more shelling, more bombing of residential areas and civilian infrastructure, Mr Zelensky said.
He claims the West has failed to take seriously Russias security concerns about Nato, the Western military alliance that Ukraine aspires to join.
Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg told CNN, in reaction to Mr Putins decision to put Russias nuclear forces on high alert: This is dangerous rhetoric. This is a behaviour which is irresponsible.
US defence officials would not disclose their current nuclear posture, except to say that the military is prepared at all times to defend its homeland and allies.
Russia and the United States typically have land-based and submarine-based nuclear forces on alert and prepared for combat at all times, but nuclear-capable bombers and other aircraft are not.
And were going to stand up, Ms Psaki said, adding: We have the ability to defend ourselves, but we also need to call out what were seeing here.
He said the Russian forces also took control of an airbase near Kherson and the Azov Sea city of Henichesk.
