Braun Urges Biden To Price Russia Out Of Oil Market
20220225
https://www.wibc.com/news/local-indiana/braun-urges-biden-to-price-russia-out-of-oil-market/
The Russian economy is only $1.7 trillion. Germanys is $3.9 trillion. Ours is about $23 trillion, Braun said. The EUs would be about that. They Russia punch so far above their weight. We can get them with sanctions and it does not take risking troops.
Russian forces are moving further into Ukraine today with a full-scale invasion being ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin early Thursday morning.
President Biden announced a new round of economic sanctions that the US and our NATO allies are rolling out on Russia this week. They include cutting off several banking institutions and freezing Russian assets in the United States.
Its imperative that Biden show strength, Braun added, especially with the rest of the world looking on and an expectation that Putin might try to go beyond Ukraine.
ORLANDO, Fla.  Severe economic sanctions are the way to squeeze Russia into backing off in Ukraine, says Sen. Mike Braun R-IN.
Braun says its not likely that Congress will authorize the use of American forces to operate in Ukraine anytime soon and does not believe it will come to that. Still, Braun feels President Biden should have been more forceful with the military with American military posturing in the weeks leading up to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Braun told Tony Katz Today at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Orlando Thursday that President Biden must not hold back in putting the clamp on Russias economy.
Youre go expect Putin to do this but, I think, make the same moves in other places, Braun said. And what does Xi Chinese President Xi Xinping think in China. Hes watching closely.
Braun said President Biden should take a page out of former President Reagans book and push to lower the price of American oil in order to try and price Russia out of the market. Russia is the worlds second-largest oil producer behind OPEC.
