Bucshon Doesnt See a Divide in the Republican Party on Russia
20220301
https://www.wibc.com/featured-stories/bucshon-doesnt-see-a-divide-in-the-republican-party-on-russia/
That could be very well a solution over time. But, were talking about in the next few weeks or months so that we can cut off the ability of the Russians to finance their activities in the sic Ukraine.
Why dont you call Ms. Pelosi and ask her what she thinks when Ilhan Omar makes anti-American statements or anti-Semitic statements. I dont see anybody asking that question, or when Pres. Biden makes a gaffe. I dont see anybody asking that question. So, Im not gonna comment on a former presidents comments, which are really irrelevant because hes not in office. Thanks for the question, though.
Bucshon was asked about former Pres. Trumps comments praising Russian Pres. Vladimir Putin. Bucshon said he hadnt seen the comments, nor would he comment on what Trump said, saying he doesnt see any divide in the Republican Party when it comes to dealing with Russia.
WASHINGTONYoure paying more for gas and heat and Congressman Larry Bucshon would like to hear Pres. Biden offer a solution to that in tonights State of the Union speech.
I certainly dont praise Putin myself. Hes a brutal dictator of a country and right now hes committing genocide probably, in the sic Ukraine, said Bucshon. I dont think theres a difference of opinion at all. I think we recognize that we need to defend our NATO allies, do what we can to help the Ukrainian people defend themselves and recognize that the fact that Vladimir Putin may not stop with the sic Ukraine.
Bucshon rebuffed an assertion by White House spokesperson Jen Psaki that wind and solar energy should be the short-term solution in Bucshons interpretation of Psakis comments, to not getting oil or other energy from Russia.
I want to hear him recognize that even though all of us agree that we should continue to work towards a more carbon-free environment in the long-run, in the short-run were gonna open up our American energy and were gonna use it geopolitically to help our allies in eastern Europe, said Bucshon, in a Tuesday news conference.
Bucshon said that while some Libertarian-leaning Republicans believe that America should tend to its own matters, in a sort of isolationist fashion, he believes most Republicans believe the action that is being taken is correct, insofar as the U.S. is sending troops to NATO-member nations and not to Ukraine.
Bucshon said the difference with the administration is he and other Republicans believe action shouldve been take earlier.
