Russia Nearly Surrounds Ukraine Spartz Partly Blames Biden Administration
20220118
https://www.wibc.com/news/local-indiana/russia-nearly-surrounds-ukraine-spartz-partly-blames-biden-administration/
UKRAINEA Russian invasion of Ukraine would mean a severely strained relationship between the U.S. and Russia, at the least. But, Russian Pres. Vladimir Putin has not backed the estimated 100,000 troops off of the Ukrainian border, despite talks with both the Ukraine and U.S. Pres. Joe Biden.
This administration dos a lot of talk, doesnt do the work and has very unwise and unrealistic energy policies that embolden Russia, she said.
Should Russia invade by air, though, the country would be less likely to be able to put up much of a fight, said the countrys ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, talking with the BBC.
That has one of Indianas Congressional representatives watching with sadness. Congresswoman Victoria Spartz immigrated from the Ukraine in 1992.
The Ukraine is nearly surrounded, with Russian troops on three sides of the country. The ordinance includes rockets launchers mounted on tanks, and snipers that have been training for a possible engagement with Ukrainian soldiers. The Ukraine has also been training snipers and has some assistance, especially ground assistance, from both the U.S. and Britain.
Its sad for me to see that countries like Russia are moving back aligning themselves with dictatorial regimes. And, its very bad for Europe and creates a lot of instability and headaches for us, said Spartz, talking to Fox News, Tuesday.
As far as when an invasion might happen, Prystaiko and the rest of his country can only wait to see what Putin decides.
If they come from the sea or over the air, we have to have a response, which we dont at the moment, he said. This hundred thousand which is now on our border is not enough to topple down our military. But, we are not faced with just this hundred thousand. We are faced with the whole million of Russians, which have the supplies to come if they decide to do something nasty.
