He will not stop at Ukraine  Dozens protest Putin at embassy
20220225
https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/462294/he-will-not-stop-at-ukraine-dozens-protest-putin-at-embassy
Fake blood was plastered over the gate and driveway, and protesters were shouting the likes of "blood on your hands" and "hands off Ukraine".
Nearly 100 people gathered at the Russian embassy in the capital today, at a protest organised by the Ukrainian Gromada of Wellington.
"So they're waiting for people to arrive and they keep safe - but they have a lot of people stuck in traffic, because all major airports were bombed."
"Yesterday, I was on the phone with my Mum, I was preparing her to evacuate from her own apartment, I was waking up my friends from the shelling."
"My biggest desire is no World War III. I don't know what sick thoughts Putin has in his mind, but he will not stop at Ukraine when he gets it."
Sanctions have come thick and fast from western nations - but it was cold comfort for Harper.
She said people in New Zealand and around the world needed to protest against Russia's attacks and she did not believe they would stop with Ukraine.
"Sanctions aren't going to save our lives, they know it's too late for sanctions again - I want to see my Mum again, I want to see my brother."
Inga Tokarenko spent all morning on the phone to her family who were sheltering underground.
"I can't tell you how scared we are - my Mum almost ended up in the hospital this morning, she's at home, she couldn't even come here. I didn't sleep last night, she didn't sleep last night, I don't think anyone in the Ukrainian community had one hour of sleep last night - we are constantly in contact because of our relatives and friends back there."
Lana, who did not give her last name, said she was afraid for her community.
"I want the embassy staff to see our colours when they wake up in the morning, and go to dinner in the evening - I want them to see those colours when they leave and they're coming back," Stepuroi said.
Tanya Harper has family in Ukraine and did not know if her nephew was still alive.
Tetiana Zhurba  left and Nataliya Stepuroi put the colours of the Ukranian flag around a brick post by the embassy's driveway.
Her parents live in the west of the country and chose to stay and fight - offering up their home to those who have been displaced.
"Yesterday, they woke up to a bombing, because of the hit of the wave from the bomb - it shook their windows. So they woke up I called them this morning and they were already heading off to the underground facility. They can feel the shockwaves."
"I spoke to him this morning, he sent a message saying they're not evacuating, they're not allowed to leave the building.They can see fighting on the streets from the apartment where he is and it's very scary."
Tetiana Zhurba and Nataliya Stepuroi wrapped the colours of the Ukraine flag around a brick post by the entrance of the embassy.
"Why we did it here near Russian embassy, is because Russia - everywhere in our territory - when they come ... they put up their flags in every village," Zhurba said.
