UkraineRussia Putin recognises Ukraine rebel regions as independent
20220221
https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/world/462021/ukraine-russia-putin-mulls-recognising-independence-of-breakaway-regions
Ukrainian soldiers on the front line with Russia backed separatists, near Novognativka village, Donetsk region on 21 February 2022.
In a lengthy televised address, Putin described Ukraine as an integral part of Russia's history and said eastern Ukraine was ancient Russian lands and that he was confident that the Russian people would support his decision.
"I deem it necessary to make a decision that should have been made a long time ago - to immediately recognise the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic," Putin said.
Putin announced his decision in phone calls to the leaders of Germany and France, who voiced disappointment, the Kremlin said, and was later shown on state television signing the decree.
Putin has for years worked to restore Russia's influence over nations that emerged after the collapse of the Soviet Union, with Ukraine holding an important place in his ambitions.
It was not immediately clear the size of the force that Putin was dispatching, when they would cross the border into Ukraine and exactly what their mission would be.
Putin told Russia's defence ministry to deploy troops into the two breakaway regions to "keep the peace" in a decree issued shortly after he announced recognition for Russia-backed separatists there, drawing US and European vows of new sanctions.
Recognition of the rebel-held areas could pave the way for Moscow to send military forces into the two separatist regions - Donetsk and Luhansk - openly and argue that it is intervening as an ally to protect them against Ukraine.
Russia denies any plan to attack its neighbour, but it has threatened unspecified "military-technical" action unless it receives sweeping security guarantees, including a promise that Ukraine will never join NATO.
A Russian parliament member and former Donetsk political leader, Alexander Borodai, has said that the separatists would then look to Russia to help them wrest control of the parts of the two regions that are still under the sway of Ukrainian forces.
Meanwhile, New Zealand Minster of Foreign Affairs Nanaia Mahuta said Russia's actions violated international law.
He said earlier that "if Ukraine was to join NATO it would serve as a direct threat to the security of Russia."
And Australian prime minister Scott Morrison said Russia should move its troops behind its borders and stop threatening its neighbours.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has recognised two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent entities and ordered Russian peacekeepers into the area upping the ante in a crisis the West fears could unleash a major war.
Australia would be in lockstep with its allies over any sanctions on Russia, he said.
Russian state television showed Putin, joined by Russia-backed separatist leaders, signing a decree recognising the independence of the two Ukrainian breakaway regions along with agreements on cooperation and friendship.
Putin delivered a long televised address that ended with his announcement, delving into history as far back as the Ottoman empire and as recent as the tensions over NATO's eastward expansion - a key irritant for Moscow in the present crisis.
Moscow's move could torpedo a last-minute bid for a summit with US President Joe Biden to prevent Russia from invading Ukraine, and the rouble extended its losses as Putin spoke on the issue, falling 3.3 percent on the day to 79.83 per dollar.
