Ukrainian migrant worried about friends in Kyiv under Russian attack
20220228
https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/462470/ukrainian-migrant-worried-about-friends-in-kyiv-under-russian-attack
For the past four days, Yuriy Ackermann's scared friends have been sheltering in a dark underground car park in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, with their 13-year-old daughter.
Kyiv has not come under sustained attack yet, but satellite images show a column of Russian military vehicles nearly five kilometres-long snaking towards the city.
Like millions of others they tried to flee to safety, only to end up back where they began because of traffic jams and fuel shortages.
"They were telling me how excited they were to go back home and have some scrambled eggs. It's just surreal."
"They will look at those dead kids that they killed and they will be conflicted because they had to do that to protect themselves, their family and their land," he said.
"Whenever the siren stopped they would go to their home, have a nap, have some hot food - tea, scrambled eggs," Ackermann said.
He condemned Russian president Vladimir Putin for sending teenage conscripts into Ukraine like "lambs to the slaughter" and lamented the impossible choice his compatriots face defending their land.
"For my mother who was born in the Soviet Union when this was all one country, what happens now - and for me as well - it is just senseless. That's what in Russian language you would call a brother murder."
Yuriy Ackermann and his wife, Alice who sent this photo to their friends who are hiding in the underground car park.
He moved to Tauranga at the age of 14, but recently spent two years in Ukraine with his wife because of the coronavirus pandemic.
The government has also introduced travel and targeted export bans and suspended top-level diplomatic relations with Moscow, but has not imposed any sanctions on Russia or the oligarchs who live or invest in Aotearoa.
Yuriy Ackermann hails from Chernivsti further to Ukraine's west, near the border with Romania and Moldova.
The New Zealand government has condemned Russia's attack and will spend an initial $2 million on humanitarian aid for Ukrainians.
Yuriy Ackermann said politicians should introduce autonomous sanctions legislation, investigate the financial ties of Russian elites and send more aid to Ukraine.
Ackermann's family is coordinating volunteers distributing humanitarian aid packages, blankets, medicine and blood donations from neighbouring Poland.
A Maxar satellite image taken and released on 27 February, 2022, shows a column of Russian military vehicles as they move towards Kyiv, on the P-02-02 road Shevchenka Road on the outskirts of Ivankiv.
