Ukrainian PM Rich Russians should pay the bill to rebuild
20220705
https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/world/470406/ukrainian-pm-rich-russians-should-pay-the-bill-to-rebuild
"To rebuild Ukraine is to restore the principles of life, to restore the spaces of life, to restore what makes people human," he said via video link.
Ukraine's Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal delivers a speech at the start of a two-day International conference on reconstruction of Ukraine, in Lugano, Switzerland on 4 July 2022.
Also addressing the Ukraine Recovery Conference, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the European Union would establish a central platform to coordinate rebuilding efforts and also help to cement Ukraine's status as a candidate for EU membership, which the EU agreed last month.
After years of close work with Ukraine, von der Leyen said Europe had a special responsibility and a strategic interest in helping it.
The cost of rebuilding Ukraine following Russia's invasion could reach US$750 billion NZ$1.2 trillion and rich Russians should help to meet the cost, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmygal said on Monday.
"The Russian authorities unleashed this bloody war. They caused this massive destruction and they should be held accountable for it."
"Since the beginning of the war, the European Union has mobilised around 6.2b euros NZ$10.4b in financial support," von der Leyen said. "And... more will come. We will engage substantially in the mid- and long-term reconstruction."
"The Kremlin's goal is the military, political and economic destruction of Ukraine," she said. "They want to undermine Ukraine's very existence as a state. We cannot and we will not let this happen."
Russia has described its invasion of Ukraine, begun on 24 February, as "a special military operation".
The European Investment Bank, the lending arm of the European Union, is proposing a funding structure previously used during the Covid-19 pandemic to help rebuild Ukraine.
"We believe that the key source of recovery should be the confiscated assets of Russia and Russian oligarchs," he told a conference in the Swiss city of Lugano, citing estimates that frozen Russian assets were worth US$300-$500b.
It will bring together countries, the private sector, civil society, as well as international organisations, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank.
