US intelligence shows Russia planning Ukraine annexations  White House
20220720
https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/world/471291/us-intelligence-shows-russia-planning-ukraine-annexations-white-house
The United States has provided $8 billion in security assistance since the war began, including $2.2 billion in the last month.
Unveiling what he said was US intelligence, chief National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby told a White House news briefing the Russians were preparing to install proxy officials, establish the rouble as the default currency and force residents to apply for citizenship.
National Security Council strategic communications coordinator John Kirby tells media at the White House the Biden administration has evidence Russia pland to annex more Ukrainian territory.
It is the same tactic used in 2014 when Russia announced its annexation of Crimea after taking control of it from Ukraine, Kirby said. The international community considers Crimea's annexation illegitimate.
Russia is laying the groundwork for the annexation of Ukrainian territory and is installing illegitimate proxy officials in areas under its control, the White House says.
Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on 24 February in what it calls a "special military operation".
"We want to make it plain to the American people," Kirby said. "Nobody is fooled by it. Russian President Vladimir Putin is dusting off the playbook from 2014."
Kirby said Washington would impose sanctions on officials involved in representing themselves as proxy officials. He predicted those proxies would try to hold "sham referenda" seeking to legitimatise Russian control.
The package is expected to include US mobile rocket launchers known as HIMARS, and rounds for Multiple Launch Rocket Systems as well as artillery munitions.
It would be the 16th such drawdown of money approved by the US Congress and allocated under presidential authority, he said.
"We have information today, including from downgraded intelligence that we're able to share with you, about how Russia is laying the groundwork to annex Ukrainian territory that it controls in direct violation of Ukraine's sovereignty," Kirby said.
He said the United States would, in the next few days, announce a new weapons package for Ukraine as the country engages Russia in fierce battles in eastern Ukraine.
