East Africas Growing Food Crisis What to Know
20220316
https://www.cfr.org/in-brief/east-africas-growing-food-crisis-what-know
The Tigray crisis in Ethiopia led to famine-like conditions for hundreds of thousands of Tigrayans, in large part because the Ethiopian government has severely restricted or outright denied humanitarian access to the region for over a year. Ongoing political instability has combined with climate crises in Somalia to internally displace nearly three million people, further disrupting livelihoods and agriculture. Moreover, as resources dwindle and communities become more desperate, food insecurity itself can become a driver of conflict as people compete for scarce grazing land and access to water.
A curation of original analyses, data visualizations, and commentaries, examining the debates and efforts to improve health worldwide.Weekly.
Conflicts in Ethiopia and Ukraine are exacerbating food scarcity in a region where millions of people already suffer from severe hunger.
International partners should also address the underlying causes of the crisis. That requires jumpstarting diplomatic efforts to help sustainably resolve the conflicts that are making it worse. It also requires more support for climate change adaptation and resilience in the region. Africans are suffering from the effects of a global problem that they had virtually no hand in creating, and major emitters have not met their responsibility to assist them in coping with these consequences.
The Horn of Africa is in the midst of a desperate food security crisis. Last month, the World Food Program indicated that some thirteen million people across Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia, face severe hunger. The worst could be yet to come: the Food and Agriculture Organization has warned that over the course of 2022, fifteen to twenty million people in those three countries could face serious food insecurity. At the same time, the UN Childrens Fund UNICEF warned that more than five million childrenwhose physical and cognitive development can be permanently damaged by inadequate nutritionin Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia are acutely at risk. The outlook for the region has only grown worse in recent weeks, as global shocks associated with the Ukraine crisis worsen food security projections.
The latest blow to the food security outlook has been the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Eritrea, Kenya, Somalia, and Sudan source almost all their wheat imports from Russia and Ukraine. The World Food Program, meanwhile, buys more than half of the wheat it distributes around the world from Ukraine. Supplies will be squeezed and prices will rise, including for fuel, which will make transporting food in the region even more expensive.
Rising food prices have historically led to social unrest in many parts of the world, and Africa is no exception. Sudans rising bread prices in 2018 sparked the protests that ultimately brought down Omar al-Bashirs government. The politics of food security in Ethiopia are so loaded that a governments ability to prevent famine is a major marker of political legitimacy. Candidates in Kenyas upcoming elections will undoubtedly seek to link their opponents to the rising food insecurity, a tactic that could potentially stoke tensions. It is impossible to imagine that there will be no political fallout from this crisis.
Finally, just as the COVID-19 pandemic prompted many countries to take a hard look at pharmaceutical supply chains, African governments and global relief agencies will be thinking about diversifying food supply chains in the wake of the current, multilayered crisis. International partners can play an important role in supporting sound strategies to strengthen East Africas food systems.
To get through the months ahead, a robust humanitarian response is vital. The United States, already concerned about the geopolitical competition for access and influence along the coast of some of the worlds busiest and most strategic sea lanes, has a real stake in the regions stability. So do other external powers, such as European Union countries, which are likely to receive the lions share of migrants should scarcity and crisis prompt an exodus. These countries will need to resist donor fatigue and ensure that the multiple urgent crises around the world do not diminish the capacity to respond to appeals from multilateral organizations. They should at the same time provide direct assistance to people in desperate need.
There are multiple factors contributing in a cascading manner that has exhausted many communities coping mechanisms and contingency plans. Climate change is contributing to more extreme weather, and three years of drought in the worst-affected countries have led to multiple failed harvests and loss of pastureland for livestock. These effects, in turn, have worsened economic hardship, as agricultural laborers have been out of work and unable to earn money to buy food. In 2020 and 2021, conditions deteriorated further due to widespread locust swarms that decimated cropland. The global economic and supply-chain disruptions resulting from COVID-19 also pushed more communities to the margins by driving up prices, eating away at savings, and limiting economic opportunities.
