Higher Education Webinar Diversity Equity and Inclusion in College and University Admissions
20220304
https://www.cfr.org/event/higher-education-webinar-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-college-and-university-admissions
So, Dr. Warikoo, thank you very much for being with us today. We really appreciate it. I thought you could just take us through the current diversity, equity, and inclusion strategies in college and university admissions, and what youve seen over the course of your career, and where you see this going.
So just to take the examples that you gave, thethe Atlanta elite colleges, like Black colleges and then historically predominantly White colleges like Emorytheres a great book by Adam Harris called The State Must Provide, which is about the history of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. And you seeone of the things you see in that history is the way that collegeslike my own college, Tufts University, like Emory, had theeven University of Georgiahave had the benefit of generations of building their endowment, right? And their endowment is built at a time from times when there was legal segregation.
I wanted to go back to the comment that was made earlier from the gentleman from Emory in Georgia about backlash. Because a lot of the DEI programming is significantly hampered by what I would call lawsuit harassment, right? I mean, we know that there are political constituencies out there who really want to fight this. And it makes it extremely difficult for universities to advance these agendas when they know that the cost of lawsuits, even when theyre rightwhen theyre doing the right thing and theyre doing something that is legalbut the cost of lawsuits becomes prohibitive. So I wondered if you encountered that or you addressed that at all in your research, and what advice you would have related to that. Thanks.
So our next higher education webinar will be on Tuesday, April 19, at 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time with Tony Allen, president of Delaware State University. Well talk about the role of HBCUs in the United States. So please look out for that invitation. And in the meantime, I encourage you to follow us at CFRacademic, visit CFR.org, ForeignAffairs.com, and ThinkGlobalHealth.org for more resources. I look forward to communing again. And thank you, Natasha.
Even prior to the pandemic, social media, increasingyou know, I think theres that great book by William DeresiewiczIm blanking on the titlebut its about this sort of lack oftheres so much focus on achievement and meeting certainkind of jumping through particular hoops put in front of us, and that sometimes young people can beget really good at that, doing what theyre told to do, and then when, you know, stop to ask, what do I really want, or what am I really interested in, or who do I want to be? That becomes even harder. Excellent Sheep is the name of that book. That becomes even harder.
And of course, they didnt notice all those other tables of White students in the cafeteria, but they would say, well, if theyre here to enlighten me, then they should be kind of integrating into these White spaces. And of course, that student wouldnt then go and sit at that table of Black students, but theyre expecting the Black students to integrate into these predominantly White spaces. And so I think there are all these unfair expectations on the underrepresented students of color. And of course, theyre all assumed to have benefitted from affirmative action, and we know thats not the case.
I think thatand we can think about diversity holisticI think we cant have kind of set metrics like, you get extra points or anything like that for being underrepresented, but we can think about it holistically, and being put into this lottery. And it would acknowledge the fact that there are a lot of amazing young people in this country who could thrive at most of these selective colleges. And I think it would change the meaning in a way that I think is very productive for society. So thats sort of why I think that a lottery is a very promising idea.
And I found this in my interviews with Ivy League students in Diversity Bargain, I found that studentsthey thought that admissions worked, and it was because affirmative action kind of corrected underrepresentation. And they were satisfied with how admissions were done, despite the fact that multiple groups, including working-class students, Black students, and Latinx students, continue to be underrepresented. But they felt like it was sort of fixed enough. And I want to argue that, instead, we should think about admissions as something that furthers university goals and not just selects the kind of, quoteunquote, best of the best.
And I also wonder if just observing students who are successful. Like, just profiles of students who maybe didnt have that high SAT score and did well, and were able to sort of haveyour college made a positive impact in their lives. And helping people see that either through someone coming to a meeting, or a profile, so that theysometimes people need that story ofto sort of have this image in their head. So I think that can be something that can be convincing. Because I think sometimes there are thesethere might be this sort of stereotype in their minds of, this is what these students are, theyre not going to be successful or take advantage, or what have you. But if they can see kind of what we call counter-stereotypic examples, that can sort of combat those stereotypes. So those are few things that come to mind for me. So its great that youre doing that.
And so absolutely there have to be these simultaneousif the student body is changing and were expanding access, we need to change the culture and changeand the institutions can do this and be very deliberate about how they do it. And because youre right. And I think the reality is that it will be a harder lift for students who havent had those educational experiences. But that doesnt mean that they shouldnt be there, right, that we need to work hard just to meet their needs and prioritize those as well, so.
And the zero-sum thing? I think youre totally right. And one of the things that I have been talking about is the fact that why havent our selective colleges expanded enrollment, right? I mean, the population has been steadily growing sinceI mean, with fits and starts. But they have not kept up with the increasing population and increasing interest in elite higher education over the last half-century. And so I do think one thing we could do is expand enrollment at these places. I mean, theres so many amazing young people, these colleges reject so many applicants. There isyou know, theynothingtheir standards would not decrease. I dont think theres any real worry that anything would change.
WARIKOO: Yeah. Thanks for your comment. And thats a really important point. And you cantyou cant change admissions alone, right? And so when youI think absolutely we need institutional supports, right? So, part of mywhen people say, well, theIm sorryEric, when you talk about, well, people are worried about are these students going to be successful, or theyre looking at test scores and maybe theyre thinking are these students going to be successful. And, my response to that is also that if a studentif someone had demonstrated some kind of excellence in their gradestheyre the top of their class, or whatever it is, then we need to be an organization that can serve them, right?
WARIKOO: Yeah. Maybe you can answer a question, though. So what are theywhat are they saying when they are kind of resisting admitting those students? Whats their worry?
Our institutions change very slowly, because thats what institutions do, unfortunately. And students are rightly impatient with that, but there it is. And so what I find sometimes is that a disproportionate amount of the emotional labor of institutional change winds up falling to the students who come and then clamor for the reality that their admission would suggests would meet them when they get to schools that are not historicallyhave not historically been as committed to this as possible.
And so I think theres also this sort of assumption that they should always win, right? So I had a student admitted to Harvard say, well, if I hadnt gotten into Harvard, I would have felt that I experienced racial discrimination, right, if, you know, the student of color at my high school had gotten in and I hadnt. And so there is this belief that they should always be winners. And even with affirmative action, its just there to benefit themselves.
Q: Im coming from a different age. But I will just read my question: My concern is with mental health and anxiety in the students once they get here. Elite schools can accept a class of nothing but valedictorians. But 25 percent of them, by the math, are going to be in the bottom quarter of the class. Fifty years ago a then-dean of admissions at Harvard said, well, we dealyou know, this is before all of the equity, all of the diversity. He said, you know, we accept, what he called, the happy bottom quarter. Twenty-five percent of the class was taken on non-academic grounds. And that could be dancers and football players. But he saidwe wouldnt do it that way today, but how do admissions people deal with the whole problem of mental health inwhen thinking about admissions of the class as a whole?
Q: Welllaughsnot to expose too muchbut it seems to be a similar refrain as it relates to lets really focus on standardized scores as opposed to GPA and other holistic factors, when we know GPA is a five-times better predictor of college success than the standardized scores. But some individuals are so used to using sort of this metric of standardized scores, its hard to move them away from that, saying, you know, this isnt really the best measure, most valid measure, of being successful in college.
Q: Greetings. Thank you for the presentation. I am director of international admissions at Hesston College. Im also a member of our diversity, equity, and inclusion leadership team.
So the last thing I want to say about this is that any way you admit students, there are winners and there are losers. Theres no one best way of defining and measuring merit. Its always historically and geographically contingent. You know, other countries do admissions very differently. When I talk to British students, theyBritain has a very different way of admitting students, but they think their way is the best. And even within the U.S., weve changed the way we define merit and admit students over time as well. And so history suggests that reasonable people and selective colleges will disagree about how to admit students.
So the problem then becomes an unintended consequence of admitting for diversity as a mission valuewhich, again, Im totally on board foris that that gap between the ideal and the real then exacerbates the sense of exclusion that students come with, because our culture haswere still an exclusive culture, not a sufficiently just culturethat the benefit of diversity in admissions was after in the first place. It would exacerbate students negative experience. And I dont want this to be an argument against admitting for this reason or on this model, but just sort of a request for how to think about this. And maybe even in terms of brass tacks, do you think that there should be metrics for levels of support and institutional change that should follow this approach? And if so, what should those be? So I hope that makes sense, what Im asking.
WARIKOO: So, its interesting. I mean, I think mental health is a really important issue. I dontI dont know if kind oftheres not a lot of emphasis on ranking within a college, like once students arrive. Especially on elite colleges, there seems to be a considerable grade inflation. And so I think no oneI mean, studentsI think students who arent academically prepared may struggle, but for the most part I think thats become lessI dont know that thats the driver of some of the increasing concerns about mental health for college-age students. I think there are other sort of drivers of that, like, social mediaobviously, the pandemic is probably number one right now.
And so we need tothe culture needs to shift, right? We need to have those supports, right? We need to make sure there are a quorum of peers who have similar lived experiences. We needand I think higher educationsome colleges have done better than others in these. I mean, for decades there have been kind of Africana centers. Increasingly there are centers for first-generation students. And so having an institutional space I think is one, academic supports for students who havent had the same educational opportunities, who may have been a good student but did not have the same rigorous curriculum as some of their peers, I think those are incredibly important and to do those in ways that are not stigmatizing I think is incredibly important.,
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
FASKIANOS: Great. I dont know if anybody has other questions or comments, but I will ask one more. In your research you found that White students and students of color perceive the benefits of diversity differently. What lessons can we learn from this, or have you learned, and how do you think you shift thisthe perception differences?
Why is therewhy do we see these racial differences, even among the upper-middle class, even among working-class families? What how did that happen? And I think thatI dont think many people really understand that, because were never taught it and we dont talk about it. And I thinkI actually think that israther than too much attention to it, I think not enough understanding of that history is part of the problem. So to me, the solution is not to move away from it.
FASKIANOS: Thank you. Laughs. Natasha, can you talk a little bit more about college admissions lotteries, and how that methodology is affecting DEI?
And I like your zero-sum versus sometimes positive-sum. Im in Atlanta at Emory University, where we have wonderful schools like Spelman and Morehouse, and a tremendous amount of money is flowing to them now, and ultimately will be better for our society. And thats an example of positive-sum. But lets go back to zero-sum. At Emory, Im very proud because we rank right near the top of the top twenty or top twenty-two universities in terms of social mobility. Having students, for instance, from the bottom fifth.
Q: It was just a comment aboutthat the gentleman made about mental health. And having been a dean at two different types of universities, we cant really consider a lot of individual-type mental health unless its been in the public sphere. However, once the student enters, there is a considerable amount of resources for students to deal with mental health. And I am in the University of California system now. And I know were very, very concerned. But I taught a unit, for example, after the very sad situation at VPI, Virginia Polytech, over a decade ago. And unfortunately, that student had mental health issues, but we were not ablenot wethe university was not able to have access to that. So there are two types of kinds of dimensions to the mental health issues.
WARIKOO: Theyre there to get an education like everybody else. And it shouldnt be their job. And its unfortunate when it kind of falls in their lap. So I agree with you that this is a problem.
We are a very high-quality institution, but we would not be considered in an elite. Laughs. We are in the unfortunate position of most years receiving fewer applications than we have spaces available. Im curious what your research would say to us about how we might work at increasing diversity, equity, and inclusion when were not kind of selecting between individuals.
I have a few comments, but I also then want to raise a question on something that was not covered. As you probably know, Manuel Justiz and I wrote the book in 2001 on The Quest for Equity in Higher Education. And you probably know a number of my colleagues, like Roger Geiger, dealing with historical aspects. For example, of how testing came into place, because there were too many Jewish students at elite universities like Yale and Harvard. I should tell you also that I am still a professor of higher education and international policy studies.
Q: Hesston College is in central Kansas. Were about thirty miles north of Wichita. So were also in a rural setting.
So I think they come across all kinds of things. Athletic recruiting is a mechanism of privilege. The development office. And so I thinkI think its going to take a much broader shift in the culture of higher education to expand admissions. And I really think that we need to sort of come back to what are we trying to do here? And does this fit our mission? To me, when you have a student body that is not representative, its nothow are you developing the leaders for tomorrow in that case? So.
In terms of admissions specifically, my experience is that a lot of people go into admissions because they care about diversity and equity, right? And theyI had a lot of former students who were admissions officers when I was teaching students who were getting their masters degrees in higher education. And they reallythey talked about how they thought that being in this role they could help shape the student body of a selective college in a way that would increase opportunity.
So Im worried about perhaps a lackI dont know if you are going to issue a second edition someday of your bookbut theres been a tremendous sea-change in the last two years in college admissions, in a very big concern for DEI. We just searched for a new dean. We asked him to write three essays. An entire essay was what have they doneand done, not just talked aboutto enhance DEI, and what will they do, if they become dean? The rankings are now looking at schools and seeing what are they doing for DEI. So I do worry, if you areif your book just may be two years too late. Laughs. Your book maybe pre-George Floyd instead of post. So that is my main concern there. But also my mainmy other main concern is with the zero-sum. We all want more diversity, but are we riskingif we use your formulaic approachgoing too far and having a backlash?
And I think those are some of the things that I think are driving some of the mental health issues. And I think theyre very real, particularly in this pandemic. And sobut I think that that is not unique to elite colleges. I mean, what drives kind of mental health issues may be slightly different for different young people. But we really see that certainly at the high school level as well across the board, across lines of race and class.
If we dont talk admissionsif we look at the K-12 level, theres this new attack on selective high schools, where most recently a judgethere was a lawsuit towards a selective high school in Virginia that went from exam-based admissions to holistic admissions. Theyre not talking about race. And there was still a lawsuit, right? Laughs. So I think you can sort of back off and youre still going to get sued. So I think the solution cant be to back off because we dont want to be paralyzed. And, I mean, I think its very real. I mean, some of the research on affirmative action shows that there seems to be a sort of backing away from affirmative action because of these fears of lawsuits. Not at the very elite places, but the kind of second-tier kinds of colleges. So we have seen that.
FASKIANOS: Great. And Beverly Lindsay has suggested Beverly Daniel Tatums book, Why Do All the Black Kids Sit Together in the Cafeteria. Just want to share that resource. We are at the end of time, if you want to just make any final remarks before we close.
FASKIANOS: Thank you. Im going to go to Eric Hoffman next. He has a raised hand and wrote a question. So, Eric, why dont you just unmute and identify yourself and ask it yourself.
WARIKOO: Thank you. Well, I didnt know that your book was out, so Im super excited to read it. Thanks for highlighting that. So, yeah, I think these are two really important issues. So Ill start with the rankings. Its clear that the rankings are justhave this terrible influence in higher education. I dont know if youve seen that book by Wendy Espeland and Michael Sauder, I forgot the title of it, but they basically did this study ofthey looked at law schools and how law schools seem to respond to rankings and how its sort of changing the organizations. And they highlight very clearly thisfirst, all ofhaving a ranking systemand I kind of see a parallel to admissions, right?
And no one is raisingor, very few people are raising these questions about second-tier. So you have the issue of ratings. And the U.S. News and World Report, of course, is one that many American parents will look at, but internationally its the Times Higher Education and QS, for example. So thats one issue. But the second issue, which I mentioned first, was DEI. Because historically and currently, many of the people who are in DEI are people of color. And they have no faculty rank. So theyre really not involved in the admission process, whether at the undergraduate or the graduate level. So if you could briefly offer some comments about those two key areas. Thank you.
And so these donations to these HBCUs is great, but its notits not even coming close to making the resources for those colleges comparable to the resources that the historicallythe predominantly White universities. And so, I think we have a long way to go to sort of truly equalize those colleges, even though I think there has been more attention.
Im the dean at a community college, and I oversee the honors college. And weIm in Miami, Florida. And were focused on, in the last two years, on a very strong DEI effort here to increase the number of Black and African American students. We are a Hispanic-serving and minority-serving institute, but our number of Black and African Americans arent the numbers wed like it to be. Understanding implicit bias, institutional memory, and just plain inertia, how do we get those members of admissions committee onsort of moving forward towards that goal?
And I think the other thing is just once you start then hopefully it sort of snowballs, right? Because then theres a quorum of people, and then theyand then theres a network, and then it doesnt feel as exclusive of a place, and students start to sort of see a place differently as well. So I think youre moving in the right direction. And, the college in Miami, I would say the same thing, right? Once you get that momentum it can be very positive.
FASKIANOS: Thank you so much for that overview. We appreciate it. And now we are going to go to all of you for your questions and comments.
Todays discussion is on the record, and the video and transcript will be posted on our website at CFR.orgacademic. As always, CFR takes no institutional positions on matters of policy.
And I think we need to get away from that and really focus in on racial equity and, again, the history of racial exclusion in this country. And the way that even these institutions themselves have benefitted fromagain, from slave labor, from the slave trade, from building their endowments at a time of racial segregation, at a time where there were very few, if any, students of color on their campuses. And then, legacy benefits that sort of continue that sort of intergenerational racial exclusion.
WARIKOO: Yeah. Well, so I was going to say, one of the things you could do is just present this data, right? So, heres the data on the predictive power of GPA, heres the data on the predictive power of standardized test scores, heres what the standardized test score adds, heres what the racial difference is that we see in these scores. And I think, I dont knowI mean, the history of standardized testing is a history of trying to prove the superiority of Whites over all people of color, right? I think when you understand that its, like, oh, OK, so this is the history of this.
So overall, I want toI think we need to change our typical vision for college admissions as an individualist, meritocratic competition. When we consider affirmative action within a broader consideration of the purposes of selective higher education in the U.S., we can see its true worth. College admission is not and should not be an evaluation of the worthiness or deservingness of individuals. And, you know, we need greater representation to make sure our future leaders are exposed to diverse perspectives and lived experiences, that our future leadership is seen as legitimate.
Natasha Warikoo, professor of sociology at Tufts University and author ofThe Diversity Bargain: And Other Dilemmas of Race, Admissions, and Meritocracy at Elite Universities,leads a conversationondiversity, equity, and inclusion in college and university admissions.
And since then, theres been decades of research from social scientists showing all of the benefits from these diverse environments in terms of cognitive capacity, racial attitudes, civic participation in the future. So we know that affirmative action works in this way. Now, I highlight in my book, The Diversity Bargain, the problem with solely talking about this kind of diverse learning environment argument is that it ignores inequality. So we also need to talk about inequality. And colleges, I think, need to do a lot better job of talking about racial inequality, the racial inequality that is really the root ofand the history of affirmative action.
And then, you always have to ask yourself, for what? What does thatwhat does that ultimately get you? And again, I think we have to go to first principles. What is our purpose, right? What are we trying to do as a university? Do wecan we fulfill that mission with a student body that is increasingly privileged and increasingly does not look like a cross-section of eighteen-year-olds in the United States? And so, to me, the answer is no. Laughs. And I think we have a problem in that way.
I dont work in admissions. Im a faculty member at Fordham University in New York. But I do a lot of things related to DEI work, and I do read applications at the admissions level for our honors program. But admission on the level of admitting for mission, Im totally on board with that. It makes sense. I believe our universities should look and be more like a cross-section, as you said, of teenagers in our country right now. As a pragmatistI teach philosophy and American pragmatism is one of my thingsI always think in terms of, what an idea leads to as being what it means, right? And so one of the downstream consequences of admitting for mission is that mission is oftenI think this relates to the previous question toomissions often out ahead of culture where inclusion is concerned.
FASKIANOS: Thank you. Thank you, Natasha Warikoo. We appreciate it. We look forward to reading your forthcoming book. And to everybody taking the time to participate and for your great questions and comments. Again, this is a forum to exchange ideas and best practices. So we loved hearing your comments as well.
And that leads me to my second argument for affirmative action. And when we think about the goal of promoting social mobility and opportunity, we have to take into consideration race in admissions. We have plenty of evidence of racial inequality. I wont go through all of this, but just to say that, sometimes people say, well, its related to class and not race. But even within the same social class, we see racially different opportunities. So working-class Whites tend to live in more advantaged neighborhoods than working-class Blacks. And a recent study found that Blackupper middle-class Black adultsexcuse me. Black adults who grew up in upper middle-class families are much more likely to experience downward mobility than are White adults who grew up in upper middle-class families. And so we see this kind of intergenerational differences in terms of the transmission of privilege.
WARIKOO: OK. So I didnt hear where youre teaching and where your college is located.
So let me explain. In a series of lectures in 1963, the presidentthe then-President of the University of California Clark Kerr, noticed that universities had become what he called multi-universities. They were organizations beholden to multiple purposes and goals. Teaching, research, and the public good. And not much has changed since then. A recent study of college mission statements found that these three goals endure. Most college mission statements express commitments to teaching, as well as the public good, inculcating civic values. And in general, U.S. universities see themselves as much more kind of embedded in the fabric of society compared to expressing the goal of bettering society, making it more equitable, commitments to diversity, much more so than universities in Europe and Britain.
But living in Georgia, we got two Democratic senators, we voted for President Biden, very close margins, as you know, because a lot of White traditional Republicans votedlaughsDemocratic. But you sense a backlash as you listen to people whisper that, for instance, it sounds likeyou may not use the wordbut it sounds like quotas. You know, theres 14 percent Hispanics persons in the U.S. We want 14 percent of Harvard to be Hispanic. A certain amount of people make overmake enough to pay tuition. Well, we shouldnt have 50 percent from that group, even if its two Black doctors or their parents.
And lastly, a diverse, legitimate leadership. We know that affirmative action can lead to diversity in leadership. President Obama talked about how he thinks he benefitted from affirmative action, just as Sotomayor talks about how she was an affirmative action baby. If we think that that symbolic representation mattersand it matters in order for leadership to be seen as legitimate, to befor people to be seento see leadership that looks like them is increasingly important. And so, again, thinking about the contribution to society, this is one small way that higher educationa role that higher education can play.
Colleges in the United States are embedded in a society plagued by rampant inequality, including racial inequality, and one in which we often turn to education as a mechanism to address that inequality. And so, I think the lack of clarity sometimes on university purposes allowed families to map their own meanings onto selection. And I think that universities need to correct these misunderstandings explicitly.
Q: Im thinking more in terms of, you know, there is a heavy lift, maybe, but more in terms of students become very involved in diversity-oriented activities, right? And calls for social justice. Students come in with activism experience thats just extraordinary, you know? But that is emotional labor. And it really is a drain, especially during the pandemic, which just multiplies everything. So thats part of where Im worriednot so much the academic lift, butalthough those supports are absolutely important. But, they want more of the change for which they were admitted, to highlight that this is a very important value.
When you rank peoplewere so obsessed with selection and ranking in the United States that when you have this system people are always looking up. Like, oh, OK, well, if theres a ranking and Im number ten, I want to be number nine, and then I want to be number eight. And so theyre always looking up. And then theyre trying to figure out ways to sort of increase their standing. And theyredoing things that are not always beneficial, certainly not beneficial to students who are kind of nontraditional students, right? And they are doing things like rather than more financial aid forbased on what your family needs, merit-based financial aid, which is their way of bringing in students with higher SAT scores to bump their average SAT score, so that they can get a bump in the rankings.
FASKIANOS: OK. Im going to go next to Jonathan Aronson, who also wrote his question. But, Jonathan, please do ask it.
WARIKOO: Yeah. Well, no ones doing a lottery, but I have written a little bit about it. So, one of the things that Ias Ive been talking, Ive been saying we have to stop thinking of this as an individual certification of merit, is that part of the way to do that is to change the meaning of selection. Its funny, Ill tell you a story, my husband was just on jury duty for the first time yesterday, because hes a naturalized citizen.
But one of the questions or concerns that Manny and I still have, and that is the change from affirmative action to multicultural education to DEI. And what we often see is theres these changes that occur that dont necessarily reflect what is done in the actual admissions office. Thats one issue. The second really critical issue, and youre welcome to read my book thats just coming outit actually came out this past month, about three days ago, on higher education policy in developing and Western countries. And that is league tables, ratings. Parents are doing everything to be in that higher education university, whether its a public Ivy like Berkeley, or Texas, or Wisconsin, or Virginia.
But in higher education, we describe admissions as a reward for hard work and dedication. Its the backbone of our beliefs in equal opportunity and meritocracy. But seeing admissions as a competition to decide whos the most deserving reinforces ideas about whos deserving and undeserving. Again, given the outcomes of admissions, it says that people who are economically advantaged, who are White, who are Asian American, are more worthy and deserving, because those groups tend to be who are the ones that are rewarded in the admissions process. So this tension between an individualist, winner-takes-all meritocracy and a process of selection that seeks to fulfill multiple missions of research, teaching, and the public good, and social mobility, is what lies, to me, at the heart of controversies over affirmative action.
But I think that it would provide opportunity to more people. And soand it would feel less zero-sum, in that sense. I think part of the problem is you have declining admit rates making it feel like youre kind of constantly in competition with each other. And thatswe know the research on kind of group threat. Thats when group threat and anxiety about, well, if we have affirmative action then what about my group? That gets heightened through these kinds of processes. So certainly, I think thats part of the problem as well.
WARIKOO: Yeah. I mean, I guess Ill just say that I think its important to pay attention to admissions, but I also have started to think much more broadly about DEI and higher education. And I think we need to also look well-beyond these, sort of, selective colleges. Most colleges in the United States are not selective, right? And, you know, weve heard from folks from of those colleges. And, we need towhen we look at the endowment per pupil at some of these selective colleges, compared toand what theyre doing for social mobility compared to, Im sure, like the college in Miami, community colleges, open access state colleges. I think we just need a lot more supports for those colleges that are engines of social mobility. And, again, if we think about the mission of higher education and how we, as Americans, see how we want tosort of, what kind of society we want to be, I think its incredibly important to look also beyond admissions. So Ill leave it at that.
So he came home and said, You know, I didnt really want to be put on this trial because it would meanthey said it was going to be, like, a long trial. But Iyou know, but I answered honestly. And then he got interviewed by the judge and these two lawyers. And then he said, When they said, OK, youre dismissed at the end I felt a sense of disappointment. And he was, like, because it felt like I wasI didnt win, right? He was like, But I didnt want to be on this. I never wanted to beI mean, obviously if youre selected, youre selected. You dont have a choice.
Third, reparations. And reparations not just from the harms of slavery, but also from U.S. intervention in foreign wars abroad. And, again, if we think about these organizational goals of playing a civic role, and these universities as wanting to be kind of bastions of racial equity, we know that many elite colleges have benefitted from the slave trade, from slave labor, fromyou know, have had faculty who have sort of been part of the foreign policies that led to poverty in other countries. And so reparations is another way that I thinkanother institutional goal that can be met through affirmative action.
WARIKOO: Yeah. I think this is very real. I feel like its kind of grown exponentially in the last few years. Laughs. So its not in my research. Butand its K-12 education, as we see with this sort of supposed anti-CRTcritical race theorystuff. My only response to that is I dont know what the solution is besides just keep doing what were doing. Because you cant back down in the face of these impending lawsuits because I feel likeI feel like the right is so organized in their attacks on anything relatedany acknowledgment of racial inequality in American society that, OK, if we dont talk about DEI, then theres talk about admissions.
WARIKOO: Got it. Got it. So, I would sort of think aboutso, two things. One is that I think, DEI is not just for people of color, right? So, what does DEI look like for White students as well, and what kinds of programing or classes or course content areor, what do our syllabi look like? And are thereis diversity reflected on the syllabi? So I think theres a lot that is important to think about in terms of DEI for White students as well as students of color. That would be my first thing to think about.
In terms ofIm certainly not advocating quotas. I know thatlegally that that wouldnt work anyway. And I think that to me its just sort of canary in the coal mine, right? Just to sort of say, well, when we see these massive differences, it should sayit should make us go, hmm. Somethings off here. Whats going on? We say that this is a fair system. When you talk to most people in the country, theyyoung people, they want to go to college, they think its important. It just gives us pause. And thats all I meant to highlight. Im certainly not saying that there should bethat college student bodies should explicitly mirror the population around them.
WARIKOO: Great. Well, thank you. Thank you so much for the invitation, Irina. And thank you to all of you for being here. I can see your names, although I cant see your faces. So what I thought I would do, as I thought about this question about DEI and admissions, is sort of to take usto zoom out a little bit. So Ill talk about affirmative action because I think when we think about DEI in the context of admissions thats sort of what immediately comes to mind. And Ive written about this. But I want to take us broader and think also just about admissions more broadly. And some of the arguments I want to make are from my forthcoming book with Polity Press, Is Affirmative Action Fair?
So, of course, affirmative action is enough to fully address the diverse roles of our universities. Its one small policy. And its impact might be paltry compared to increasing financial aid, increasing funding for state and community colleges, increasing funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, social supports for working-class and poor families. The list goes on. But I want to remind everyone that these policies are not zero-sum. Its not that we need to pursue one or the other. We should pursue all of them, alongside affirmative action, and not as a replacement. And so, supporting affirmative action doesnt preclude supporting an expansion of all these other provisions to increase equity, either within higher education or beyond.
So I want to start by saying that I think we need to move away from this idea that there is one best, most fair way of admitting students to college. At colleges we tend to seewe tend to treat admissions as a reward for individual achievement, right? You workthe narrative is that you work hard, and you can getyou show your grit, and you show your achievements, and you can get in. And then in that context, affirmative action becomes one small kind of fix to ensure that the system is fair to everyone, along with things like increasing financial aid and recruiting around the country so students are aware of the university.
But of course, this is not what we do. Families of a majority of students at top colleges pay more per yearyou know, are not on financial aid, pay more per year than the median household income in the United States. And a 4.0 grade point average, of course, seems increasingly to be a prerequisite to even be considered for admissions at top colleges, especially if youre not a child of an alum or a donora high-profile donor. So, I think its hard to shake the belief that selective colleges should foreground achievement in admissions and that theres one best way to do this. Unlike the labor market, for which we understand that applicants are chosen for jobs on the basis of what a company needs not a reward for the kind of best applicant, you know, we understand that the marketing job would go to a different person than the head of engineering job, and that would be a different person from the head of finance job.
FASKIANOS: Great. I dont know, Beverly, you wrote a comment. I dont know if you wanted to surface that yourself, Beverly Lindsay?
And many Americans also imagine higher education to be a kind of engine for social mobility. We think about, you know, since the 1950s the expansion of higher education. We sort of look to higher education as a mechanism for bettering ourselves and our futures. So what colleges dowhen they admit students, then, should be in pursuit of these goals, notagain, not an individual certification of merit, or whos deserving. And, implicitly with whos deserving comes whos not deserving. And I think that colleges really need to make this goal to prospective and current students explicit. So rather than talking about, oh, this year we have the best class ever, the lowest admit rate ever. We should be really sort of talking about admissions in the context of what were trying to do as a university and embedded in society.
We are delighted to have Natasha Warikoo with us to talk about diversity, equity, and inclusion in college and university admissions. Dr. Warikoo is professor of sociology at Tufts University and an expert on racial and ethnic inequality in education. She is a former Guggenheim fellow and previously served as associate professor of education at Harvard University. Prior to her academic career, Dr. Warikoo taught in New York Citys public schools and worked at the U.S. Department of Education. She has written several books on race and higher education. Her most recent is entitled The Diversity Bargain: And Other Dilemmas of Race, Admissions, and Meritocracy at Elite Universities.
Because it sounds easy, we put together mandates, put together programs. But at the end of the day, were working with people on these admissions committee, and theyre not alwaystheres a little reluctance at times to change. Thats just human nature, right? So how dowhat kind of evidence, what kind of strategies can we use to kind of move people along the continuum to getto understand that we really need to examine and admit students, sometimes more holistically. Thank you.
And then they woulda lot of them talked about then what they would find is that there are all of these things that dont allow them to really do that to the extent that they would likeand I think even heads of admissions would likebecause, you know, they have tothey can only give out a certain number ofamount of financial aid. And even in a place like Harvard, right, with this crazy endowment, is admitting students that almost half of them can pay full pricewhich is, again, higher than median household income in this country. And so their whole financial model is based on the assumption that youre not going to be a representative group of students.
WARIKOO: Yeah. Thanks for your question. You know, I think part of the problem is that we dontI dont think most people, myself included until probably I was in college or maybe even later, understand the reality of racial inequality and the history of racial exclusion in the United States. So, we all learn about slavery, the heinous history of slavery and segregation and the Civil Rights Movement. But I think theres less attention to, well, how did we get here?
WARIKOO: Yeah. I think one of the problems of the way that we talk about affirmative action and diversity only as a sort of, everybody benefits, everybody wins, is that it kind of leads to these expectations on the part of White students of their peers of color, right? Well, if diversity is all about improving my own educational experience, and I can see how I have benefited from those diverse voices in the classroom, then whylike thenand some of them would get annoyed when they saw, like, a table of Black students in the cafeteria.
And so itsthats kind of random, you know? And the reality is thatbut we act as if this is, like, a selection. So, to me, a lotterywe could say: Lets put all the potential people, all the names in a hat, and lets just have a lottery. And, we can think about, like, do we want to haveand then make clear, like, we want to have a quorum of full fee-paying students. And that doesnt feel very good. But thats kind of what were doing, so lets call a spade a spade, you know? People who, athletes or whatever it is that that college is sort of looking at. Intended majors.
But I think these systemsand the reason I tell you that story is that these systems of selection kind of do a number on us, right? Its, like, we get so caught up in them. And I think what a lottery would do is say, you know what? Its random. Laughs. Like, because the reality is its kind of random, you know? Did you grow up in a family that has the resources to pay for you to go to private music lessons, and now, this college needs an oboist because the oboist is graduating? Or did you get to sign up fordid your parents pay for you to sign upin my latest research in a high school, kids arethey have, like, a private pitching coach. And so now you get recruited to be the pitcher on the baseball team.
FASKIANOS: Welcome to CFRs Higher Education Webinar. Im Irina Faskianos, vice president of the National Program and Outreach at CFR.
So the late Lani Guinier in her book The Tyranny of Merit sic The Tyranny of the Meritocracy argued that we should consider college admissions as a mechanism to a more robust democracy. And when we do that, Guinier argued that it should lead us to discard standardized testing as a part of the application process in favor of broad, inclusive representation. And I want to argue, if we consider the goal of social mobility, it becomes even more unclear why certain kinds of measures of academic achievement in general have become the central focus for college admissions. In fact, one might even make the case that academics should play the opposite role to what it plays. If colleges want to promote social mobility, perhaps admissions should be akin to means-tested social supports, provided to those who need it most whether because of their financialthe financial hardships that their families endure, racial exclusion, or weak academic skills.
In terms of DEI, I think that this is a problem not just in higher education. I think in the corporate sector, all over we see, on the one hand this promising increase in chief diversity officers, heads of diversity in a lot of different kinds of organizations. Even in school districts were seeing this. And on the other hand, the extent to which they have power to impact change varies tremendously. And, if that person beinga solo voice, and it really depends on how much they are backed by the administration, by leadership.
But, again, Im not sureobviously colleges have to protect themselves and are going to be thinking strategically about their finances, the likelihood of being sued. But I dont thinkIm not sure what to do about that threat besides saying, I dont think its a reason to not do this work. Youll get attacked anyway.
So I totally agree with you that the rankings are a huge problem. And I think the most elite colleges maybe can get away with not participating, but I think the lower-status colleges say, well, if we dont participate then, they look for the data and then just put us lower than we should be. So they alwaysthey feel compelled. I think it will take an organized effort to sort of move away from those rankings. But I think they are incredibly damaging. And theyultimately, they hurt students who arewho dont have the educational opportunities as much as privileged students do.
So let me say a little bit about affirmative action. I see it less as a kind of fix to this individual meritocracy, but rather as a critical policy, an important policy, that promotes four important organizational goals. The first is a diverse learning environment. This is the argument that the U.S. Supreme Court, starting in the 1978 Bakke decision has said is allowable under the law. So Justice Powell in the Bakke decision said: Well, as long as you have a narrowly tailored version of attention to race, then, you know, if you are looking at race in order to fulfill a university mission of having a diverse learning environment in which everyone flourishes, then that is allowed.
And then the second is, if there are populations thatin the state or the geographic areawho arent coming to your college, sometimes it takes some creative planning, like a partnership with a particular high school, or, where thereswhere students can take a class, and if they do well in that class then they get admitted, or they get a scholarship, or they can take a class for free when theyre in high school, or, you know, these kinds of kind of linkages that can bring attention tomake a student think, oh, I could go there, and I could do well there, and this is a place for people like me. I think thats what students need towe need to find ways for them to think and feel in order for them to see a particular college as a viable option.
