Ukrainian student in Grand Island optimistic despite conflict in home country
20220523
https://starherald.com/news/state-and-regional/nebraska/ukrainian-student-in-grand-island-optimistic-despite-conflict-in-home-country/article_7e853385-0124-5906-8bb6-a3b77d711dc8.html
Anastasiia Chanh graduated second in her class at Heartland Lutheran High School on Sunday. Besides excelling in academics, Chanh participated in several extracurricular activities, including cheerleading pictured. Chanh was born in Ukraine, going back-and-forth living in her home country and China. She began studying at Heartland three years ago.
The Omaha Bryan boys soccer team celebrates its District A-7 boys championship win over Lincoln Southeast, Thursday, May 5, 2022, at Omaha Bryan High School. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Bishop Neumann's Kamdyn Swartz reacts after winning the Class C boys 300-meter hurdles during the state track and field meet, Saturday, May 21, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. Journal Star
On Jan. 6, the buses serving Madison County stopped operations. The transit systems general manager, Jeff Stewart, had allegedly stolen up to
Lincoln Southwests Alex Kosmicki 23 dribbles to the goal as Papillion-La Vista Souths Jenasy Schultz 1 goes for the save during the girls A-4 district championship game Tuesday, May 3, 2022, at Seacrest Field. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Autumn LaDeaux-Baxter left ties poles together while saying a prayer as leaders of the Niskthe prayer group work to assemble a tipi during a protest outside City Hall on Wednesday, May 18, 2022. The group wants legal protections of a Native sweat lodge, which is on about 2 acres of private land surrounded by Wilderness Park and across the street from the planned Wilderness Crossing development near First Street and Pioneers Boulevard. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Bloomfield's Alexandra Eisenhauer left reacts after finishing ahead of North Platte's Hayley Miles in the Class D girls 100-meter dash at the state track and field meet on Saturday, May 21, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Lincoln East's Elijah Jobst 8 blocks a shot by Lincoln Southwest's Lane Kruse 16 during a Class A boys state soccer first-round match Tuesday, May 10, 2022, at Morrison Stadium in Omaha. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star
Norris base runner Kale Fountain celebrates as he reaches home plate to score in the fourth inning against Waverly during a boys Class B first-round game at Warner Park on Saturday, May 14, 2022, in Papillion. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Chanh was living in Grand Island with her host family and attending school when news of the Russian invasion came.
Faith and fate brought Anastasiia Chanh center to Heartland Lutheran High School. Once residing in China and Ukraine, a friendship between her father and Shelley Thomas left and Rob Thomas right brought her to Grand Island three years ago. While living with the Thomas family, Chanh has been active in extracurricular activities and academics, culminating in her Class of 2022 graduation Sunday.
At the beginning, when all this happened with Ukraine and Russia, she felt kind of frustrated that she couldnt go there, Liess said. We kept reminding her that her parents would rather her be safe than going there, so she had to find her own way of supporting them.
I believe that everyone outside of Ukraine right now has fear for their family and loved ones, but I have strong belief that Ukraine fights through and win the war, she said.
Midlands Matt Ross dives but misses the ball hit by a Doane hitter during a GPAC Tournament game Friday, May 6, 2022, in Crete. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Axtell's Calvin Johnson left looks as he passes Falls City Sacred Heart's Jakob Jordan to win the Class D boys 3,200-meter relay at the state track and field meet Friday, May 20, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
Lincoln Easts Paige Poppe 13 and Columbus Liberty Larsen battle to head the ball during the girls A-5 district championship game, Tuesday, May 3, 2022, at Seacrest Field. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Chanh appreciates her school-familys outpouring of support, but there are tiny, more intimate moments Heartland gave to Chanh, Liess said.
Yuliia Iziumova left hugs her mother Oksana Iziumova Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at the Lincoln Airport. It was the first time they'd been together in more than three years. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Fremont's Braden Taylor celebrates winning the Class A boys 3,200-meter relay at the state track and field meet Wednesday, May 18, 202, at Omaha Burke Stadium. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star
Lincoln East's Garrett Springer celebrates after hitting a double against Millard West during a Class A state baseball game Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Tal Anderson Field in Omaha. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Omaha Skutt Catholic celebrates their state championship win over Norris in the girls class B state championship game on Monday, May 16, 2022, at Morrison Stadium. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Goldenrod Pastries owner Angela Garbacz left talks with Molly Ebbers of Lincoln on Thursday, May 12, 2022. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
One of 14 students who graduated from Grand Islands Heartland Lutheran High School this month, one day she would like to return and help rebuild Ukraines infrastructure.
Nebraskas Jackson Brockett pitches against a Michigan State batter Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Haymarket Park. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
So much belief that lately she and her Ukrainian friends talk has turned to the things teenagers should be worrying about. Nest year shes planning to go back and visit family and friends.
Crete players celebrate after a goal in the 20th minute by Osvin Garcia Velasquez second from left during the B-5 district championship Saturday, May 7, 2022, in Waverly. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Elkhorn North celebrates on the field after defeating Waverly in the Class B baseball championship game Friday, May 20, 2022, at Tal Anderson Field in Omaha. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Lincoln High's Javon Leuty celebrates his win in the Class A boys 110-meter hurdles Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
Photographer Michael Farrell gets ready to take a group photo as members prepare to tear down the Niskthe Prayer Camp on Wednesday, May 18, 2022. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
Nebraska softball players take a selfie during the Nebraska womens softball watch party of the NCAA tournament selection show on Sunday, May 15, 2022, at Bowlin Stadium. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Lincoln Southwest's Jaida Rowe carries the team trophy after Southwest won the Class A girls team race at the state track and field meet Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
The Husker dugout erupts in cheers as Sydney Gray bottom reaches home plate after scoring the second solo home run of the fifth inning against Indiana, Sunday, May 8, 2022, at Bowlin Stadium. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
The Phelps County Development Corporation has focused on creating vitality in Phelps County downtowns over the past five years with its GO! DR
Fans run to catch a foul ball during a baseball game between Nebraska and Michigan State on Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Haymarket Park. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Much of that support came from the power of prayer, careful introspection and a higher power, Chanh said.
Lincolns Hunter Clanin 14 misses the diving catch during a game on Sunday, May 15, 2022, between Sioux Falls and Lincoln Saltdogs at Haymarket Park. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Lincoln East's Jesse Chartier left embraces with teammate Kayma Carpenter after losing to Lincoln Southwest in a Class A girls state soccer first-round match, Monday, May 9, 2022, at Morrison Stadium in Omaha.
Lincoln East players celebrate as they see the district championship plaque after defeating Omaha Westside during the District A-4 baseball final at Den Hartog Field, Saturday, May 7, 2022. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Waverly's Eli Russell second right and Wyatt Fanning second right leap on to pitcher Payton Engle first left as they celebrate with their team after an upset win over Norris during a boys Class B first-round game at Warner Park on Saturday, May 14, 2022, in Papillion. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
I didnt know how I can help from here. I mean, yes, we can transfer money to them and everything, but I feel like its more than that, she said.
The zoo activated its emergency protocols and all zoo guests, students and staff were taken to secure locations. The zoos main entrance and o
Soon-to-be graduates walk through Creighton's campus outside of a girls class A semifinal game at Morrison Stadium on Friday, May 13, 2022, in Omaha. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Planners are recommending construction of a new I-80 interchange to accommodate growth in western Sarpy County. But there are quite a few step
When it first happened she had a couple days that were more emotional than others. We gave her some time out of class to calm down and give hugs if she needed them. And just try to be there for her, she said.
Lincoln Public Schools Superintendent Steve Joel plays a game of spike ball with eighth graders Hayden Tenopir left and Drew Van Dyke on Tuesday, May 17, 2022, at Mickle Middle School. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
When we were first attacked in February, my friends all texted me, scared, Chanh said. Some of them were crying because they all had to go into bomb shelters and everything. I tried my best to support them and tell them its going to be fine.
Through her faith, and her school, Chanh has brought forth more confidence that everything is going to be OK in Ukraine, despite fear.
Shes got tons of people, praying for the situation  praying for her family," Liess said. "We put it on the prayer list that goes out to all of our supporters in many, many towns.
A crowd of supporters cheer on Jim Pillen as he takes the stage during an election night party at the Embassy Suites, Tuesday, May 10, 2022, in Lincoln. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
The boys Class B 3,200-meter race enters its third lap at the state track and field meet Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Lincoln High's Landon Kruse competes in the wheelchair Class A boys 800-meter race at the state track and field meet Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Omaha Burke Stadium. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star
Josh Vinson Jr. runs with a pool noodle during the second annual Josh Fight Saturday, May 21, 2022, at Bowling Lake Park. Vinson Jr. remains the reigning champion, winning the crown for a second year. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
I am planning to attend UNL now for architectural studies, Chanh said. Then maybe after two years of UNL, I want to switch schools and experience more by living in different states."
Millard West's Dylan Driessen collides into Millard South's Camden Kozeal while stealing second base in the first inning during the Class A championship, Thursday, May 19, 2022, at Tal Anderson Field in Omaha. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Lincoln Southwest players celebrate the goal by Jillian Lane third from left with Lincoln East's Page Monson reacting in the background during the second half of a Class A girls state soccer first-round match, Monday, May 9, 2022, at Morrison Stadium in Omaha. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
GRAND ISLAND -- Anastasiia Chanh wants to help restore her home country of Ukraine, currently embattled in a war with Russia.
Chanh was born in Ukraine and spent much of her life there and in China.Her mother and stepfather live and work in Shanghai. Her mothers family  grandparents and aunts  still live in Ukraine. She said of her family and friends, They never had thoughts of leaving Ukraine because they are very believing and supportive.
Lincoln Southeast's Lilly Talley left and doubles partner Lily Rippeteau celebrate a point in the No. 2 doubles finals of the Heartland Athletic Conference Tournament on Wednesday, May 11, 2022, at Woods Tennis Center. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star
Omaha Skutt Catholic's Dylan Toth right reacts to a Skutt goal as Waverlys Austin Neddenriep watches the ball hit the back of the net during the Class B boys state soccer semifinals game on Saturday, May 14, 2022, at Morrison Stadium. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Theres an extended family, beyond the one at Heartland, who are keeping Chanh and her family in their hearts.
Tim Brox fills out his voting ballot at the Redeemer Lutheran Church offices, Tuesday, May 10, 2022, in Lincoln. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Lincoln Southeasts Corynne Olsen 2 from left Maggie Hayes 0 and Sidney Wettlaufer 21 hold each other after placing second in the girls Class A state championship game Monday, May 16, 2022, between Lincoln Southeast and Gretna at Morrison Stadium. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Dee and Ronald Baddorf from left scratch Lucy, their mini-pig, Tuesday, May 10, 2022. The Baddorfs are hoping the Lincoln City Council will approve a waiver so they can keep Lucy at their Lincoln home. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star
A bicyclist rides toward downtown on the 13th Street bike lane on Friday, May 13, 2022. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star
Juju Tyner center, in green holds a sign in support of Roe vs. Wade as she joined others in a pro-abortion rights rally on Tuesday, May 3, 2022, on the north steps of the Capitol. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star
Were texting each other about our future plans, maybe meet ups and how were going to spend our time together in Ukraine.
It also was highlighted in the classroom. Heartland had a day dedicated to celebrating Chanh, her culture and her fellow Ukrainians tenacity. Students and faculty wore yellow and blue, the colors of Ukraines flag. Chanh even wore traditional Ukrainian dress.
Lincoln East's Belinda Rademacher reacts after defeating Lincoln Southeast's Camilla Ibrahimova not pictured in the No. 1 singles championship at the Class A girls state tennis meet Friday, May 20, 2022, at Koch Tennis Center in Omaha. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
Supporters of Donald Trump blow kisses, give cheers and vie for position as Trump takes the stage during a Trump rally for Charles Herbster at the I-80 Speedway on Sunday, May 1, 2022, near Greenwood. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star
At first, I was mostly angry, but ... I have learned how to deal with my emotions and believe that its going to be better later on, and that God will work through it.
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Exterior of a Ford TRIPI-Motor 5-AT, seen on Thursday, May 5, 2022. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
Runners make their way through the final stretch of the 2022 Lincoln Marathon Sunday, May 1, 2022. JAIDEN TRIPI, Journal Star
