Johnsons disgust at attacks on Ukraine amid fears Putin will ramp up violence
20220302
https://www.redditchadvertiser.co.uk/news/19963060.johnsons-disgust-attacks-ukraine-amid-fears-putin-will-ramp-violence/
He told BBC Breakfast that none of the major cities have been taken control of.
The Ministry of Defence said the latest intelligence suggested Russian forces had reportedly moved into the centre of Kherson in south Ukraine.
There was huge amounts of low morale in the Russian forces, weve seen lots of surrenders.
A senior Western intelligence official estimated that more than 5,000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed, while Ukraine has given no overall estimate of its military losses.
However, he added: But that doesnt take away from the fact you have a very ruthless Russian armed forces leadership and a president who seems to know no limit to how much violence they will use to achieve their aims.
The Prime Minister spoke to Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky to share his disgust at Russian attacks and promised to do everything possible to support the Ukrainian people and their resistance, Downing Street said.
The Defence Secretary again rejected calls for the UK and its allies to enforce a no-fly zone in the skies above Ukraine, because shooting down a Russian plane could trigger a Europe-wide conflict between Mr Putin and Nato.
The UN General Assembly will vote on Wednesday on a resolution demanding that Russia immediately stops using force against Ukraine and withdraws its military from the country.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: We said Putin and those around him would pay the price for their unprovoked and illegal invasion of Ukraine, and we are being true to our word.
In Washington, Mr Biden said: Putin is now isolated from the world more than he has ever been.
If you had a no-fly zone in Ukraine, the overwhelming scale of the Russian army would be able to drive around with impunity, which it cant at the moment.
Mr Wallace told Sky News that meant a plan to carpet-bomb cities, indiscriminately in some cases and on BBC Radio 4s Today he warned Russian forces would pummel these cities with artillery and then hope to break the city.
A Russian missile hits the Babyn Yar memorial park in Kyiv where thousands of Jews were murdered by Nazis. In case anyone bought Putins denazification objective, heres the stark staring proof of its sickening hollowness. pic.twitter.comWmYw1WCXsI
Strikes that damaged the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial in Kyiv and the central square in Kharkiv have caused revulsion, and Western allies fear it is a sign of a shift in Russian tactics towards indiscriminate targeting of urban areas.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
US President Joe Biden used his State of the Union address to announce the closure of US airspace to Russian flights.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Vladimir Putin knows no limit and will seek to pummel cities in tactics reminiscent of medieval siege warfare.
Mr Wallace warned that an occupying force would face the kind of insurgency faced by the Soviets in Afghanistan or the UK and Western allies in Iraq.
The UN human rights office said on Tuesday it had recorded 136 civilian deaths including 13 children, but the real toll is believed to be far higher.
But he said the UK had led the way in supplying surface-to-air weapons systems to Ukraine.
Invading a country with overwhelming force is one thing, occupying a people of 44 million who dont want you in  it is a very different thing.
Mr Johnson will face Prime Ministers Questions after returning from a trip to show support to Nato allies Poland and Estonia.
Coordinated actions with  Prime Minister BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of  defense and the latest crimes of Russia against the civilian population. We are grateful for  continued significant assistance in combating aggression. Together with partners we defend !
Sberbank, Russias largest bank, which accounts for 35 of the financial sector, has also been prohibited from clearing sterling payments through the UKs financial system.
The tactics had been used in Chechnya but Ukraine is a different proposition because of its size and population.
Boris Johnson condemned abhorrent attacks on Ukraine as the UK fears Vladimir Putin will use even more indiscriminate violence against the countrys capital Kyiv and other key cities.
The lack of progress in meeting the aims of the invasion had led to a change in tactics, focusing on aerial and artillery bombardment of cities rather than the kind of lightning mobilised armoured advances originally envisaged by the Kremlin, Western military experts believe.
Earlier on Tuesday, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps had announced a ban on Russian-linked ships  and oligarchs private yachts  from British ports.
Mr Wallace said: We have definitely seen cases of very quick surrenders by Russian forces, we have seen lots of abandonment of incredible pieces of equipment.
A no-fly zone would also have to apply to Ukrainian jets, meaning they could not target Russian forces from the air, he added.
On Tuesday night the Foreign Office announced that sanctions were in force against Russias central bank and its sovereign wealth fund and its director.
Russia said it would be ready for further peace talks with Ukraine later on Wednesday.
But Mr Wallace said the advance of Russian forces continued to be slowed by a combination of overstretched logistics, poor morale and brave resistance by Ukrainian fighters.
In the absence of direct military involvement, the response of the UK, US and European Union has been limited to providing support to Ukraine and imposing unprecedented sanctions on Russia.
Russian troops have entered Ukraines second city Kharkiv following days of intensive bombardment, but Mr Wallace said Mr Putins forces did not yet control it.
