Dutch PM urges MH17 focus on Ukraine visit
20220202
https://www.dairynewsaustralia.com.au/world/dutch-pm-urges-mh17-focus-on-ukraine-visit/
"The Netherlands' priorities are establishing the truth of what happened, achieving justice, and holding those responsible to account," Rutte told reporters, speaking alongside Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
Zelenskiy said the two countries had agreed a joint program to build 48 hospitals and rehabilitation centres for Ukrainian armed forces and veterans.
A Dutch-led team of international investigators concluded in 2019 that the missile launcher used to hit the passenger plane had come from a Russian army base located near the border with Ukraine.
All 298 people on board - mostly Dutch citizens along with 38 from Australia - were killed.
The Ukraine crisis is closely watched in the Netherlands, where Dutch prosecutors have sought the convictions of four men charged with murder over the shooting down of the Malaysia Airlines flight MH17.
In the MH17 case, a verdict in the murder trial of three Russians and a Ukrainian citizen is expected this year.
The prosecutors say the defendants, who are all at large, helped supply a missile system that Russian-backed separatists battling Ukraine's forces used to fire a rocket at the plane.
Commenting on the current crisis, Rutte said: "President Zelenskiy and I, we agreed that every effort must now be made to de-escalate the dangerous situation in which we find ourselves."
"It's not an easy process but giving up is not an option for both of us," he said.
"And I believe, we believe that the only route to a solution is through de-escalation, diplomacy and dialogue."
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has urged dialogue to defuse a crisis with Russia during a trip to Kyiv in which he also reaffirmed his resolve to secure justice for families of the victims of an airliner downed over eastern Ukraine in 2014.
Rutte is the latest leader - following in the tracks of the UK and Polish prime ministers - to visit Kyiv in a show of solidarity after Russia massed tens of thousands of troops near Ukraine's borders.
Further Russian aggression against Ukraine will trigger a "robust" package of sanctions, Rutte said, adding that the Netherlands, a NATO member, had offered assistance to Ukraine to fend off cyber attacks.
More than 14,000 people have been killed in the conflict in eastern Ukraine since it erupted in 2014, Ukraine says.
