UK warns Russia against Ukraine puppet
20220123
https://www.dairynewsaustralia.com.au/world/uk-warns-russia-against-ukraine-puppet/
Russia will face severe economic sanctions if it installs a puppet regime in Ukraine, a senior UK minister said on Sunday after Britain accused the Kremlin of seeking to install a pro-Russian leader there.
Britain made the accusation  late on Saturday, also saying Russian intelligence officers had been in contact with a number of former Ukrainian politicians as part of plans for an invasion.
It said it had information the Russian government was considering former Ukrainian MP Yevhen Murayev as a potential candidate to head a pro-Russian leadership.
A foreign ministry source said it was not usual practice to share intelligence matters, and the details had only been declassified after careful consideration to deter Russian aggression.
Russia has made security demands on the United States including a halt to NATO's eastward expansion and a pledge that Ukraine will never be allowed to join the Western military alliance.
In a statement late on Saturday, the British foreign ministry declined to provide evidence to back its accusations.
"It isn't very logical. I'm banned from Russia. Not only that but money from my father's firm there has been confiscated."
US National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne said in a statement: "This kind of plotting is deeply concerning. The Ukrainian people have the sovereign right to determine their own future, and we stand with our democratically-elected partners in Ukraine."
"We will not tolerate Kremlin plot to install pro-Russian leadership in Ukraine," British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter.
"You've made my evening. The British Foreign Office seems confused," Murayev told Britain's Observer newspaper.
Murayev, 45, is a pro-Russian politician who opposes Ukraine's integration with the West. According to a poll by the Razumkov's Centre think tank conducted in December 2021, he was ranked seventh among candidates for the 2024 presidential election with 6.3 per cent support.
The British claims came a day after the top US and Russian diplomats failed  to make a major breakthrough in talks to resolve the crisis over Ukraine, although they agreed to keep talking.
"There'll be very serious consequences if Russia takes this move to try and invade but also install a puppet regime," Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab told Sky News on Sunday.
Yanukovich fled to Russia in 2014 after three months of protests against his rule and was sentenced in absentia to 13 years in jail on treason charges in 2019.
Britain, which this week supplied 2000 missiles and a team of military trainers to Ukraine, also said it had information that Russian intelligence services were maintaining links with "numerous" former Ukrainian politicians, including senior figures with links to ex-President Viktor Yanukovich.
The accusations come at a time of high tensions between Russia and the West over Russia's massing of troops near its border with Ukraine. Moscow has insisted it has no plans to invade.
Russia's foreign ministry dismissed the comments as "disinformation", accusing Britain and NATO of "escalating tensions" over Ukraine.
