US says Russia may create Ukrainepretext
20220213
https://www.dairynewsaustralia.com.au/world/us-says-russia-may-create-ukraine-pretext/
Russia has more than 100,000 troops massed near Ukraine, which is not part of the Atlantic military alliance, and Washington - while keeping open the diplomatic channels that have so far failed to ease the crisis - has repeatedly said an invasion is imminent.
Biden told Putin in a phone call  on Saturday that the West would respond decisively to any invasion and such an attack would harm and isolate Moscow.
In Washington, President Joe Biden's National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said an invasion could begin "any day now".
The Kremlin said Putin told Biden during their call on Saturday that Washington had failed to take Russia's main concerns into account, and that it had received no "substantial answer" on key elements of its security demands.
Putin wants guarantees from the United States and NATO that include blocking Ukraine's entry into NATO, refraining from missile deployments near Russia's borders and scaling back NATO's military infrastructure in Europe to 1997 levels.
US officials said they could not confirm reports that US intelligence indicated Russia planned to invade on Wednesday.
"The diplomatic path remains open. The way for Moscow to show that it wants to pursue that path is simple," US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken  said after he held talks on Saturday with Asian allies.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, on the eve of a trip that takes him to Kyiv on Monday and Moscow for talks with President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday, called for Russia to de-escalate and warned of sanctions if Moscow did invade.
Washington regards many of the proposals as non-starters but has pushed the Kremlin to discuss them jointly with Washington and its European allies.
Sullivan said Washington would continue sharing what it learned with the world in order to deny Moscow the chance to stage a surprise "false flag" operation that could be a pretext for an attack.
Zelenskiy's office said he invited Biden to visit Ukraine soon. The White House declined to comment.
Biden spoke to his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Sunday and they agreed on the importance of continuing to pursue diplomacy and deterrence in response to Russia's military build-up, the White House said after the call.
Russia could invade Ukraine at any time and might create a surprise pretext for an attack, the United States says, as it reaffirmed a pledge to defend "every inch" of NATO territory.
Washington and its European allies and others have been scaling back or evacuating embassy staff and urging citizens to depart immediately or avoid travel to Ukraine.
Canada's defence ministry said it has temporarily withdrawn its Ukraine-based military personnel to an undisclosed location in Europe. Canada, which is home to the world's third-largest Ukrainian population after Ukraine and Russia, has kept a 200-strong training mission in western Ukraine since 2015.
It would also "defend every inch of NATO territory ... and Russia we think fully understands that message," Sullivan added in a separate CBS interview.
Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said on Twitter that Kyiv had so far received almost 1500 tonnes of ammunition from allies delivered on 17 flights, including about 180 tonnes from the United States.
"We cannot perfectly predict the day, but we have now been saying for some time that we are in the window," Sullivan told CNN.
