New Sanctions Imposed in Response to Russias Incursions in Ukraine Phase I
20220223
https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=b751bb03-26c1-4578-bf5f-14a8d2b5600d
In summary, the DNRLNR sanctions prohibit most dealings by U.S. persons in these regions, including:
On February 21, 2022, President Biden issued Executive Order 14065 prohibiting all new investment, trade, and financing by U.S. persons to, from, or in the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic DNR or Luhansk Peoples Republic LNR regions of eastern Ukraine. Similar in scope to the comprehensive sanctions imposed following Russias annexation of the Crimea region of Ukraine in 2014, these sanctions respond to President Putins recognition of the DNR and LNR as independent and the movement of Russian military assets into these regions.
As with all SDN designations, U.S. persons i are barred from engaging in virtually all transactions, whether direct or indirect, involving SDNs or their direct or indirect property interests, and ii must block and report to OFAC any such property within their possession or control. Under OFACs 50 percent rule, any entity in which one or more SDNs in the aggregate own a 50 or greater interest must also be treated as an SDN, even if the entity does not separately appear on the SDN List.
Effective February 22, 2022, the U.S. added three individuals, 44 entities and five vessels to the OFAC Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons SDN List. These additions, accessible here, include among others the fifth largest Russian financial institution Vnesheconombank VEB, Russias military bank Promsvyazbank Public Joint Stock Company PSB, and 42 of their subsidiaries. Not yet designated as SDNs are the largest Russian financial institutions Sberbank and VTB, although pending legislation may cause these banks and others to be designated in the near term.
iv Any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a U.S. person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited if performed by a U.S. person or within the U.S.
Companies with dealings in the DNR or LNR  whether direct or indirect, whether paid or offered without compensation  should carefully review these sanctions and authorizations to understand how they may impact their business.
2 As of June 14, 2021, from lending ruble or non-ruble denominated funds to the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, the National Wealth Fund of the Russian Federation, or the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation and
Entities determined to be subject to these prohibitions are identified here noted by inclusion of Subject to Directive 1a in the listing. As with other Directive-based, non-SDN sanctions designations, U.S. persons are not barred from other transactions with these entities, provided those transactions are not otherwise prohibited by U.S. law.
Implementing the authority of Executive Order 14024, OFAC has issued an updated Directive 1A. Accordingly, U.S. financial institutions defined here are barred:
3 As of March 1, 2022, from participating in the secondary market for ruble or non-ruble denominated bonds issued after March 1, 2022 by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, the National Wealth Fund of the Russian Federation, or the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation.
iii The exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, of any goods, services, or technology from the U.S., or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to the DNR and LNR or
To counter Russias escalating incursions into Ukraine and threats to its sovereignty, the United States has imposed a series of sanctions on Russian and Ukrainian persons and interests, to be implemented by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC. The new sanctions target the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics of Ukraine, certain Russian financial institutions, and certain Russian oligarchs.
1 As of June 14, 2021, from participating in the primary market for ruble or non-ruble denominated bonds issued after June 14, 2021 by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, the National Wealth Fund of the Russian Federation, or the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
These prohibitions take effect immediately and are not eligible for any wind-down or other authorization.
ii The importation into the U.S., directly or indirectly, of any goods, services, or technology from the DNR and LNR
Six contemporaneously issued General Licenses mitigate the impact of the new sanctions on the DNR and LNR in ways that in many respects track other OFAC comprehensive sanctions programs:
For now, the sanctions fall well short of the full suite of sanctions that have been foreshadowed and debated in the U.S. Congress. Commensurate with anticipated, further Russian incursions into Ukraine, additional U.S. sanctions and other U.S. government restrictions on commercial and investment activities involving Russia and Ukraine may follow. The situation is dynamic and parties with interests involving Russia or Ukraine are advised to closely follow expected changes, both in the U.S. and among its allies.
Companies providing software or software-as-a-service SaaS to the DNR or LNR will want to understand whether General License No. 22 authorizes their continued dealings, or alternatively how to take advantage of the 30-day wind-down authorization in General License No. 17, including, e.g., how to identify customers located in the DNR or LNR and block unlawful transactions with them. The latter course may prove difficult for internet-based companies including SaaS providers to the extent that available geolocation tools and IP address controls are not already set up to block traffic from these regions. In the interim, companies may consider relying on other identifiable information e.g., city, zip code, phone number to mitigate potential sanctions-related risks.
Home to under 10 of Ukraines population, the separatist DNR and LNR regions are described as industrial powerhouses, with heavy mining, coal, and steel production being the regions primary industries.
