Sanctions against Russia  impacts for New Zealand businesses
20220304
https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=26679ab6-2130-4827-872b-ee03900f707a
The autonomous sanctions regimes generally have broad application. For example, Australia's sanctions legislation extends to any person in Australia and any Australian anywhere in the world, as well as overseas companies that are owned or controlled by those persons. It also applies to any person using an Australian vessel or aircraft to transport goods or transact services. The US sanctions regime goes another step further - it applies to US corporations' foreign subsidiaries, as well as transactions involving US dollars or goods of US origin.
The situation is fast-evolving - in this update we provide a snapshot of how the current sanctions might affect New Zealand businesses, and what you should be considering. In particular, New Zealand businesses with Australian directors, or those who make transactions in US dollars, should be aware that they could breach overseas sanctions regimes if they have connections or dealings with entities or individuals subject to sanctions.
The US, the UK, Australia, and numerous countries, have used their autonomous sanctions regimes to implement significant sanctions. The sanctions include blacklisting large Russian banks, Russian financial institutions, and state-owned investment funds imposing strict export controls on dual use goods and freezing the assets of, and imposing travel bans on, certain Russian companies and individuals. Russia's main banks will soon be removed from the SWIFT international banking payment system.
Autonomous sanctions regimes have been considered by New Zealand governments in the past. Most recently, an Autonomous Sanctions Bill failed its first reading in September 2021, after the Labour, Green, and Mori parties voted against it. The Foreign Minister described the Bill as "unfit for purpose" because the international environment has changed since it was drafted in 2012, it did not contain sufficient consideration of human rights issues, and due to the government's preference for multilateral responses. The Foreign Minister committed to considering what more the government can do to support the upholding of human rights around the world, including the role that an autonomous sanctions regime could play.
Over the last few weeks, coordinated and broad ranging sanctions have been imposed against Russia in response to its actions in Ukraine.
The latest events appear to have pushed those considerations along, with the Prime Minister stating that the government is seeking advice on a specific Russian sanctions bill, so New Zealand may have the ability to impose further sanctions in the coming weeks.
Australia has also imposed other sanctions in relation to Crimea and Sevastopol, which will be extended to the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine from 28 March 2022, and it has followed the US by sanctioning certain Belarusian entities and individuals.
Given New Zealand's close relationship with Australia, New Zealand businesses are mostly likely to be affected by Australian sanctions. Those sanctions focus on:
The penalties for contravening sanctions laws are significant. Under the Australian legislation, individuals can be convicted and face maximum penalties of up to 10 years, or the greater of $555,000 AUD or three times the value of the transaction. Corporations could be fined the greater of $2.22m AUD or three times the value of the transaction. Corporations are strictly liable, unless they can establish that they took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid contravening the law.
In contrast to its Five Eyes partners, New Zealand does not currently have an autonomous sanctions regime that would enable it to impose unilateral sanctions against Russia. Instead, New Zealand has applied measures available to it under other legislation and policies to impose travel bans against Russia government officials and other individuals, prohibit the export of goods to Russian military and security forces, and suspend bilateral foreign Minister consultations. Although those measures are limited, the wider-reaching sanctions imposed overseas may have impacts for New Zealand businesses.
