Ghost of Kyiv Former President of Ukraine lauds alleged ace Ukrainian fighter pilot
20220226
https://en.as.com/en/2022/02/26/latest_news/1645843735_018687.html
    -29.    .              6    !       ! pic.twitter.comGJLpcJ31Si
The photo was identified as an old photo of a fighter pilot, on Sina.cn, a Chinese website, with the legend, Ukrainian MiG-29 pilots switching to French MSA Gallet - LA100 helmet. MSA being a helmet manufacturer and the LA100 being a lightweight flight helmet for jet aircraft pilots performing combat missions or aerobatics flights on jet fighters using oxygen supply and ejection seat.
The Ghost of Kyiv has become a Ukrainian hero across social media, as stories spread of a fighter pilot who had allegedly downed six Russian planes in the first day of the invasion of Putin's forces. While the stories of the Ghost remain unconfirmed and the facts coming from the conflict would suggest it is unlikely to be true, former Ukrainian President, Petro Poroshenko, posted a photo of a pilot on Twitter saying this was none other than the Ghost of Kyiv.
Ukraines air defense downs a Russian transporter carrying paratroopers near Kyiv.A Russian Ilyushin Il-76 plane was shot down close to the city of Vasylkiv south of Kyiv, according to Ukraines top general Valeriy Zaluzhniy. The aircraft could carry up to 150 troops.
Of course that doesn't mean this isn't the pilot who is known as the Ghost of Kyiv, just that this particular photo wasn't taken during the conflict. Former President Poroshenko does not name the pilot or give any details about them.
Note: the photo that accompanies this article is a file photo of a MiG-29. Specifically a Bulgarian Air Force MiG-29 performing during the joint tasks on enhanced airspace protection Air Policing by the Bulgarian and Spanish Air Forces on February 17, 2022 in Graf Ignatievo, Bulgaria.
However, according to a senior Western intelligence official, talking on condition of anonymity to AFP, Russia has almost entirely eliminated Ukraine's air defences and "they no longer have an air force to fly and protect themselves. Essentially the Russians now have complete air superiority over Ukraine."
The bigger they are, the harder they fall. The Ghost of Kyiv fights the bear ghostofkyiv UkraineInvasion UkraineWar StandWithUkriane pic.twitter.comDMnOqDggaK
In the tweet the former president says: "In the photo - the MiG-29 pilot. None other than the Ghost of Kyiv. He causes terror in enemies and pride in Ukrainians. He has six victories over Russian pilots! With such powerful defenders, Ukraine will definitely win"!
Earlier today, Ukraine claimed to have downed two Russian Ilushyn II-76s, at least one of which was apparently carrying tens of paratroopers.
It may be that the Ghost of Kyiv is real and Poroshenko has posted an old photo of them, or it may be that the former President is boosting an urban legend that is giving hope to his beleaguered fellow Ukrainian citizens as they face a massive invasion of their lands.
