RussiaUkraine war summary 10 March 2022
20220310
https://en.as.com/en/2022/03/10/latest_news/1646904448_446328.html
Many NATO allies who have historically avoided the sending of weapons to conflict zones have for the first time began to send shipments of arms to Ukrainian fighters.
This has led to an in pass over the sending of the fighter jets as no NATO member wants to be the last country in possession of the planes before they enter Ukraine.
Interestingly among Democrats, the rate of support has decreased by three points and increased by sixteen points among Republicans. However overall Democrats still tend to be more supportive 66 percent than Republicans 54 percent.
It was a move described by UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres as a chilling development, and was one that brought back terrifying memories from six decades ago, when, over a period of two weeks in October 1962,the Cuban Missile Crisis threatened to spark an all-out nuclear conflictbetween Cold War foes the United States and the Soviet Union.
When President Biden announced the ban on the import of Russian oil and gas he also stated that sixty million barrels of oil would be released from global strategic reserves to offset the loss in supply. However, with prices still on the rise leaders are looking for other options. For more on what they are considering, check out our full coverage.
- United Nations reports that more than two million people have fled Ukraine and the US and UK consider adjusting immigration laws to allow more refugees to enter their borders
Staring in a show called Servant of the People were he played the President, Zelenkyy won in a landslide in the 2019 elections. His presidency has not had its ups and downs but Vox helps to explain why he has been so effective in the role since the war with Russia began.
You Gov, the polling organization has released the results of a survey that show NATO favorability has increase to 55 percent 5 - 8 March from 49 5 - 8 February.
Since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February there have been numerous reports of excessive force being used against anti-war protesters in Russia. Law enforcement have reportedly been usingstun guns and truncheons to disperse the crowds with heavy fines and serious charges for those involved.
From his selfie videos to harsh words for his friends and allies, Ukrainian President has captured the hears and minds of people around the world. President Zelenskyy caught the Kremlin and many in the West off guard when he decided to stay and defend his country, even with a target on his back. The Wall Street Journal took a deep dive into how a man who was a "side character" in the first impeachment of President Trump to a global hero.
Former President Barack Obama has shared a thread on Twitter outlining a few ways in which Americans and US organisations are supporting Ukraine amid the ongoing invasion from Russia. The war in Ukraine has brought about the country's greatest humanitarian crisis since World War Two according to a UN report and an estmated 2.5 million people have been forced to flee.
If you're looking for ways to support Ukraine, check outWhat is the best way to help Ukrainians from the USA?
Before the ban was announced, around eight percent of oil used in the US came from Russia.
Leaders on Capitol Hill worked quickly on Wednesday to approve a $13.6 billion aid package for Ukraine as the country fights to defend their territory from Russia. The package includes humanitarian and military assistance. The Atlantic Council estimated that Ukraine would need around $10 billion a month for the foreseeable future to sustain its economy as fighting continues.
More than two million people, more than half of which are children, have fled Ukraine leading to the greatest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
Poland is the only country with fighter jets that the Ukrainian air force is trained to use but has said that they will not transfer the planes directly. Polish leaders had offered to send the jets to a US air force base in Germany for the US to then deliver the weapons, but this plan has been rejected by the Pentagon.
After the Kremlin banned Twitter some users have reported a decrease in the number of comments and retweets. Some speculate this could be that because of the ban, Russian bots are now unable to access the site to propel sensationalized and polarizing content. This has led a handful of users to call on Twitter to make the ban permanent as they believe that there is a clear epistemic benefit to the reduced number of bot accounts.
The highest level meeting between both foreign minsters of Ukraine and Russia lasted around one and a half hours and although CNN has described them as "wide ranging" no agreements towards peace were made.
Ukraine wants to purchase the MiG-29s because its pilots have training in the post-soviet aircraft something like a US manufactured F-35 Lightning from the US would be anathema to them. The Ukrainian military announced they could be flying sorties from Polish territory, something NATO does not want to happen.
What does a US ban on Russian oil mean for gas prices? How will Americans be impacted?
We support and encourage all efforts that are conducive to a peaceful settlement of the crisis... The pressing task now is to prevent tension from escalating or even getting out of control.It is in no ones interest. China is ready to make its own constructive efforts in maintaining world peace and stability and promoting development and prosperity,Li Keqiang , Premier of the People's Republic of China
Since Russian forces invaded Ukraine little over two weeks ago, many people have spotted mysterious symbols appears on tanks and military vehicles in the conflict. This short video from NowThisNews outlines some of the more infamous ones, and speculates about the origins of the symbols in Eastern Europe.
During the Syrian conflict the same number of people left their homes over the course of a few years, this number has been seen in just two weeks.
Could there be a nuclear meltdown now that power has been cut to the Chernobyl facility?
The leaders of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have declined calls with the White House
The Russian economy inches closer to the brink of collapse as the impact of the US ban on Russian oil and gas begin to make an impact. We will be bringing you live coverage as the events of this tragic war unfold throughout the day.
While NATO allies have categorically stated that they will not implement a 'No Fly Zone' over Ukraine, the members seemed open to the transfer of military jets to country. This would allow Ukrainian forces to control the sky more effectively against Russian plans and projectiles.
Requests for NATO to transfer its Russian-made MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine were met with an emphatic no from the United States.
"They start saying that there are chemical weapons that have been stored by their opponents or by the Americans, and so when they themselves deploy chemical weapons, as I fear they may, they have a sort of fake story, ready to go".
Before such a move is taken and millions of actual users are banned from the platform, Twitter and Facebook need to evaluate options that would reduce the number of bots without limiting access for actual users. As companies, these platforms have an interest in keeping people on the site for as long as possible... bots can cause controversies that keep users engaged, meaning that they may have a financial insentive to keep them on the site.
- Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba says there is "no progress on ceasefire" after peace talks with his Russian counterpart
If we let Putins expansionism go unchallenged it would send a dangerous message to would-be aggressors and authoritarians around the world. We simply can't allow that to happen... We have to ramp up the global pressure on Putin.Liz Truss, UK Foreign Secretary
The talks also failed in the establishment of humanitarian corridors which are desperately needed in cities like Mariupol where electricity has been cut and many are struggling to access fresh drinking water and food. Families who remained in the city are stuck in underground bunkers worried that when they have to surface they will be met with a new round of air strikes.
- A humanitarian convoy attempting to bring aid to Mariupolhas been forced to turn arounddue to fighting
Russian President Vladimir Putin caused global alarm last month by putting the countrys nuclear forces on special alert, a decision he said was motivated by aggressive statements from the West, amid widespread condemnation of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The issue is that no country wants to be the last one to have had possession of the planes as it will be seen by a the Kremlin as a clear act of aggression. Meanwhile, President Zelenskyy has bashed the NATO allies for not doing enough to support his country as the bombardments from Russia become more intense.
The White House has reported that it has not been able to connect President Biden with the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and UAE leader Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed. President Biden is interested in speaking with two leaders to ask them to increase their oil production to offset loses from Russia. However, the countries have already said that they will follow the decision of Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC on the quantity of oil that should be supplied to the global economy.
From TV president to the actual leader of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy has become a household name as he unifies his country against the Russian invasion.
The White House has warned that they believe Russia could be planning a false flag operation that would use chemical or biologic weapons against the population. WH Press Secretary Jen Psaki said "We should all be on the lookout for Russia to possibly use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, or to create a false flag operation using them - it's a clear pattern."
- Putin has called for the "de-nazification of Ukraine." What prompted this line of attack?
This rate is much lower than the European Union which sees around a quarter of its gasoline supply come from Russia. When looking at the EU's reliance of natural gas, those figures increase to around 40 percent of the block's total supply.
Additionally, many have raised concerns over the staff that became trapped at the facility when fighting broke out. No other workers have been able to enter the facility and the Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi of the International Atomic Energy Agency has said those inside are "facing psychological pressure and moral exhaustion."" Grossi urged the Russians to allow the workers to leave and rotate "so that their crucial work can be carried out safely and securely."
Unlike other companies, Deutshe Bank, has said that it will not terminate or suspend its business operations in Russia. The bank has said that the move is not "practical" at this time, leaving the question of whether it will reverse course in the future open. The company says that they are considering their options but feel that they must stay in order to protect the interests of their customers.
Many want to help but at this point it is very difficult to send money directly to Ukrainians, but there are other options.We took a look.
This reliance, especially in the winter months, makes it much harder for the EU to implement the same type of ban.
As of Thursday morning, no reports of chemical weapons have been made but the US is warning that the Russians could be planing to use them.
Biden to announce ban on Russian oil imports: will it affect the price of gasoline in the US?
When asked if there is a line that NATO troops will not allow NATO to across? International Security expert Constanze Stelzenmller said that attacks of civilians create justified outrage on the part of civil society that is hard to resist. However, the danger of direct involvement by a nuclear power in the conflict could be catastrophic for the entire world.
The geopolitical conflict in the US has sent gas prices to record highs. In the last week prices have increased fifteen percent on average, with some Alabama, Georgia, and Virginia have all seen an increase of thirty-seven percent in the last week.
President Biden announced earlier this week that the US would ban the import of Russian oil and gas, limiting supply. The administration had avoided such a move over fears that it would increase the price of gas for US consumers.
We are now more than two weeks into the Russian invasion of Ukraine but the vastly superior Russian militaryis still yet to take the capital city of Kyiv. There had been an expectation that Putin's forces would sweep through the country but Russia's failure to secure dominance in the air appears to be costing them dearly.
The poll also found that 59 percent of people believe that nuclear war is a greater threat today than it was five years ago. The results also show that many 58 percent in the US are worried about the impact US sanctions will have on the Russian people. Support for sending troops to Ukraine to help fight Russian forces is still quite low with only 20 percent of respondents agreeing it would be a "good idea."
"We understand the impact this will have on our Russian colleagues and partners, which is why we are prepared to support all three legs of the stool in Ukraine and Russia. This includes salary continuation for all McDonalds employees in Russia," read the company's statement. This is critical as many Russians are suffering tremendous financial losses as international sanctions on the country take a disproportionate toll on working and middle class people.
It is in no ones interest. China is ready to make its own constructive efforts in maintaining world peace and stability and promoting development and prosperity,
- At least three people were killed in a Russian attack on a maternity hospital in Mariupol yesterday 17 were wounded
The Russians have not achieved air superiority over the whole country, a senior US defence official told reporters. Ukrainian air defences remain intact and viable both in terms of aircraft and missile defence systems, and theyre engaged.
Drone footage shows the ambush on a Russian convoy which, according to Ukrainian sources, has resulted in the death of Russian Commander Andrei Zakharov.
The bank, the first on Wall Street to announce such a move, has reported that they have a credit exposure of $650 million to Russia.
We support and encourage all efforts that are conducive to a peaceful settlement of the crisis... The pressing task now is to prevent tension from escalating or even getting out of control.
On 10 March, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. told Reuters in an e-mail that they would be "winding down its business in Russia in compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements."
No. There is no chance of meltdown because the reactors were shutdown over two decades ago. However, the power outage could impact the ponds that keep nuclear material cool to avoid radiation leakage. Currently the ponds are being kept online through generator power but officials say that this energy source could run out in the next two to six days. If this were to happen, leakage could begin to increase from the site.
Yesterday, Russian forces broke a ceasefire that had been implemented to allow for the safe passage of civilians out of the line of fire. One of the sites attacked was a maternity hospital and images were released of pregnant women and newborn babies escaping the violent scene.
- Value of the Russian ruble has decreased 35 percent in the last month, with the entire economy moving closer to a complete economic collapse
If we let Putins expansionism go unchallenged it would send a dangerous message to would-be aggressors and authoritarians around the world. We simply can't allow that to happen... We have to ramp up the global pressure on Putin.
Speaking to Sky News, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said, "The stuff that you're hearing about chemical weapons, this is straight out of their Russia's playbook.
After various US fast food retailers an companies have announced that they will close locations in Russia or ban the import of their products, people are lining up to get one last Big Mac.
To avoid such an increase, the government has ordered 60 million barrels be released from the national security reserves.
On 8 March, McDonald's became the largest brand to announce that it will "temporarily" suspend operations in Russia. The company reported that there are more than 60,000 McDonald's workers employed in Russia who they hope to support throughout the crisis.
- Pentagonrejects Polish plan to have US forces deliver fighter jets to Ukraine saying it the risk of retaliation from Russia is "too high"
Good morning and welcome to AS USA's live blog on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
- Power has been cut to the Chernobyl nuclear site but experts say there is no current risk of nuclear leakage
This week, NATO members have had to reverse decisions on which types of weapons it will send to Ukraine as US intelligence has found that the Kremlin would see the sending of fighter jets from Poland as a direct attack or involvement in the conflict.
