Russia invades Ukraine UK flights ordered to avoid Ukrainian airspace
20220224
https://www.stourbridgenews.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19948283.russia-invades-ukraine-uk-flights-ordered-avoid-ukrainian-airspace/
During a televised address, Vladimir Putin announced action on Ukraine saying the move was a response to threats from Ukraine.
Putin has accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russias demand to prevent Ukraine from joining Nato and offering Moscow security guarantees.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We continue to stand with the people of Ukraine and work with our international partners to respond to this act of aggression.
Aircrafts flying to or from UK airports are being ordered to avoid Ukraine airspace after the crisis intensified on Thursday.
A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister will chair a Cobra committee meeting at 7.30am to discuss the response to the horrific attacks.
He said the Russian military operation aims to ensure a demilitarisation of Ukraine, adding that all Ukrainian servicemen who lay down arms will be able to safely leave the zone of combat.
The Cabinet minister tweeted: Ive instructed UKCAA the Civil Aviation Authority to ensure airlines avoid Ukraine airspace to keep passengers and crew safe.
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he made the decision following the horrific events overnight as Russia launched a major military assault.
Wizz Air has also cancelled its flights from the Ukrainian cities of Kyiv and Lviv to Luton on Thursday, February 24 as the crisis worsens.
On Tuesday, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss urged British nationals in Ukraine to leave now via commercial routes while they are still available.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction with his attack on Ukraine and that the UK and its allies would respond decisively.
