Russia temporarily stops gas flow through Nord Stream 1
20220831
https://www.stourbridgenews.co.uk/news/national/20859263.russia-temporarily-stops-gas-flow-nord-stream-1/
Chancellor Olaf Scholz said his government had done well to act early, when not everyone was sure we might have a problem.
The European Unions energy commissioner, Kardi Simson, said on Wednesday that the 27-nation bloc already had reached its goal of filling gas storage to 80 of capacity ahead of the winter months. The target date was November 1.
The Russian state-owned energy company announced the closure of Nord Stream 1 in mid-August, citing maintenance at a compressor station  an explanation that German officials have cast doubt on.
Ending our dependency on Russian fossil fuels is step one.Our increased need for other raw materials must not create new dependencies.We must diversify supply and build ties with reliable partners.I will be in  in two weeks to advance our partnership. pic.twitter.comtK7xg7lUon
EU member Hungary, which has been close to Russia and insisted on a temporary exemption from the blocs embargo on Russian oil, is getting more gas from Moscow.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Russias Gazprom halted the flow of natural gas through a major pipeline from Russia to Europe early on Wednesday, a stoppage that it announced in advance and has said will last three days.
In July, the government moved to tighten storage requirements. It introduced a requirement for storage to be 75 full by September 1  a target that already has been surpassed  and raised the targets for October and November to 85 and 95, respectively, from 80 and 90.
Russia, which before the reductions started, accounted for a bit more than a third of Germanys gas supplies, has also reduced the flow of gas to other European countries which have sided with Ukraine in the war.
The pressure is so great that I am really very confident that it will be done quickly, he said on Wednesday, without specifying whether changes would be in place this winter.
Gazprom started cutting supplies through Nord Stream 1 in mid-June. It cited technical problems that German authorities have dismissed as cover for a political power play. In recent weeks, Nord Stream 1 has been running at only 20 of capacity.
Increasing the amount in reserve has been a key focus of the German government since Russia invaded Ukraine, to avoid rationing for industry as demand rises in the winter.
Gazprom says that work is necessary on the only remaining functioning turbine at the Portovaya station, at the Russian end of the pipeline.
Hungarian foreign minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook on Wednesday that Gazprom would deliver up to 5.8 million cubic metres per day in September and October on top of the amounts already outlined in a long-term agreement between the two countries, Hungarian news agency MTI reported.
While Germany looks to store gas and diversify its supplies, it is also among countries pushing for an urgent redesign of the European electricity market to decrease the influence of soaring gas prices on the cost of energy.
The EUs gas storage is now more than 80 full, well ahead the 1 November target date. Member States  companies have done a great job. Lets continue filling where the level is still lower  implement the EU demand reduction plan. This will help us get through winter safely. pic.twitter.comRzSn9STqHq
