LME Aluminium Prices Rose by more than 3 while Domestic Aluminium Recorded Modest Gains
20220228
https://news.metal.com/newscontent/101762542/lme-aluminium-prices-rose-by-more-than-3-while-domestic-aluminium-recorded-modest-gains
In the morning trading, LME aluminium prices rose straight, as of 11:41 a.m., the prices were quoted at $3,470mt, up 3.35, ranking the first in the overseas market.
Meanwhile, according to SMM, the alumina plants in Shanxi, Shandong and Henan which suspended production due to environmental issues in the early stage, resumed production one after another after February 20. SMM statistics showed that at the end of February, compared with the beginning of February, the domestic resumption of production of alumina plants reached more than 15 million mt. The pandemic control in Guangxi was quite effective, and the plants with limited production in the early stage could resume production very soon.
According to statistics, the latest reduction scale of European aluminium plants was about 691,000 mt, and there were still following reduction plans of about 510,000 mt. The market still has certain expectations for the following production reduction, and overseas supply is still hindered in the short term. LME inventories kept destocking last week, which indicated that overseas supply was still tightened.
SHANGHAI, Feb 28 SMM -With Russia's statement that strategic nuclear forces entered a high level of combat readiness, geopolitical tensions between Russia and Ukraine further escalated. The crude oil prices rose sharply today. At the same time, the energy crisis in Europe went worse amid the tense Russia-Ukraine conflicts. The energy costs, such as natural gas, soared, which suppressed the supply of major aluminium plants in Europe.
SHFE aluminium prices showed a completely different trend. SHFE aluminium rebounded after opening, but the range was limited. By midday, the prices dropped 0.55 to 22,710 yuanmt.
In the domestic spot market, SMMA00 aluminium prices were 22,700 yuanmt on February 28, down by 120 yuanmt compared with the previous trading day. Last Friday, discounts of the domestic early trading slightly narrowed. Although the wait-and-see sentiment in the downstream still existed, domestic inventories showed signs of destocking, and some traders started purchasing. In the early trading, the spot discounts in east China was 50 yuanmt, which was narrower than last Thursday by 10 yuanmt. Spot discounts in Gongyi stood at 160-170 yuanmt against the east China market, and at 220-220 yuanmt against the stock market.
In the domestic market, according to SMM, the social inventories of aluminium were 1.117 million mt on February 28, which increased by 18,000 mt compared with last Thursday. The growth rate of aluminium social inventory slowed down because downstream consumption gradually recovered.
All in all, SMM believes that domestic aluminium enterprises in Yunnan, Guangxi, Guizhou and other places steadily resumed production. Therefore, domestic aluminium output is climbing, but the total output is still lower than the level of the same period last year. Aluminium premiums in overseas market are higher than that in domestic market, thus import window is continued to be closed. In recent days, the growth rate of aluminium social inventory slowed down because downstream consumption gradually recovered. Aluminium billet inventories began to destock firstly. The short-term decline in coal prices might have an impact on the market, but it can neither fill the domestic future gap nor ease tight supply overseas. Aluminium prices are expected to fluctuate at a high level.
