The situation in Russia and Ukraine has spread to Japanese automakers such as Toyota which will suspend the export of cars to Russia
20220303
https://news.metal.com/newscontent/101766175/The-situation-in-Russia-and-Ukraine-has-spread-to-Japanese-automakers-such-as-Toyota-which-will-suspend-the-export-of-cars-to-Russia/
Japan's exports of cars and auto parts to Russia accounted for more than half of Japan's total exports to Russia in 2020, according to the Ministry of economy, Trade and Industry.
Among other Japanese car brands, Mazda said it would soon end its business of exporting parts to its Vladivostok joint venture plant in Vladivostok, Russia. Mazda sold 30,000 cars in Russia last year.
According to foreign media reports, Toyota said it would suspend production at its Russian plant from March 4, while Toyota would stop exporting cars to Russia indefinitely due to supply chain disruptions. Toyota also mentioned other difficulties in purchasing parts and logistics.
Nissan is still operating in Russia while monitoring the situation on the ground. In 2021, Nissan sold 53000 cars in Russia.
Toyota is the largest Japanese car brand in Russia. Toyota's St. Petersburg plant employs 2000 people and produces about 80, 000 cars. "like everyone around the world, Toyota is closely monitoring the development of the situation in Ukraine and is very concerned about the safety of the Ukrainian people," Toyota said in a statement. "
Honda said it suspended exports of cars and motorcycles to Russia because of transport and payment difficulties, but sold only 1406 cars in Russia in fiscal year 2020 April 2020 to March 2021.
The situation in Russia and Ukraine has escalated, with some western companies saying they will withdraw their investment in Russia, but many Japanese companies have so far reacted more mildly.
Mitsubishi Motors said it might suspend car production and sales in Russia because western sanctions against Russia could disrupt its supply chain. Mitsubishi has 141 car dealers in Russia, according to the company's website.
