MPs condemn heinous invasion of Ukraine
20220225
https://www.islingtontribune.co.uk/article/mps-condemn-heinous-invasion-of-ukraine
The Shadow Attorney General for Labour said the Government was not doing enough to oppose the invasion  and cited sanctions imposed by Germany, including pulling the plug on a gas pipleline, as an example of how far the UK needed to go.
Ms Thornberry said the UK was well placed to hurt Mr Putin  in his pocket  by going after his friends, many of whom, she claimed, had invested the Russian peoples money in property in London, specifically Knightsbridge.
Ms Thornberry, the MP for Islington South and Finsbury, said: He thinks Russia should hold tight to him because hes going to protect them against encircling enemies. Hes had supreme power for far too long without any challenge. Hes losing his perspective and becoming ever more paranoid.
Last week, Mr Corbyn signed a statement published by the Stop the War Coalition, which called for a diplomatic resolution on a basis which recognises the right of the Ukrainian people to self-determination and addresses Russias security concerns.
If it does not, dark days are ahead for Ukraine, Russia and all of Europe.
Weve sanctioned three oligarchs and four or five minor banks, said Ms Thornberry. Weve had months of knowing this was what Russia was going to do. We should have put together a package of modern sanctions that target not just a country but an individual.
As civilians fled to underground stations for protection from the bombing, Emily Thornberry said the UK  along with other Western countries and NATO  must do more to help.
Last night Thursday, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky warned that this is a declaration of war against the whole of Europe, as reports came through of Russia seizing the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
Islington North MP Jeremy Corbyn described Russias attack as shocking and warned it will inevitably lead to more fear, misery and death. It is a frightening escalation of the ongoing crisis.
ISLINGTONS MPs joined the condemnation of Russia as Vladimir Putin started an invasion of Ukraine with air strikes on several cities including Kyiv.
She said Mr Putin was leading an unprovoked attack because he has a world view that he is surrounded by his enemies and that he alone can protect his country from them.
She said there were laws already in place  under the Magnitsky Sanctions  that could be used to target dirty Russian money, and demanded to see them used.
Ms Thornberry said: Its completely outrageous and unjustified and this heinous violation of international law will have tragic consequences.
Emily Thornberry: Its completely outrageous and unjustified and this heinous violation of international law will have tragic consequences
