0214 Zelenskiy and Johnson welcome move to cut off Russian banks from Swift  video
20220226
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/26/us-uk-europe-and-canada-to-block-russian-access-to-swift
Von der Leyen added: This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally  Cutting banks off will stop them from conducting most of their financial transactions worldwide and effectively block Russian exports and imports.
It continued: We are committed to employing sanctions and other financial and enforcement measures on additional Russian officials and elites close to the Russian government, as well as their families, and their enablers to identify and freeze the assets they hold in our jurisdictions.
We stand with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their heroic efforts to resist Russias invasion, it said.
Announcing the further sanctions she said that they would commit to ensuring that a certain number of Russian banks are removed from Swift. It is understood the final list of institutions is still being drawn up.
Von der Leyen said this latest raft of measures will significantly harm Putins ability to finance his war.
The UK and Spain were early supporters of the move to lock Russia out of Swift, the main secure messaging system that banks use to make rapid and secure cross-border payments, but the US was initially lukewarm and Germany was also reluctant.
The statement from the White House also said that a transatlantic taskforce will be launched in the coming week that will ensure the effective implementation of our financial sanctions by identifying and freezing the assets of sanctioned individuals and companies that exist within our jurisdictions.
She added: And finally, we will work to prohibit Russian oligarchs from using their financial assets on our markets.
Von der Leyen said: The European Union and its partners are working to cripple Putins ability to finance his war machine.
We will paralyse the assets of Russias central bank. This will freeze its transactions and it will make it impossible for the central bank to liquidate assets.
It added: We will hold Russia to account and collectively ensure that this war is a strategic failure for Putin.
On Saturday, however, Annalena Baerbock, Germanys foreign minister, said the country was working on a targeted and functional restriction on Swift. Hours later, the joint statement by western allies, including Germany, was released, with the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, also announcing the measure.
The prime minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, posted on Twitter: Thanks to our friends  for the commitment to remove several Russian banks from SWIFT and for the paralysis of the assets of the central bank of Russia.
The Swift international payments system said it was preparing to implement the new measures in coming days. We are engaging with European authorities to understand the details of the entities that will be subject to the new measures and we are preparing to comply upon legal instruction, it said in a statement.
There had been mounting pressure for greater sanctions as Vladimir Putin continues his assault on Ukraine.
In a statement issued by the White House, the countries said they condemned Vladimir Putins war of choice and attacks on the sovereign nation and people of Ukraine.
The US, Britain, the EU and Canada have moved to block Russias access to the Swift international banking payment system.
Partial ejection from global payment system expected in days as part of new sanctions against Moscow
The statement from the White House said this would mean limiting the sale of citizenship  so-called golden passports  that let wealthy Russians connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and gain access to our financial systems.
Von der Leyen said there would also be measures put in place to stop Putin using his war chest.
