A compressor station of the Jagal natural gas pipeline near Mallnow Germany  Photograph Sean GallupGetty ImagesA compressor station of the Jagal natural gas pipeline near Mallnow Germany  Photograph Sean GallupGetty Images
20220502
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/may/02/eu-to-reject-moscow-demands-to-pay-roubles-for-russian-gas
We will be harming ourselves, that much is clear, he said. Its inconceivable that sanctions wont have consequences for our own economy and for prices in our countries. We as Europeans are prepared to bear the economic strain in order to help Ukraine. But theres no way this wont come at a cost to us.
After a meeting of EU energy ministers, Simson said all the energy ministers had accepted that paying in roubles through the mechanism set out by Russia would breach sanctions imposed by the bloc after Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Anna Moskwa, Polands climate and environment minister, said Warsaw, which has been investing heavily in liquefied natural gas terminals, would be prepared to help any EU country that needed alternatives to Russian fossil fuels.
The potential standoff comes as the EU considers phasing in a ban on Russian oil, a move that Germanys economy minister, Robert Habeck, said on Monday would lead to a major economic hit and higher prices for consumers.
She said: We will call for immediate sanctions on Russian oil and gas. This is the next, and urgent, and absolute step. We already have coal. Now its time for oil, and the second step is for gas. The best option is take them all together.
Kadri Simson, the European commissioner for energy, said on Monday that the Kremlins demands had to be rebuffed despite the risks of an interruption to supply at a time when the shortfall cannot be made good.
She added that she had not heard of any European energy company that was preparing to comply with Moscow despite suggestions to the contrary from Gazprom and firms such as MOL of Hungary.
Europe is facing a crunch point in mid-May when EU member states will have to reject Moscows demands for fuel payments to be made in roubles  despite being without alternative gas supply, Brussels has warned.
Simson said: Many European energy companies are due to make the next payment to Gazprom in mid-May and are trying to understand better what they should do and we need to give them the clarity that paying in roubles through the conversion mechanism managed by the Russian public authorities and a second dedicated account at Gazprom bank is a violation of the sanctions and cannot be accepted.
In 2021, the EU imported 155bn cubic metres of natural gas from Russia, accounting for about 45 of EU gas imports and close to 40 of its total gas consumption.
Last week, Gazprom suspended its gas flow to Poland and Bulgaria and threatened the supply of others if they should follow Warsaw and Sofia in failing to pay for fuel in the Russian currency.
Habeck said Germany was not opposed to such a ban but he warned that Europeans needed to be prepared for the consequences and that some countries would be hit harder than others.
Under the draft sixth round of sanctions to be discussed by EU ambassadors on Wednesday, a ban on the import of Russian oil would be enacted by the end of the year, although Hungary has said it could block the proposal if alternatives are not successfully found.
It is understood that the next major date for payments for gas by European energy companies is 20 May.
In the last year, this dependency has been reduced but the reliance on Russian fossil fuel remains so high that there is no alternative that could fully compensate for its loss.
