A damaged residential building in Kharkiv Ukraine Photograph ReutersA damaged residential building in Kharkiv Ukraine Photograph Reuters
20220410
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/10/new-russian-war-chief-will-bring-more-brutality-in-ukraine-us-warns
Russian rockets completely destroyed the airport and nearby buildings in the city of Dnipro. In occupied Kherson, troops broke up another large peaceful rally in the citys main square. There was a much smaller pro-Russia rally in Nova Kakhovka, in the southern Kherson region.
The Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, told NBC News: Ukraine won the battle for Kyiv. Now another battle is coming  the battle for Donbas.
The northern column is trying to link up with Russian forces advancing from Mariupol to the south. A number of Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion still control a few central areas, more than a month into a Russian siege in which thousands of civilians have been killed.
When thousands turn out of their own free will for a pro-Ukrainian rally, its a call of the heart, Sobolevskyi said. When a few dozen people carrying the flag of a nation of murderers try to make any kind of picture of a rally, these are purely theatrical actions, he said, adding that those who attended were not Ukrainian citizens.
The newly appointed general in command of Russias military campaign in Ukraine is likely to usher in a fresh round of crimes and brutality against civilians, the US has said.
In an update on Sunday, Ukraines general staff said the enemy was trying to break through near the city of Izyum, south of Kharkiv. It claimed Ukrainian forces had wiped out another large column of enemy equipment and manpower heading towards Izyum during an overnight operation.
In what seemed to be further evidence of Russias intention to attack Donbas, satellite images showed a 7 mile-long Russian convoy moving south in the Kharkiv region. It included armoured vehicles, trucks with artillery and support equipment.
As evidence of Russian atrocities including the torture of civilians continues to emerge, the White House is coming under pressure to declare the war an act of genocide. So far the Biden administration has been wary of adopting the term.
Dvornikovs ascent, disclosed by US officials on Sunday, signals an effort by Moscow to impose military order on a campaign that has had serious setbacks. In the face of fierce Ukrainian resistance supported by US, UK and European armaments, Russia appears to be regrouping for a potentially long battle for Donbas, in the east of the country.
Sullivan said Russias record of systematically targeting civilians, the grisly murder of innocent people  absolutely constitutes war crimes. But he stopped short of embracing the international legal concept of genocide.
After failing to capture Kyiv, the Kremlin has rebranded its invasion. It now says its objective is to restore the administrative borders of the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, which are partly controlled by pro-Russia separatists. Moscow wants to seize additional Ukrainian-controlled territory and cut off Kyivs defending army.
Ukrainian officials described the meeting as fake, and part of an attempt by Russia to establish a so-called Kherson peoples republic. Yurii Sobolevskyi, the first deputy head of the Kherson regional council, described the rally as a gathering of clowns.
The regiment released a video that appeared to show a Russian armoured vehicle next to a beach being blown up. The occupants had been sent to hell, it said.
Ukraines armed forces claim 19,300 Russian soldiers have been eliminated since the invasion, and 1,911 armoured vehicles destroyed. The Kremlin says the figure is lower, but Putins spokesperson Dmitry Peskov has acknowledged that there have been terrible casualties.
Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser in Washington, said the appointment of Alexander Dvornikov as theatre commander of Russian forces in Ukraine could not disguise the strategic failure of Vladimir Putins war so far. Ukraine will never be subjugated to Russia it doesnt matter which general President Putin tries to appoint, he told CNN.
Under the UN definition, first codified in 1948, genocide constitutes killing and otherwise inflicting destruction in whole or in part on a national, ethnical, racial or religious group.
Moscow promotes Alexander Dvornikov, who led Russian troops in Syria, as it regroups for Donbas battle
Asked whether the Ukrainian military was capable of responding to an even more ferocious onslaught from the Russians under Dvornikov, Kuleba said history would demonstrate who would prevail. Whatever Russia is planning to do, we have our strategy based on the confidence that we will win this war and we will liberate our territories.
He told ABC News that a specialist unit within the state department was equipped to make that assessment. That is a determination that we work through systematically, he said.
Sullivan said Dvornikovs promotion would lead to more atrocities. This particular general has a rsum that includes brutality against civilians in other theatres  in Syria  and we can expect more of the same in Ukraine, he said.
They had also cleared the village of Vilkhivka, immediately east of Kharkiv. Ukrainian soldiers discovered the corpses of Russian soldiers left behind in a pit, said Oleg Synegubov, a regional military administration head. This is an example of how these scoundrels act even with their own, he declared.
Dvornikovs appointment follows the withdrawal of Russian forces from around the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv. Dvornikov, 60, came to prominence at the head of Russian troops in Syria in 2015-16, when there was particularly brutal bombardment of rebel-held areas, including civilian populations, in Aleppo.
This general will just be another author of crimes and brutality against Ukrainian civilians, and the United States is determined to do all that we can to support the Ukrainians as they resist him and the forces that he commands.
