A funeral for two teachers in Gorlovka in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine Photograph Sergei BobylevTassA funeral for two teachers in Gorlovka in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine Photograph Sergei BobylevTass
20220302
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/02/children-teachers-civilian-casualties-of-the-ukraine-conflict
A recent graduate of aeronautical engineering, Mohamed Abdel-Moneim was killed in Kharkiv. Reports from the New Arab said the Algerian 25-year-old was seeking refuge in a shelter with other students when he was hit by a bullet.
On 27 February a six-year-old girl was caught in shelling in the port city of Mariupol. In scenes captured by an Associated Press journalist, the girls wounded father, his head bloodied and bandaged, could be seen lifting his child, wearing pyjamas decorated with cartoon unicorns, into the back of an ambulance. As a medical team fought to save her, her mother wept outside. Show this to Putin, a medic said angrily into the journalists camera. The eyes of this child, and crying doctors.
As conflict intensifies in Ukraine, the human cost is escalating. Here are some of the civilians reported to have died.
One of the first civilian victims named in the conflict was Polina, who was in her final year of primary school in Kyiv. A photo shows her smiling, her hair highlighted with pink streaks. Kyivs deputy mayor, Volodymyr Bondarenko, said in a Facebook post that her family car was shot at by Russian saboteurs in the city. Her brother was taken for treatment at Okhmatdyt childrens hospital and her sister was last known to be in intensive care at another hospital.
Details of some of the people killed in the first week of the Russian invasion of Ukraine
Gyanagoudar, 21, who moved from India to Ukraine, was a fourth-year medical student at Kharkiv National Medical University. Indias external affairs ministry tweeted: With profound sorrow we confirm that an Indian student lost his life in shelling in Kharkiv this morning. The ministry is in touch with his family. We convey our deepest condolences to the family.
On the morning of 1 March, Naveen Shekarappa Gyanagoudar was killed in Kharkiv while on his way to buy groceries. He had told family that he had been sheltering in a bunker for the last few days, the Indian Express reported. The student had been advised by his family to place an Indian flag outside the building he was in, NDTV said.
In a video for Al Araby TV, Abdel-Moneims father said: My letter to this crazy world: we want to live in peace all around the world. Enough wars. Enough killing for the sake of killing. The president of Algeria, Abdelmadjid Tabboune, sent his sincere condolences and his deep feelings of compassion and sympathy to the family.
A boy was killed when a five-storey apartment building was shelled in Chuhuiv, a city outside Kharkiv. His 13-year-old brother is being treated at a childrens hospital in Kyiv, Pravda News and the BBC reported. The head of the Cherkasy regional state administration, Oleksandr Skichko, wrote about the blast on the morning of 24 February, saying on Facebook: A shell hit the central part of the city. One civilian dead, five more in hospital.
At the Kalininsky district cemetery, mourners were pictured grieving at the funeral of two teachers killed in a shelling attack on Gorlovka, in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine, on 25 February. Yelena Kudrin, a geography teacher, and Yelena Ivanova, a deputy head, both worked at Secondary School No 50.
