A local resident walks near a shell crater at a childrens playground destroyed by a Russian military strike in the town of Druzhkivka in Donetsk region Photograph Gleb GaranichReutersA local resident walks near a shell crater at a childrens playground destroyed by a Russian military strike in the town of Druzhkivka in Donetsk region Photograph Gleb GaranichReuters
20220710
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jul/10/russia-ukraine-war-update-what-we-know-on-day-137-of-the-invasion
Russia is moving forces across the country and assembling them near Ukraine for future offensive operations, according to the UK ministry of defence. The latest intelligence update said a large proportion of the new infantry units were probably deploying with MT-LB armoured vehicles taken from long-term storage.
The United Nations said Ukraines armed forces bore a large, and perhaps equal, share of the blame for an assault at a nursing home in Luhansk, where dozens of elderly and disabled patients were trapped inside without water or electricity. At least 22 of the 71 patients survived, but the exact number killed remains unknown. A few days before the attack, Ukrainian soldiers took up positions inside the nursing home, making the building a target, the UN said.
Kira Rudik, a Ukrainian MP with the centrist Golos party, said rockets struck central Kharkiv, injuring and hospitalising four civilians, including a child.
US secretary of state Antony Blinken said his countrys commitment to the people of Ukraine is resolute while announcing more than $360m in additional aid.
The first cohort of Ukrainian soldiers arrived in the UK to be trained in combat by British forces. The programme will train up to 10,000 Ukrainians over the coming months to give volunteer recruits with little to no military experience the skills to be effective in frontline combat.
Zelenskiy said on Saturday night the Russian army had attacked the cities of Mykolaiv, Kharkiv, Kryvy Rih, and communities of Zaporizhzhia region, covering a broad swathe of the country.
At least five people were killed on Saturday, and seven others injured, by renewed Russian shelling in Donetsk, Ukraine officials said. A missile attack in Druzkivka, northern Donetsk, tore apart a supermarket.
Canada grants sanctions exemption to let Russian turbine part for Nord Stream 1 pipeline return to Germany Zelenskiy sacks host of ambassadors
The governor of the Luhansk region said Russian forces were creating hell in shelling the eastern region of Donetsk. Serhiy Haidai said Russian forces fired eight artillery shells, three mortar shells and launched nine rocket strikes overnight.
Serhiy Bratchuk, a spokesperson for the Odesa regional military administration, said Russian forces were purposefully destroying crops in the Kherson region. He said fires occurred in the fields every day from shelling, and added: Russian troops do not allow locals to put out fires, destroying granaries and equipment.
Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskiy has fired his ambassadors to Germany, India, the Czech Republic, Norway and Hungary, without giving further details as to why. Zelenskiy has urged his diplomats to drum up international support and high-end weapons to slow Russias advance. It was not immediately clear whether the envoys would be handed new jobs.
Canada has granted a sanctions exemption to allow a repaired Russian turbine to be sent back to Germany for the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline. The Canadian government said the time-limited and revocable permit would support Europes ability to access reliable and affordable energy as they continue to transition away from Russian oil and gas. Canada also announced it would expand sanctions against Russias energy sector to include industrial manufacturing. Kyiv urged the Canadian government not to return the part to Germany, but Germany, which is facing severe gas shortages, is being threatened with a further squeeze on Russian gas by Moscow if the turbine isnt returned.
