A painted map of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline from Russia to Germany at the natural gas receiving station in Lubmin Germany Photograph Stefan SauerAPA painted map of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline from Russia to Germany at the natural gas receiving station in Lubmin Germany Photograph Stefan SauerAP
20220224
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/feb/24/how-will-russia-assault-ukraine-affect-uk-gas-supplies
Gas is already in tight supply globally and has reached record market price highs in recent months.
So far, the government has stuck to the line that thanks to our diverse mix of nuclear, natural gas and renewable technologies, the UK has one of the most reliable energy systems in the world.
However, a major gas supply disruption could be enough to cause gas prices to soar back to record levels and the weather is always a factor.
But while security of supply does not appear to be at risk, price pressure could have huge ramifications. The efforts of the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, to help households cope with rising costs involves giving them 200 off their energy bills, with this loan paid back at a rate of 40 a year over five years from 2023. The idea is that part of the cost is postponed until markets return to normal. If the Ukraine conflict is prolonged, prices could remain higher for longer, meaning bills will still be high when households have to start repaying the government.
For now, a few lucky breaks have helped to keep soaring gas markets in check, he added. Gas demand in Asia is lower, which allowed Europe to receive a record number of LNG deliveries from January.
With Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine under way, the Kremlins grip on the gas taps and pipelines that supply heat and electricity to millions of homes and businesses in Europe is all too apparent.
Kremlins grip on supplying heat and electricity to Europe is all too apparent as prices rise again
We must collectively cease the dependence on Russian oil and gas that for too long has given Putin his grip on western politics, Boris Johnson said on Thursday.
The problem might then be that there isnt enough LNG to make up for shortage of pipeline gas, he said. Were in uncharted territory.
As Russia began its assault on Ukraine, prices rose again. The UK benchmark was up 32 to 281p per therm on Thursday, while the closely watched Dutch future gained 31 on contracts for March delivery. One analyst predicted UK household energy bills could surge past 3000 later this year. So, could Europes energy crisis become a catastrophe?
Bradshaw warns that if LNG become a fallback option for Europe and the UK, particularly amid increasing demand for it in Asia, the maths might not add up.
Nor can the UK turn to stored reserves of gas for relief from market prices. Storage capacity is very low by international standards since British Gass owner, Centrica, shut down the Rough facility off the coast of Yorkshire.
Very. Russian gas flows into Europe via a complex network of pipelines that run through Ukraine, Belarus and Poland to Germany, including Yamal and Nord Stream 1. From Germany, pipelines carry gas to the rest of western Europe and through to the UK.
The good news, for the UKs security of supply at least, is that less than 5 of our gas comes from Russian imports. About half comes from vast, though rapidly dwindling, North Sea reserves. Another third is sourced from Norway, while the rest comes in via pipelines connecting the UK to Europe, or in the form of liquefied natural gas LNG, which is transported by tankers typically from Qatar or the US. All of this means, according to a report by the Oxford Institute of Energy Studies, that Britain is unlikely to face a physical shortage of supplies.
The bad news is that Russia typically supplies 30-40 of Europes gas, meaning it still wields huge influence over prices, which are already eye-wateringly high. The UKs market is closely connected to markets in Europe, so a price rise in Germany or the Netherlands means British suppliers must pay more to get hold of it. In January, the US bank Goldman Sachs said it expected gas prices to be twice as high as normal until 2025 and that was before Russia launched its attack on Ukraine. On Thursday, analysts at Investec said they believe the gas and electricity price surge of recent days could force the regulator Ofgem to take the household bills price cap soaring above 3000, hot on the heels of this months 54 increase to 1971.
When it comes to securing alternative supplies, LNG from the US and Qatar is one option. Officials were reportedly in talks late last year with Qatar over a deal that could result in the gas-rich nation supplying extra cargoes of gas in the event of an energy emergency, according to the Financial Times. But the government denied requesting that Qatar act as a supplier of last resort.
At 280p per therm, UK short-term gas prices are already more than seven times higher than this time last year and Tom Marzec-Manser, a senior gas expert at ICIS, thinks they could return to the record levels above 450p, reached in December last year.
In the UK, this has triggered an energy crisis, including the collapse of multiple electricity suppliers and a rise in household gas and electricity bills that has contributed to a growing cost-of-living squeeze. That pressure could be about to increase.
If war in Ukraine were to damage or choke off those supply lines, it could cause severe market volatility and a shutdown of European factories to help conserve gas.
Its possible to use other routes, particularly the Yamal pipeline through Poland and Germany, said Michael Bradshaw, professor of global energy at Warwick Business School.
I dont think its unreasonable to believe that gas markets could return to the highs we saw late last year if things were to escalate to the point that gas supplies were affected, Marzec-Manser said.
