Adam Holloway MP is a member of the foreign affairs select committee and a former soldier Photograph WENN LtdAlamyAdam Holloway MP is a member of the foreign affairs select committee and a former soldier Photograph WENN LtdAlamy
20220301
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/01/tory-gravesham-mp-adam-holloway-rebuked-by-downing-street-for-travelling-to-ukraine-russia-putin-invasion
Travel advice issued by the Foreign Office says all British nationals should leave Ukraine immediately if you judge it is safe to do so.
As he crossed into Ukraine, he described seeing a queue of people trying to flee that stretched for 20 miles, with many of them corralled together and forced to wait for four days in the cold.
If you look at the moral component of warfare  and as you know I used to be a soldier  that is the decisive thing.
The Gravesham MP, who is a member of the Commons home affairs select committee and a former soldier, said he believed that unlike in Russia, Ukrainian citizens were offering to join the military voluntarily.
A spokesperson for the prime minister, Boris Johnson, said the advice not to travel to Ukraine applies to everyone.
He added: It was fascinating talking to him, because so many people are volunteering for the military that theyre only taking people with actual military experience  there just arent enough guns.
Holloway said that while on his travels he had also run into Ukraines top concert pianist.
The McDonalds near the border was packed with women and children and a few elderly people, Holloway said.
Adam Holloway said he was in a town about 80 miles east of the border with Poland and had witnessed queues outside military conscription centres and volunteers packaging up medical kits for Ukrainian soldiers trying to hold off the Russian advance.
Gravesham MP reports being 80 miles east of Polish border, witnessing effects of Russian invasion
Speaking to GB News on Monday night, Holloway said: Ive only been on the ground for just over 12 hours but it seems to me that these people here are absolutely determined to fight.
Those who need assistance are told to contact the government, but the advice said: British nationals should not expect increased consular support or help with evacuating in these circumstances.
Asked if Holloway should return home, the spokesperson said: He should certainly not travel to Ukraine.
Downing Street has criticised a Conservative MP for travelling to Ukraine, despite government guidance warning against anyone visiting the country that is under siege by Vladimir Putins troops.
We cant know whats going to happen over the next few days and months. But one thing I can absolutely tell you is that these people here  certainly where I am right now and I think right across Ukraine  it does feel to me as if theyre going to fight.
