Boris Johnson and Emmanuel Macron at Cop26 Photograph Murdo MacLeodThe GuardianBoris Johnson and Emmanuel Macron at Cop26 Photograph Murdo MacLeodThe Guardian
20220205
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/05/uk-and-france-agree-nato-must-unite-against-russian-aggression
On Thursday, US officials claimed to have evidence of an elaborate plot by the Kremlin to make a very graphic fake video of a Ukrainian attack as a pretext for a military invasion.
During a phone call on Saturday the prime minister and the French president discussed the worrying development of the Ukraine crisis.
The details in the specific reports today are credible and extremely concerning. Weve conducted our own analysis on this intelligence and share the USs conclusion.
In January, the US and UK alleged that Russia has deployed operatives inside Ukraine to stage false-flag attacks and has recruited Ukrainians to take over a puppet government that would collaborate with Russian occupation forces.
Johnson updated Macron on his visit to Kyiv this week, where he met the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky. During his visit, Johnson said there was intelligence suggesting the threat of an imminent military campaign by Russia was a clear and present danger.
The leaders discussed their work to strengthen Natos Eastern flank, ensuring that allies are fully defended against malicious Russian activity, wherever and however it might occur.
Macron is expected to visit Moscow on Monday and Kyiv on Tuesday, while the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, will travel to Kyiv on 14 February and to Moscow the next day.
Were considering options for further military deployments to support Natos eastern flank, were not at the stage of setting out details yet but we will come forward with those in due course.
A No 10 spokesperson said of Johnsons call with Macron: They agreed that finding a diplomatic solution to the current tensions must remain the overriding priority.
The UK and its Nato allies will be united in their fight against Russian aggression wherever and however it might occur, Boris Johnson has agreed with Emmanuel Macron.
Foreign secretary Liz Truss had been due to travel to Ukraine with the prime minister on Tuesday to meet the Ukrainian president, but had to drop out of the trip after testing positive for coronavirus. Truss will reportedly travel to Moscow soon.
Johnsons official spokesperson said: We have high confidence Russia is planning to engineer a pretext blaming Ukraine for an attack in order to justify a Russian incursion into Ukraine.
Boris Johnson and Emmanuel Macron discuss worrying development of Ukraine crisis in phone call on Saturday
The prime minister and president Macron stressed that Nato must be united in the face of Russian aggression. They agreed to continue to work together to develop a package of sanctions which would come into force immediately should Russia further invade Ukraine.
European leaders are due to travel to both Moscow and Kyiv in a bid to calm tensions.
Downing Street said on Friday it has high confidence Russia is planning to fabricate a reason for attacking Ukraine.
