BP said the Rosneft holding is no longer aligned with its business and strategy  Photograph Maxim ShemetovReutersBP said the Rosneft holding is no longer aligned with its business and strategy  Photograph Maxim ShemetovReuters
20220227
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/feb/27/bp-exiting-its-1975-shareholding-in-russian-oil-giant-rosneft
The London-headquartered oil firm announced on Sunday that it was offloading its 19.75 voting stake in Rosneft, noting that Russias invasion of Ukraine represented a fundamental change in relations with Moscow.
BPs ultimate decision to walk away from Rosneft underlines the mounting pressure on firms to put an end to their business dealings with Russia.
Looney, who became BPs chief executive in early 2020, said he was deeply shocked and saddened by the situation unfolding in Ukraine, which had caused us to fundamentally rethink BPs position with Rosneft  I am convinced that the decisions we have taken as a board are not only the right thing to do, but are also in the long-term interests of BP.
The UK business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, who had held a virtual call with Looney on Friday to discuss the governments concern over the companys involvement in Russia, said he welcomed BPs decision, adding that Moscows unprovoked invasion of Ukraine must be a wake-up call for British businesses with commercial interests in Vladimir Putins Russia.
BP has also benefited from Moscows manoeuvres over the past few months, which have helped to push up global energy prices.
The oil firms chief executive, Bernard Looney, is also resigning from the Rosneft board with immediate effect, it said in a statement.
The move will not be without significant financial repercussions for BP. As a result, the company said it would no longer recognise a share in Rosnefts net income, production and reserves.
Shell works alongside Russias state-owned Gazprom on the Sakhalin II project, which included the building of Russias first liquefied natural gas LNG plant on Sakhalin island, located in the Sea of Okhotsk in Russias far east.
The value of the stake was estimated at $14bn 10.4bn at the end of last year. It is unclear who BP would sell it to.
BP said it would write down up to $25bn at the end of the first quarter of 2022 following its exit, which it will report to investors in May.
It has led the BP board to conclude, after a thorough process, that our involvement with Rosneft, a state-owned enterprise, simply cannot continue. We can no longer support BP representatives holding a role on the Rosneft board. The Rosneft holding is no longer aligned with BPs business and strategy.
In 2003, BP set up a joint venture, TNK-BP, under the leadership of former boss Bob Dudley and alongside a string of Russian oligarchs, which was dissolved a decade later to form Rosneft, with BP retaining its stake in the business, which it co-owns with the Russian government.
BPs chairman, Helge Lund, said: Russias attack on Ukraine is an act of aggression which is having tragic consequences across the region. BP has operated in Russia for over 30 years, working with brilliant Russian colleagues. However, this military action represents a fundamental change.
The UK, along with the EU and US, has imposed a range of sanctions on Russian companies including banks, while the UK has banned the airline Aeroflot from landing in Britain. However, until now there had been no impact on BPs partnership with Rosneft, nor on the operations of rival oil firm Shell.
Together, BP and Rosneft had operated a strategic partnership, cooperating on research and on oil and gas projects such as Taas-Yuryakh in eastern Siberia.
The impact is likely to be lasting: Rosneft accounted for almost a fifth of BPs bumper $12.8bn profits for 2021 in its latest set of annual results, contributing some $2.7bn.
BP is exiting its stake in Russian state-owned oil company Rosneft, days after coming under pressure from the UK government over its involvement with Russia.
TNK-BP was caught in a series of controversies during its 10 years of operations, with Dudley forced to flee Moscow in 2008 after an orchestrated campaign of harassment by Russian state agencies.
Former BP chief executive Bob Dudley has also resigned from the Rosneft board, which is chaired by the former German chancellor, Gerhard Schrder, and run by Igor Sechin, a close ally of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.
BPs relations with Russia go back several years, but the British government had only recently begun to voice concerns over the oil giants dealings with a Russian state-owned company.
