Buildings including schools civil settlements and art houses were damaged after missile and artillery strikes by Russian forces in Marhanets Dnipropetrovsk Oblast Ukraine Photograph Anadolu AgencyGetty ImagesBuildings including schools civil settlements and art houses were damaged after missile and artillery strikes by Russian forces in Marhanets Dnipropetrovsk Oblast Ukraine Photograph Anadolu AgencyGetty Images
20220810
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/10/thirteen-civilians-killed-in-russian-shelling-near-ukrainian-nuclear-plant
Ukraine says about 500 Russian troops with heavy vehicles and weapons are at the plant, where Ukrainian technicians continue to work.
Ukrainians and the countrys allies must think about how to inflict the greatest possible losses on the occupiers in order to shorten the war, he said.
After the United Nations atomic energy watchdog sounded the alarm over a potential nuclear disaster, the Group of Seven leading industrialised countries on Wednesday told Russia to hand back the plant to Ukraine.
The president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said Ukrainian forces would respond to the shelling of Marhanets. Ukraines military said Russia also bombarded several other areas in the Zaporizhzhia region including the coal-mining town of Vuhledar.
Andriy Yermak, Zelenskiys chief of staff, said Russia was launching attacks with impunity from Zaporizhzhia knowing it was risky for Ukraine to fight back.
Images supplied by Ukrainian officials showed the rubble-strewn corridor of a school with its windows blown out and a residential building pierced by a rocket.
Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of imperilling the plant, Europes largest nuclear complex, with attacks nearby.
Calling on foreign allies to send more powerful weapons, Zelenskiy said in a late-night video address that Kyiv will not leave todays Russian shelling of the Dnipropetrovsk region unanswered.
Valentyn Reznychenko, governor of Ukraines central Dnipropetrovsk region, said more than 20 buildings had been damaged in the town on the other side of the Dnieper river from the power plant.
There were no indications that their demand will sway Moscow, which on Wednesday received powerful endorsement from China of its rationale for the 24 February invasion of Ukraine.
Beijings ambassador to Moscow, Zhang Hanhui, accused Washington of backing Russia into a corner with repeated expansions of the western-led Nato military alliance and support for Ukraines alignment with the European Union.
Ukraines state nuclear power firm has warned that containers with radioactive material might be shelled and said it is vital Kyiv retake the plant by winter. It accuses Russia of wanting to connect the facility to its power grid.
The cowardly Russians cant do anything more so they strike towns ignobly hiding at the Zaporizhzhia atomic power station, he said on social media.
Moscow pressed its campaign on multiple fronts on Wednesday. Ukraines military reported Russian forces shelled about 28 towns in the north-east, the south-west and south including the Kharkiv, Donetsk and Kherson regions. Ukraines general staff said in an unverified statement that Ukrainian counterattacks forced Russian troops to retreat in most of them.
Washingtons ultimate goal is to exhaust and crush Russia with a protracted war and the cudgel of sanctions, Zhang was quoted as saying.
The town Ukraine says Russia targeted  Marhanets  is one Moscow says its foes have used in the past to shell Russian soldiers at the Zaporizhzhia plant, which they seized in March.
Russia has not commented on the Ukrainian allegations of an attack on Marhanets and Reuters could not independently verify Kyivs version.
Ukraine has accused Russia of firing rockets from around a captured nuclear power plant, killing at least 13 people and wounding 10, in the knowledge that it would be risky for Ukraine to return fire.
Russia blamed for targeting the town of Marhanets calculating it would be risky to return fire
