Denis Pushilin leader of the selfproclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic in Ukraine Photograph Olga MaltsevaAFPGetty ImagesDenis Pushilin leader of the selfproclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic in Ukraine Photograph Olga MaltsevaAFPGetty Images
20220817
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/17/donetsk-self-proclaimed-leader-pledges-bilateral-cooperation-with-north-korea
During a speech at the Moscow international security conference on Tuesday, Putin said Russia would provide its allies and partners with advanced weapons and military equipment as well as working to create new mechanisms of international security.
In a statement backing the self-proclaimed republics, the North Korean foreign ministry said Ukraine has no right to raise issue or dispute our legitimate exercise of sovereignty after committing an act that severely lacks fairness and justice between nations by actively joining the US unjust and illegal hostile policy in the past.
He told the Russian newspaper Izvestia in an interview, according to Seoul-based website NK News, that highly qualified and hard-working Korean builders, who are capable of working in the most difficult conditions, could help us restore our social, infrastructure and industrial facilities.
The move made North Korea only the third country after Russia and Syria to recognise the two breakaway entities.
Kim reportedly sent a letter of reply to Putin saying Russian-North Korean friendship had been forged in the second world war with victory over Japan. Their strategic and tactical cooperation, support and solidarity had since reached a new level in their common efforts to frustrate threats and provocations from hostile military forces, Kim said in the letter. KCNA did not identify the hostile forces, but it has typically used that term to refer to the US and its allies.
The people of the Donbas region, too, are fighting to regain their freedom and justice of history today just as the Korean people did 77 years ago, the report cited Pushilins letter as saying.
Last month, Russias ambassador in Pyongyang, Alexander Matsegora, said North Korean labour could be sent to help rebuild the war-shattered infrastructure in the self-proclaimed peoples republics in Donetsk and Luhansk.
Matsegora said there were potentially a lot of opportunities for economic cooperation between the North and the self-proclaimed republics in Ukraines Donbas region, despite UN sanctions.
Kim predicted cooperation between Russia and North Korea would grow based on an agreement signed in 2019 when he met with Putin.
Earlier this week, Putin told the North Korean ruler that Russia and North Korea would expand the comprehensive and constructive bilateral relations with common efforts, according to a letter cited by KCNA on Monday.
The letter claimed closer ties would be in both countries interests, and would help strengthen the security and stability of the Korean peninsula and the north-eastern Asian region.
Russian-backed self-appointed leader writes Kim Jong-un a letter, shortly after Vladimir Putin said Moscow and Pyongyang would expand relations
Pushilin has previously said he hoped for fruitful cooperation and increased trade with North Korea.
The message expressed the conviction that an equally beneficial bilateral cooperation agreeing with the interests of the peoples of the two countries will be achieved between the Peoples Republic of Donetsk and the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, KCNA added, using the official name of North Korea.
North Korea and the Russian-occupied Donetsk region of Ukraine will develop equally beneficial bilateral cooperation, its self-appointed leader has said in a letter to Kim Jong-un, according to state media.
In July, North Korea recognised the self-proclaimed Donetsk DPR and Luhansk Peoples Republics LPR in eastern Ukraines Donbas region, as independent states.
North Korea has traditionally earned much-needed foreign currency by sending its citizens to work overseas. Under UN-sanctions they were supposed to have been repatriated by the end of 2019, but significant numbers of North Korean labourers have reportedly continued to work in Russia and China, as well as in Laos and Vietnam, after the deadline.
Denis Pushilin made the pledge in a message congratulating Kim on the 15 August Korean liberation day, North Korean state news agency KCNA reported, two days after reporting a similar message from Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to Kim.
