Firefighters extinguish a fire at the house hit by a Russian shell in Kyiv Ukraine on Wednesday Photograph Anadolu AgencyGetty ImagesFirefighters extinguish a fire at the house hit by a Russian shell in Kyiv Ukraine on Wednesday Photograph Anadolu AgencyGetty Images
20220324
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/24/russia-ukraine-war-what-we-know-on-day-29-of-the-invasion
Zelenskiy has addressed the Swedish parliament and told it that Ukraine deserves to be a full member of the European Union.
Thursday marks one month since Russia invaded Ukraine. The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, called for people around the world to unite in rallies to protest against the war. Come to your squares, your streets. Make yourselves visible and heard. Say that people matter. Freedom matters. Peace matters. Ukraine matters, he said.
Ukraine forces appear to have struck a large Russian landing ship, Orsk, that was unloading supplies at the port of Berdyansk, about 45 miles 75km from Mariupol. Video footage appears to show a large fire in the port.
The UK government has announced it is applying 65 new sanctions against Russia, targeting strategic industries, banks and business elites including the Wagner Group  sometimes described as Vladimir Putins private army  and Polina Kovaleva, the stepdaughter of the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov.
Russia has confirmed that at one point Roman Abramovich did play a part in peace talks, but that now the negotiations are between the two teams.
Boris Johnson has said the Russian president has already crossed a red line that merits ramping up the wests response, and that the west could target Russias gold reserves.
Ukraines foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, has said paying for Russian oil and gas in roubles, as Putin is demanding, would be helping Russians kill Ukrainians.
Joe Biden to join leaders at Nato, G7 and EU summits one month into Russias invasion of Ukraine
Norwegian media is reporting that the Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, is to extend his term in the role by another year because of the war in Ukraine.
Western nations will warn Vladimir Putin on Thursday that his country will pay ruinous costs for invading Ukraine, during an unprecedented one-day trio of Nato, G7 and EU summits that will be attended by the US president, Joe Biden, in Brussels.
Seven humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians from Ukrainian towns and cities have been agreed for Thursday, Ukraines deputy prime minister, Iryna Vereshchuk, has said.
Russias ambassador to Warsaw has said Poland has blocked the embassys bank accounts for allegedly financing terrorist activity. Bulgaria is recalling its ambassador from Russia for consultations.
Zelenskiy said he hoped for meaningful steps at the round of summits, noting they would reveal who is a friend, who is a partner, and who betrayed us for money.
Russian forces have been accused of taking hostage the people of the besieged Ukrainian city of Chernihiv, as local officials imposed drinking water rationing on trapped civilians.
