Hundreds of Ukrainians demonstrate outside Downing Street in London on Thursday against the Russian invasion of Ukraine Photograph Andy HallThe ObserverHundreds of Ukrainians demonstrate outside Downing Street in London on Thursday against the Russian invasion of Ukraine Photograph Andy HallThe Observer
20220224
https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/feb/24/ukrainians-protest-at-downing-street-gates-over-russian-invasion-uk-military-sanctions
As we were anticipating, this is all over Ukraine, she said. I hear of explosions in my home town Lviv, near the Polish border, which was considered the safest place in Ukraine.
I literally couldnt look at my colleagues in the eye this morning, said one woman, who spoke of a feeling of shame.
Vovnyanko, co-founder of British-Ukrainian Aid, which supports people suffering from the armed conflict and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, added: Im extremely worried because initially we thought that the attacks will be mostly towards the eastern part of Ukraine, along the frontline. And we thought that possibly there will be airstrikes on Kyiv, as American intelligence services said.
While shock, anger and defiance were among the common sentiments, events in the early hours of Thursday morning had also heralded difficult personal dilemmas for many, such as Aleksandra Legosteva, a tech worker, and her mother, Olena, who had come to visit on Saturday.
The bishop of the Ukrainian Catholic Eparchy of the Holy Family of London, the Right Rev Kenneth Nowakowski, was among those who had gathered in London.
The historian said many of her friends and relatives were trying to get their parents to safety. None of my friends have left Kyiv yet, although some are trying to get their parents out. Others were in bomb shelters. But people from Berdyansk and Zaporizhia, in the south-east, are trying to leave because its been bombed heavily and its extremely dangerous to be there.
Members of the diaspora described their fear on hearing from relatives in Ukraine that their home towns had been bombed in Russian airstrikes.
Petro Kormylo, archivist for the Edinburgh branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain, said his relatives in north-east Ukraine had reported skirmishes with invading Russian forces.
Kormylo, 71, from Dumfries, said two of his relatives had recently joined the territorial defence force, set up by the Ukraine government in January to help the armed forces resist a Russian invasion.
I dont want to criticise the British government because were grateful for what theyve done so far but there is so much more that can and should be done now, he said.
Away from the protests, other Ukrainians in Britain expressed their shock and anger as they struggled to maintain contact with family and friends fleeing from or sheltering in areas under bombardment.
While those gathered were almost entirely Ukrainian, a small group of young Russians working in sectors ranging from IT to fashion were also present, though they declined to give their names  such were their concerns at the consequences of speaking out against Putin.
Theres still a place for talking but there should be a comprehensive response to what is happening in Ukraine, including a military one and also international condemnation. Otherwise what is the UN for? added Yurchuk.
I listened this morning to the news that there were airstrikes and a shell landed in the middle of the town centre and a few people were killed, she said, adding that her nephew and his family in Kyiv had also moved to the countryside.
Yuriy Yurchuk, 35, a principal singer at the Royal Opera House, said he had been due to perform at Moscows Bolshoi theatre in two weeks time but that would now not happen.
But today we realised that all Ukraine, even relatively distant towns from the frontline, are affected. I had a brief exchange with my PhD supervisor who is living in Odesa. There were airstrikes there and shes very scared about her life.
Ukrainian flags, large and small, were scattered throughout the crowd, along with homemade placards variously condemning Vladimir Putin as a war criminal or drawing a link between his regime and that of the Soviet Union.
Hundreds of Ukrainians, many clad in their national colours of yellow and blue, have gathered outside the gates of Downing Street in London to protest against Russias invasion of their country.
I dont want her to go back, said Legosteva, who told of a largely sleepless night as the family monitored Russias invasion and worried about relatives in northern Ukraine who were stockpiling food and other supplies.
Shock, anger, defiance and calls for UK military boots on the ground as well as sweeping sanctions
Its also worth remembering that this is a war that has been going on for eight years now. The rest of the world is now waking up to it and the fact that Putin may not just stop at Ukraine.
Olesya Khromeychuk, director of cultural centre the Ukrainian Institute London, said she spent the night anxiously following reports of Russian attacks across Ukraine.
Like others, she was eager for the UK government to impose sweeping sanctions on Russia, while calls for military assistance and British military boots on the grounds were a common refrain among the crowd.
I think on a paramilitary level or partisan level, youre going to find Ukrainians fighting in skirmishes everywhere. If you can think back to Northern Ireland, its going to be 50 times worse than that.
Tetyana Vovnyanko, who lives in London, said close family who live near the city of Uman, between Kyiv and Odesa, have sought safety in the countryside.
