In Europe Moshe Kantor is best known as the head of the European Jewish Congress Photograph Menahem KahanaAFPGettyIn Europe Moshe Kantor is best known as the head of the European Jewish Congress Photograph Menahem KahanaAFPGetty
20220406
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/06/moshe-kantor-uk-sanctions-russian-billionaire-over-ties-to-putin
Sergey Sergeyevich Ivanov is the son of one of Putins closest associates, Sergei Ivanov, a former KGB agent who became deputy prime minister and defence minister. He is president of the worlds largest diamond producer, Alrosa, which the UK also sanctioned on Wednesday. Alrosa produces almost a third of the worlds rough diamonds.
The Kantor Centre, which he founded at Tel Aviv University, issued a statement condemning the war in Ukraine as an unprovoked invasion  and the cowardly war crimes committed under the directives of Vladimir Putin.
In 2015, Kantor appointed Tony Blair to a role tackling antisemitism as chairman of the European Council on Tolerance and Reconciliation, an organisation funded and founded by Kantor. Blair is still listed as a chair of the organisation, along with the former Austrian chancellor Sebastian Kurz.
The Russian billionaire Moshe Kantor, who was sanctioned by the UK government on Wednesday, has long cultivated deep ties with British politicians and establishment figures, including Tony Blair and Prince Charles.
Born in Moscow and now a British citizen, Kantor, 68, has maintained close ties to Vladimir Putin, and has brought a number of delegations to meet the Russian president, according to Haaretz. In 2017, Putin bestowed Kantor with the Order of Honour in recognition of his professional achievements and longstanding fair work.
Boris Rotenberg, son of the co-owner of Russias largest gas pipeline producer, SGM, joins his billionaire father and uncle on the sanctions list. He lives in Londons Belgravia, according to the UK and US governments.
Andrey Guryev, the main shareholder in PhosAgro, one of the worlds biggest fertiliser companies, with shares that traded on the London Stock Exchange until they were suspended following the invasion. He was revealed in 2015 to be the beneficiary of an offshore company that owned the 25-bedroom Witanhurst mansion beside Londons Hampstead Heath, the UKs second largest private residence after Buckingham Palace.
Leonid Mikhelson, the founder of Russian natural gas producer Novatek, which also listed its shares in London before the invasion. Mikhelson has an estimated net worth of $22bn 17bn, according to Forbes, and his business partner is the sanctioned oligarch Gennady Timchenko. Mikhelson, an avid art collector, founded a not-for-profit Russian contemporary art foundation, V-A-C, in 2009, which has since funded international collaborations, including in London.
Kantor is vice president of the Jewish Leadership Council and honorary life president of a school in Ilford, east London, Kantor King Solomon, jointly with The Apprentice tycoon Lord Alan Sugar.
But in Europe Kantor is best known as the holder of one of the Jewish communitys most high-profile roles, president of the European Jewish Congress EJC, as well as his multitude of interests in Jewish charities, education and events.
He also organised the World Holocaust Forum, which marked the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz death camp, attended in Jerusalem by Prince Charles, Macron, then US vice-president Mike Pence and Putin.
The Kantor Centre, which the billionaire founded in Israel, has condemned Putins invasion of Ukraine.
With an estimated net worth of 3.48bn, Kantor is the largest shareholder in the fertiliser company Acron, which the Foreign Office said had vital strategic significance for the Russian government.
It said the Russian invasion was fascist-style aggression and added: Putin has the blood of thousands of victims, including children, on his hands. His policies pose an existential threat to world democracy, peace and security.
Sergey Kogogin is the director of Kamaz, a manufacturer of trucks and buses, including for the Russian military.
The EJC said it was deeply shocked and appalled by the decision to impose sanctions on Kantor, adding: Dr Kantor has been granted the most prestigious awards and honours from many European heads of state and government. We call for this decision to be reversed as soon as possible.
Andrey Akimov is the CEO of Russias third largest bank, Gazprombank, who was sanctioned by the US in 2018 amid anger over apparent Russian interference in the US 2016 election.
Aleksander Dyukov is the chief executive of Gazprom Neft, Russias third largest and majority state-owned oil producer. A shipbuilding engineer by training, he worked at St Petersburgs oil terminal shortly after Putins stint as deputy mayor, and has served on the board of petrochemicals company Sibur alongside other Putin allies.
Kantor is one of eight Russian oligarchs targeted in the latest round of UK government sanctions
