KaraMurza says he was poisoned in Moscow in 2015 and 2017 as retaliation for his lobbying efforts to impose US and EU sanctions against Russian officials accused of human rights abuses Photograph Clemens BilanEPAKaraMurza says he was poisoned in Moscow in 2015 and 2017 as retaliation for his lobbying efforts to impose US and EU sanctions against Russian officials accused of human rights abuses Photograph Clemens BilanEPA
20220411
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/11/prominent-russian-opposition-activist-detained-in-moscow
It was not immediately clear if Kara-Murzas arrest was linked to his opposition to Russias actions in Ukraine, but it comes amid an unprecedented crackdown on independent media and anti-war dissent. Last month, the Russian parliament passed a law imposing a jail term of up to 15 years for spreading intentionally fake news about the military.
Vladimir Kara-Murza is a critic of the invasion of Ukraine and described the Kremlin as a regime of murderers
Vladimir Kara-Murza, 40, is a veteran Kremlin critic who says he was deliberately poisoned in Moscow in 2015 and 2017 as retaliation for his lobbying efforts to impose US and EU sanctions against Russian officials accused of human rights abuses. A close friend of the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, who was shot and killed in 2015, Kara-Murza nearly died from kidney failure in the first incident.
Hours prior to his detention, Kara-Murza appeared on CNN where he described the Kremlin as a regime of murderers.
Aleksandr Podrabinek, a former Soviet dissident who went to the Khamovniki police station on Monday to support Kara-Murza, told the independent news outlet Sota that he believed he had been detained because the authorities were angered by his courage.
His longtime lawyer, Vadim Prokhorov, said police had accused Kara-Murza of changing his walking pace and trying to escape when they approached him outside his house on Monday evening.
Kara-Murza, who studied at Cambridge University, has been a vocal opponent of Russias invasion of Ukraine, launching an anti-war committee with other leading Russian opposition figures. He has also been one of the few prominent opposition figures still living in Russia, as many have fled the country out of safety concerns after the jailing last year of Alexei Navalny.
I have absolutely no doubt that the Putin regime will end over this war in Ukraine, doesnt mean its gonna happen tomorrow. The two main questions are time and price, and by price, I do not mean monetary  I mean the price of human blood and human lives and it has already been horrendous, but the Putin regime will end over this and there will be a democratic Russia after Putin, Kara-Murza said.
A prominent Russian opposition activist and outspoken critic of the invasion of Ukraine has been sentenced in Moscow to 15 days in jail on charges of disobeying police orders when leaving his home on Monday night, his lawyer said.
