Kyivs residents with their absurd sense of humour have a unique culture all of their own A Berlin demonstration against the war in Ukraine Photograph John MacDougallAFPGetty ImagesKyivs residents with their absurd sense of humour have a unique culture all of their own A Berlin demonstration against the war in Ukraine Photograph John MacDougallAFPGetty Images
20220304
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2022/mar/04/beyond-war-books-understand-ukraine-invasion-putin-gogol-oliver-bullough
It is hard to spend time in Kyiv without falling in love with it. The location of the city, on a hill above the Dnieper, is extraordinary. And its residents, with their deep-rooted and apparently unconscious bilingualism, and their absurd sense of humour, have a unique culture all of their own. Only Kyiv would overthrow a kleptocrat, then put his vulgar swag on display in the art museum as immersive conceptual art. I dont know of any book that perfectly captures the wonder of the Ukrainian capital, but Andrey Kurkovs Death and the Penguin, a gloriously odd novel about a penguin employed to go to mafia funerals, first introduced me to it, and for that I adore it.
If you want to understand how Putins claims to be denazifying Ukraine are so offensive to ordinary Ukrainians, as well as his insistence that they actually want to be Russian, its important to read about the countrys experience in the first half of the 20th century, when Bolsheviks and Nazis alike rampaged over its flat terrain, killing millions upon millions of people. Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin, by Timothy Snyder, is that rare thing  a history book that makes you totally re-evaluate what you thought you knew.
The history of Russia is better known than that of Ukraine in the west, but what about that of Vladimir Putin, who has hidden many of the details of his own career? The essential book to understand the Russian president is Putins People: How the KGB Took Back Russia and Then Took on the West by Catherine Belton, which begins with his time in the St Petersburg administration before telling the inside tale of how he built a nuclear-armed mafia state, cowing his allies and rivals alike.
With Russian forces pushing deep into Ukraine, bombarding Kharkiv, Kyiv and other cities, and an unprecedented wave of western sanctions pushing the rouble down to an all-time low, it is hard for any of us to tear our eyes away from the news. But the currents of history that led up to this crisis are deep and complex, and understood in profoundly different ways in Moscow and Kyiv.
A crucial weapon that Putins Kremlin deployed in defanging the  albeit rickety and imperfect  democracy that grew up in Russia in the 1990s was his control of the press. No one has written about this better than Kyiv-born Peter Pomerantsev in Nothing Is True and Everything Is Possible, a hilarious but terrifying account of his own career in the Russian media. Joshua Yaffa did a fantastic job of exploring how ordinary people navigated the system Putin built in Between Two Fires: Truth, Ambition and Compromise in Putins Russia.
All of these books will help you understand where this crisis came from, but none of them will quite conjure up the profound shock that Ukrainians and Russians alike feel at the outbreak of war between their nations. There are many monuments to their shared culture, but my favourite is my collection of Nikolai Gogols short stories. Raised in Ukraine, discovered in Russia, adored in both, Gogol conjures up the absurdity of life under autocracy better than anyone.
But the west is very much not guiltless in supporting the corrupt systems that have bedevilled both Russia and Ukraine anger at which drove Kyivs 2014 revolution. To understand how kleptocracy is enabled out of western capitals, and, above all, out of London, read Kleptopia by Tom Burgis. The oligarchs from both sides employ western lawyers, accountants and wealth managers to hide the money they stole, then spend it on property, luxury goods, fine art and more.
From Ukrainian history to Putins kleptocracy and Gogols stories, author and former Russia correspondent Oliver Bullough chooses the best titles
The Gates of Europe: A History of Ukraine by Serhii Plokhy is a great place to start reading up on the background to the crisis. It tells the story of this large but less well-known country without the Moscow-centric bias that many of us Russian speakers have long struggled to free ourselves of. It is learned and considered, but lightly written and leavened by anecdotes.
If you want to understand why Putin has long been so popular, its useful to know what Russia was like before he came to power, and how a small group of oligarchs came to own all the countrys most valuable resources in a period of chaos and misery. The best book on this is Sale of the Century: The Inside Story of the Second Russian Revolution by Chrystia Freeland, who worked as a journalist in Moscow and is now deputy prime minister of Canada.
Oliver Bullough is a former Russia correspondent and the author of Moneyland. His book Butler to the World: How Britain Became the Servant of Tycoons,, Tax Dodgers, Kleptocrats and Criminals is out on 10 March, published by Profile 20. To support the Guardian and Observer, order your copy at guardianbookshop.com. Delivery charges may apply.
