Liz Truss speaks in The Hague Photograph Piroschka van de WouwReutersLiz Truss speaks in The Hague Photograph Piroschka van de WouwReuters
20220429
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/29/uk-to-send-investigators-to-ukraine-to-gather-evidence-of-war-crimes-truss-says
The team will arrive in neighbouring Poland early next month to examine how they can assist.
Moscow denies committing war crimes in Ukraine or targeting civilians during a war that has killed thousands, devastated many cities and towns and forced 5 million people, mostly women and children, to flee abroad.
We want to see all the crimes prosecuted, Truss said. However, she added: Im concerned that if theres focus on setting up an additional tribunal that will divert resources away from this vital evidence collecting.
Speaking after meeting with ICC officials, Truss said a British team would head to Ukraine in May with a special emphasis on investigating rape as a possible war crime.
Foreign secretary emphasises urgency of holding to account those who use rape as a weapon of war
Truss said Britain endorses prosecuting Russian leaders for the war crime of aggression  a thorny question under international law.
Both Ukrainian prosecutors and the international criminal court ICC have been investigating potential war crimes in Ukraine since Russias 24 February invasion, which the Kremlin called a special military operation to demilitarise its neighbour.
Separately, Truss met with her Dutch counterpart, Wopke Hoekstra, to discuss the need for further sanctions on Russia, including a halt on purchasing Russian fossil fuels.
The priority now is collecting the evidence as soon as possible and making that happen and also bringing perpetrators to justice because bringing perpetrators to justice is also about preventing further atrocities taking place in Ukraine, demonstrating to people that if they do commit war crimes, if they do use rape as a weapon of war, they will be held to account.
Its done to subjugate women and destroy communities and we want to see it stopped.
Britain will send investigators to Ukraine to help gather evidence of war crimes, including sexual violence, the foreign secretary, Liz Truss, has said.
This is about collecting a wide range of evidence, witness statements, forensic evidence, and video evidence, she said outside the court building in The Hague.
Some politicians and legal experts have called for the establishment of a separate tribunal as the quickest way to hold Russian politicians responsible for an illegal war.
The two Nato allies have been closely aligned on Ukraine policy, with both supporting the supply of heavy weaponry for its war effort. Both also support a full ban on Russian energy exports to Europe, including gas, by the end of 2022.
The ICC has jurisdiction over war crimes committed on Ukrainian soil, including by Russian soldiers, but cannot bring aggression charges since Russia is not a member of the court.
We will also use British intelligence to help show the link between what is happening on the frontline and the Russian authorities, because it is important that everybody in the chain of command is held to account, she said.
We are looking at all possible ways, including how the crime of aggression can be prosecuted.
