People rally outside the Ukrainian consulate in Toronto Photograph Nick IwanyshynReutersPeople rally outside the Ukrainian consulate in Toronto Photograph Nick IwanyshynReuters
20220224
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/24/canada-ukrainian-community-russia-invasion
Largest diaspora population outside of Ukraine and Russia stand united as Trudeau announces new sanctions
A number of organizations across Canada are quickly raising funds for relief projects, organizing rallies and assisting those with families affected by the war.
Kulish, who works closely with humanitarian organizations in Ukraine, says colleagues on the ground have described the surreal experience of shelling near their homes and the constant worry of loved ones.
I have a knot in my stomach. I can only imagine what its like for people in Ukraine who are living with the shelling, said Taras Kulish, a Toronto-based charity lawyer and member of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress. Were all concerned and theres a definitely a shock factor in processing it.
Canadas new sanctions comes after it previously pledged C$500m US$780,770 in financial support Ukraine C$7.8m worth of lethal equipment and ammunition.
The Ukrainian people, like all people, must be free to determine their own future, she said. We know that the people of Ukraine  are fighting for us too. They are fighting for democracy and we stand with them.
Ive been checking in with colleagues telling them were here. Were praying for you. Were looking to see what we can do in response. Were trying to give them that knowledge that people are concerned about them and who love them, said Kulish. But you cant imagine what its like. Its almost unfathomable.
Announcing new sanctions on key Russian figures, Justin Trudeau on Thursday condemned the horrific, unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
We stand united and steadfast in our support of Ukraines sovereignty, the prime minister said. And we stand in solidarity with the Ukrainian peoples right to decide their own future in a free and democratic state.
Canadas sanctions will target wealthy Russians, large banks and members of the Russian security council, including the defence minister, the finance minister and the justice minister. Canada will also halt export permits to the country.
The prairie province of Alberta announced it would donate C$1m to the Ukrainian Canadian Congress, a recognition of the large diaspora population in the region and the long history Ukrainian residents have farming the area.
For the last eight years, Kulish has been involved in work providing trauma therapy clinics in the countrys eastern region.
Weve been living this for the last seven years, so in one way, were terribly prepared for it.
News of Russias invasion of Ukraine has shaken members of Canadas Ukrainian community, the largest diaspora population outside of Ukraine and Russia.
At times speaking in Ukrainian, Freedland also called on fellow members of the Ukranian Canadian community to show strength and to support loved ones affected by the war.
The deputy prime minister, Chrystia Freeland, who is of Ukrainian descent, said Russian president Vladimir Putins decision to invade Ukraine placed him in the ranks of the reviled European dictators who caused mass death and carnage in the 20th century.
