Prime minister Scott Morrison said Australia has not been asked or nor would we be providing support through troops or anything of that nature to Ukraine if Russia were to invade Photograph George FragopoulosAAPPrime minister Scott Morrison said Australia has not been asked or nor would we be providing support through troops or anything of that nature to Ukraine if Russia were to invade Photograph George FragopoulosAAP
20220219
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2022/feb/19/scott-morrison-says-australia-wont-send-troops-to-ukraine-and-russian-invasion-inevitable
I call upon Russia to back off, he said. There is no place for the intimidation that we have seen from Russia.
Here, in Australias only north-facing city, the city that engages with our neighbours and trades with the world, we remember what was, but we give thanks for the peace gifted to us, Morrison said.
This is not how free nations, democratic nations, nations in favour of peace, should behave. We have seen this before and we cannot allow it to stand.
Late on Friday, Ukraines military intelligence said Russian special forces had planted explosives at social infrastructure facilities in Donetsk, and urged residents to stay at home.
Scott Morrison has said Australia wont send troops to Ukraine in the event of an invasion by Russia but will provide practical assistance to allies.
The US president, Joe Biden, believes Russias Vladimir Putin has made a decision to invade Ukraine and will do so within weeks or days.
The trade minister, Dan Tehan, earlier this week said Australia would enact strong economic sanctions against Russia should it invade.
The two leaders were in Darwin on Saturday to mark the 80th anniversary of the bombing of the Northern Territory capital.
Just before 10am on 19 February 1942, a formation of 188 Japanese aircraft descended on the Top End in the first of two raids that day.
Morrison said an invasion was regrettably inevitable, with intelligence showing Russian troops have not been withdrawn from the border.
Australia has not been asked or nor would we be providing support through troops or anything of that nature, he said.
We watch with alarm the events in Ukraine and, as ever, tensions in our own region.
The bombing would go down in history as the largest single attack ever mounted on Australia, with more than 230 people killed and hundreds wounded.
Morrison said Australia would stand by its like-minded allies and provide support that is necessary.
We work with our allies and partners in many other ways, and we will seek to do that with the practical things that we can do to assist those efforts.
They cannot use the threat of war and invasion as a way of trying to leverage and negotiate other changes that they may be seeking, he said.
Russia has released footage it claims shows a withdrawal of its troops from the border but the US believes there has been a ramp-up to between 169,000 and 190,000 troops, from 100,000 at the end of January.
Last weekend, the federal government temporarily suspended its operations at the Australian Embassy in Ukraines capital Kyiv and evacuated diplomatic staff.
The pretence has been sought for an invasion, Morrison told reporters in Darwin on Saturday. There is no pretence for an invasion into Ukraine. There is no justification for it. There is no provocation of it.
Gunner said the 80th anniversary served as a reminder of the painful cost of war, wherever it plays out as he pointed to the unfolding conflict in Ukraine.
We have had such discussions with the UK prime minister and others about how we proceed along that basis.
Morrison, Albanese, the governor general, David Hurley, the NT chief minister, Michael Gunner, and the Japanese ambassador to Australia were among those who attended the event at Darwins Cenotaph.
Both Gunner and the Darwin mayor, Kon Vatskalis, called for February 19 to be made a national public holiday.
We will always be proud to stand with others like the United States and Japan and so many others around the world, the friends in Europe and United Kingdom who have been prepared to call this out.
