Renault employs 40000 people in Russia Photograph Evgenia NovozheninaReutersRenault employs 40000 people in Russia Photograph Evgenia NovozheninaReuters
20220219
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/21/renault-moscow-russia-nestle
Nestl has halted sales of non-essential items such as coffee pods to Russia, has ceased advertising support and says it does not make a profit on the goods it continues to sell there.
Avtovaz sold 350,000 vehicles in 2021, making profits before tax of 186m 156m for Renault  or about 12 of its earnings that year. Avtovaz started as a state-owned company in the Soviet Union, making cars that became strongly associated with the Communist regime under the Zhiguli and then Lada brands.
Some prominent US and UK retail brands are still operating in Russia because they have been unable to force independent franchise operators to close down.
Several companies from Europe and other rich economies have been forced to write off assets in Russia after government pressure and sanctions.
Renault had suspended production at the plant last month, citing logistical problems after the invasion of Ukraine on Vladimir Putins orders. However, Renaults decision to restart manufacturing has the backing of the French government, which is its main shareholder, according to sources cited by Reuters.
Burger Kings owner, Restaurant Brands International, last week said fast food restaurants were still operating with its brand because its former Russian partner had refused to shut down. Other companies in similar situations include the UK retailer Marks  Spencer and the hotel groups Accor and Marriott.
Renault has owned a controlling two-thirds stake in the Russian carmaker Avtovaz since late 2016, after first investing in what was then a fast-growing market in 2007. That means it has larger operations in the country than most other European rivals, with 40,000 local employees, posing a huge challenge as the US, UK and EU governments try to isolate Russia economically.
The fact that we, like other food companies, supply the population with important food does not mean that we simply continue as before, Nestl said in a statement.
The French carmaker Renault has resumed manufacturing in its plants in Moscow, bucking the trend of many other large global companies that have cut ties with Russia over its war on Ukraine.
Carmakers around the world have struggled to source semiconductor computer chips used in everything from car radios to windscreen wipers, and Russian factories are likely to fall further down the queue as its economic isolation deepens. Western sanctions imposed on Russia since the invasion include bans on semiconductor exports.
While the Moscow plant has restarted, Avtovaz said on Monday it was partially halting production this week at a huge plant in Tolyatti, a city on the Volga river, and another in Izhevsk, a city 500km to the north-east. The halt was caused by shortages of electronic parts, it said.
Carmakers move backed by French government as Nestl also comes under pressure to withdraw business
This article was amended on 22 March 2022. Avtovaz sold 350,000 vehicles in 2021, not nearly 2,900 as an earlier version said.
Authentic Brands, the owner of the Reebok sportswear brand, on Monday said it had suspended all branded stores and e-commerce operations in Russia. The brand, which had been highlighted as one of several western labels that had been slow to take action, has about 90 stores in Russia.
Those firms remaining in Russia have come under increasing pressure to halt business there, including the Swiss food and drink group Nestl. The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, criticised Nestl, which continues to sell essential products such as baby food, cereals and some pet foods in Russia, in a streamed speech to thousands of protesters in Switzerlands capital of Berne on Saturday.
