RT reporting on the special operation by Russian forces in Ukraine  Photograph RT NewsRT reporting on the special operation by Russian forces in Ukraine  Photograph RT News
20220318
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2022/mar/18/will-ofcoms-decision-to-ban-rt-stop-kremlin-message-reaching-uk-audiences
Ofcoms decision to rapidly revoke RTs licence was highly unusual, with similar decisions usually taking years of legal wrangling rather than three weeks of correspondence. Even as Russian tanks rolled over the border into Ukraine, Ofcom emphasised that it was perfectly possible for a television station to present a skewed viewpoint, so long as other views were represented. Although RT had received a substantial fine for rule breaches following the 2018 Salisbury novichok poisoning, it has since had a clean record.
RTs loss of a broadcasting licence now poses two big questions: will the lack of a television channel make much difference to the Kremlins ability to push its message to British audiences? And will Moscow use the decision as justification to further restrict the BBCs activities in Russia?
No other Ofcom broadcast licensee is financially dependent on a state whose head of state, President Putin, has been personally sanctioned by the UK for launching a war of aggression against a neighbouring state, said Ofcom.
While President Putin appears at giant television-friendly rallies, his rival, President Zelenskiy, is more adept at producing short, emotional clips that go viral on Twitter.
Yet, amid intense political pressure and similar EU-wide bans, events moved fast. As early as 8 March, Ofcom informed RT that the channels bosses were no longer considered fit and proper to hold a licence.
Analysis: Social media ban will do more to stop state-backed channel  and Putin may curb BBC in response
After years of being content that the stations editorial line was not directly controlled by the Kremlin, within days Ofcom had concluded that the exceptional circumstances of the war in Ukraine  and the introduction of a law in Russia criminalising certain coverage of the invasion  made it impossible for RT to meet the required standards to hold a British broadcasting licence.
If youve heard about Ofcoms decision to permanently ban the Kremlin-backed television channel RT from UK airwaves, then its probably because you have read coverage of the decision rather than because you were a viewer. RTs most recent audience figures showed it was a statistical afterthought, reaching just 79,000 viewers a day  with most watching for around a minute as they flicked through channels.
On Thursday afternoon the remaining staff of RTs British operation  including the former Scottish first minister Alec Salmond  headed to the 16th floor of Westminsters Millbank Tower and cleared their desks for the final time. After almost a decade on air the British arm of the outlet was in the process of closing down its operations, ahead of the expected loss of its broadcasting licence.
Although the Kremlin has spent more than a decade investing in western media outlets, its top-down approach to broadcasting has been outflanked in the current conflict by canny Ukrainian use of social media aimed at English-speaking audiences.
The BBC is also waiting to see whether it will face further pushback as a result of Ofcoms decision. It has already stopped producing its Russian-language content in Russia, although its English-language correspondents have resumed broadcasting.
Yet the fate of this channel parroting the Kremlins line on world affairs  describing the invasion of Ukraine as a special military operation  has become a symbolic focus of British political debate about Russian media influence in Britain.
Yet the decision only affects RTs regulated television broadcasts in the UK, which were less popular than the broadcasters booming unregulated online output. Instead, in the long run the more important restriction on Russias propaganda machine may be the decision of major US tech platforms such as Facebook and YouTube to ban access to RTs content in Britain. The real significance of Ofcoms ruling may be in publicly delegitimising RT and associated Russian media outlets in the minds of the British public.
