Russias Major General Vitalii Gerasimov whom Ukraine claims to have killed outside Kharkiv Photograph Wikimedia CommonsRussias Major General Vitalii Gerasimov whom Ukraine claims to have killed outside Kharkiv Photograph Wikimedia Commons
20220308
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/08/vitaly-gerasimov-second-russian-general-killed-ukraine-defence-ministry-claims
The investigative journalism agency Bellingcat said it had confirmed Gerasimovs death with a Russian source. Its executive director, Christo Grozev, said they had also identified the senior FSB officer in the intercepted conversation.
On Tuesday, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said the war was like a nightmare for Russia and hailed the Ukrainian resistance effort.
The ministry also broadcast what it claimed was a conversation between two Russian FSB officers discussing the death and complaining that their secure communications were no longer functioning inside Ukraine.
A Russian general has been killed in fighting around Kharkiv, Ukrainian intelligence has claimed, which would make him the second general the Russian army has lost in Ukraine in a week.
Ukrainian intelligence says major general in Russias 41st army died outside Kharkiv along with other senior officers
In the call, you hear the Ukraine-based FSB officer ask his boss if he can talk via the secure Era system. The boss says Era is not working, Grozev said on Twitter. Era is a super expensive cryptophone system that Russias defence ministry introduced in 2021 with great fanfare. It guaranteed to work in all conditions.
The loss of top ranking officers has come at a time when much of Putins invasion force has become bogged down by logistical problems, poor morale and Ukrainian resistance. The failure of its encrypted communications system could be another severe blow.
His comments came after Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the US ambassador to the United Nations, accused Vladimir Putin of having a plan to brutalise Ukraine by shelling cities.
The intelligence arm of the Ukrainian defence ministry said Maj Gen Vitaly Gerasimov, chief of staff of the 41st Army, had been killed outside the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, along with other senior officers.
Gerasimov took part in the second Chechen war, the Russian military operation in Syria, and the annexation of Crimea, winning medals from those campaigns.
If confirmed, Gerasimov would be the second Russian general from the 41st Army to die within a week in Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine. At the beginning of March, its deputy commander, Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky, was confirmed by Russian media to have been killed.
