Russian soldiers patrol the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol Photograph APRussian soldiers patrol the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol Photograph AP
20220823
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/kyiv-accuses-moscow-of-mass-abduction-of-ukrainian-children
Kyiv has accused Moscow of having organised illegal mass adoptions of Ukrainian children after transferring them from occupied territories to Russia.
Since the beginning of the war, Kyiv has been accusing Moscow of deporting Ukrainians, saying Ukrainians from occupied territories have been forced to go to Russia rather than other regions of Ukraine.
The Russian Federation continues to abduct children from the territory of Ukraine and arrange their illegal adoption by Russian citizens, Ukraines foreign ministry said in a statement.
The foreign ministry said it had based its findings on information from local authorities in Krasnodar, a southern Russian city near Ukraine.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Mariupol, a strategic port city on the Sea of Azov, was surrounded in the early days of the invasion. Russia fully seized the city after weeks of siege and intense shelling that left about 20,000 dead, according to Ukrainian estimates.
Several families from Mariupol said they had been forced to go to Russia to flee the fighting.
More than 1,000 children from Mariupol, a southern Ukrainian city occupied by Russian troops, were illegally transferred to outsiders in Tyumen, Irkutsk, Kemerovo and Altai Krai in Siberia, the statement read.
Foreign ministry says Russia has transferred more than 1,000 children from Mariupol for illegal adoptions in Siberia
The ministry accused Russia of actions that grossly violate the 1949 Geneva convention that establishes rules for humanitarian treatments in wartime and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It called for all Ukrainian children, who were illegally displaced to the territory of Russia, to be returned to their parents or legal guardians.
More than 300 Ukrainian children are held in specialised institutions in the Krasnodar region, according to the statement.
