Russian president Vladimir Putin has a long list of demands which will prove problematic for Nato and the west  Photograph Mikhail TereshchenkoAPRussian president Vladimir Putin has a long list of demands which will prove problematic for Nato and the west  Photograph Mikhail TereshchenkoAP
20220205
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/12/russia-ukraine-what-does-putin-want
Putin may sense western weakness. Nato was humiliated last year in Afghanistan and Joe Biden, who campaigned to end wars, not engage in new ones, has refocused American foreign policy and military resources on China, not Europe. Its also suggested Putin needs a big victory to shore up his domestic support, vindicate his anti-western policies, excuse rampant regime corruption and kleptomania, and justify the hardships Russians endure as a result of western sanctions imposed after his first attack on Ukraine, in 2014. That was when he annexed Crimea and took de facto control of the eastern Donbas region.
The massive military buildup could be a bluff, or a political ploy designed for a Russian audience. Either way, the US is digging in
To end the standoff maybe, Putin wants Nato to promise never to accept Ukraine or Georgia and Moldova as members. He wants the alliance to pull back from frontline countries such as Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, former members of the defunct Warsaw Pact. He wants Kyiv to accept autonomous status for the Donbas region and relinquish its claim to Crimea as part of the so-called Minsk accords. He wants to limit or halt deployments in eastern and southern Europe of new US medium-range missiles. More ambitious still, he wants to redesign Europes security architecture, to re-establish Russias influence and extend its geopolitical reach. To most of this, the US says no. Hence the current crisis.
Russian spokespeople daily deny any intention to invade. So, too, did Russias president, Vladimir Putin, when he met the French leader, Emmanuel Macron, last week, and when he spoke to US president Joe Biden on the phone. There are two problems with this. First, given Putins Johnsonian relationship with truth, few western governments believe the denials. Second, Putin has not explained why, if his intentions are peaceful, more than half of Russias armed forces, including 130,000 troops, are massed on Ukraines borders. It could all be a bluff. But who would bet the house on that?
There are numerous theories. Putin is said to want to rebuild a Russian sphere of influence in eastern Europe, principally embracing former Soviet republics such as now independent Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, Georgia and Ukraine. He has frequently bemoaned their loss after the Soviet Union collapsed. Putin may also hope to demonstrate to the west and Russians that the country is still a superpower, even though by most measures nuclear weapon stockpiles and geography apart it is a failing medium-sized power.
Putin fears strategically important Ukraine, commanding Russias south-western flank, is assimilating into the west. He objects to its growing closeness to Nato. He also opposes Kyivs developing links with the EU. Worse still, from his point of view, Ukraine is a democracy, with free speech and free media, which freely elects its leaders. In practice, Russians enjoy no such freedoms  if they followed Ukraines example, Putin would not last long. More broadly, Putin is a nostalgic revisionist who regards Ukraine as an integral part of historical Russia and its loss as a symbol of Russias cold war defeat.
