Russian forces are trying to cut off the town of Lysychansk after driving Ukrainian troops out of Sievierodonetsk Photograph Anatolii StepanovAFPGetty ImagesRussian forces are trying to cut off the town of Lysychansk after driving Ukrainian troops out of Sievierodonetsk Photograph Anatolii StepanovAFPGetty Images
20220626
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/26/russia-ukraine-war-what-we-know-on-day-123-of-the-invasion
Another civilian was killed in a missile attack on Cherkasy south-east of the capital. A bridge over the Dnipro river was also hit.
Russian forces are trying to cut off the strategic twin city of Lysychansk in eastern Ukraine, having reduced Sievierodonetsk to rubble. Lysychansk is set to become the next main focus of fighting, as Moscow has launched massive artillery bombardments and airstrikes on areas far from the heart of the eastern battles. Ukraine called its retreat from Sievierodonetsk a tactical withdrawal to fight from higher ground in Lysychansk on the opposite bank of the Siverskyi Donets river.
Members of the G7 have confirmed a ban on imports of Russian gold. The move by Britain, the United States, Japan and Canada is part of efforts to tighten the sanctions squeeze on Moscow. Gold exports were worth $15.2bn to Russia in 2021, and their importance has increased since Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine.
The UK and France have agreed to provide more support for Ukraine, according to Downing Street. Leaders of the G7 have spoken of their solidarity for Ukraine. We have to stay together, Joe Biden said.
Both the attacks on Kyiv and Cherkasy are being seen message of defiance by Russia to G7 leaders gathering at a summit in Bavaria, Germany. Russia said it hit military targets in Chernihiv, Zhytomyr and Lviv. Joe Biden condemned the Russian attacks as more barbarism. Germanys chancellor Olaf Scholz said they showed the importance of G7 unity.
The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said on Saturday that Ukraine will win back all the cities it has lost to Russia, including Sievierodonetsk. All our cities  Sievierodonetsk, Donetsk, Luhansk  well get them all back, he said in a late-night video address. Zelenskiy also admitted that the war was becoming difficult to handle emotionally.
The mayors of several European capitals have been duped into holding video calls with a deepfake of their counterpart in Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko. The mayor of Berlin, Franziska Giffey, took part in a scheduled call on the Webex video conferencing platform on Friday with a person she said looked and sounded like Klitschko. There were no signs that the video conference call wasnt being held with a real person, her office said in a statement.
Kyiv under attack as G7 leaders meet in Germany focus of Russias campaign shifts to Lysychansk
Kyiv has come under attack for the first time since 5 June, with Russian missiles striking at residential buildings and a Kindergarten in the Shevchenkivskyi district of the capital. At least five people were injured, including a seven-year-old girl. There are unconfirmed reports that her father was killed in the attack. A Russian woman was among the injured.
Russian news footage has showed defence minister Sergei Shoigus visiting troops involved in the Ukraine war. It is unclear if he visited Ukrainian territory, but the footage appeared to confirm that colonel-general Gennady Zhidko is now commanding troops in Ukraine.
