Sean Penn speaking at a press conference in Rzeszow Poland near the Ukrainian border last month Photograph Angelos TzortzinisAFPGetty ImagesSean Penn speaking at a press conference in Rzeszow Poland near the Ukrainian border last month Photograph Angelos TzortzinisAFPGetty Images
20220406
https://www.theguardian.com/film/2022/apr/06/sean-penn-says-ukraine-is-going-to-win-this-thing
Penn appeared on The Last Word With Lawrence ODonnell on MSNBC, where he affirmed his belief that Ukraine is going to win this thing  its a certainty. He stressed the unity of the population, adding: Its an exciting moment in history  They look at each other and they say were together.
Penn also appeared on Fox News show Hannity, where he discussed the war with host Sean Hannity. Penn praised Zelenskiy saying: In him, I saw something Id never seen before, and repeated his assertion of Ukraines eventual victory over Russia. It is clear to me that the Ukrainians will win this. The question is at what cost.
Penn was revealed to have been in Ukraine making a documentary as the Russian invasion began, and was present at a press briefing in Kyiv in February, having previously visited the country to shoot footage in November. At the time Zelenskiy released a statement saying: Sean Penn is among those who support Ukraine in Ukraine today. Our country is grateful to him for such a show of courage and honesty  The more people like that  true friends of Ukraine, who support the fight for freedom  the quicker we can stop this heinous invasion by Russia.
Actor Sean Penn has said Ukraine will win its war with Russia, in a series of TV appearances designed to boost support in the US for Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy and the countrys effort to repel the invading forces.
Penn has continued to vocally support the Ukrainian cause, calling for private money to buy fighter planes for the Ukrainian air force and demanding that Zelenskiy be allowed to speak at the Oscars ceremony, saying he would smelt his Oscars in public if it didnt happen. In the event, Zelenskiy did not address the Oscars but did make an appeal to the audience at the music industry equivalent, the Grammy awards.
Penn said that he found Zelenskiy and Ukrainian unity to be an inspiration for the American people, offering the US a way to overcome the divisiveness that has plagued it for decades, saying: This is freedom of thought and true leadership that is just so moving. Its the kind of moving that we need to be able to get to the US, which is borderline a kind of populist lapdance of a nation at this point. Weve got to get back on track together and realise that Ukraine, with all its diversity, has a unity weve never seen in modern times.
Actor makes series of TV appearances to boost support in the US for Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy and the countrys effort to repel Russia
