The EU leaders will urge Vladimir Putin to deescalate tensions with Russias neighbour Photograph Mikhail MetzelSputnikAFPGetty ImagesThe EU leaders will urge Vladimir Putin to deescalate tensions with Russias neighbour Photograph Mikhail MetzelSputnikAFPGetty Images
20211208
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/dec/15/eu-to-warn-vladimir-putin-of-massive-consequences-of-invading-ukraine
Of course, we want to good relations with Russia. But whether this is possible, depends first and foremost, on Russias behaviour. At this point in time, Russias choosing aggressive posture vis-a-vis its neighbours and, as the European Union and its G7 partners have made very clear, further aggressive acts against Ukraine will have massive costs for Russia.
A detailed discussion of the issue of security guarantees took place in the light of ongoing attempts by the United States and Nato to change the military-political situation in Europe in their favour, the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement.
Speaking to the European parliament, the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, said the EU was prepared should Russia escalate the military situation.
I want to reaffirm our unwavering commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the right of any sovereign state to determine its own future.
We are prepared. Theres a whole set of economic sanctions in place, targeting the financial energy sector, dual-use goods and defence. Our response to any further question may take the form of a robust scaling-up and expansion of these existing sanctions. And of course, we are ready to take additional unprecedented measures with serious consequences for Russia.
Putin has mobilised as many as 175,000 troops on Ukraines northern, eastern, and southern border, with the Kremlin blaming provocative Nato drills near the border for making the military buildup necessary.
In a sign that that request is unlikely to be satisfied, Georgias prime minister, Irakli Garibashvili, visited Nato headquarters in Brussels on Wednesday morning to meet the organisations secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg.
The leaders will urge Russia to de-escalate tensions caused by the military buildup along its border with Ukraine and aggressive rhetoric.
The US president, Joe Biden, spoke to Putin last week and the Russian president suggested a list of binding security guarantees that it wanted from the west. A formal document was sent this week.
EU leaders will unite in warning Vladimir Putin that there will be massive consequences and severe cost if Russia invades Ukraine, a leaked draft has revealed.
The message will be sent to the Kremlin via a post-summit communique on Thursday, although EU officials decline to flesh out what measures could be taken.
EU officials and diplomats said they would not disclose what measures would be taken as it could weaken their stance. Western countries have varied economic ties with Russia.
According to the leaked draft, they will say: The European Council reiterates its support for Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity. Any further military aggression against Ukraine will have massive consequences and severe cost in response.
She said: We all have seen the reports of Russias massive buildup of military along Ukraines eastern border, and also the attempt to destabilise Ukraine from within.
The White House said it would share these demands with EU governments. One of them is understood to be that Nato withdraw a 2008 pledge to admit Ukraine and Georgia.
