There are 48 MS shops in Russia where a Turkish franchisee runs stores Photograph Toby MelvilleReutersThere are 48 MS shops in Russia where a Turkish franchisee runs stores Photograph Toby MelvilleReuters
20220317
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/17/tory-mp-backs-calls-for-marks-spencer-to-shut-stores-in-russia
Baker Tilly International said it would separate member firms in Russia and Belarus from our global network and not serve government clients or state-owned enterprises of Russia or Belarus, or sanctioned entities and individuals.
No 10 reiterated its call on businesses to do nothing that could potentially support Putins regime and indeed do everything to put pressure on him to change course.
Two weeks ago, MS stopped supplying its Turkish franchisees businesses in Russia, which has 48 shops and 1,200 employees. However the stores remain open and continue to sell their existing stock.
Another Ukrainian MP, Maria Mezentseva, added: Everything that is contributed to the Russians is coming back severely with bloody bullets to innocent Ukrainians.
The UK has been very active in leading  they were one of the first countries with a lot of companies to leave, but there are still three big companies who havent left, she said, adding: Marks  Spencer has not left Russia.
Alyona Shkrum, a Ukrainian MP who met senior UK government figures including the prime minister, Boris Johnson, on Thursday, called for Britain to put more pressure on firms still operating in Russia.
Speaking to the Guardian, Kearns added: It is wrong that some British businesses continue to operate, because all they are doing is buttressing Putins brutality and funding his war coffers.
A Conservative MP has backed calls for dozens of Marks  Spencer stores across Russia to be shut immediately, suggesting Vladimir Putin is funnelling every rouble made in the country into the invasion of Ukraine.
Shkrum said all money generated in Russia goes just to the army and added that there had been several reports of invading troops raping Ukrainian women.
Some other chains that operate in Russia by franchise, such as McDonalds, have been able to close their doors, given the agreements differ between companies.
Kearns backed the call for all MS shops in Russia to close and raised concern about the reports of sexual violence committed by soldiers. Referencing the MS advertising slogan, she said: This isnt just any food, its blood and rape food.
Alicia Kearns, who hosted four Ukrainian parliamentarians in the House of Commons on Thursday, said any profits generated would be tainted by the killings and war crimes committed during the conflict.
Chris Bryant, a Labour MP and chair of the parliamentary group on Russia, told the Commons that other multinational companies still doing business in Russia included the fast food chain Subway and the tax advisory firm Baker Tilly.
Subway said it had no corporate operations in Russia and that its 450 franchised restaurants in the country were all independently owned and operated.
A spokesperson added: We suspended deliveries to our franchise licensees Russian business two weeks ago and have no plans to reinstate them. We are actively discussing the future of the business with our franchise licensee.
MS said in a statement that it did not operate stores or have any employees in Russia and the franchise licensee held the rights to trade under the firms banner in both Ukraine and Russia.
Retailer says it has stopped supplying its franchisees business in Russia, but the shops remain open
