This video has been removed This could be because it launched early our rights have expired there was a legal issue or for another reasonJohnson Russia invasion would pose extreme danger to the world  video
20220220
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/20/boris-johnson-says-russia-has-plans-for-biggest-war-in-europe-since-1945
People will draw the false conclusion that might is right and that aggression pays, and so what weve got to ensure is that it doesnt pay off, and even if a lightning war is initially successful, that over time, through our economic might, through all the pressure we can bring, we make sure that this this venture does not succeed.
The UK prime minister vowed that Nato would not be pushed back to appease Moscow and stressed that Vladimir Putin was totally wrong to think that provocations designed to curtail the Western alliances influence would succeed.
Earlier, the Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said he believed US intelligence that 5 million people could become refugees if Russia invaded Ukraine.
He said: I think what he wants to see is Nato pushed back, and hes going to see the exact opposite. What were doing is putting more UK forces into Estonia, more into Poland, more in the skies above Romania. And if he thinks hes going to get less Nato as a result of this. hes totally wrong, hes going to get more Nato.
Johnson admitted that Putin had got everybody fixated by the fear of war, but denied the Russian president had already won by bringing into question whether Ukraine could ever join Nato.
Western leaders were gathered on Saturday in Germany for the Munich Conference to discuss continuing efforts to avoid war breaking out in eastern Europe and the huge repercussions for neighbouring countries and the wider region.
What matters is the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine and ultimately, that is still for Ukrainians to determine, Johnson said.
What we dont want to see is a violent invasion that would take away one of the most important gains of my lifetime, which was the creation of a Europe whole and free.
British PM says he wants people to understand the sheer cost in human life that an invasion would entail
Meanwhile, a Foreign Office minister said an invasion by the more than 100,000 Russian forces stationed on the border with Ukraine seems far more likely than unlikely.
This video has been removed. This could be because it launched early, our rights have expired, there was a legal issue, or for another reason.
He told Times Radio it wont just be the people of Ukraine but people in other eastern European countries were watching about whats going on here.
Labour said it stood four-square behind the UK government and Nato. Wes Streeting, the shadow health secretary, told Sky News: There should be no doubt on the resolve of the UK, on a cross-party basis, and the resolve of Nato across the alliance.
In a direct attack on the Russian president, Johnson said Putin may be thinking illogically and could not seem to see the disaster ahead. He implored the Kremlin to pull back and engage in serious diplomatic conversation.
I think people need to understand the sheer cost in human life that that could entail  not just for Ukrainians, but also for Russians and for young Russians, the prime minister said.
He said theres one person who knows whats going happen, which was Putin  but if Russia temporarily succeeds in launching a lightning war that leads to the capture of Ukraine, western countries would hit back hard.
However, he urged ministers to take a tougher approach to the City of London being used as a centre for Russian kleptocrats and money laundering.
In an interview with the BBC after his speech at the conference, which was aired on Sunday morning, Johnson said Russias plan was to launch the biggest war in Europe since 1945 with an invasion of Ukraine through the eastern region of Donbas and from Belarus in the north, with soldiers encircling the capital of Kyiv.
Russia plans to launch the biggest war in Europe since 1945 by attacking Ukraine in a bloody and protracted conflict, Boris Johnson has warned as he vowed to use all the pressure we can bring to make sure that this this venture does not succeed.
Johnson said he believed Putin was anxious about the encroachment of Nato since the end of the cold war as the old Soviet Union dissipated.
