Ukrainian Armed Forces hold a drill in eastern Ukraine earlier this month amid escalation on the UkraineRussia border Photograph Sergey KozlovEPAUkrainian Armed Forces hold a drill in eastern Ukraine earlier this month amid escalation on the UkraineRussia border Photograph Sergey KozlovEPA
20220212
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/12/biden-and-putin-to-speak-as-us-warns-russia-could-attack-ukraine-any-day
According to Walla News, Israel ordered family members of diplomatic staff out of the country, and the Kyiv Post reported that the US had called for American members of the Ukraine monitoring mission run by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe to leave the country by Tuesday.
US secretary of state Antony Blinken described the situation as at a pivotal moment and said he would speak to Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Saturday.
The department had earlier ordered families of US embassy staffers in Kyiv to leave, but left it to the discretion of nonessential personnel if they wanted to depart.
I will say that the way that he has built up his forces and put them in place, along with the other indicators that we have collected through intelligence, makes it clear to us that there is a very distinct possibility that Russia will choose to act militarily, and there is reason to believe that that could happen on a reasonably swift timeframe, Sullivan said.
Biden has told other Nato and EU leaders that the US believes Putin has decided to carry out an invasion of Ukraine, which could happen in the next few days, according to diplomatic sources.
He added that Russians have all they need to carry everything out, from a minor invasion in the east to minor attacks here and there in Ukraine, or a complete invasion, with, possibly, an occupation of all or parts of Ukraine.
Western intelligence agencies believe that the most likely goal of a Russian offensive would be to surround Kyiv and force regime change. A number of invasion scenarios are considered possible, but there is a prevailing belief that any military intervention could see a lightning attack, aimed at encircling Kyiv, with the intention of forcing the collapse of President Zelenskiys government, and trying to install a pro-Russian regime without urban warfare.
If you stay you are assuming risk with no guarantee that there will be any other opportunity to leave, and there is no prospect of a US military evacuation in the event of a Russian invasion, Sullivan said.
The White House said Biden was calling transatlantic leaders to discuss our shared concerns about Russias continued buildup of military forces around Ukraine, and continued coordination on both diplomacy and deterrence.
Practical things will start to happen on the ground as a result of this decision, but that doesnt mean that Putin couldnt still row back, a European diplomat said, insisting it was not too late to deter the Russian leader. There are further decision points along the line.
We continue to see signs of Russian escalation, including new forces arriving at the Ukrainian border, Sullivan told reporters. We are in the window when an invasion could begin at any time.
Late on Friday the Russian foreign ministry accused Western countries of spreading false information with help from the media, in order to distract attention from their own aggressive actions.
On Saturday, Biden will speak with Putin by phone. Putin requested the telephone call between the leaders to take place on Monday, a White House official said, but Biden wanted to conduct it sooner as Washington detailed increasingly vivid accounts of a possible attack on Ukraine.
Vice-Admiral Nils Andreas Stensnes, the head of the Norwegian intelligence service, said Russia now had 150,000 troops massed around Ukraine, and said the decision on whether to attack rested with Vladimir Putin.
The head of the foreign affairs committee in the Bundestag, Michael Roth, a former minister, said on Twitter: Russia has effectively annexed Belarus militarily. What are being called exercises is really the encirclement of Ukraine, and a concrete threat to Poland and the Baltic States. The situation remains dangerous.
The US is also set to evacuate its embassy in Kyiv. The Associated Press reported the state department will announce early Saturday that all American staff at the Kyiv embassy will be required to leave the country ahead of a feared Russian invasion.
The US warned on Friday of the very distinct possibility of a Russian invasion of Ukraine in the next few days and told all remaining Americans to leave the country in the next 48 hours.
If Russia is genuinely interested in resolving this crisis of its own making through diplomacy and dialogue, were prepared to do that, he said.
The Russian embassy in Kiev said it was considering telling non-essential staff to leave, according to Tass news agency. Other embassies stepped up evacuations on Friday.
A European diplomat said that the US had asked for the urgent call with Nato allies and the heads of the EU council and commission, to share the new intelligence.
If a Russian attack on Ukraine proceeds, it is likely to begin with aerial bombing and missile attacks that could obviously kill civilians without regard to their nationality. A subsequent ground invasion would involve the onslaught of a massive force with virtually no notice. Communications to arrange a departure could be severed and commercial transit halted.
Within minutes of Bidens call, the UK Foreign Office urged British citizens in Ukraine to leave now via commercial means while they remain available.
US president Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin will speak on Saturday as Western nations warned that a war in Ukraine could ignite at any moment.
Ahead of the discussion, Australia and New Zealand became the latest countries to urge their citizens to leave Ukraine as soon as possible, joining Britain, Japan, Latvia, Norway and the Netherlands. Israel said it was evacuating relatives of embassy staff.
They also believe that the signal for such an invasion would be a false-flag attack, possibly including allegations of Ukrainian use of chemical weapons, that would be used as a pretext for Russian intervention.
The raised alert follows the failure of several diplomatic initiatives to lead to a breakthrough. Reports suggested that much of Emmanuel Macrons more than five hours of talks with Putin in Moscow on Monday, was taken up by lengthy historical lectures from the Russian leader, with very little substance on current events.
The West describes Russias main demands as non-starters but is willing to talk about arms control and confidence-building steps.
Now, we cant pinpoint the day at this point, and we cant pinpoint the hour but what we can say is that there is a credible prospect that a Russian military action would take place, even before the end of the Olympics. The Winter Olympics in China close on 20 February.
Western intelligence agencies largely agree that Putin has now put in place enough troops to attempt an invasion, a sentiment reflected in warnings in the last 24 hours from Biden and the UK prime minister, Boris Johnson.
Bidens call to allies followed a situation room meeting at the White House to discuss the latest intelligence on the Russian military buildup, and on Putins thinking.
Russia wants guarantees from the West, including a promise of no missile deployments near its borders, no Nato membership for Ukraine, and a scaling back of the alliances military infrastructure.
Accounts from German officials on Normandy format talks in Berlin between Russian, Ukrainian, German and French officials had been difficult and offered no prospects of defusing tensions.
Now it is first and foremost up to President Putin if he chooses to do so, Stensnes said. It is difficult to say whether it is probable or not probable, because it is solely up to the Russian president to make that decision.
The two leaders will speak on Saturday after warnings from Washington that a Russian invasion of Ukraine could be imminent
The German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, is due to visit Moscow to see Putin on Tuesday, but his spokesman said he was taking no new diplomatic initiatives with him.
But it must take place in the context of de-escalation. So far, weve only seen escalation from Moscow, he said.
He emphasised on Thursday that any invasion would amount to a massive miscalculation by Putin because Ukraine would fight and they will resist very strongly. .
Diplomatic sources said that the US president had told allied leaders in a call that the Russian leader had taken a decision to go ahead with an invasion, but Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser, said: We have not seen anything come to us that says a final decision has been taken, that the go order has been given.
