Ukrainian refugees post in the Facebook group in order to find a UK sponsor but not all users are genuine Photograph NurPhotoREXShutterstockUkrainian refugees post in the Facebook group in order to find a UK sponsor but not all users are genuine Photograph NurPhotoREXShutterstock
20220321
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/21/trolls-and-traffickers-target-facebook-group-for-ukrainian-refugees
Shore has called on Facebook to step up and use the same kind of software used by online dating agencies that identifies the geographical location of a person posting messages, so that trolls in Russia or elsewhere who try to damage and disrupt the site can be more easily spotted and barred.
Her call comes as a Russian court banned Facebook and Instagram from doing business in Russia on the grounds that its parent company, Meta, is an extremist organisation.
Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg needs to step up. I want to protect this site. I need to be able to identify people with malicious intentions more easily so they can be blocked. Social media has also been a force for good too with the Ukraine war. Humanity is linking arms across politics, across borders and across languages.
A Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities spokesperson said: All adults in a sponsors home, where Ukrainians will housed, will be subject to Home Office checks before any visa is issued. Adults in the house of a sponsor will also be required to complete DBS checks, with an enhanced DBS with barred list check for everyone where families are hosting children or vulnerable adults.
This is a tragedy on a par with the second world war, she said. I didnt feel it was OK to stand aside. My grandfather helped liberate Belsen concentration camp. He was driving one of the first lorries that got in there at the end of the war. My target was to find 50 homes for refugees and weve done that.
At the moment, Shore is having to resort to searching the profiles of people who have posted suspicious things for any mention of Russia. Not everyone with malign intent will necessarily be Russian or use the word Russia in their Facebook profiles so it is not always possible to identify trolls among the 12,500 group members.
Only the government has the capacity to provide a safe matching service, she added. At the moment it is being left to charities and social media. Modern slavery and trafficking are disasters waiting to happen. The matching process needs to be regulated as a matter of urgency with oversight from an independent Ofsted-style regulator.
However, the founder of the group, Diana Shore, 57, an assistant professor at a UK university, said that alongside generous offers of help, she is also having to tackle Russian trolls trying to infiltrate the group. She has also raised concerns about traffickers taking advantage of the lack of government regulation and oversight of the Homes for Ukraine scheme.
Shore said that offensive posts in the group include those that urge Ukrainian men who have asked for accommodation to go back to their country irrespective of their age, health and other circumstances, and abusive comments that refer to Ukrainian women as whores.
While Shore has hailed the success of those in the group  at least 50 Ukrainian families have been matched with UK sponsors  she has urged Facebook and the government to do more to ensure the site is secure. She has also urged those using the group to register with the government scheme and has posted safeguarding notices in Russian and Ukraine on the site.
One of the largest Facebook groups matching Ukrainian refugees with UK host families has warned of the dangers of infiltration posed by Russian trolls and traffickers.
Technology firm should help spot Russian-based users, says founder of group matching up with UK hosts
Shore said she set up the group because she felt she had to do something to help.
Room for Ukrainians in the UK is a Facebook group that was set up little over two weeks ago and already has 12,500 members. Most of those posting are Ukrainians in need of sponsors and British people who want to open their homes to the new arrivals.
