Ukrainian soldiers conducting military exercises Liz Truss said the UK had trained up 20000 Ukrainian troops Photograph EyePress NewsRexShutterstockUkrainian soldiers conducting military exercises Liz Truss said the UK had trained up 20000 Ukrainian troops Photograph EyePress NewsRexShutterstock
20220215
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/15/russia-ukraine-crisis-dangerous-moment-world-warns-liz-truss
Speaking on Sky News, Truss said we could be on the brink of a war in Europe, which would have severe consequences not just for the people of Russian and Ukraine but for the broader security in Europe, adding she was very worried.
Asked to expand on this point, the foreign secretary said: If we saw an invasion into Ukraine, there would be severe costs in terms of a long-running conflict. We could see the undermining of security more broadly in Europe, we could also see other aggressors around the world see it as an opportunity to expand their ambitions too so this is a very dangerous moment for the world.
A core pillar of the dispute is Russias demand for the west to guarantee Ukraine will not join Nato, the defensive alliance of 30 countries. Truss has said it was not for Russia to determine Ukraines security arrangements.
She added: We know or we believe that Vladimir Putin has not yet made a decision about whether to invade Ukraine. We think its highly likely.
She said any conflict could be a long, protracted war. When asked on Times Radio whether Russia had the military capacity to take and hold all of Ukraine, Truss said: What we know is that the Ukrainians will fight. The UK has trained up 20,000 Ukrainian soldiers.
Russia has amassed at least 130,000 troops on the Ukrainian border and Truss said an invasion of the country could be imminent and it is highly likely.
Her comments came as last-ditch efforts for a diplomatic situation to the crisis on the Russia-Ukraine border are sought by world leaders including Boris Johnson and Joe Biden.
There are huge numbers of troops lined up on the border. We know that theyre in a position to attack imminently, but he can still change his mind and that is why diplomacy is so vital.
This is an attack on the neighbouring states of Russia and other east European countries in trying to undermine the legitimacy of them being part of Nato.
She said: The big risk is if there is an invasion into Ukraine. That would be hugely damaging for Russia and Ukraine, and it would further undermine stability in Europe.
Weve supplied defensive weapons as have other allies. So, this will not be easy or simple for Vladimir Putin. This could be a long, protracted war, which would, of course, create huge damage for both the people of Ukraine and the people of Russia as well as threatening European security.
The UK foreign secretary, Liz Truss, has warned of a dangerous moment for the world as the highly likely prospect of a Russian invasion of Ukraine could embolden other countries such as Iran and China to expand their ambitions.
UK foreign secretary says invasion by Putin could embolden Iran and China to expand their ambitions
President Putin has actively questioned why other countries in eastern Europe are members of Nato as well, so this I fear would not stop at Ukraine.
Asked to which other countries she was referring, Truss cited Iran and China as examples of potential aggressors.
