Vladimir Putin told journalists he was unsatisfied with the US response to Russian demands that Nato remove troops and infrastructure from eastern Europe and pledge never to accept Ukraine into the alliance Photograph Yuri KochetkovEPAVladimir Putin told journalists he was unsatisfied with the US response to Russian demands that Nato remove troops and infrastructure from eastern Europe and pledge never to accept Ukraine into the alliance Photograph Yuri KochetkovEPA
20220201
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/01/ukraine-crisis-putin-accuses-us-of-ignoring-russian-security-concerns
In first public comments on crisis since December, Putin says west is using Ukraine as tool to hinder Russia
Its already clear  that Russias principal concerns were ignored, Putin said after talks with the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orbn.
On Tuesday evening, Putin said that the US had not given adequate consideration of Russias three key demands, including a halt to Nato expansion, a refusal to place missile systems on Russias borders and remove Nato troops and infrastructure from central and east European countries that joined the alliance after 1997.
Behind the scenes, US officials said that the Russians appeared to be prepared to consider the US offer for negotiations on confidence-building measures such as limits on missile deployments and military exercises. They did agree that the ideas on both sides that have been exchanged formed the basis for serious discussion, one official said. Why else would they continue to have this engagement?
If Putin doesnt intend war or regime change, this is the time to pull back, Blinken told Lavrov, according to a senior state department official.
Bloomberg News reported on Tuesday that one of the US offers was to allow Russians to verify there are no offensive missiles such as Tomahawks at Nato missile defence bases in Poland and Romania. It is longstanding concern of Moscow that the missile defence system, intended as protection against Iranian missiles, could be used to launch a surprise attack on Russia.
Vladimir Putin has accused the US of ignoring Russias security proposals in his first public comments on the growing crisis over Ukraine since December.
Putin said he was ready to continue negotiations with the west, which has said it is ready for dialogue but views Moscows demands as a non-starter.
During a press conference at the Kremlin, Putin told journalists he was unsatisfied with the US response to Russian demands that Nato remove troops and infrastructure from eastern Europe and agree never to accept Ukraine into the alliance.
It did address the points that have been raised by the Russian Federation. That doesnt necessarily mean that the Russians will agree with the way in which they were addressed, he said. He repeated the US and Nato position that the inviolability of borders and the sovereign right of Ukraine and other countries to decide on their own national security arrangements were non-starters.
But Russia has also continued deploying thousands of troops and offensive weapons to the Ukrainian border, appearing to threaten a strike if the Kremlin does not get its way.
When President Putin has had a chance to review it and approve it, it will be coming to the United States, Price said. We understand that once that takes place, the Russians too are willing to engage in continued dialogue.
The sense here is still that we dont know that Putin has made a decision about what hes going to do. So until President Putin makes that decision, we need to continue to prepare for these different outcomes, the official told reporters.
The Russian leader imagined a situation where Ukraine joined Nato and then sought to retake Crimea, the peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014. Thats sovereign Russian territory, Putin said. So now we have to start a war against the Nato alliance?
In this sense, Ukraine itself is just an instrument to achieve this goal, he said. This can be done in different ways, by drawing us into some kind of armed conflict.
The Kremlin is putting together a response to a formal statement of the US position, which would have to be approved by Putin before being delivered to the state department, US officials said.
Earlier, Poland announced it would provide shells, mortars and surface-to-air missiles that would boost Ukraines defence against low-flying attack aircraft. The US, Britain and other European countries have stepped up deliveries of anti-tank weapons, ammunition and other military aid to Ukraine to ward off a potential invasion.
In emotional remarks, Putin also said the west was using Ukraine as a tool to hinder Russia and hypothesised that Ukraines entrance into Nato could lead to a conflict over Crimea, the peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014.
His next move remains unpredictable. Joe Biden has said that he believes Putin has not decided whether or not to launch an attack but that he expects that he will move in.
During a telephone call on Tuesday, Blinken told Lavrov that the US was ready for a substantive exchange with Russia on mutual security concerns but demanded an immediate Russian de-escalation and the withdrawal of troops and equipment from Ukraines borders. He also threatened swift and severe consequences if Russia launched a further invasion of Ukraine.
The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, spoke with the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, in an effort to defuse the crisis earlier on Tuesday.
And Putin said that he may hold talks in Moscow with the French president, Emmanuel Macron, in the coming weeks. I hope that we will, eventually, find a solution, though not an easy one. We are aware of that. But for now I am not prepared, of course, to say that it will be found, he said.
On Tuesday, Putin railed against deliveries of lethal aid to Ukraine, saying he believed that the country was being packed full of weapons.
Putins remarks broke almost a month of silence on the issue from the Russian leader, who has been mostly absent from public life as concern has grown in western capitals that Moscow was preparing an invasion.
He rejected US arguments that every country has the right to choose their own alliances, saying that one state must not be allowed to increase its security to the detriment of another state, namely Russia.
The state department spokesperson, Ned Price, said that the next step in the diplomatic exchange between Washington and Moscow would be a formal Russian response to a US non-paper setting out US positions on European security.
According to the Russian foreign ministry, Lavrov told Blinken that instead of escalating aggressive rhetoric and pumping up the Ukrainian armed forces with various types of weapons, to use US influence on the Ukrainian authorities to force them to fully implement the Minsk agreements, a 2015 peace agreement that appears close to collapse.
