Workers in Russia construct the NordStream2 gas pipeline which is awaiting clearance from the German regulator Photograph Anton VaganovReutersWorkers in Russia construct the NordStream2 gas pipeline which is awaiting clearance from the German regulator Photograph Anton VaganovReuters
20211007
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2021/oct/07/nord-stream-2-approval-may-cool-gas-prices-europe-russia
I think there are two factors, which could somewhat cool off the current situation. First of all, of course, this is, definitely, completion of certification and the fastest clearance for gas supplies via the completed Nord Stream 2, Alexander Novak told a meeting of government officials and heads of energy companies.
Putin also reiterated that Russia has been a reliable energy supplier to Europe, which may receive record-high Russian gas exports this year as Moscow is increasing gas supplies, including via Ukraine, in response to the energy crunch and stands ready to stabilise the market.
Putin told the meeting that Europe was wrong to reduce the share of long-term deals in natural gas trade in favour of the spot market, where prices have surged. We talked to the European Commissions previous lineup, and all its activity was aimed at phasing out of so-called long-term contracts, he said.
Gazprom has resisted moving to spot trade in Europe, preferring long-term deals that sometimes last about 25 years.
Igor Sechin, the head of Russias state oil firm, Rosneft, asked Putin at the meeting for the right to export natural gas from Russia. State television did not air Putins reaction to the request.
Nord Stream 2, which runs on the bed of the Baltic Sea from Russia to Germany, is expecting certification from Germany, which could take a few months. The pipeline has faced resistance from the US, which says the project will increase Europes reliance on Russian energy.
Prices have risen sharply in response to a recovery in demand, particularly from Asia, with storage levels low.
Novak said some speculative trade could also be behind the soaring gas prices, which he said did not reflect the fundamentals of supply and demand.
Deputy PM calls for rapid clearance from German regulator after prices reach an all-time high
Earlier on Wednesday, Putins spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, said Russia had no role in causing Europes surging gas prices, following accusations from the International Energy Agency and some in the European parliament that Russia had not done enough to increase supplies.
Russias deputy prime minister has said certification of the Nord Stream 2 undersea gas pipeline, which is awaiting clearance from Germanys regulator, could cool soaring European gas prices.
There are a couple of reasons behind the gas crisis  the way the economy is recovering, how demand for the energy resources is growing, as well as gas storages are not filled in, Peskov told reporters.
Peskov said Moscow was ready to discuss new long-term contracts for gas sales to European consumers and that Gazprom was meeting all its obligations.
He said Russian gas transit via Ukraine was set to exceed volumes agreed under Gazproms contract with Kyiv.
The price of Dutch wholesale gas for November, a European benchmark, has jumped almost eightfold since the start of the year and reached an all-time high of more than 150 125 a megawatt hour MWh in the early hours of Wednesday. It then fell to 114 by 3pm GMT.
Putin also cited economic recovery and cold weather in Europe, which led to a reduction in gas storage, as further reasons.
President Vladimir Putin, who chaired the meeting, has agreed with the proposed increase, adding that Russia should meet its domestic gas needs first.
It was aimed at transition to spot gas trade. And as it turned out, it has become obvious today, that this practice is a mistake.
Novak said an increase in gas sales on Gazproms electronic sales platform could also calm prices. The Russian gas group set up the ESP in 2018 for gas sales to Europe to supplement existing long and midterm contracts. It has suspended gas sales for delivery in 2022 since late August.
