Workers construct water storage tanks at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in 2020 Japan is considering increasing its dependence on nuclear power  Photograph Kimimasa MayamaEPAWorkers construct water storage tanks at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in 2020 Japan is considering increasing its dependence on nuclear power  Photograph Kimimasa MayamaEPA
20220825
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/25/japan-eyes-return-to-nuclear-power-more-than-a-decade-after-fukushima-disaster
It is the first step towards the normalisation of Japans energy policy, said Jun Arima, a project professor at the Tokyo Universitys graduate school of public policy.
The change of direction, which could include extending the lifespan of existing reactors, have highlighted Japans struggle to secure a stable energy supply as a result of the war in Ukraine and soaring energy costs.
The prime minister, Fumio Kishida, said he had directed a government panel to look into how next-generation nuclear reactors equipped with new safety mechanisms could be used to help Japan achieve its goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. His green transformation council is expected to report back by the end of the year, he said on Wednesday.
Successive governments have been forced to lower Japans dependence on nuclear since the March 2011 disaster, when a powerful tsunami destroyed Fukushima Daiichis backup electricity supply, causing three of its six reactors to suffer meltdowns.
Seven reactors are currently in operation, with three others offline for regular safety inspections. Dozens of others are still going through a relicensing process under stricter safety standards introduced after the 2011 disaster, which some experts blamed on the nuclear village of operators, politicians and regulators.
A bigger role for nuclear in Japans energy mix could see seven additional reactors being restarted after next summer, including two at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, the biggest nuclear plant in the world. Restarting the plant would be particularly controversial, since it is run by Tokyo Electric Power, the same company that operates Fukushima Daiichi.
Kishida conceded that the government would have to win support from the public, which turned against nuclear power in the wake of the Fukushima meltdown. Officials believe voters have become more receptive to nuclear power due to rising fuel costs and after an energy crunch in Tokyo during a recent heatwave. The country is heavily dependent on imported fossil fuels.
To overcome an imminent crisis caused of a power supply crunch, we must take the utmost steps to mobilise all possible policies in the coming years and prepare for any emergency.
Japan is considering building next-generation nuclear reactors and restarting idled plants in a major policy shift, 11 years after the triple meltdown at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant rocked the countrys dependence on atomic energy.
The government will also consider extending the lifespan of existing reactors beyond the legal limit by excluding the period they remained shut down  in some cases several years  when calculating their operating time.
The 2011 disaster sent huge quantities of radiation into the atmosphere and forced tens of thousands of people to flee their homes. Some areas near the plant remain off-limits, while others have only recently reopened to residents.
Most of Japans nuclear plants have remained idle ever since, while the government said it would not build new reactors or replace ageing reactors, fearing a public backlash.
Move designed to secure energy supplies would mark a dramatic shift in Japans policy stance held since 2011 reactor meltdown
Plants can operate for up to 40 years in principle, but can continue generating electricity for another 20 years if they undergo safety upgrades and pass screenings conducted by regulators.
The economy and industry minister, Yasutoshi Nishimura, said it was extremely important to secure all options to redesign a stable energy supply for our country. From that perspective, we will also consider all options regarding nuclear power.
Japan has set a target for nuclear power generation to account for 20-22 of its electricity supply in 2030. Before the Fukushima meltdowns, about a third of its power generation came from nuclear, but in 2020 the figure was less than 5.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has vastly transformed the worlds energy landscape  Japan needs to bear in mind potential crisis scenarios, he said at an energy policy meeting this week.
