Biden to Modi Buying more Russian oil is not in Indias interest
20220411
https://bdnews24.com/world/2022/04/11/biden-modi-hold-virtual-talks-centred-on-russia-and-ukraine
Lured by steep discounts following Western sanctions on Russian entities, India has bought at least 13 million barrels of Russian crude oil since the invasion in late February. That compared with some 16 million barrels for the whole of last year, data compiled by Reuters shows.
Biden recently said that only India among the Quad group of countries was "somewhat shaky" in acting against Russia.
Psaki did not disclose whether India had made any commitments on energy imports but said Washington stands ready to help the country diversify its sources of energy.
But he told Modi India's position in the world would not be enhanced by relying on Russian energy sources, US officials said.
Talks in Washington on Monday were scheduled between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Indian Defense Minister Rajnath Singh.
Broad talks between the world's two largest democracies took place as the United States seeks more help from India in condemning, and applying economic pressure on, Russia for an invasion Moscow calls a "special military operation."
Biden told Modi he looked forward to seeing him in Japan for a Quad meeting "on about the 24th of May" and the two leaders also discussed a range of other issues, officials said.
"Recently, the news of the killings of innocent civilians in the city of Bucha was very worrying," Modi said during a brief portion of the meeting open to reporters. "We immediately condemned it and have asked for an independent probe."
Noting Modi's statements about the war on Monday, Psaki said, "part of our objective now is to build on that and to encourage them to do more. And that's why it's important to have leader to leader conversations."
A US official added that "we haven't asked India to do anything in particular." The official said "India is gonna make its own judgments" following "a very candid conversation."
"The president conveyed very clearly that it is not in their interest to increase that," said White House spokesperson Jen Psaki.
Modi also said he had suggested in recent conversations with Russia that President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky hold direct talks.
Biden stopped short of making a "concrete ask" of Modi on Monday, an official said, noting India has concerns about deepening ties between Russia and China.
The South Asian nation has tried to balance its ties with Russia and the West but unlike other members of the Quad countries - the United States, Japan and Australia - it has not imposed sanctions on Russia.
Starting an hour-long video call US officials described as "warm" and "candid," Biden and Modi both publicly expressed growing alarm at the destruction inside Ukraine, especially in Bucha, where many civilians have been killed.
