Biden bans Russia oil imports to US warns US gasoline prices will rise further
20220308
https://bdnews24.com/world/2022/03/08/white-house-said-to-plan-russian-oil-ban-moscow-opens-corridor-from-sumy
The United States imported more than 20.4 million barrels of crude and refined products a month on average from Russia in 2021, about 8 of US liquid fuel imports, according to the Energy Information Administration, and the ban is expected to send already high gasoline prices and inflation soaring. The United States also imports a negligible amount of coal from Russia.
"We are going to see increased gas prices here in the United States. In Europe, they will see dramatic increases in prices. That's the cost of standing up for freedom and standing alongside the Ukrainian people, but it's going to cost us," Coons told CNN.
Biden said sanctions imposed by the United States and its allies had already caused the Russian economy to "crater". He said the latest moves had been made in close consultation with allies and partners around the world.
"The government will also work with companies through a new Taskforce on Oil to support them to make use of this period in finding alternative supplies," British Business and Energy Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said.
US Senator Chris Coons said the administration was coordinating with European allies "and making sure that we've done the groundwork to understand how to effectively implement a ban on Russian energy."
FILE photo of drilling offshore operation of Russian energy company Rosneft. United States  seeking to ratchet up the pressure on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine  said Washington and its European allies were considering banning Russian oil imports. ExxonMobil, Shell and BP sell out its stakes in Russian oil and gas operations as a result of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. Russia controls a sixth of the world's gas and a tenth of its oil. Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak warns that a Western ban on Russian oil imports could result in oil prices more than doubling to about $300 per barrel.
Biden has been working with allies in Europe, who are far more dependent on Russian oil, to isolate Russia's energy-heavy economy and Putin. Britain announced shortly before Biden's remarks that it would phase out the import of Russian oil and oil products by the end of 2022.
Republican lawmakers took to social media to welcome the decision, while criticizing Biden's green energy policies, and calling for the administration to support more oil and gas production at home.
Oil prices jumped on the news, with Benchmark Brent crude LCOc1 for May climbing by 5.4 to $129.91 a barrel by 1345 GMT.
US Representative Susan Wild said Americans need to realize the larger sacrifice needed. "Obviously nobody wants to pay more for gas," Wild, a Democrat on the House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee, said on MSNBC.
In announcing that it is phasing out imports of Russian oil and oil products by the end of 2022, Britain said it is giving the market and businesses more than enough time to find alternatives to the imports, which make up 8 of demand.
Biden predicted prices would rise further as a result of "Putin's war," but pledged to do all he could to minimize the impact on the American people. He also warned US gas companies against exploiting the situation to engage in profiteering or price gouging.
"We're banning all imports of Russian oil and gas energy," Biden told reporters at the White House. "That means Russian oil will no longer be acceptable in US ports and the American people will deal another powerful blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin's war machine."
