Putins war is complicating Indias middle path among powers
20220330
https://bdnews24.com/world/2022/03/31/putins-war-is-complicating-indias-middle-path-among-powers
Ultimately, the real security lies in economic growth and, you know, quickly getting to something close to $10 trillion, said Arvind Panagariya, an economics professor at Columbia University who formerly advised Modi. Basically what China did. Who would have taken China seriously until 1990?
It was the first ministerial visit between the two countries since the deadly skirmishes in the Himalayan borders two years ago, which have kept the relations tense.
Even as the ties with Washington have grown to a point that the United States is now Indias largest trading partner, there are still jolts of hesitance for New Delhi. The latest came from the US withdrawal from Afghanistan. India had closely aligned its interests there with the American presence, only to see the United States leave Afghanistan to the Taliban, which New Delhi has long seen as a proxy of a Pakistani military that is hand in glove with Beijing.
During his four decades in Indias foreign service, he held ambassadorial postings in Washington and Beijing before retiring in 2018 as the countrys highest-ranking bureaucrat in the service. He was chosen by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to become foreign minister a year later, but he used the gap to produce a book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World, on the countrys foreign policy doctrine.
Jaishankar is in a unique position, at once the chief theorist of Indias vision for a path in this complicated new world order and the person responsible for the difficult work of implementing that vision.
But many analysts saw in the timing of the visit, and the messaging from Beijing and Moscow around it, an effort to exploit the divergence between New Delhi and Washington  and even to show India in one bloc with Russia and China.
India lagged far behind China in opening up its economy, missing out on the early benefits of globalization that turned Beijing into a giant. Indias smaller gross domestic product  about $3 trillion, one-sixth of Chinas  and the needs of a population of 1.4 billion have constrained the countrys military spending.
Indias difficult choices are driven by its own vulnerabilities  particularly, an economy that is not living up to its potential  and the legacy of decades of dependence on Moscow and mistrust of Washington.
About two weeks into the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the leaders of the Quad held a summit meeting that was seen as a show of unity despite Indias not being on the same page on Russias war.
The debate in the Upper House that day was indicative of the difficult waters India is navigating.
But Kartha said that would be a slower process requiring the bureaucracies of both sides to overcome rooted hesitancy. There remains a deep distrust of the US in the Indian bureaucracy because of a legacy of seeing Washington as patronizing and unreliable.
After decades spent trying to delicately navigate the Cold War legacy of a bipolar world, it is facing even more complications, including the rise of an expansionist China on its doorstep.
Indias vulnerabilities  including a slowing economy that is struggling to meet the demands of a growing population and an ill-equipped military stretched on two fronts by territorial disputes with China and Pakistan  are such that it needs allies far and wide, even if it means New Delhi has to work with the harsh reality of those allies bitterly opposing each other.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine and its backlash offer the latest manifestations of Indias effort to chart its own path through rapid changes in the world order in recent years. At the center of it is an increasing clarity among Indias foreign policy strategists that the country cannot afford to take sides in what is increasingly a multipolar world, officials and analysts say.
Our position is not that this is not our problem our position is that we are for peace, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Indias foreign minister, told the countrys Parliament on the day India again chose to abstain from voting against Russia at the United Nations. Indian foreign policy decisions are made in Indian national interest, and we are guided by our thinking, our views, our interests.
More such efforts are likely. Russias foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, who has listed India and China among countries who would never accept the global village under the American sheriff, is expected to arrive in New Delhi later this week.
In its quest for strategic autonomy, India has been slow in creating distance from Moscow. While India has increased its weapon purchases from the United States from little to about $20 billion in the past decade, it still depends on Russia for about 60 of its military equipment.
Russias brutal campaign in Ukraine and the possibility that Moscow will most likely emerge diminished from the war and sanctions may accelerate Indias shift away from Moscow and facilitate an expansion of defense ties with the United States, some analysts said.
The Indian governments confidence that its divergence from Western pressure on Russia will ultimately not damage its relations is rooted in the fact that India is an important potential check on Chinas expansionist foreign policy.
In the book, a favorite reference of foreign diplomats in New Delhi, he attributes much of the challenge of the fluctuating world to the consequences of a greater individualism, more insularity and sharp retrenchment by the United States in recent years, along with the rise of a more aggressive China.
Indian officials stressed that the meetings with Wang were aimed at expediting the disengagement of the tens of thousands of troops, a slow process despite 15 rounds of talks between the two militaries.
The US bureaucracy has a lot of ifs and buts before it signs anything, while you have Russia coming and saying, OK, lets do this coproduction and its done, Kartha said. Unless the US is able to get past its own bureaucracy and its own way of thinking, we will still continue to be dependent on Russia.
As far as the Pentagon is concerned, we are a pin on the map in the Indian Ocean region, said Tara Kartha, who served in Indias National Security Council for nearly two decades. We are not that in Europe, where we have no role to play in hard defense terms.
Just how delicate that work is in practice played out last week, during the visit to New Delhi by Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi.
It would require advancing national interests by identifying and exploiting opportunities created by global contradictions, Jaishankar wrote.
But when the United Nations again voted last week on a resolution critical of the Russian aggression, India stuck to abstaining. Then India further emphasised its relative neutrality: It also abstained from supporting a resolution that favored Russia. Instead, India called for an end to hostilities and respect for the territorial integrity of states  an expression of displeasure with Russias war without calling it out as an aggressor.
For a large part of Indias independent history, its leaders have looked to Moscow not just for weapons supplies but also for political support at the United Nations. Moscow remained a steady ally when Washington repeatedly upset New Delhi, including aiding Pakistan  Indias enemy  and imposing sanctions on India for developing nuclear weapons.
There was talk of a Western double game in pressuring India to stop oil purchases from Russia, just about 1 percent of its overall oil imports, while Europe continued buying Russian oil. But there were also questions of what Indias neutral position means for its security. Does India risk angering the United States and other Quad countries partnered in bolstering security against China? What if Russia and China drew closer as a result of the Western sanctions?
New Delhi joined the Quad alliance despite strong opposition from Russia and China, which have both likened it to a NATO in the east aiming to encircle China. But India has maintained its balancing act, buying weapons from Russia, including a missile defense system, despite threats of US sanctions.
I think people in the US government understand and appreciate the complexities of Indias position, said Kenneth Juster, the former US ambassador to New Delhi. But the atrocities committed by Putin will pose a challenge for India and other countries in terms, at some point, of having to further distance themselves from what hes doing.
The United States offered a mix of carrots and sticks: signaling a willingness to expand defense cooperation with India, long dependent on Moscow for a majority of its weapons, but also calling India a shaky member of an important alliance of democracies known as the Quad. Prime ministers of Japan and Australia, both part of that alliance, held meetings with Indias leaders. Israel announced that its prime minister would arrive soon.
