Russias military hit by highranking losses in Ukraine
20220323
https://bdnews24.com/world/europe/2022/03/24/russia-s-military-hit-by-high-ranking-losses-in-ukraine
The diplomat said the Russian army was heavily centralised and hierarchical, and lacking in empowered Western-style junior officers. "There are too many colonels, too few corporals. So what happens is tasks requiring resolution, which in the West would be resolved at much lower levels, get passed up the chain for decision," the source said.
He said such casualties suggested Russia didn't have a good understanding of Ukrainian artillery positions and Ukraine was having success in pinpointing the location of senior Russian officers, possibly via their mobile phone signals.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak on Sunday named six Russian generals who he said had been killed in Ukraine along with dozens of colonels and other officers.
Reuters could not independently verify most of Ukraine's claims, but some have been confirmed from Russian sources.
Russia's Defence Ministry has not confirmed any of those casualties. It has not revised its troop casualties since Mar 2, a week into the war, when it said that 498 of its soldiers had died. Ukraine puts the figure at 15,600.
On Wednesday, hundreds converged in the Crimean city of Sevastopol to attend a funeral service with a gun salute for Andrei Paliy, a first-rank captain and the deputy commander of Russia's Black Sea Fleet.
A senior foreign diplomat in Moscow told Reuters: "For me what is important is the reported heavy casualties at colonel and above, the backbone of the Russian army, not just generals,"
"Centralisation of command and control, lack of dispersal, and paucity of secure communication also put them in locations where they can be identified and picked off by Ukrainian UAVs," the diplomat said, referring to unmanned drones.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has killed thousands of people, displaced nearly 10 million and raised fears of a wider confrontation between Russia and the United States.
Local Russian government in the southern port of Novorossiysk confirmed the death on Feb 28 of Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky in a statement on its website. It said he had served in Syria, the North Caucasus and Abkhazia.
Konrad Muzyka, director of the Poland-based Rochan consultancy, said the Ukrainian estimates of Russian high-ranking casualties were plausible, but they were difficult to verify and the actual figure was probably smaller.
"Even if we are talking about two generals, that's a big deal," he said. "We're not only talking about generals, but we're also talking about colonels who are of course also really high in the organisation."
The diplomat said that the hierarchical structure drew senior officers to the front to sort out problems or revitalise the effort, leaving them vulnerable to attack.
Russia says its "special military operation" was necessary because the United States was using Ukraine to threaten Russia and Moscow had to defend against the "genocide" of Russian speakers by Ukraine. Ukraine has dismissed those claims.
