Samaritans Purse sends teams to Europe to help with Ukraine crisis
20220225
https://www.wfmynews2.com/article/news/local/samaritans-purse-helping-in-eastern-europe/83-619e22b5-0a40-4ba4-8aed-9a0325062092
"We do all of this because we want to love our neighbors and those that are hurting and we do it in the name of Jesus Christ and we want them to know that Jesus loves them and even during this time of great loss and destruction," Edward Graham said.
"We have thousands of churches in Poland, Ukraine and Romania that we work with for Operation Christmas Child and those are the churches that we'll network with and go in and support as these evacuees and refugees are coming out," said Edward Graham, the vice-president of operations for Samaritan's Purse.
The disaster response specialists determine how the organization can help as a result of the invasion. According to Samaritan's Purse, each team has a medical staff member who works to identify any health needs that may be unable to be met by the local healthcare system.
Samaritans Purse has been closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine for weeks, said Franklin Graham, president of Samaritans Purse, in news release. We have deployed members of our Disaster Assistance Response Team to surrounding countries and are standing ready to help meet emergency needs resulting from the crisis. Please join me in praying for the people of Ukraine and for this conflict to end quickly.
"We have an emergency field hospital that we can set up anywhere in the world within about 36 hours' notice," Graham said. We have doctors and nurses and specialists on reserve, on-call that can go with us."
BOONE, N.C.  Samaritan's Purse, the Christian relief organization based in Boone, is sending disaster response specialists to Poland and Romania to help with the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
On Thursday, Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine including air raids of cities and military bases.
Graham said they have the Samaritan's Place plane on standby in Greensboro, ready to go if needed.
