Putin recognizes Ukraine rebel regions independence
20220221
https://www.cnc3.co.tt/putin-recognizes-ukraine-rebel-regions-independence/
Putins announcement paves the way for Russia to openly send troops and weapons to the long-running conflict pitting Ukrainian forces against Moscow-backed rebels.
Vladimir Putin says Ukraines authorities are contaminated by the virus of nationalism and corruption, bashing the neighbouring countrys leaders.
In a televised address, the Russian president also said Ukraine never had a tradition of genuine statehood.
If there is annexation, there will be sanctions, and if there is recognition, I will put the sanctions on the table and the ministers will decide, the EUs foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after a meeting of the blocs foreign ministers.
He added the alliance has completed ignored Russias concerns about NATOs advances in the region, and Moscows demands for security guarantees were completely rejected.
Russian President Vladimir Putin accused Ukrainian forces of killing civilians by shelling residential areas in separatist-held eastern Ukraine.
AL JAZEERA  Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed a decree recognising the two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent entities.
Ukraine has denied targeting civilians and accuses Russia-backed separatists of shelling residential areas, something they in turn deny.
The EU has joined calls for Russia not to annex or recognise breakaway Ukrainian regions, warning of sanctions from the 27-nation bloc should Moscow do so.
In a televised address, Putin claimed Ukraine sought to achieve it by using Soviet technology.
Vladimir Putin says Ukraine plans to build its own nuclear weapons, calling it an unacceptable move for Moscow.
A 2015 peace deal ended large-scale fighting, but violence has simmered and has seen a spike in recent weeks amid the wider crisis.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Russian President Vladimir Putins recognition of the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Lugansk was plainly in breach of international law and was a flagrant violation of the sovereignty of Ukraine.
The West has repeatedly warned Russia not to recognise the separatist regions in Donetsk and Luhansk  a move that effectively buries a fragile peace process in the region.
Russia has every right to protect its security, and thats what well do, said Putin.
 Moscows move will likely torpedo a last-minute bid for a summit to prevent Russia from invading Ukraine 
