Some Russian forces near Ukraine return to bases
20220215
https://www.cnc3.co.tt/some-russian-forces-near-ukraine-return-to-bases/
The whole question of Ukraine joining NATO is raised and they say it wont be tomorrow. What about the day after tomorrow? What does that actually change for us historically speaking? Absolutely nothing.
Putin has said at the news conference that a negotiation process should be held over the question of Ukraines NATO membership.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz arrived in Moscow on Tuesday to meet President Vladimir Putin in a high-stakes mission to avert war, saying he will hammer home the message from the West that they are open to dialogue about Russias security concerns but will impose sanctions if it invades Ukraine.
Some troops in Russias military districts adjacent to Ukraine return to their bases in a move that could de-escalate tensions.
We hear that Ukraine is not ready to join NATO we know that. At the same time, they say its not going to join tomorrow. But by the time they get ready for it, it may be too late for us. So we have to decide this question now, right now, in the very near future we have to have a negotiation process for this, Putin said.
Londons marine insurance market has added the Ukrainian and Russian waters around the Black Sea and Sea of Azov to its list of areas deemed high risk, a circular has showed.
Meanwhile, some troops in Russias military districts adjacent to Ukraine returned to their bases after completing drills, Russias defence ministry was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying, a move that could de-escalate friction between Moscow and the West.
US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is also due to visit Belgium  where he will meet NATO allies  Lithuania and Poland, a day after Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov held out hope for diplomacy after urging Putin to continue talks.
They say that in the coming years, Ukraine will not be in NATO. What does that mean? For 30 years we have been told that there wont be any kind of NATO expansion, not one inch eastwards. And today, we see the infrastructure of NATO on our doorstep, Putin said.
Amid frantic efforts to try and avert conflict in Ukraine, the United States extended a $1bn sovereign loan guarantee to Ukraine, as the build-up of Russian troops at the countrys borders weighs on its economy.
