Studios Pause Release of The Batman Disney Films in Russia Over Ukraine Invasion
20220301
https://www.rollingstone.com/movies/movie-news/disney-the-batman-warner-bros-russia-release-1314193/
Warner Bros. announced it would pause the release of The Batman in Russia, while Disney plans to put all upcoming Russia releases on hiatus.
Given the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the tragic humanitarian crisis, we are pausing the release of theatrical films in Russia, including the upcomingTurning Red from Pixar, a Disney spokesperson said, referring to the animated film out Mar. 11. We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation.
Disney, currently led by CEO Bob Chapek, added that its working with our NGO partners to provide urgent aid and other humanitarian assistance to refugees.
Russias national team was barred from FIFA and UEFA soccer competitions, while Russia wasremoved from Eurovision Song Contest due to the war.
In light of the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, WarnerMedia is pausing the release of its feature film The Batman in Russia, the studio said in a statement. We will continue to monitor the situation as it evolves. We hope for a swift and peaceful resolution to this tragedy.
UPDATE 31: Universal, following the lead of other major movie studios, has decided to put its theatrical releases in Russia on hold amid the invasion of Ukraine, Deadline reports. Universal didnt name any specific titles, but its international slate includes films like Belfast, Jurassic World Dominion, and Ambulance. In response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Universal Pictures has paused planned theatrical releases in Russia, a Universal spokesperson said.
The Walt Disney Company and Warner Bros. will delay the releases of films in Russia as a response to the countrys invasion of Ukraine, according to statements from both studios Monday.
The studios decision to not show its films in the country comes as musical acts, including Louis Tomlinson and Green Day, canceled tour stops in Russia due to the ongoing war. Russian President Vladimir Putin has been condemned for the invasion, which has resulted in economic sanctions against Russia from the U.S., Europe, and other countries worldwide. My thoughts go out to the people of Ukraine and all those suffering from this needless war, Tomlinson wrote Monday.
UPDATE 2 32: Netflix has joined the major Hollywood studio push against Russia, putting a hold on its Russian projects and acquisitions, Variety reports. Netflix had four Russian originals in-the-works, which have now been paused. These include the streamers first original series filming in Russia, a crime thriller directed by Darya Zhuk.
