These Are the American RightWingers Covering for Putin as Russia Invades Ukraine
20220224
https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-news/these-are-the-american-right-wingers-covering-for-putin-as-russia-invades-ukraine-1311965/
By December Carlson was insisting that Putin had good intentions in his clash with the West: He just wants to keep his Western borders secure. In January, Carlson asked, Why is it disloyal to side with Russia but loyal to side with Ukraine? Theyre both foreign countries that dont care anything about the United States. Kind of strange.
Across the American right, prominent figures from Tucker Carlson and Alex Jones to senate candidate J.D. Vance and CPAC star Tulsi Gabbard, have been cheering Putin on, broadcasting their disdain for Ukraine  or both.
Beginning last year Gabbard began hyping the risk of nuclear war as reason not to provide backing to Ukraine: Are we prepared to see our loved ones burn alive in a nuclear holocaust in a war with Russia over Ukraine?, she asked on Carlsons show last April.
J.D. Vance  the shameless, Yale-Law-educated, faux-populist-turned-nativist GOP senate candidate from Ohio  recently blamed transgender advocacy for being at the root of of Americas anger at Russia. He insisted in an interview that he and his buddies did not serve in the Marine Corps to go and fight Vladimir Putin because he didnt believe in transgender rights, which is what the U.S. State Department is saying is a major problem with Russia. This is not the major problem with Russia, a state in which Putins regime poisons its opposition leaders. Vance added: I gotta be honest I dont really care what happens to Ukraine one way or another.
I gotta be honest with you, I dont really care what happens to UkraineI do care about the fact that in my community right now the leading cause of death among 18-45 year olds is Mexican fentanyl thats coming across the southern border.  JDVance1 OHSen pic.twitter.comnf6MUzdWM5
As Vladimir Putin  ramps up his military offensive against Ukraine, not everyone is upset that the Russian bear is mauling its European neighbor.
The conspiracy theorist and Infowars host Alex Jones seems to have the same talking points as Vance when it comes to Russia and transgender politics, but he adds a demented George Soros topspin. Jones rhetoric is a bit hard to decode, but he seems to think Soros is promoting a liberal agenda around transgender rights in Eastern Europe, which in Jones short-hands as Soros seeking to cut your sons balls off.
The onetime Democratic presidential candidate turned CPAC Reagan Dinner special guest Tulsi Gabbard is well known for her anti-interventionist politics. But Gabbards pacifism has long been tainted by an undercurrent of affection for strongmen like Bashar al Assad and Vladimir Putin.
Despite saying that he was "just kidding" about rooting for Russia over Ukraine, Tucker just doubled down on supporting the Russians in the conflict. pic.twitter.comBmaXHMWTFR
Gabbard insists that the warmongers are lying that Ukraine is a democracy at all, and thereby not worthy of protection. When Putin attacked the sovereign state of Ukraine on Wednesday night, Gabbard did not denounce Putins aggression, instead faulting the West for not meeting the Russian autocrats demands:
This war and suffering could have easily been avoided if Biden AdminNATO had simply acknowledged Russias legitimate security concerns regarding Ukraines becoming a member of NATO, which would mean USNATO forces right on Russias border
Fox News host Carlson has long toasted to Ukraines ill health. As far back as 2019, Carlson said out loud that he was for Moscow in its clash with Kyiv. Why do I care what is going on in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia? Carlson asked of a guest. Why shouldnt I root for Russia? Which, by the way, I am.
Now Gabbard is playing up Ukraines messy politics as reasons the West should let Putin have his way with the country. To be clear, Ukraine is not beyond reproach. Like many young republics it struggles with corruption and its elected officials often dont behave in ways that would make France or Germany proud. But the democracy watchdog Freedom House gives Ukraine a global freedom score of 60 partly free compared to Russias 20 not free. The U.S. scores an 83 free, for context.
In recent days, Tucker spouted off on long monologues bashing permanent Washington for its supposedly irrational hate for Putin and affection for Ukraine, which he insisted was not a democracy but a tyranny. Hours before Russias invasion he doubled down: Ukraine isnt a democracy, Carlson tweeted. Its a State Department client state. In the same show, Carlson attempted a bit of damage control: Nobody on this show is rooting for Putin  or rooting for Ukrainians for that matter! he said. Always rooting for peace, for real.
On Valentines day, Jones tried to deconstruct the geopolitics behind the RussiaUkraine conflict, characterizing the West as the aggressor toward Russia. The West is pumping the weapons in, he said. The West is starting the fight.Jones added that Russian relationship with Ukraine is like your big brothercomes in and beats you up on a routine basis. But Jones normalized the attacks by saying of Russia its not the Huns, while insisting that Ukraine would be better off  when the alternative is George Soros thats going to cut your sons balls off, OK? He added: So you can have the Russians in there or you can have George Soros literally going after your children. Thats where we are right now.
Carlsons public relations push on Putins behalf has been so fawning as to make an RT anchor blush. Later in 2019 he insisted, The only purpose of U.S. aid to the government of Ukraine is to antagonize Russia.Last November, he asked a GOP congressman: Why would we take Ukraines side and not Russias side? Why?! Whos got the energy reserves? Whos the major player in world affairs? Why wouldnt we be on Russias side?
Where Carlson boldly backs Putins thuggery, others on the right scoff a the notion that Americans should care a lick about Ukraine, often casting the MoscowKyiv conflict in terms of Americas own culture wars, suggesting Russia shares the values of the right while Ukraine has the taint of wokeness.
As the end of that same show Carlson claimed he was joking and was truly only rooting for America. But only a few days later, during a segment with Rep. Jim Jordan, Tucker voiced the same sentiment more clearly: I think we should probably take the side of Russia, he said, if we have to choose between Russia and Ukraine.
