New Zimbabwecom
20220723
https://www.newzimbabwe.com/a-beacon-of-hope-ukraine-russia-sign-grain-export-deal/
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy echoed Kulebas concerns in his nightly video address, saying, It is clear to everyone that there may be some provocations on the part of Russia, some attempts to discredit Ukrainian and international efforts. But we trust the UN.
We will be watching to ensure Russias actions match its words, Truss said. To enable a lasting return to global security and economic stability, Russian President Vladimir Putin must end the war and withdraw from Ukraine.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russias invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments. Some Ukrainian grain is transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the prices of vital commodities such as wheat and barley have soared during the war.
The U.N. plan will enable Ukraine  one of the worlds key breadbaskets  to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural goods that have been stuck in Black Sea portsdue to Russias invasion. U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres called it a beacon of hope for millions of hungry people who have faced huge increases in the price of food.
Although internationalsanctions against Russiadid not target food exports, the war has disrupted shipments of Russian products because shipping and insurance companies did not want to deal with Russia.
The sides will monitor the movement of ships remotely and no military ships. aircraft or drones will be allowed to approach the maritime humanitarian corridor closer than a distance the center sets. The agreement will remain in effect for 120 days and can be extended automatically.
Under the deal, all activities in Ukrainian territorial waters will be under authority and responsibility of Ukraine, and the parties agree not to attack vessels and port facilities involved in the initiative. If demining is required to make the shipping lanes safe, a minesweeper from another country could clear the approaches to Ukrainian ports.
Guterres believes grain shipments could start within the next two weeks, according to U.N. deputy spokesman Farhan Haq. A senior U.N. official said Ukraine needs about 10 days to prepare the ports and needs time to identify and be clear about those safe corridors. The aim is to export 5 million tons of grains per month to empty Ukraines silos in time for this years harvest.
Guterres said the plan, known as the Black Sea Initiative, opens a path for significant commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports: Odesa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
The agreement, obtained by the AP, says a U.N.-led joint coordination center will be set up in Istanbul staffed by officials from Ukraine, Russia, Turkey to run the plan, including scheduling cargo ships arrivals and departures.
A deal that allows grain to leave Black Sea ports is nothing short of lifesaving for people across the world who are struggling to feed their families, said Red Cross Director-General Robert Mardini. He noted that over the past six months, prices for food have risen 187 in Sudan, 86 in Syria and 60 in Yemen, just to name a few countries.
Guterres described the deal as an unprecedented agreement between two parties engaged ina bloody conflict. Erdogan hoped it would be a new turning point that will revive hopes for peace.
Inspectors representing all parties at the Bosporus in Turkey will search vessels entering and leaving Ukrainian ports to ensure no weapons or soldiers are on board.
ISTANBUL: Russia and Ukraine signed separate agreements Friday with Turkey and the United Nations clearing the way for the export of millions of tons of desperately needed Ukrainian grain  as well as some Russian grain and fertilizer  across the Black Sea. The long-sought deal ends a wartime standoffthat has threatened food security around the globe.
Zelenskyy said nearly 20 million tons of grain will be exported initially, then some of the current harvest.
You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all, he told the envoys.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, Guterres said. A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever.
Im not opening a bottle of champagne because of this deal, Kuleba told The Associated Press. I will keep my fingers crossed that this will work, that ships will carry grain to world markets and prices will go down and people will have food to eat. But Im very cautious because I have no trust in Russia.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov signed separate, identical deals Friday with Guterres and Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar at a ceremony in Istanbul that was witnessed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Russia and Ukraine would not sign any deal directly with each other.
This is a critical step forward in efforts to overcome the global food insecurity caused by Russias aggression against Ukraine, said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell.
African leaders, whose countries import food and fertilizer from Ukraine and Russia, also welcomed the deal, with South African President Cyril Ramaphosa saying it has taken much too long.
