The Latest Ukraine shuts airports warns of airspace danger
20220224
https://www.wwaytv3.com/the-latest-ukraine-shuts-airports-warns-of-airspace-danger/
Morrison made the announcement a day after Australia imposed sanctions on eight members of Russias Security Council in response to Russias actions against Ukraine.
WASHINGTON  The Ukrainian government is closing airports in eastern Ukraine from midnight through 7 a.m. because of the confrontation with Russia.
Ukraine acted after Russia issued a ban on civilian air traffic in airspace over eastern Ukraine.
Sanctions have also been placed on a series of banks and financial institution. Sanctions that have existed since 2014 on the transport, energy, minerals and telecommunications sectors have been extended to rebel-held areas of Ukraine that Russia recognizes as independent.
The meeting Wednesday night comes as council diplomats are finalizing a draft resolution that they say would make clear that Russia is violating the U.N. Charter, international law and a 2015 council resolution endorsing the Minsk agreements aimed at restoring peace in eastern Ukraine.
CANBERRA, Australia  Australias prime minister says Ukrainians in Australia whose Australian visas will expire by the end of June will be allowed to stay an additional six months.
Last week, Ukrainian aviation officials warned pilots in the region to be on the lookout for Russian authorities trying to take control of the airspace and to only recognize Ukraines controllers.
Ukrainian aviation authorities also have declared some airspace in the east to be danger areas because of attempts by Russian aviation authorities to seize control of the airspace.
UNITED NATIONS  The U.N. Security Council has scheduled an emergency meeting Wednesday night at the request of Ukraine, which says there is an immediate threat of a Russian invasion.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison also said Thursday that Ukrainians applying for Australian visas will be given priority over other nationalities, Morrison said.
The meeting comes two days after the 15-member council held an emergency open meeting also requested by Ukraine. That session saw no support for Russian President Vladimir Putins declaration of independence for two separatist areas in Ukraines east and his announcement that Russian troops would be heading there to keep the peace.
The announcement Wednesday night establishes buffer zones for traffic controlled by Ukrainian authorities to avoid coming into potentially hazardous conflict with air traffic controlled by Russian authorities.
