Russias move into Ukraine just beginning Kelownas UkrainianCanadians fear
20220222
https://www.kelownadailycourier.ca/news/article_1c385d80-940a-11ec-8655-4fdff7e22f7b.html
There are about 14,000 Ukrainian-Canadians in the greater Kelowna area, according to Statistics Canada. Theyve watched events in Ukraine with an increasing sense of foreboding and fear for what will happen to their relatives and friends if Russia moves to take over all of Ukraine, Bihun says.
People in the Ukraine are much more sombre than they were just a couple days ago. They realize that, with the invasion now underway, if only in a limited way right now, the danger level has just gone up quite significantly, Bihun said.
And, just like more than 80 years ago, the Wests response to such aggression might only hasten the outbreak of war, Peter Bihun says.
The move of Russian troops into eastern Ukraine is reminiscent of events that preceded the Second World War, a spokesman for Kelownas Ukrainian-Canadian community says.
Putin just loves when people suck up to him like that. Now, hes taking part of Ukraine and hell inevitably move into the rest of it, Bihun said. The people there will fight. I dont know what their chances are, but its going to be a tragedy, with people dying on a scale like Europe hasnt seen for 80 years.
Were not surprised the Russians have invaded Ukraine because Russian president Vladimir Putin told the world he was going to do it. Hes just keeping his promise, Bihun, president of the Dolyna Valley Ukrainian Cultural Society, said Tuesday in an interview.
But were mostly surprised by the weak response from the West, Bihun said. People just dont learn history. Its kind of amazing to me.
Everything leading up to today is almost a carbon copy of what happened then, with Hitler starting World War II, he says. There were weak politicians talking to Hitler then, saying, Oh, please dont do that,, and we have weak politicians today saying basically the same thing to Putin, Bihun said.
In September 1938, Hitler laid claim to the Sudetenland, a German-speaking region in Czechoslovakia. Germanys takeover of the Sudetenland was not opposed by the West and the Second World War began the following year.
