God forbid what may happen next  Russians seize control of Chernobyl
20220224
https://www.newstalk.com/news/god-forbid-what-may-happen-next-russians-seize-control-of-chernobyl-1315491
"And then when I was walking to my parents, who thankfully live down the street from me, I heard a third explosion."
Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Friday, with air strikes on major cities and troops arriving from the south and east.
The current status of the power plant's 'confinement building', as well as a nuclear waste storage facility, is unknown.
"The president has called the general mobilisation now. So apparently the men, who I'm staying with, will have to go and serve.
A battle for control of the site - near Pripyat - followed fierce clashes with government forces, according to the Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal.
"We've been warned, as human rights organisations, that there's going to be airstrikes on Kyiv - massive ones - coming soon, anytime".
An adviser to the presidential office, Mykhailo Podolyak, said: "It is impossible to say the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe after a totally pointless attack by the Russians."
"The worse thing that I've heard recently is that Russians have entered Chernobyl zone, and God forbid what may happen next.
"I've heard the airplanes and Russian helicopters around - there's been a lot of fighting.
Russian occupation forces are trying to seize the ChornobylNPP. Our defenders are giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 will not be repeated. Reported this to SwedishPM. This is a declaration of war against the whole of Europe.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy earlier said on Twitter that Russian forces were trying to seize the Chernobyl plant and his troops were "giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 will not be repeated".
"The biggest issue is in the south, where Russia has taken over close to the Crimea.
Human rights worker Nadia Dobrianska is just outside the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv. She told The Hard Shoulder it has been a long day.
She says she is close to a military airport, where she has heard "severe fighting around".
"I don't want to sound those clichs like it's very uncertain times for me - my horizon of planning is literally two hours, maybe three.
