Ireland must stand with Ukraine not just in words but with action  Ukrainian MP
20220224
https://www.newstalk.com/news/ireland-must-stand-with-ukraine-not-just-in-words-but-with-action-ukrainian-mp-1315632
What we need now is the closure of airspace over Ukraine so that we dont incur the kind of attacks that were taking place all throughout the night in Kyiv.
I am so proud of our men and women who are fighting now for Ukraine.
We are pretty much in war at its worst. I would call it World War III but then again it is just Ukraine that is standing against the biggest military power in Europe and the third biggest in the world.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy has warned that Ukraine has been left alone to defend our state and ordered a mass mobilisationdecree that paves the way for civilians to take up arms against Russian forces
I know from friends who are texting me that there is fighting going on in another district in Kyiv.
Second, please support Ukraine and stand with Ukraine, not just in words but also with action.
It is a nightmare that you couldnt even dare dream of ever in your life.
She said Russia hoped to win through Blitzkrieg tactics  the lightning war method first used by Nazi Germany which aims to bring about swift victory by using surprise, speed, and heavy firepower.
Ms Vasylenko urged Irish people to put pressure on the Government to do more to stand with Ukraine.
This is my city Kyiv after this night. I fear for the next half hour. I can hear jets and see them fly. This cannot be happening pic.twitter.com64xm1GOsPJ
Ukraine is a separate, independent country and Ukrainians will always fight for their freedom and the right to exist.
The EU and US yesterday announced a raft of new sanctions on Moscow however, Ukraines president has warned that they are not enough.
Ten minutes ago, we had sirens going off, she said. Half an hour ago, there were had planes flying in the direction of Kyiv.
We are hoping that this will be over by the end of the weekend, and this will be over with a victory for Ukraine because the way the attacks are turning out now, it is just Blitzkrieg attacks, she said.
That, of course, has not happened and that can never happen because Ukrainians are not Russians.
On Newstalk Breakfast this morning, Ukraine MP Lesia Vasylenko said there is fighting close to where she is based in the capital Kyiv.
You have the power to petition your parliament you have the power to petition your government for more sanctions against Russia and to ask for help for the Ukrainian military.
First of all, I would like to wish everybody never to experience what Ukrainians are living through right now, she said.
A Ukrainian MP is urging Irish people to stand with Ukraine not just in word but with action, as Russia continues to bombard the country.
I think Putin, in his very sick and perverted mind, thought he would announce this operation on the demilitarisation of Ukraine and then be welcomed here in Kyiv as a hero, she said.
Explosions have been reported above Kyiv this morning  with a Ukrainian official saying the capital city has been hit by 'horrific rocket strikes.'
As Russia launches more missiles for Kyiv and planes fly out from Belarus, maybe now is the time to pull that SWIFT trigger. Along with embargo on all Russian energy commodities
