They would rather die than live in Russia  Ukrainians continue fierce resistance against invasion
20220303
https://www.newstalk.com/news/they-would-rather-die-than-live-in-russia-ukrainians-continue-fierce-resistance-against-invasion-1317676
"And army chiefs in Ukraine say they are seeing large Russian ships intercept civilian boats, they are seeing Russian ships move towards the southern city of Odessa.
"They would fight and they would die - and you believe them when they say it - they would rather die than live in Russia.
"We could hear it from our underground shelter, we heard a number of loud thuds.
Russian troops continue to face stiff resistance from the Ukrainians across the country - both military and civilian - and have yet to overthrow the government in Kyiv.
"But these images of what's happening to this convoy will of course boost morale to an extent".
"Mariupol is one of many cities, key cities, which have had sustained bombardment increasingly on residential areas.
"And given that we're two storeys underground, that suggested something either much larger or much closer.
"That 40-mile long Russian convoy on the outskirts is still there but, according to the US, it hasn't moved for the last day and a half.
However he says this has since been clarified: "What the authorities tell us this morning is that it was part of a Russian missile that had been taken out by its defence systems, and that there were no casualties.
"Kherson is the biggest city yet to fall - it is significant because it is a port city.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy was speaking in a video message in the early hours of Thursday, in which he told the invading forces to "go home".
It came as Russian troops reached the centre of the Ukrainian port of Kherson, after a day of conflicting claims over whether Moscow had captured its first major urban centre.
Bombing in Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, has also continued - while the Russians have been shelling the city of Izyum, about 75 miles southeast.
It comes as Ukraine's president has claimed nearly 9,000 Russian soldiers have been killed since the invasion of his country began a week ago.
James says there were reports that the capital's train station had been hit, which could affect people's ability to leave.
"Then we have Russian soldiers as well, they're taking up defensive positions, we don't quite know where.
"But the future of this country - which has long had to fight for its sovereignty - has changed forever."
"But we don't know what the targets were, we don't know anything about causalities yet".
"It is a nervous city, people are wondering around with those yellow armbands, they're heavily armed, some are untrained.
One reporter on the ground in Kyiv says some people there 'would rather die' than live in Russia.
Mariupol, a large port city on the Azov Sea, was also encircled by Russian forces, according to Britain's Ministry of Defence.
"And they are worried they see what is happening in other locations and they fear the worst.
"The mayor said they'd had 14 hours of shelling, hundreds of people have reportedly been killed - but no one can get in there to mount a rescue or recovery operation".
"Such resistance that they will forever remember that we don't give up what is ours, that they will remember what a patriotic war is."
"And they wonder what Kyiv they will find when they're able to re-emerge at whatever point that is.
'They would rather die than live in Russia' - Ukrainians continue 'fierce resistance' against invasion
He says the determination by people is continuing, noting that some would rather die than live under Russia.
James Waterhouse is the BBC's Kyiv correspondent. He told Newstalk Breakfast there has been more overnight shelling.
"They will not have calm here, they will not have food, they will not have one quiet moment.
