Ukrainians are prepared to fight they wont leave and theyre not intimidated by Russias threats
20220212
https://www.newstalk.com/news/ukrainians-are-prepared-to-fight-they-wont-leave-and-theyre-not-intimidated-by-russias-threats-1310908
Both British and US citizens have since been warned by their respective Governments to leave the country as soon as they can, while the Department of Foreign Affairs has urged Irish people in the country to make sure they are registered with the embassy in Kiev.
Ukraine does have quite a large army and a number of reserves but it doesnt have the same kind of military equipment that Russia has. So it cant defend itself from a long-range aerial attack, say by Russias missiles, which are in place around Ukraine now.
Now it looks like they Russia are pretty much ready, Euan MacDonald told The Anton Savage Show.
Main image: Ukrainian Army Ground Forces soldiers following a live-fire training exercise at Central City Camp, International Peacekeeping and Security Center October 29, 2015 near Yavoriv, Ukraine. Picture by: Alamy.com.
Earlier this month, the US estimated that a Russian invasion of Ukraine could lead to up to 50,000 civilian deaths and force millions more to flee to neighbouring countries.
Earlier this month Washington claimed it had evidence that Moscow was preparing to fabricate evidence in order to create a pretext for invasion. Its a scenario, Mr MacDonald says, Ukrainians are all too familiar with:
Theres been a lot of speculation that the Russians would manufacture an excuse for going in. Perhaps by claiming that the Ukrainians attacked them in the Donbasand manufacturing evidence for such a claim, he said.
Theres a lot of, I wouldnt say theres a lot of bravado, but people are saying that theyre prepared to fight, they wont leave and theyre not intimidated by Russias threats.
Everything is in place. Theres been reports of field hospitals even being spotted at airfields near Ukraine. So thats a bad sign. Lots of signs of logistics, of fuel tankers moving around - especially in Belarus.
Just yesterday, the so-called authorities in the parts of the Donbasthat arent under Ukrainian control said theyd found mass graves. Its impossible to say whether thats true or not. Some people thought that might be a pretext for invasion.
Despite it all, he adds, the mood in Ukraine remains defiant last month a Ukrainian MP told Newstalk that the country feels it has been at war with Russia ever since it invaded Crimea in 2014 and Mr MacDonald says people are ready to stand up for their country:
What they are grateful for is the material that has been sent to them in the shape of anti-tank missiles that will help in some of the defence if an invasion is actually going on.
Nobody expects NATO troops to come to Ukraine to fight for them, Mr MacDonald continued.
Ukrainians 'are prepared to fight, they wont leave and theyre not intimidated by Russias threats'
People in Ukraine are prepared to fight, they wont leave and theyre not intimidated by Russias threats, a local journalist has told Newstalk as war between Russia and Ukraine looks increasingly likely.
Ukraine has received support in the form of military equipment from some NATO countries, such as Britain and the United States. However, Kiev does not believes this would mean western boots on the ground if an invasion took place:
And notably, the Ukrainian authorities have been a bit more sombre recently, saying the situation does look quite serious.
