Lloyds Bank on high alert for cyber attack as Russia invades Ukraine
20220224
https://www.yourlocalguardian.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/19948441.lloyds-bank-high-alert-cyber-attack-russia-invades-ukraine/
Speaking after reporting the groups annual results this morning, Lloyds chief executive Charlie Nunn said all of the banks security and controls are at a heightened and elevated level.
In a statement on Twitter, Mr Johnson said he had spoken with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to discuss next steps.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
The lending giant said it has been part of sector talks with the Government on Russia sanctions and the potential for cyber attacks by Russian hackers.
I am appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine and I have spoken to President Zelenskyy to discuss next steps, he said.
Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine this morning, with President Vladimir Putin announcing the move in a televised address early on Thursday morning.
Lloyds Banking Group is on heightened alert for cyber attacks amid fears Russia will look to retaliate against sanctions.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction with his attack on Ukraine and that the UK and its allies would respond decisively.
Mr Putin also warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to consequences they have never seen.
He added that Russia does not have a goal to occupy Ukraine but said the responsibility for bloodshed lies with the Ukrainian regime.
He stressed that the group has been investing significantly in cybersecurity over the past five years.
