Ukraine rebel leaders ask Russia to fend off aggression Kremlin says
20220216
https://www.yourlocalguardian.co.uk/news/19947513.ukraine-rebel-leaders-ask-russia-fend-off-aggression-kremlin-says/
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the rebel chiefs wrote to President Vladimir Putin, pleading with him to intervene after Ukrainian shelling caused civilian deaths and crippled vital infrastructure.
As I have made clear, we will not hesitate to take further steps if Russia continues to escalate.
The action reflected the increasing concern by Ukrainian authorities after weeks of trying to project calm.
Kyiv recalled its ambassador to Russia and considered breaking all diplomatic ties with Moscow dozens of nations further squeezed Russian oligarchs and banks out of international markets the US repositioned additional troops to Natos eastern flank bordering Russia and the top US diplomat cancelled a meeting with his Russian counterpart.
The move comes after Mr Putin recognised the independence of Russia-backed rebel regions in eastern Ukraine and signed friendship treaties with them.
Mr Putin said on Tuesday he had not yet sent any Russian troops into the rebel regions contrary to Western claims, and Donetsk rebel leader Denis Pushilin insisted on Wednesday there were no Russian troops in the region even though a local council member claimed the previous day they had moved in.
Mr Putin has yet to unleash the force of the 150,000 troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, while Biden held back on even tougher sanctions that could cause economic turmoil for Russia but said they would go ahead if there is further aggression.
Germany said it was indefinitely suspending the project, after Mr Biden charged that Mr Putin had launched the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine by sending troops into the separatist regions of eastern Ukraine.
In response to Russias action, President Joe Biden allowed sanctions to move forward against the company that built the Russia-to-Germany Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and against the companys chief executive.
For a long time we refrained from declaring a state of emergency  but today the situation has become more complicated, National Security and Defence Council head Oleksiy Danilov told the parliament, emphasising that Moscows efforts to destabilise Ukraine represented the main threat.
Mr Biden waived sanctions last year against Nord Stream 2 AG, when the project was almost completed, in return for an agreement from Germany to take action against Russia if it used gas as a weapon or attacked Ukraine.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the Russian force of more than 150,000 troops arrayed along Ukraines borders is in an advanced state of readiness.
The US and key European allies accused Moscow of crossing a red line Tuesday in rolling over Ukraines border into separatist eastern regions known as the Donbas, with some calling it an invasion.
The introduction of the state of emergency follows Mr Putins move on Monday to recognise the independence of rebel regions in eastern Ukraine, where a nearly eight-year conflict has killed over 14,000 people.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ukraines Minister for Digital Transformation Mykhailo Fedorov said a wave of denial-of-service attacks targeted official websites and some banks on Wednesday, knocking sites of the parliament, cabinet and Foreign Ministry offline and causing interruptions or delays to the sites of the defense and interior ministry, which controls the police.
Wednesdays DDoS attacks appeared to have less impact than the earlier onslaught, with targeted sites soon reachable again as emergency responders blunted them.
Already, the threat of war has shredded Ukraines economy and raised the spectre of massive casualties, energy shortages across Europe and global economic chaos.
In Ukraine, politicians approved President Volodymyr Zelenskys decree that imposes the measure for 30 days starting Thursday. The state of emergency allows authorities to impose curfews and restrictions on movement, block rallies and ban political parties and organizations in the interests of national security and public order.
Many of the same sites were similarly knocked offline in attacks last week that the US and UK governments quickly blamed on Russias GRU military intelligence agency.
Ukrainian authorities have repeatedly voiced concern that pro-Russian groups inside the country could try to destabilize it, including a pro-Moscow political party represented in parliament.
The appeal raises the prospect of Russias direct military involvement in eastern Ukraine amid Western fears that Moscow is poised to launch an all-out invasion of its neighbour.
Rebel leaders in eastern Ukraine have asked Russia for military assistance to fend off the Ukrainian aggression, the Kremlin has said.
So well continue to call out what we see as false-flag operations or efforts to spread misinformation about what the actual status is on the ground, she said.
Today, I have directed my administration to impose sanctions on Nord Stream 2 AG and its corporate officers, Mr Biden said in a statement.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the separatists request for Russian help was an example of the sort of false-flag operation that the West had warned Moscow would use to create a pretext for war.
Even as the conflict took a new, dangerous turn, leaders warned it could still get worse.
Russia on Wednesday evacuated its embassy in Kyiv as hopes for a diplomatic way out of a new, potentially devastating war in Europe waned.
The Foreign Ministry advised against travel to Russia and recommended any Ukrainians there to leave immediately, saying Moscows aggression could lead to a significant reduction in consular services.
