All the Russian products stopped being sold in UK Supermarkets
20220309
https://www.dorsetecho.co.uk/news/19977762.russian-products-stopped-sold-uk-supermarkets/
That includes two items they currently stock but have now been removed from shelves across the nation.
The sister brand to John Lewis is no longer selling Russian-produced products like vodka and a line of pizza over pellets.
As well as others still shelving the Russian produces but no longer buying from the nation instead.
However, not all supermarkets have made such significant moves as Sainsbury's, with many choosing to remove the Russian staple drink of vodka.
Much of the store's products are not produced in Russia but they have committed over five million euros to Ukraine.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Many major supermarkets have already made significant moves with Sainsbury's renaming the chicken kiev to chicken Kyivs, the preferred spelling of the Ukrainian name.
Morrisons have also joined other supermarkets in their support for Ukraine with the stopping of selling Russian Standard vodka in stores.
The brand has pledged to stop the selling of all products that are wholly from Russia.
We continue to be saddened by the news coming out of Ukraine. As part of our continued support for those affected, the Aldi group have committed to a further 5 million for established aid organisations ensuring help reaches those that need it most. STANDWITHUKRAINE pic.twitter.comq12UK42C2y
The budget-friendly supermarket most loved for their middle aisles has said they will stop selling all Russian source Vodka.
As Russia continues to invade Ukraine, there have been continuedcalls to boycott the sale of Russian goods in the UK in hopes to apply more pressure on Putin's government to back down.
