Putin and invading troops guilty of horrific crimes
20220411
https://www.dorsetecho.co.uk/news/yoursay/yourletters/20059372.putin-invading-troops-guilty-horrific-crimes/
Not all that long ago when the Russians first invaded Ukraine, many of us felt sorry for the ordinary Russian conscripts who were told that they were going on exercise, then a special operation to liberate innocent peaceful people from the Nazi Ukrainian people.
I heard reports today that the Russian troops were already prepared for this massacre upon Ukraine  they left carrying many body bags and plans for mass burials.
Fortunately as with Ukraine today  defeated and forced back by ordinary brave people defending not only their land but their free will.
Mass murder, raping and looting let alone the complete destruction of civilian homes, including hospitals and places of civilian shelter.
Russia has a history of cruel and unjust wars against its bordering nations: invaded Poland in 1920 and 1939.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We even felt sorry for that young captured Russian soldier shakily clutching a hot drink amongst friendly Ukrainians.
No longer do I just blame Putin, all of their invading troops are equally guilty of these horrific crimes.
Yet now, as the courageous Ukrainians push back the Russians from their once captured territory - we are witnessing the absolute, inhumane, criminal behaviour of Russians - especially their troops.
Russian marked tanks deliberately firing at or crushing civilians trying to escape by car or on foot. Even when their vehicles are clearly marked in Russian Children Aboard!
We in the West all knew it was lying propaganda so did not blame the ordinary Russians or their blinded troops.
When Russian troops marched forward from Stalingrad to Berlin  they murdered and raped their way through just like they are still behaving in Ukraine today.
