Peterborough Cathedral will light up blue and yellow for Ukraine tonight
20220225
https://www.wisbechstandard.co.uk/news/peterborough-cathedral-blue-yellow-ukraine-8716868
Blue and yellow symbolises the Ukrainian flag and will be lit up this evening Feburary 25.
The Archbishops of York and Canterbury said in a statement: "Many of us will have troubled hearts as we watch with horror the attack by Russia on Ukraine.
Very Revd Chris Dalliston, Dean of Peterborough. said: We share with so many the dismay and sorrow at the invasion of Ukraine, and the death and destruction that illegal act has already brought to a peaceful and democratic nation.
MP for Peterborough, Paul Bristow offered his support to the Ukrainian community.  Image: Paul Bristow
Peterborough Cathedral invites people to join them in prayer for' the people of Ukraine, for all who take decisions around the world, and for the people and leaders of Russia.'
MP for Peterborough, Paul Bristow, stood with members of the Ukrainian community in Peterborough in solidarity with them.
"As we have already said, this attack is an act of evil, imperilling as it does the relative peace and security that Europe has enjoyed for so long.
He said: "I stood with members of the Ukrainian community in Peterborough, and many others from Eastern Europe to show our support as the military dictator Putin has invaded.
The lights come in advance of the day of prayer for peace on Sunday February 27. The prayer of peace has been called for by the Archbishops of Canterbury and York.
"We continue to call for a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian forces as well as wide-ranging efforts to ensure peace, stability and security."
"We wholeheartedly endorse the statement issued by our Archbishops and commit to pray for peace and justice. Our prayers go out to the people of Ukraine, and we seek to express our solidarity with them in this time of trial.
A prayer station for peace has been set up in Peterborough Cathedral.  Image: Peterborough Cathedral
The attack by one nation on a free, democratic country has rightly provoked outrage, sanctions and condemnation.
In a call for peace in the developing situation between Russia and Ukraine, Peterborough Cathedral will be lit in blue and yellow colours.
"My office is open to anyone affected by this tragedy - as the PM said - Putin wont succeed."
"We lament with the people of Ukraine, and we pray for the innocent, the frightened and those who have lost loved ones, homes, and family.
