Links 5302022
20220530
https://www.nakedcapitalism.com/2022/05/links-5-30-2022.html
The India Fix: Why is the Indian farmer being held responsible for controlling inflation? Scroll
From the TimesMachine. Enthusiasm for Italian fascism among American bankers and elites was considerable in the 1920s. pic.twitter.comMB8a0OyaGM
How a complex web of businesses turned private health records from GE into a lucrative portrait of patients Stat
eMeanwhile, a major point of this Atlantic article written by a liberal-turned-neocon  which many Dems like McFaul are praising  is that Cheney was right all along about wanting to destroy Russia, but Bush 41 was too much of a cautious wimp to do it.https:t.coDRuMzsl5Pg pic.twitter.comaLGJdpDp8F
Beyond Ukraine, Is the U.S. Arms Industry an Arsenal of Autocracy? Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft
AI gone astray: How subtle shifts in patient data send popular algorithms reeling, undermining patient safety Stat
Lambert and I, and many readers, agree that Ukraine has prompted the worst informational environment ever. We hope readers will collaborate in mitigating the fog of war  both real fog and stage fog  in comments. None of us need more cheerleading and link-free repetition of memes there are platforms for that. Low-value, link-free pom pom-wavers will be summarily whacked.
Why Virgin Male Mice Are So Scared by The Smell of This Common Fruit Science Alert chuck l
SUPREME COURT GUTS ITS OWN PRECEDENT TO ALLOW ARIZONA TO KILL BARRY JONES The Intercept furzy
First, Doug Ford stopped the carbon tax: how Progressive Conservatives reshaped Ontarios environmental policyThe Narwhal
Could I still be infectious after COVID isolation? And should I bother wearing a mask once Im all better? The Conversation The Rev Kev
Scientists Just Got Closer to Understanding Why Yawns Are So Darn Contagious Science Alertchuck l
Zelenskyy Says He Is Willing To Examine Erdogans Notion Of 3-way Talks If Putin Agrees Republic World
Pay with a smile or a wave: why Mastercards new face recognition payment system raises concerns The Conversation
EU Nations To Try Reaching An Agreement On Russian Oil Embargo Before Summit On May 30 Republic World
And for those who are new here, this is not a mere polite request. We have written site Policies and those who comment have accepted those terms. To prevent having to resort to the nuclear option of shutting comments down entirely until more sanity prevails, as we did during the 2015 Greek bailout negotiations and shortly after the 2020 election, we are going to be ruthless about moderating and blacklisting offenders.
This is Roy  our very own visiting bully boy super survivor lorikeet who terrifies the cockatoos and will not take orders of any kind. His partner is Priscilla who he often sends in as decoy ie sweet parrot. Then he turns on his hunch backed pugilistic charm ParrotOfTheDay pic.twitter.comyoTStl8UCS
Worth noting Larry Summerss protege is Sheryl Sandberg, and her firm is being sued by the FTC for antitrust violations. https:t.cocMJnl7CFUk
Please do not write us to ask why a comment has not appeared. We do not have the bandwidth to investigate and reply. Using the comments section to complain about moderation decisionstripwires earns that commenter troll points. Please dont do it. Those comments will also be removed if we encounter them.
I could list a hundred reasons I didnt vote for Trump. But the story that he was in bed with the GRU was 100 invented by camp Clinton  which by the way got a waiver to take $500k from a Russian bank before meeting Putin while Hilldog was the sitting Secretary of State.
