Links 3132022
20220313
https://www.nakedcapitalism.com/2022/03/links-3-13-2022.html
Is The West Laissez-Faire About Economic Warfare? War on the Rocks. Western states that painstakingly rebuilt a liberal economic order after World War II are increasingly dependent on an economic weapon that fundamentally undermines that order. As it turns out, the PMCs Vewy First War has turned Apple Pay, social media, and the genuflects almighty dollar into mere power projection like NGOs or aircraft carriers, but intimate and ubiquitous. And hard power, not soft. Well and good, but it seems reasonable to me that some people, and some nations, would want to get out from under this.
Readers, I have had a correspondent characterize my views as realistic cynical. Let me briefly explain them. I believe in universal programs that provide concrete material benefits, especially to the working class. Medicare for All is the prime example, but tuition-free college and a Post Office Bank also fall under this heading. So do a Jobs Guarantee and a Debt Jubilee. Clearly, neither liberal Democrats nor conservative Republicans can deliver on such programs, because the two are different flavors of neoliberalism Because markets. I dont much care about the ism that delivers the benefits, although whichever one does have to put common humanity first, as opposed to markets. Could be a second FDR saving capitalism, democratic socialism leashing and collaring it, or communism razing it. I dont much care, as long as the benefits are delivered.
How a Playground for the Rich Could Undermine Sanctions on Oligarchs NYT. Not Manhattan or London, one hastens to add.
Jo Handelsman, A World Without Soil: The Past, Present, and Precarious Future of the Earth Beneath Our Feet Yale UP, 2021 podcast New Books Network
Thieves in the Night: A Vast Burglary Ring from Chile Has Been Targeting Wealthy U.S. Households Vanity Fair
Lambert and I, and many readers, agree that Ukraine has prompted the worst informational environment ever. We hope readers will collaborate in mitigating the fog of war  both real fog and stage fog  in comments. None of us need more cheerleading and link-free repetition of memes there are platforms for that. Low-value, link-free pom pom-wavers will be summarily whacked.
Were having way better sex than our kids! The seventysomethings hitting their kinky, blissed-out peak Guardian
Covid has slipped from the headlines  but with restrictions eased, cases are rising Guardian. Commentary:
Insidious and seductive: Uber funds new lobbying group to deny rights for gig workers Guardian PR.
Short and sweet. LIra also cleaned up his language. I know caring about that makes me an old fuddy duddy, but the time is long past when I regarded profanity as a sign of authenticity, and in any case Liras videos are probably easier to distribute widely this way.
Missiles From Iran Struck in Vicinity of U.S. Consulate in Northern Iraq, Officials Say WSJ
1 One more reminder that this global pandemic is not over. At the current death rate in the US which has everyone lowering their guard, with no more surges, 615K more Americans will die of COVID-19 in the next year. https:t.cowhPxTWN2E9
The Russian Militarys Debacle in Ukraine Isaac Chotiner, The New Yorker. The walls are closing in?
Mysterious Drone Crash Leaves Croatia Baffled Balkan Insight. What with India launching  accidentally, it seems  a rocket that hit Pakistan the other day, there seems to be a lot of random hardware up in the sky.
Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, March 12 Institute for the Study of War. Not including the ISWs map because its status quo with yesterday. A map is not the same as the territory, of course, and this may simply be the message the Kagans wish to send. Recall my standard for visuals in war reporting soon to apply, or not, in Mariupol.
Twitter is censoring reporting on Ukrainian Nazis on the pretext of abusive behavior Asa Winstanley
Top reasons why U.S. workers left a job in 2021: Low pay, no advancement opportunities Pew Research Center. The headline is deceptive see this chart:
To me, the key issue  and this is why Medicare for All is always first with me  is the tens of thousands of excess deaths from despair, as described by the Case-Deaton study, and other recent studies. That enormous body count makes Medicare for All, at the very least, a moral and strategic imperative. And that level of suffering and organic damage makes the concerns of identity politics  even the worthy fight to help the refugees Bush, Obama, and Clintons wars created  bright shiny objects by comparison. Hence my frustration with the news flow  currently in my view the swirling intersection of two, separate Shock Doctrine campaigns, one by the Administration, and the other by out-of-power liberals and their allies in the State and in the press  a news flow that constantly forces me to focus on matters that I regard as of secondary importance to the excess deaths. What kind of political economy is it that halts or even reverses the increases in life expectancy that civilized societies have achieved? I am also very hopeful that the continuing destruction of both party establishments will open the space for voices supporting programs similar to those I have listed lets call such voices the left. Volatility creates opportunity, especially if the Democrat establishment, which puts markets first and opposes all such programs, isnt allowed to get back into the saddle. Eyes on the prize! I love the tactical level, and secretly love even the horse race, since Ive been blogging about it daily for fourteen years, but everything I write has this perspective at the back of it.
Illusion Warfare Report: The Road to Ukraine thread Lez LuTHOR. Purportedly from the ground, though I dont see how to test that. I will say that I have seen other little incongruities even in the mainstream: The coiffed BBC interviewee, speaking from her well-apppointed apartment  obviously with Internet, power, and heat  while the city is being reduced to rubble outside her window.
Eastern Ukraine has almost completely fallen, but Putin now needs a peace, fast Intellinews. Very level-headed and well worth a read.
Tax the land Vox. On a land tax, see e..g. Michael Hudson at NC here.
House Democrats Push Biden to Build a Better Midterm Message NYT. Pelosi, who has long been fond of pithy, made-for-bumper-sticker mantras, offered a suggestion she had heard from members: Democrats deliver. They do? What? Ice cream?
And for those who are new here, this is not a mere polite request. We have written site Policies and those who comment have accepted those terms. To prevent having to resort to the nuclear option of shutting comments down entirely until more sanity prevails, as we did during the 2015 Greek bailout negotiations and shortly after the 2020 election, we are going to be ruthless about moderating and blacklisting offenders.
Zelenskys comedy series Servant of the People is as funny as it is heartbreaking FT. It will make you laugh as it simultaneously breaks your heart grabs tissue. Oddly, two phrases do not appear: The network on which Servant of the People appeared, 11, or that networks owner, banderite Fascist Azov Battalion funder and billionaire, Igor Kolomoyskyi. See NC here on Kolomoisky, 11, and Zelensky. Propaganda works:
The whole thread is worth reading plenty of people saying this has happened to them.
Wynton at Harvard, Chapter 12: How the Rhythm Section Swings Harvard University. From 2011, still germane:
Please do not write us to ask why a comment has not appeared. We do not have the bandwidth to investigate and reply. Using the comments section to complain about moderation decisionstripwires earns that commenter troll points. Please dont do it. Those comments will also be removed if we encounter them.
Want to get mad on a Friday night? Join me for a quick tour of how CA cops are exploiting the most vulnerable people, stealing people's cars, and helping tow yards make insane profits. Receipts below. Let's dive in. 113
A Poem and a Painting About the Suffering That Hides in Plain Sight NYT. Audens Muse des Beaux Arts. I thought this would get sloppy, but its a fine close reading. Sadly, one of those swipe-friendly articles meant to be read on a tablet or phone but worth the effort on a laptop.
Russian footholds in Mideast, Africa raise threat to NATO AP. Oh good. A world war.
Rat Out Your Doctor: Bidens Surgeon General Calls on Informants to Report Use of Generic Drugs Michael Capuzzo, Rescue
