Links 6132022
20220613
https://www.nakedcapitalism.com/2022/06/links-6-13-2022.html
Should you take a booster shot? As Covid-19 cases rise again, heres what the experts say Scroll. A view from India.
A New Muckraking Newspaper From Ralph Nader Takes On Congress and Its Dirty Secrets Capital  Main
Material and immaterial Times Literary Supplement. The deck: Why we should care about cloth and how its made
Dems increasingly question whether unpopular Biden should be partys nominee in 2024: report NY Post
Elderly couples lawsuit demanding grandkids highlights woes of Indians who choose to be childfree Scroll
Lambert and I, and many readers, agree that Ukraine has prompted the worst informational environment ever. We hope readers will collaborate in mitigating the fog of war  both real fog and stage fog  in comments. None of us need more cheerleading and link-free repetition of memes there are platforms for that. Low-value, link-free pom pom-wavers will be summarily whacked.
WTO meet  Piyush Goyal Slams Developed Countries For Not Helping Developing Nations During COVID Republic World
Facebook advertising algorithm may have given the GOP a social media edge over the Democratic Party: report Alternet
US health, human rights grps today: WTO Fails Basic Do No Further Harm Test on Eve of Ministerial. Nations Must Reject Poison Pill COVID Text that Adds Obstacles to Meds Access, Doesnt Waive IP Barriers. US Govt: Deliver WTO Waiver for all COVID Medshttps:t.conuIdZgOxmS
U.S. Rep. Adam Kinzinger says Trump lacks mental capability to be president again if he believed election was stolen Chicago Tribune
Ruth Bader Ginsburg was put on the court because she was a big business friendly social climber. Her choices always reflected that. https:t.comOeaaZoITS
Rajapaksa Said Modi Insisted on Adani for Power Project, Says Sri Lanka Electricity Chief The Wire
Gonna be wild when Democrats dont end the filibuster and pass their agenda for fear of what Republicans would do in the majority without the filibuster  and then Republicans take power and end the filibuster anyway and do whatever they want.
Heatwave in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UP to continue till June 14, says weather department Scroll
And for those who are new here, this is not a mere polite request. We have written site Policies and those who comment have accepted those terms. To prevent having to resort to the nuclear option of shutting comments down entirely until more sanity prevails, as we did during the 2015 Greek bailout negotiations and shortly after the 2020 election, we are going to be ruthless about moderating and blacklisting offenders.
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez REFUSES to say shell back Joe in 2024 after report suggests Democrats believe it cant be Biden and the president should announce his intent not to seek re-election Daily Mail
Messy Summit of the Americas highlights contrast in US, China hosting styles South China Morning Post
Please do not write us to ask why a comment has not appeared. We do not have the bandwidth to investigate and reply. Using the comments section to complain about moderation decisionstripwires earns that commenter troll points. Please dont do it. Those comments will also be removed if we encounter them.
In Rajasthan, villagers are planting trees on weddings and funerals to help restore degraded land Scroll
At Shangri-La Dialogue, Ukraine War and US-China Tensions In Focus Amidst Indias Absence The Wire
125 years ago, bicyclists paved the way for the Lake Washington Path  Seattles first long, paved bike path Seattle Times
China Avers Sanctions On Russia not Helpful To Stop War Reiterates Call For Dialogue Republic World
