A mothers anguish as British fighter Aiden Aslin captured by Russians in Ukraine
20220414
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/14/british-fighter-ukraine-captured-russians/
The caption read: "Aiden Aslin. Britain, Nottingham. An English mercenary who fought on the side of the Nazis in Mariupol. Many lost it, but we found it. An interesting interview is coming soon."
A friend of Mr Aslin told The Telegraph the picture looks like him and his distinctive tattoos can be seen.
On April 12,Mr Aslin, from Newark-on-Trent in Nottinghamshire, posted on his Twitter account that his unit had "no food or ammunition" left and was forced to surrender.
"Five officers and 17 servicemen were exchanged. Also eight civilians, including one woman, were released. In total, 30 of our citizens are going home today," Iryna Vereshchuk, the deputy prime minister, said in a statement on social media.
He said: "I've read about how the Ukrainian troops on Snake Island were tortured after their capture.
"Pukes have worked him over too by looks of it," the friend said on Twitter. "We're going to keep in the public eye every day until he's exchanged."
In a video recorded before the invasion of Ukraine in February, he said he joined because he would not "sit here and complain about everything, but go do something about it", adding that war with Russia would mean "a lot of us will die, get seriously injured".
Aiden Aslin has been photographed restrained in handcuffs after surrendering to Russian troops in the besieged city of Mariupol
The man in the image, posted by a pro-Russian Twitter account, shows signs of being badly beaten.
Speaking from her home in Balderton, Nottinghamshire, Ang Wood said: "It's Aiden I can't deny it. It's him.
Mr Aslin had previously travelled to Syria to fight alongside the Kurdish armed forces against Isis between 2015 and 2016.
"My thoughts are that he could be used as some sort of propaganda tool, a trophy prisoner. The most difficult thing is not knowing what the end game will be."
Aiden's brother Nathan previously said he feared his elder sibling could be treated as a trophy prisoner or tortured.
Mr Aslin's unit was defending Mariupol, the southern city that has been destroyed by constant Russian bombing.
His mother, Ang Wood, has since spoken of her anguish and said she is "in bits" after recognising her son from his distinctive tattoos.
"It is time now for the British Government to get involved. and help secure Aiden's release because he is still a British citizen. Possibly there is hope for a prisoner swap arranged by the Ukrainians.
"They are his tattoos. There is a faint hope it is a doctored image but I can't see it.
Ukraine said on Thursday that 30 prisoners of war were being returned to the country as part of the most recent exchange of captives with Russia following an order from Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president.
Aiden Aslin, who joined Ukraines military as a marine in 2018, appears to have been photographed restrained in handcuffs after surrendering to Russian troops.
Russian forces have claimed to have captured a British man who fought against them in the besieged city of Mariupol.
Ukraine's Azov regiment, holding out in another part of the city, later released a video of its own commander and that of the 36th, saying other members of the marine unit had successfully broken out to link up with Azov in a steel factory.
"I now hold Vladimir Putin to the terms of the Geneva Convention. Aiden is a serving member of the Ukrainian armed forces and as such is a prisoner of war and must be treated with humanity.
"Aiden is British so maybe the situation will be different, but Putin gave dire warnings as to the fate of any foreigners who fought on the side of Ukraine.
"It's been 48 days, we tried our best to defend Mariupol but we have no choice but to surrender to Russian forces," the tweet said. "It's been a pleasure everyone  I hope this war ends soon."
