Absinthe makes the heart grow fonder for looting Russian soldier
20220330
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/30/absinthe-makes-heart-grow-fonder-looting-russian-soldier/
A culture of looting is suggestive of poorly-maintained supply lines on the part of the Russian army as well as ill-discipline. The audio clip contributes to this narrative, but its legitimacy, as is typical of media arising from the war in Ukraine, cannot easily be independently verified.
When youre occupying a hostile country, its rarely wise to loot booze from local shops.
It is unclear where the soldier is, but the destroyed houses are in keeping with Russias current tactics. With their attempted blitzkrieg thwarted, Putins forces have increasingly resorted to artillery-based attacks on civilian buildings, most infamously in the southern city of Mariupol. Destroyed houses are now a common sight in several parts of Ukraine.
And if you go ahead and pinch some beer and absinthe, its rarely wise to drink that absinthe neat.
Audio of purported phone call to fiance reveals ill-discipline and poorly-maintained supplies among invading forces
The conversation is warm and in some ways comical, but Russian looting has been widespread and brutal. Within days of the invasion, footage was circulating of Russian troops looting grocery shops in Ukraine.
You go through a village, says the soldier. You see old women and men, two or three people. And you feel f scary the houses are fing destroyed
As the conversation continues, the soldier says that he and his friends are about to resume drinking, and that the beer here is delicious, really fing great.
I sit here and fing whine, worry, dammit, while youre having fun, says the fiance.
Seemingly pre-empting being reprimanded by his fiance for looting, the soldier tells her that most of the locals have fled.
In the clip, the soldier, apparently speaking on the phone to his fiance back home, admits he felt like s.
Alas. It turns out that its 70 per cent alcohol, dammit, a Russian soldier tells his fiance in an audio clip released by the Security Service of Ukraine.
