Alcoholswigging Russian soldier kills two FSB officers in drunken shootout
20220831
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/08/31/russian-soldier-kills-two-fsb-officers-drunken-shootout-kherson/
A Russian military inquiry said that four officers from the FSB, the Russian successor to the KGB, walked into the Food Fuel cafe on June 19 in Kherson, which Russian forces captured at the start of the war.
The soldiers drinking companion, a sergeant, was also killed in the drunken shootout with the FSB officers, in an incident that shows the ill-disciplined state of Russias military in Ukraine.
A Russian soldier shot dead two FSB officers in occupied Kherson after he was caught swigging alcohol while in uniform, a Moscow investigation has said.
The Kremlin had hoped to turn Kherson into a model of how regions of Ukraine under its control would be better off, but it has not turned out this way.
Many areas and towns in Ukraine that have fallen under the control of Russia's army since its invasion six months ago have been razed.
Ukraine launched a major offensive to recapture Kherson this week, with reports from the region saying that fighting may have reached the outskirts of the city.
Analysts have said Russias army has performed poorly during the war in Ukraine and that the same problems - ill-discipline, poor leadership and drunkenness - that dogged the Soviet army still blight Vladimir Putins men.
The report, which was handed to two Western analysts and seen by Yahoo! News, said that two FSB officers and the sergeant died of gunshot wounds. The junior sergeant and another FSB officer were taken to hospital.
There they saw two drunk Russian non-commissioned officers, a sergeant and a junior sergeant, "idly spending time, consuming alcoholic drinks".
When an FSB officer tried to grab it from him, the junior sergeant fired his Kalashnikov rifle at the men and two FSB officers returned fire.
Residents have said that Russian soldiers often drink from lunchtime, and can be aggressive and dangerous. There have been allegations of rape and theft.
In commuter towns north of Kyiv, Russian soldiers raped, tortured and murdered people during the month they were in control. There were also multiple accounts of looting.
The FSB officers challenged the two men for drinking while in uniform, sparking an argument. The sergeant pulled out his pistol and fired it into the ground.
Most people in Kherson have said that they want to leave the region as its economy and services fail. Offers to take up a Russian passport have largely been ignored.
There have been multiple accounts of poor discipline and morale among Russian forces in occupied Kherson.
