Babushka Z says Russians have made her a traitor by erecting statue in her name
20220505
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/05/babushka-z-says-russians-have-made-traitor-erecting-statue-name/
She may have been immortalised in statues and murals across Russia by pro-war Putin fans for waving a Soviet flag at Ukrainian soldiers but Babushka Z has now said that it is all one big mistake.
A video released by Ukrainian channels showed Anya Ivanova, an old woman who had lived in a village in north-east Ukraine with her pious husband before becoming a pro-war hero, denying that she was in favour of Russias invasion.
Id rather not have this celebrity or this war. I dont want it. Wed be better off without this war, she appears to say in the scratchy and heavily edited video.
Alongside the Z insignia of the main invading battle group, the sight of Ms Ivanova defying the Ukrainian army became a rallying point for pro-war Russians.
In the video, Ms Ivanova sits in a small room in Kharkiv after she fled a Russian missile attack near her home.
Its a mud-drenched and confusing scene. The soldiers, wearing Ukrainian flags on their shoulders, say that they have arrived to help the two pensioners. They give Ms Ivanova a couple of loaves of bread and a bag of food. They then take the flag off her and stamp on it.
Soon, powerful murals started to appear on buildings across Russia. Heroic drawings of Anya with her traditional Russian Orthodox headscarf, thick skirt and felt boots are now also on sale as postcards, banners and stickers.
And on Wednesday, in what was meant as the crowning glory of her greatness as a symbol of resistance and liberation, Russian officials unveiled a statue of Ms Ivanova and her flag in Mariupol, the Ukrainian city that the Russian army has liberated by bombing into the ground.
The only problem for Kremlin propagandists who have carefully manufactured this narrative is that Ms Ivanova now says that she feels misunderstood.
An elderly Ukrainian woman has unwittingly become focal point for Russian propagandists  but she appears to regret it, and the war entirely
Babushka is the Russian word for granny, a powerful but benign presence in Russian society, and they were quick to label Ms Ivanova as Babushka Z.
So important has the Babushka Z controversy become that pro-Kremlin propagandists responded quickly. In a video filmed at what they say is her now-abandoned house, they said that she had been kidnapped by Ukrainian forces and made to disown the flag-waving video.
The source of her apparent fame, and frustration, can be traced back to a video repeatedly played on Russian TV a month ago of Mr Ivanova carrying a Soviet flag as she gingerly walks out of her house towards two Ukrainian soldiers.
For the Kremlin, this was propaganda gold dust. Putins main reason for invading Ukraine was to de-Nazify the country, mirroring what the Kremlin regards as the Soviet Unions finest hour - its defeat of Nazi Germany in the Second World War.
Sitting on another bed, her bearded husband mutters and flicks his crucifix into the air.
She hands back her food and tells the soldier that her parents fought for that flag in World War II.
I just came out to tell them not to crush us, to resolve things peacefully and now Ive ended up a traitor, she says in the new Ukrainian video.
