Backup radio and TV station in Kyiv reportedly hit by Russian strikes after night of bombing
20220303
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/03/kyiv-marks-end-first-week-russian-assault-potential-standoff/
"The main body of the large Russian column advancing onKyivremains over 30km from the centre of the city having been delayed by staunch Ukrainian resistance, mechanical breakdown and congestion," Britain's defence ministry said in an intelligence update.
Meanwhile, Kyiv's security forces on Thursday were increasing their defences around government buildings in the city centre, putting up chicanes and erecting barricades of tyres and sandbags.
"The column has made little discernible progress in over three days," it said. "Despite heavy Russian shelling, the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol remain in Ukrainian hands. Some Russian forces have entered the city of Kherson but the military situation remains unclear."
They were placing anti-tank defences known as "Czech hedgehogs" - pieces of metal resembling giant tacks that are designed to stop the progress of oncoming tanks.
Russia's advance on the capital has made little progress over the past three days and the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol remain in Ukrainian hands, according to British military intelligence.
While railway officials initially said it was an airstrike by Russian "terorists", the Ukrainian government later claimed it the blast was falling wreckage from of a Russian jet that had been shot down by Ukraine's air-defences.
Russian forces captured the town of Balakliya near the city of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine, the Interfax news agency quoted Russia's defence ministry as saying on Thursday.
It comes a day after Russian missiles reportedly struck a TV tower inthecapital, in what Moscow said was a targeted attack against Ukraine's information warfare.
There were also reports that the target was a plant supplying the city with hot water.
On Wednesday evening, an explosion also shook the city's main railway station, currently the main humanitarian conduit for people fleeing the city.
Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, marked the end of its first week under Russian assault amid fears that it may soon be under siege.
The cause of the blast, which took place near a few hundred metres from the terminal, remained unclear this morning.
Two loud blasts were overheard during the night, one lighting up the night sky as a crew from the US TV channel CBS were doing a broadcast, forcing its reporter to duck for cover.
Russian forces said on Thursday that they had struck a radio and television centre in Kyiv, claiming to have knocked out the city's back up mass communications facility.
