Ben Wallace Nofly zone over Ukraine would only bolster Russia
20220302
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2022/03/02/ben-wallace-no-fly-zone-ukraine-would-bolster-russia/
If you have a no-fly zone, it will favour the force with the massive armed forces, which will be Russia because they will be able to carry on regardless.
His comments came as Russian troops besieged the city of Mariupol in the south of the country and advanced elsewhere.
The repulsion of Russian tanks and troops in Kyiv and elsewhere had largely depended on air support, Mr Wallace said, which could not happen if a no-fly zone was imposed by Nato troops.
"If you have a no-fly zone you have to enforce a no-fly zone, Mr Wallace said in a separate interview with Sky News.
One of the few weapons they have against the soldiers on the ground and forces like those big armoured columns is the ability to fly their fast jets and to use drones to strike logistical chains and air defences.
He also repeated the Governments position that enforcing a no-fly zone with Nato jets created the possibility of Western forces directly engaging Russia in combat.
That would involve British fighter jets shooting down Russian fighter jets, probably over Ukraine, that would lead to Article Five triggering of Nato and Nato is a self-defence pact.
Responding to calls for Nato forces to impose such a zone, the Defence Secretary said it would lead to a war against Russia across the whole of Europe in the long run, and make it more difficult for Ukraine to repel Vladimir Putins forces in the meantime.
That doesn't take away from the fact you have a very ruthless Russian armed forces leadership and a president who seems to know no limit to how much violence they will use to achieve their aims, he said.
All 30 countries will come to each other's aid, the triggering of Article Five would lead to a war against Russia across the whole of Europe."
Britains preferred strategy has been to arm the Ukrainian military, including drones and anti-tank weapons, to beat back the invading force.
Such an event would trigger Natos collective defence agreement, escalating the situation to a full-scale war between Putin and the West, ministers believe.
They also have lots of long-range missiles so they can substitute air attacks with missile attacks.
But he also warned that there was no limit to the violent means Putin would use.
Enforcing a no-fly zone over Ukraine would favour Russia because its land army would be able to destroy targets more easily, Ben Wallace has warned.
On Wednesday, Mr Wallace was cautiously optimistic about Ukraines prospects in the war because of "huge amounts of low morale in the Russian forces and lots of surrenders".
Defence Secretary says move would create possibility of Western forces engaging the Russians in combat, which could then lead to all-out war
There's been a lot of no-fly zone suggestions and no one seems to actually analyse what no-fly zone means and what it would mean for Ukrainian armed forces, he told Times Radio.
The Ukrainian armed forces are outnumbered on the ground massively by Russian armour and Russian army.
