Boris Johnson is Ukraines favourite foreign leader but dont tell France and Germany
20220630
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/06/30/boris-johnson-ukraines-favourite-foreign-leader-dont-tell-france/
The Prime Minister was viewed very or somewhat favourably by nine out of 10 Ukrainians surveyed, in comparison to 93 per cent who thought the same of the Ukrainian president.
Of the Russians surveyed, it was found that three quarters supported what is referred to in their country as a special military operation in Ukraine.
Boris Johnsons favourability among Ukrainians is almost as high as Volodymyr Zelenskys, a poll has revealed.
However, Emmanuel Macron and Olaf Scholz do not rank well, with just 42 per cent of the 1,012 Ukrainians surveyed stating they had a favourable view of the French and German leaders.
However, there was a noticeable age difference, with fewer than half of 18- to 24-year-olds saying they supported the invasion, compared to 84 per cent of those aged over 55.
Despite this, more than eight of 10 Ukrainians would still like their country to join Nato.
The study was carried out over the past three weeks by Lord Ashcroft Polls, the polling company run by the former deputy chairman of the Conservative Party.
However, more than two in three Ukrainians surveyed expect the conflict to last at least another four months  more than in any other country that was surveyed.
Joe Biden was also regarded highly by the Ukrainian public, with 89 per cent sharing a similarly positive view of the US president.
Six out of 10 Ukrainians said they were more confident of defeating the Russian invasion now than they were when the conflict started.
Poll shows that the Prime Minister is as popular as Volodymyr Zelensky among Ukrainians, while French and German leaders fare badly
Nearly 80 per cent of Ukrainians surveyed believe that the UK is doing enough to help their country. However, fewer than half believe that Nato, the European Union, France and Germany are doing the same.
There was also strong support for Vladimir Putin within Russia, with 85 per cent of those surveyed saying they had a favourable opinion of the Russian president.
