Britain backs Ukraine using Western weapons to hit targets in Russia
20220426
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/26/britain-backs-ukraine-strike-targets-russian-soil-western-weapons/
He also said that it was a perfectly legitimate part of war for Russia to target supply chains of weapons arriving into western Ukraine.
Western governments have been pouring weapons, including heavy artillery and tanks, into Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Feb 24.
In an interview with Russian media, Sergei Lavrov said that Moscow was striving to prevent nuclear war.
His comments came after an attack on a government building in Transnistria, a pro-Russian breakaway region of Moldova, sparked fears of the conflict spreading further into Europe.
Just as to be frank, providing the Russians dont target civilians  which unfortunately theyve not taken too much regard for thus far  it is perfectly legitimate for them to be striking targets in western Ukraine to disrupt Ukrainian supply lines, Mr Heappey told BBCs Radio 4 Today programme.
His intervention came after Russias foreign minister accused Nato of fighting a proxy war in Ukraine and warned that the danger of conflict risked escalating into a third world war.
This is our key position on which we base everything. The risks now are considerable, he said. I would not want to elevate those risks artificially. Many would like that. The danger is serious, real. And we must not underestimate it.
In a separate interview, Mr Heappey added: You know, the fact is that they make these choices just as the Russians make those choices to indiscriminately bomb Ukrainian towns and cities.
Firstly, its Ukrainians that take the targeting decision, not the people who manufacture or export the kit in the first place. And secondly, it is entirely legitimate to go after targets in the depth of your opponents to disrupt their logistics and supply lines.
Armed Forces minister shrugs off warning of third world war by saying it is acceptable for Kyiv to strike targets beyond its border
Responding to reports that Kyiv had targeted a fuel depot in Russia, Mr Heappey said: The question is, is it acceptable for our weapons to be used against legitimate Russian military targets by the Ukrainians?
Britain has backed Ukraine using weapons supplied by the West to hit targets on Russian soil to disrupt its supply chains, as Moscow warned that such a move risked provoking a third world war.
James Heappey, the Armed Forces minister, also claimed that shipments of arms by the UK and its Nato allies were entirely legitimate targets for Russian forces.
