By appeasing Russia the West is conspiring in its own destruction
20220210
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/02/10/appeasing-russia-west-conspiring-destruction/
What is being called the Finlandisation of Ukraine, by which the countrys independence is recognised in name only, would be a poor substitute for Kyivs long-held ambition of forging closer ties with the West and one day gaining membership of institutions such as Nato and the EU.
China, too, is taking a close interest in how Moscows latest stand-off with its Western adversaries unfolds. Suggestions that the crisis might result in the formation of a new Sino-Russian axis are far-fetched, given the deep-seated rivalry that exists between the two countries. Chinese President Xi Jinping expressed solidarity with his Russian opposite number in the joint communique issued at the Winter Olympics. Yet Beijing views Moscow as little more than a convenient gas station to be used to fuel Chinas far more convincing masterplan to achieve global domination.
Russias primary objective in amassing a massive military force on the Ukrainian border has been, I still contend, to test Western resolve, not to seize control of Ukraine, a move that would be ruinously counter-productive to Moscows interests.
Even though Mr Macron asserted he received an assurance from Mr Putin that there would be no deterioration or escalation in the Ukraine crisis  a claim the Kremlin promptly dismissed as not right  the French leader seems to have done so at the expense of upholding the Wests longstanding commitment to protect Ukraines territorial integrity.
The old Cold War doctrine, whereby the West never conceded an inch in its battle to defend freedom, is long gone. It has been replaced by a willingness by too many Western powers to appease their adversaries  Germanys support for Russias Nord Stream 2 pipeline being a classic case of placing self-interest above principle.
Coming after the Wests capitulation to Moscow over recent acts of Russian aggression in Georgia and Crimea, the abandonment of Ukraine would only lend further encouragement to autocratic regimes to continue to subvert the established Western order by expanding their sphere of influence.
Russias growing assertiveness can be seen in its increased activity in the Middle East and Africa, while Chinas confidence in confronting the West is evident in its recent backing for Argentinas sovereignty claim over the Falkland Islands.
Defusing the immediate Ukraine crisis is certainly a worthy cause. But it is one that risks further eroding the Wests standing in world affairs.
Emmanuel Macron may believe that he has achieved the Gallic equivalent of peace in our time through his diplomatic interventions in the Ukraine crisis. Yet the brutal truth is that any attempt to appease the Kremlin will simply be taken as further evidence of the Wests waning influence in world affairs.
Mr Macron now appears willing to abandon this undertaking by opting instead to pressure the Ukrainian government into accepting the conditions set out in the Minsk-2 agreement that France and Germany helped to negotiate in 2015 to end the countrys civil war.
Obliging Kyiv to accept the Minsk deal, which seems to be Mr Macrons key objective, would provide yet another example of the Wests waning credibility so far as upholding its international obligations is concerned.
The Chinese are, though, taking a close interest in how the Ukraine crisis unfolds because its outcome could have a direct bearing on their own global aspirations, especially concerning issues such as Taiwan.Consequently, the deal Mr Macron appears to think he can strike with Vladimir Putin will be viewed in both Moscow and Beijing as a major test of the Wests resolve, one the French leader seems to have failed miserably.
Macrons deal with Putin will only further reassure our enemies that we pose no challenge to them
The Western alliance has found itself caught between a rock and a hard place on the Ukraine issue. While accepting there are international obligations to protect the country, few Nato members, for example, have any interest in admitting Ukraine to the alliance  or any other multinational institution. Gripped by widespread corruption and political instability, Ukraine would be more of a liability than an asset if it was ever granted membership, rather like Turkey.
Nevertheless, any perceived failure by the West to protect Ukraine from Mr Putins revanchist objectives  especially following last years Afghanistan fiasco  will only strengthen the view that Western democracies are no match for the challenge posed by autocratic regimes such as Russia and China.
The Minsk agreement is deeply unpopular in Ukraine, as it effectively attempts to plant a Russian Trojan horse in the heart of the Ukrainian constitution. For, if implemented, it would integrate the Russian-controlled breakaway provinces of eastern Ukraine into Kyivs political establishment, thereby providing Moscow with a direct say over how the country conducts its affairs.
Under the terms of the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, Western powers, including Britain and the US, committed themselves to safeguarding Ukraines sovereignty in return for Kyiv giving up its arsenal of nuclear weapons.
