Captured Briton Aiden Aslin seen moments before surrender without head injury visible on Russian TV
20220415
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/15/captured-briton-aiden-aslin-seen-moments-surrender-without-injury/
"If you are watching this video, it means that we have surrendered," he said. "We have finally exhausted all our resources. We've run out of ammunition, food. The only thing we had left was water, but apart from that we were just under constant heavy shelling, heavy artillery, heavy air strikes."
In the footage of the interrogation, Mr Aslin looked battered and appeared to slur his words. His hands and face were swollen and he had bruises and a cut on his forehead. His family have said that they have not heard from him since he surrendered.
Mariupol has been encircled for weeks, and has been the focus of the heaviest fighting and bombardments. Photos have shown the almost complete destruction of the port city.
Mr Aslin has said he joined the Ukrainian army in 2018. He had previously been a member of Kurdish militia fighting Isis forces in Syria.
Footage of a British man deployed with Ukrainian marines in Mariupol has emerged in which he can be seen just before he surrendered to Russian soldiers, without the head injury visible after he was captured.
"You guys will see what will happen. Hopefully, the Ukrainian marines will be treated accordingly," he said. "Our commander negotiated with the Russian commander and we are just waiting for the command to lay down our arms and head towards the Russian soldiers. Hopefully, you will see something from me in the future."
The video, posted on Twitter, is undated, but Kremlin officials said more than 1,000 Ukrainian marines surrendered to Russian forces on Wednesday.
On Thursday, Russia's main news programme showed footage of Mr Aslin being interrogated by members of the Russian security services after he surrendered with Ukraine's 36th Marine Brigade.
British politicians this week accused Moscow of breaching the Geneva Convention by using Mr Aslin for propaganda purposes.
Video shows 28-year-old walking through ruins of a steel plant in Mariupol, where he had been fighting Russia's forces for 48 days
In it, the 28-year-old was accused of being a sniper but denied he had been fighting, saying he had stayed inside a bunker throughout the battle because he was scared.
"Yesterday was the heaviest. They hit us with everything they had so there were heavy casualties and we didn't really have any other choice other than to surrender," he said.
His mother, Ang Wood, said she was "in bits", adding: "Aiden is a serving member of the Ukrainian armed forces, and as such is a prisoner of war and must be treated with humanity."
In the video before his surrender, Mr Aslin sounded crestfallen but appeared uninjured. At one point he looked straight into the camera and no sign of a head injury could be seen. The thud of shells could be heard in the background as he walked through the factory site.
In the pre-surrender video, he said he hoped the Russians would treat him and his fellow soldiers with the respect laid down for prisoners of war under international law.
Aiden Aslin made a pre-surrender video. The man who celebrated real or fake dead Russian "orcs" and filled his social media with bravado and claims of righteous Ramboing while trying to flee Mariupol disguised as a civilian is looking rather forlorn. pic.twitter.comJJ0NtoQdpI
In the clip, 28-year-old Aiden Aslin, from Newark in Nottinghamshire, walked through the ruins of a steel plant in the southern city, where he had been fighting Russian forces for 48 days.
