Chaos as Joe Biden says Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power
20220326
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/26/joe-biden-us-president-vladimir-putin-russia-power-ukraine-invasion/
Mr Bidens speech was not the first time he has appeared to go off-script. In January, he had to clarify his stance on a potential Russian incursion into Ukraine, after suggesting a minor incursion by Russia would elicit a lesser response than a full-scale invasion.
Dmitry Medvedev, the former Russian president, said that Moscow still intended to topple the Ukrainian government, highlighting a schism with Russias leading military figures.
Joe Biden appeared to call for regime change in Russia, as he said that Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power in a highly charged speech in Warsaw.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian resistance fighters scored an apparent victory when they recaptured the north-east town of Trostyanets, near the Russian border, one of the first settlements to fall to Moscow after it invaded a month ago.
White House insiders said that the presidents remarks on removing Putin from power were not planned and came as a surprise to travelling officials.
Dont even think about moving on one single inch of Nato territory, he said, reiterating the sacred obligation of collective defence for alliance members.
In this battle, we need to be clear-eyed. This battle will not be won in days, or months, either, he added. We must commit now, to be in this fight for the long haul.
Mr Sadovyi said that the six missile attacks on his city were a way of saying hello to President Biden on his visit to Poland.
US policy in disarray as White House is forced to row back presidents call for Russian leader to be removed
The Kremlin issued a furious response, as critics accused Mr Biden of playing into Putins hands.
Five people were wounded and fuel depots destroyed, with smoke billowing over the city, which now hosts many of the diplomatic missions that fled the bombardment of Kyiv.
The White House immediately sought to clarify Mr Bidens comments, insisting his statement should not be taken as official policy.
Earlier in the day, Mr Biden had vowed to send more weapons and aid to Ukraine.
Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, said: This not to be decided by Mr Biden. It should only be a choice of the people of the Russian Federation.
The special operation is aimed at, namely, the neutral status of Ukraine, its demilitarisation, the refusal to use Nazi ideological laws that were adopted by Ukraine, he said.
However, more morbid warnings were sent about the port city of Mariupol, where United Nations workers are said to have discovered mass graves.
The missile strikes on Lviv appeared to highlight growing splits between the Kremlin and its generals, who had suggested Russian forces were preparing to scale back their invasion.
Tobias Ellwood, the chairman of the Commons defence select committee, described Mr Bidens remarks as unwise.
Ben Rhodes, a former national security adviser to Barack Obama, said: That speech was not about regime change in Russia. It was about the long-term stakes in the fight between democracy and autocracy, unless the Biden team formally says it has a regime change policy.
In his speech, the US president issued a stern warning that Washington would be prepared to join the war if Moscow widened its assault to attack a Nato ally.
The Kremlin is likely to further seize on the comments to bolster its claims that Nato is an aggressive alliance and further justify its war against Ukraine.
Aaron David Miller, a former US State Department adviser, said that to Russian ears, Mr Bidens comment only confirms what Putin has believed all along: US policy is regime change, thereby ensuring this becomes a fight not just for Ukraine but for Putins survival.
Ukrainian officials said that they believed Putins invasion force was consolidating its positions in order to launch fresh attacks on Kyiv, rather than shifting their focus to the Kremlin-controlled regions in Donetsk and Luhansk.
Andriy Sadovyi, the citys mayor, said that the attacks had targeted infrastructure, including a fuel storage facility, but not residential buildings.
He said that the Kremlins invasion of Ukraine threatened to bring decades of war to Europe, declaring that the Continent must prepare itself for a long fight against further Russian aggression.
Mr Biden took the stage for his speech minutes after Russia fired missiles at Lviv, 40 miles from the Polish border.
For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power, the US president said, as he urged democracies around the world to unite against the Russian president in a speech in Polands capital littered with historical references to war in Europe.
