CIA director says no evidence Russia planning to deploy nuclear weapons
20220507
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/07/cia-director-says-no-evidence-russia-planning-deploy-nuclear/
He has since tested a new nuclear warhead known as Satan II, which will be ready for deployment by the Autumn.
Speaking at a Financial Times conference, Mr Burns said: "We don't see, as an intelligence community, practical evidence at this point of Russian planning for the deployment or even potential use of tactical nuclear weapons.
Mr Burns caveated his assertions, by saying: Given the kind of sabre rattling that we've heard from the Russian leadership, we can't take lightly those possibilities, so we stay very sharply focused as an intelligence service on those possibilities at a moment when the stakes are very high for Russia.
Vladimir Putin is stewing in a very combustible combination of grievance and aggression, according to CIA director Bill Burns
Observers say that in recent days, Russia's state television has attempted to make nuclear weapons use more palatable to the public.
"I think he's convinced right now that doubling down still will enable him to make progress."
"I think they've been struck by the way in which particularly the transatlantic alliance has come together to impose economic costs on Russia as a result of that aggression.
China has ramped up pressure on Taiwan since Tsai Ing-wen was elected president in 2016, as she considers the island a sovereign nation and not part of Chinese territory.
The Kremlin placed nuclear forces on high alert shortly after Putin sent troops to Ukraine on February 24.
"I think the Chinese leadership is looking very carefully at all this, at the costs and consequences of any effort to use force to gain control over Taiwan, he said.
Elsewhere, Mr Burns said China is closely studying Russia's invasion of Ukraine and is likely adjusting its long-term plans for gaining control of Taiwan based on the lessons from the war.
Taiwan lives under the constant threat of invasion by Beijing, which sees the self-ruled democratic island as part of its territory to be retaken one day, by force if necessary.
Beijing has been "surprised" by the poor performance of Russian military forces as well as the tough resistance coming from the entire Ukrainian society, he added.
The US Central Intelligence Agency has no practical evidence that Russia is planning to deploy nuclear weapons in the war with Ukraine, according to its director.
"Clearly the Chinese leadership is trying to look carefully at what lessons they should draw from Ukraine about their own ambitions and Taiwan," he said.
However, Mr Burns warned that the second phase of the war - concentrated in Ukraines east - is at least as risky and perhaps even riskier than the first phrase.
Putin is In a frame of mind in which he doesn't believe he can afford to lose so the stakes are quite high in this phase, said Mr Burns.
Bill Burns, who took up the role last year, says that Vladimir Putin is stewing in a very combustible combination of grievance and aggression, but has not yet moved to deploy the most severe weapons in Russias arsenal.
With a range of 12,000 miles and five times faster than the speed of sound, the missile is designed to hit any major city in the world. It carries up to 15 warheads and analysts have said it could wipe out several British cities in one go.
