Duchess of York travels to Poland to deliver aid to Ukrainian refugees
20220317
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/royal-family/2022/03/17/duchess-york-travels-poland-deliver-aid-ukrainian-refugees/
The Duchess first visited Poland in 1992 when she set up an international branch of Children in Crisis, another of her charities, after learning of the heavy pollution in industrialised Upper Silesia where the infant mortality rate was then the highest in Europe.
She said: It went on to provide help for children in Bosnia, assisted other charities in aiding young victims of Chernobyl, and worked with Albanian authorities to help children in Europes poorest countries. Poland has changed so much since I first saw it and it is an honour to be welcomed back.
The Duke of Yorks former wife travelled to Warsaw and was hosted by Rafal Trzaskowski, the citys mayor, after appealing for donations to her charity, Sarahs Trust.
I think those of us in countries further away have a duty to help the Polish people respond to this crisis. Two of our lorries have gone to Rudy and Czeladz and the third one will go to the Silesia region.
The Duchess of York on Thursday met Ukrainian refugees in Poland to deliver three articulated lorries packed with aid from donors.
The Duchess, 62, who has longstanding links to Poland, is sending the aid to border regions in a bid to help those fleeing the Russian invasion.
These include clothes for women, children, nappies, hand sanitisers, toiletries, torches, and non-perishable food like porridge oats. All of these items have been provided by kind-hearted donors in the UK who I cant thank enough.
Of the nearly three million refugees who have left Ukraine, more than 1.7 million have gone to Poland where the number of people that have arrived matches the population of Warsaw.
She added: I want to do my bit through my charity, Sarahs Trust, and am here to hear more about what is needed on the ground. So far we have organised for three articulated lorries with supplies designed to help refugees from Ukraine in Poland.
Duchess meets people fleeing the Russian invasion and gives them a helping hand by providing them with food and clothes
At least 2.8 million Ukrainians have fled the country since Russia invaded, according to the United Nations refugee agency. Poland shares a 310-mile border with Ukraine and it is taking in the majority of the people who have left their homes since the war began.
So far, more than 1.7 million have crossed into Poland, streaming into border towns. The welcome being given to them  that includes everything from hot meals to warm beds  has been inspiring to watch.
The Duchess said: This conflict is absolutely heartbreaking to watch. It is unbearable to see families being separated and civilians being caught up in the bloodshed. I have always believed the smile of a child is the most important thing in the world, so to see so many children caught up in this crisis is particularly affecting.
