Elon Musk challenges Vladimir Putin to a duel over Ukraine
20220314
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/14/elon-musk-challenges-vladimir-putin-duel-ukraine/
"Elon Musk, while you try to colonise Mars  Russia try to occupy Ukraine! While your rockets successfully land from space  Russian rockets attack Ukrainian civil people!" he tweeted.
MrMusktagged the Kremlin in a second tweet. Again writing in Russian, he asked: "Do you agree to this fight?"
In a bizarre tweet on Monday, Mr Musk urged the Russian President to engage him in "single combat", with the "stakes" being Ukraine.
He added: "And also my sympathies to the great people of Russia, who do not want this."
According to internet monitors, connectivity across Ukraine has been heavily impacted by the Russian invasion.
With Putin's name written in Russian and the word "Ukraine" written in Ukrainian, the Tesla chief executive tweeted: "I hereby challenge Vladimir Putin to single combat.
Following Russia's invasion on February 24, MrMuskgave Ukraine access to SpaceX's satellite-internet system Starlink - a system of some 2,000 satellites designed to bring web access to underserved areas of the world.
Mr Zelensky thanked MrMuskfor that support, tweeting: "I'm grateful to him for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds."
Mr Musk welcomed a second child with his on-off musician girlfriend Grimes earlier this month, calling her Exa Dark Siderael Musk, or Y for short.
A video shared on March 5 showed him speaking directly with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
The Tesla founder is no stranger to controversial tweets and has found himself at loggerheads with American regulators who he has previously accused of trying to "muzzle" his free speech.
MrMusk's challenge to Putin is one of several posts he has shared on the war in Ukraine.
The pair are already parents to son X AE A-12, known as X, who was born in May 2020.
Within 10 hours, Mr Musk replied: "Starlink service is now active in Ukraine. More terminals en route."
