Energyhungry appliances add 130 to bills this year
20220418
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/04/18/energy-hungry-appliances-add-130-bills-year/
Overall, Which?s research indicated that households with the most efficient appliances would pay almost 5,600 less in total running costs over the 16-20 year lifetime of the products, under current energy rates.
Telegraph analysis of the Which? figures indicate the lifetime saving could be as high as 5,596 under current price cap rates.
Which? tested the most popular household models on the market, and found that the average annual cost of running the four appliances will increase on average by 77 in total under the higher energy price cap rate which came into force on April 1.
And the Ebac AWM86D2H and AWM74D2H is set to cost 25.61 to run the main cotton wash at 40C four times a week for a year, compared to the Whirlpool W8W946WRUK which uses almost four times as much energy and will cost 94.60 for the year, Which? said.
Fridge-freezers are the most expensive appliance to run. Its on 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 52 weeks a year, Which? said. Yet our testing reveals that some use less than a quarter of the energy others use.
There was a wide range between appliances, however, with the annual cost of running the Hotpoint FFU3D W 1 or FFU3D X 1 fridge-freezers set to reach 178.66 under the new price cap rate of 28 pence per kilowatt-hour, compared to 40.63 annually for the LG GBB92MCBAP.
The 54pc increase in the energy price cap on April 1 has pushed average energy bills to 1,971, with households warned prices are likely to rise again in October as Russias war on Ukraine prolongs the turmoil on global gas markets.
The Government earlier this month set out an energy security strategy aimed at boosting domestic supplies of energy in the long term, though it has faced criticism for not doing more to make sure homes are not wasting energy in the short-term, through better energy efficiency measures.
Which? finds the least efficient whitegoods will cost up to three times as much to run
Poor energy efficiency risks deepening the cost-of-living crisis triggered by soaring energy bills owing to a global natural gas shortage which has been exacerbated by Russias war on Ukraine.
Alastair Cooke of Miele said the company seeks to produce the most sustainable appliances possible.
The cost of running energy hungry fridge-freezers, washing machines and dishwashers is to add 130 to the average energy bill this year after the surge in the price cap, according to research by Which?.
The company's findings revealed that the annual cost of running the most energy-intensive household appliances is set to rise by 130 in total this year, compared to an increase of only 41 in total for more efficient products.
John Elliott, founder of Ebac, said his machines also performed strongly on lowering carbon dioxide emissions.
It added that while many efficient models cost more than inefficient ones upfront, they could pay for themselves in the savings in just a few years, and even end up costing 1000s less over their lifetime.
If you are worried about your current energy consumption there are things you can do to cut costs such as avoiding small loads in your washing machine and dishwasher and not overfilling your fridge."
Emily Seymour of Which? said: If you are in the market for a new washing machine or fridge freezer be sure to choose an energy-efficient model as the cost of running inefficient appliances is increasing by more than 130 each year.
Meanwhile, the Miele TCB140 WP and TSB143 WP heat pump tumble dryer will cost 24p per load, or 38.04 for a years use, compared to 174.67 for the rival Beko DTBC10001, according to Which? research.
David Palmer, at LG Electronics, said it was committed to developing products that reduce environmental impacts throughout their life cycle.
