First Ukrainian civilians rescued from Mariupol steelworks
20220501
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/01/first-ukrainian-civilians-evacuated-mariupol-steelworks/
State-owned news agency RIA Novosti later on Sunday showed footage of men and women walking out of buses towards tents on the side of the road guarded by Russian soldiers.
Outside the blue tents, two children sat quietly, one playing with a lighter. One woman clasped her hands to her face. A young woman reached out to stroke a cat.
It will be right to take mirror steps towards businesses in Russia whose owners come from hostile nations where such measures were taken: confiscate these assets, he said.
Dozens of civilians, including young children, were seen arriving at temporary accommodation facility in the village of Bezimenne, which is controlled by pro-Russian separatists, Reuters reported. Russian troops and vehicles marked with UN insignia formed the convoy.
He said the evacuees are expected to arrive in the central city of Zaporizhzhia on Monday and that Kyiv is working with the UN to ensure the complete evacuation of the plant that is believed to be sheltering at least 1,000 people in its sprawling network of underground facilities.
In what appears to be a continuing streak of unexplained attacks on Russian infrastructure in border areas, the governor of the Kursk region said traffic on a section of the local railway was disrupted on Sunday after a railway bridge collapsed in the morning.
Russias defence ministry earlier on Sunday said nearly 50 people have been evacuated from Azovstal and that 21 people were taken to a Russia-controlled area.
On Ukrainian front lines, government officials reported heavy Russian casualties in a major airstrike on a Russian command centre in the east.
Unfortunately the reports have been confirmed: it was an act of sabotage, Roman Starovoit said in a video statement.
Ukrainian media on Saturday said the airstrike has killed Maj Gen Andrei Simonov, commander of electronic warfare in Russias Western Military District, who reportedly became Russias tenth general to die in the war.
The airstrike near the contested town of Izyum likely caused severe casualties among senior Russian officers, and several Ukrainian sources including Arsen Avakov, a former interior minister, suggested that Gen Valery Gerasimov, head of the Russian General Staff, may have been injured in the strike.
The CIT also quoted an unnamed source in the Russian military saying that Gen Gerasimov flew into Izyum but returned to Moscow unscathed.
Vyacheslav Volodin, chairman of the State Duma, wrote on his blog on Sunday that the US presidents proposal was theft.
Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, said on Sunday evening the first group of about 100 people is already heading to the government-controlled area.
Hopes rise for 1,000 still underground in besieged port city as evacuees head for area controlled by Ukrainian government
Pope Francis in his Sunday sermon called for humanitarian corridors to evacuate the Mariupol residents as he called the war in Ukraine a macabre regression of humanity that makes him suffer and cry.
Ukrainian officials previously criticised the Russian military for blocking civilians from leaving for government-controlled areas, describing the evacuation of an estimated one million Ukrainians to Russia or separatist-held areas as kidnapping.
A Russian defence ministry video showed a convoy of cars and buses travelling in the dark, marked with a Z, the letter used by the invading Russian troops.
Speaking to thousands of people in St. Peters Square for his noon blessing, Francis again implicitly criticised Russia:
At least seven houses were damaged and one person was injured in the fire, Mr Gladkov said.
In the Belgorod region, Vyacheslav Gladkov, the governor, reported a major fire at a military facility as local residents posted videos of plumes of white smoke towering in the distance and spoke of explosions heard in the area.
About 100 civilians were evacuated to safety on Sunday after weeks underground in the besieged Azovstal steel works, the only pocket of resistance in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol.
Meanwhile, Russias top lawmaker called on the Russian government to confiscate property owned by Westerners in response to a proposal by Joe Biden to seize the frozen assets of Russian oligarchs and send the proceeds to Ukraine.
The Conflict Intelligence Team CIT, a well-respected group of Russian open-source investigators, on Sunday cited data showing several transport planes and helicopters arrive at the border with Ukraine late on Saturday and early Sunday in an indirect confirmation that Russian troops sustained heavy losses in the Ukrainian airstrike near Izyum.
Earlier on Sunday, Russias defence ministry accused Ukrainian nationalists of shelling several villages in the Kherson region.
The much-anticipated rescue operation was mediated by the United Nations shortly after Antnio Guterres, the secretary-general, visited both Moscow and Kyiv.
My thoughts go immediately to the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, the city of Mary, barbarously bombarded and destroyed.
