Friday morning news briefing Vladimir Putins race to Kyiv
20220225
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/02/25/friday-morning-uk-news-briefing-todays-top-headlines-telegraph/
Multiple explosions again rattled the capital of Kyiv this morning, as troops closed in under Russian president Vladimir Putin's full-scale invasion.
Catch up with everything that happened overnight, including the reported shooting down of a Ukrainian aircraft.
Our chief reporter Robert Mendick has our full report on how Mr Putin plunged Europe into war on a scale not seen since 1945.
As European leaders consider their next move in the face of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson described as "bloodstained tyranny", Fraser Nelson fears that it is naivety that has left us exposed to the danger hiding in plain sight.
Partygate  Rishi Sunak has been accused of breaking lockdown laws, as it emerged that he has been handed a Metropolitan Police questionnaire over his attendance at a gathering in Downing Street. The Chancellor is understood to have briefly attended an event for Boris Johnson's birthday on June 19, 2020. The Treasury confirmed he is one of 50 officials who have been asked to submit written evidence.
With operators extending their ski seasons, this is the time to make the most of every moment with these top late-season resorts. From the States to Spain, Patrick Thorne lists where to book for the best conditions.
One-pot orzo with crab and chilli  You can dish up this meal by Eleanor Steafel at the table so that it stays hot until the last possible second. View the recipe. For more, try our Cookbook newsletter.
He explains why the invasion of Ukraine may turn out to be Europe's 911 moment: when what was seen as a remote, theoretical risk suddenly stands as the biggest single security threat.
The second day of Mr Putin's rapid and brutal attack on Ukraine came as US officials warned that the Kremlin's intention was a race to Kyiv to overthrow Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky and install a new leadership allied to Russia.
Young people have spent the past two years terrified by Covid. They are assailed daily by predictions of imminent climate disaster. And now they are faced with wild talk of a Third World War. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has sparked a level of alarm among children last seen at the height of the apocalyptic 1980s. How do we put it in context for our youngsters? Philip Johnston explains what parents can do to help.
Households face energy bills of more than 3,000 per year, experts have warned, after Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine caused alarm in international commodity markets. As wholesale gas prices rocketed to the highest levels for two months, analysts warned that the surge threatened to drive the energy price cap up by more than 1,000 and push more families into fuel poverty and more businesses to breaking point. Read how the invasion is likely to further impact the cost of living.
But Mr Zelensky was defiant in refusing to leave Kyiv despite Russian "sabotage" groups entering the capital.
Wood vs uPVC  Disgruntled residents in Prince Charles's model town of Poundbury in Dorset have been blocked from replacing their wooden window frames with uPVC ones. Shane Watson explores the tricky politics of window snobbery.
Also from this morning's Front Page newsletter: Liz Truss article  how to cope with the return of existential dread. Sign up below
As oil prices soared and stock markets tumbled amid rising fears of a global economic crisis, see how the world's newspapers reacted to the invasion dubbed as "from Russia with hate".
Follow the latest updates throughout the day in our live blog and track the key verified areas hit by the Russian military.
In the corner of the bomb shelter in central Kyiv, a boy and a girl played with their colouring book while their parents exchanged nervous glances. Above ground, the thud of missile and artillery strikes rattled one of eastern Europe's oldest cities. Cars tore through empty city streets heading for the highways as explosions rang out as James Rothwell, our correspondent in Kyiv, made his own dash underground. Read his dispatch on how three million residents of Kyiv were jolted into reality.
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email,sign up to the Front Page newsletter here. For two-minute audio updates, tryThe Briefing- on podcasts, smart speakers and WhatsApp.
Premier League billionaires Roman Abramovich and Alisher Usmanov last night escaped sanctions as Boris Johnson froze hundreds of British-based Russian assets in retaliation for Ukraine. Sources said that ministers are still "looking at sanctioning more complex individual cases". Meanwhile, Sam Dean reports from the Emirates how Arsenal came from behind to win 2-1 at the death against Wolverhampton.
Ukrainians in cities across the country have spent their first night under the shadow of war, sleeping in bunkers and in basements.
Britain yesterday unveiled a raft of new sanctions on dozens of oligarchs and Kremlin officials, the freezing of Russian bank assets and an imminent ban on the Russian airline, Aeroflot, on flying into the UK. Read Prime Minister Boris Johnson's 10-point "barrage" against the regime. It came as Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, told the Russian ambassador he should be "ashamed of himself" before kicking him out of the Foreign Office in central London. In an article for us Ms Truss writes that Britain will lead by example in standing up to Vladimir Putin.
View Matt's latest cartoon as finds a silver lining to joke about after a week of heavy news.
