Germanystyle energy rationing will not happen in UK despite Labour calls
20220403
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2022/04/03/germany-style-energy-rationing-will-not-happen-uk-despite-calls/
German energy minister has suggested such a scheme may be needed in Europe if Russia ends its supply of gas
Labour has appeared to call for a German-style energy rationing plan to avoid shortages if Russia cuts off gas supplies to Europe.
"And what we have put forward would do that, but what the Government are yet to tell us is their plan to do that."
The idea was ruled out by Grant Shapps, the Transport Secretary, who said it was "not the route that we want to go down".
Jonathan Reynolds, the shadow business secretary, suggested he supported a scheme like that announced by German ministers last week, which could mean households and hospitals are prioritised over heavy industry.
Sources at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said the UK faced "a price issue, not a supply issue" and rationing would not be introduced in Britain.
The Kremlin has already demanded that "unfriendly" states pay for their Russian gas in roubles rather than dollars or euros  a condition G7 states have rejected.
Although the UK imports less than five per cent of its energy from Russia, ministers are planning to increase domestic energy production by building more wind farms and nuclear power stations.
Mr Reynolds later suggested the idea would not become Labour policy. Asked on Times Radio if he supported rationing, he said: "No, that would be a disaster for households and for businesses. But the fact you're even asking the question is an indictment of Conservative energy policy for the last decade."
"We should be making those plans and the Government should be preparing, not necessarily in public, for that situation," Mr Reynolds told the BBC. "There's a lot of complacency in this country about the relative lower exposure to Russian gas that we have."
He told LBC: "A successful plan would absolutely mean we did not have to consider that rationing. We should be making plans to make sure our energy supplies are secure, consistent with net-zero and delivered at the best possible price.
The row over what would happen if Russia turned off supplies to Europe comes ahead of the Government's energy security strategy, expected to be published on Thursday.
In the first quarter of 2022, 40 per cent of German gas supplies were imported from Russia.
Robert Habeck, the German energy minister, has suggested such a scheme may be needed in Europe if Russia ends its supply of gas to Germany and other states in retaliation for sanctions introduced after its invasion of Ukraine.
