Germany can afford to ban Russian gas completely so why hasnt it
20220325
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/25/germany-can-afford-ban-russian-gas-completely-hasnt/
It could impose home working for non essential staff, or it could put a 50km speed limit on the autobahns.
Its industrial and political establishment allowed itself to believe that Russia could be tamed, and that it would never risk losing access to European markets.
It was a terrible call. And yet it could correct that if it wanted to. There would be a hit to GDP, but it would recover in a year to 18 months.
Oligarchs have had their assets seized, companies have pulled out of the Russian market, flights have been banned, and banks exiled from the payments network.
It could put the car factories on a three-day week after all they won't be selling so many Beamers or Mercs in Moscow this year.
The EU, which likes nothing better than coming up with an uncosted, unfinanced plan, has put forward some ideas for accelerating the transition to renewables. And yet there is only one real measure that will make a difference. Banning all the imports of oil and coal with immediate effect, and switching off the gas pipeline.
Some adjustments would need to be made for grades, and ports, but it is ridiculous to argue that Germany cant afford to pay for all the oil it needs.
With prices above $110 a barrel, output, much as you would suspect, is starting to soar again.
Sure, it will cost some money. Workers will have to be furloughed, and companies offered grants to suspend production. But Germany has a debt to GDP ratio of only 70pc, one of the lowest in the developed world. If 10 points are put on that ratio so what? It hardly matters.Germany made a huge error in allowing itself to become so reliant on Russian energy.
Drawing on that, the analysis suggests the impact to German GDP could be in the region of 1pc. In fairness, that may be too low. In Germany, the estimates of the overall hit to GDP vary from 3pc to 5pc.
Seriously? Germany would grind to a halt without Russian energy? Ministers can argue that if they want to, but the blunt truth is the claim does not stand up to serious scrutiny.An analysis by the widely respected Bruegel Institute estimates, the oil shipped in from Russia could be replaced with supplies from elsewhere in six months.
If you can make those kinds of drastic changes to control the spread of Covid then it is hardly unreasonable to ask that you do at least as much to keep Europe free and safe.
It can afford a total and immediate ban if it wants to. And if Germany is not willing to take that step it hardly deserves to be part of the Western alliance, nor to count itself as part of the club of civilised nations.Ever since Vladimir Putin launched his brutal assault on Ukraine a month ago, the US, the European Union, Britain, Japan, and many others have launched an increasing range of sanctions on his regime.
Germany has a huge, energy intensive chemical industry. Close that for a year and it would need a lot less gas.
Sure, it announced a reduction in Russia imports on Friday, but that doesnt go nearly far enough.
All that will hurt, with estimates that Russian GDP will drop by between 10pc to 20pc this year, making the war increasingly hard to finance.
With the price exploding upwards, Europe, and specifically Germany, is sending 800m a day to Moscow. So long as that continues, Putin and his cronies can simply shrug off the sanctions and carry on shelling Ukrainian cities to pieces.Germany has started to make some modest moves. On Friday, it indicated that Russian oil imports would be halved by the summer, and coal ended by the autumn.
An analysis by Benjamin Moll, professor of economics at the LSE, draws a comparison with the closure of nuclear power plants in Japan following the Fukushima disaster nuclear accounted for 30pc of Japanese electricity at the time, but went to zero in a year.
Europe's biggest economy should admit it was wrong to become so dependent on Moscow to keep the lights on and change course
Likewise, the coal can be replaced within a year. The supplies of gas are, without question, trickier. But they could be stopped as well.
The important point is this, however: it is significant, but hardly catastrophic.And of course, you also have to take account of all the steps that the government could be taking to mitigate the impact of closing the pipelines.
No one questions that a complete ban on imports of Russian oil and gas would be punishing for the German economy, nor that it would hit its formidable industrial and export machine.This is one of the richest countries in the world, with one of the lowest levels of debt. The Merkel regime, and its Social Democratic predecessor, made a historic mistake by allowing it to become so totally dependent on Moscow to keep the lights switched on. It should be big enough to admit that, and change course.
The government might have to increase its borrowing for a year, or perhaps even two, and GDP might fall by four or perhaps even by five percent.
A country as wealthy as Germany is perfectly able to afford that. It is shamefully hiding behind the excuse that the cost is too high. Until it switches off the gas it doesn't deserve to be taken seriously.
Chemicals factories might have to close down for six months. The Volkswagen production line might only be able to run for three days a week.
And yet, there is still one gaping hole in the package. Russian oil and most of all gas is still flowing into Europe.
Right now, the countrys leaders insist that is simply unaffordable. The Chancellor Olaf Scholz pleads that it would cost too many jobs, while the finance minister Robert Habeck has warned of social unrest.
