Heroes of Ukraine The ordinary people fighting for their lives in face of Russian aggression
20220225
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/25/heroes-ukraine-ordinary-people-fight-lives-russian-aggression/
A separate audio clip, posted to Facebook by Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the Ukrainian interior minister, appears to relay an exchange between a Russian naval officer and the soldiers, in which they are told to surrender to avoid bloodshed as the warship approaches.
The unnamed woman was filmed voicing her outrage at a soldier blocking a street in a residential area of the port city of Henichesk in southern Ukraine, which, according to local media reports, has been occupied by the Russian army who have erected roadblocks.
Tiny Snake Island, also known as Zmiinyi Island, is about 30 miles off the coast of Ukraine and marks the edge of its territorial waters.
One Ukrainian solder livestreamed the attack in a short clip of a few seconds where the boom of heavy weaponry can be heard in the background before he drops to the ground.
Ukrainian woman confronts Russian soldiers in Henychesk, Kherson region. Asks them why they came to our land and urges to put sunflower seeds in their pockets so that flowers would grow when they die on the Ukrainian land pic.twitter.comztTx2qK7kB
A social media post from the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces said: "His heroic deed significantly slowed the advance of the enemy, which allowed the unit to redeploy and organise the defence" and that he would be nominated for a national award.
The video released on Twitter by the Ukraine World account shows the woman standing about a metre from the armed soldier and angrily demanding why he is there.
Youre occupants, youre fascists! she says as he tries to claim he is part of a military exercise. She adds: Take these seeds and put them in your pockets so at least sunflowers will grow when you all lie down here."
Ukrainian soldier deployed on Snake Island live streamed the moment a Russian warship opened fire on the Island. 13 soldiers died in the attack. pic.twitter.comFDe92rYYVR
Put the sunflower seeds in your pockets, please. You will lie down here with the seeds. You came to my land. Do you understand? You are occupiers. You are enemies.
Across Ukraine, ordinary people are taking up arms and demonstrating striking bravery in the face of Russian aggression.
However, Skakun didn't have enough time to leave the area and detonate the mines remotely, so he contacted his battalion to let them know that he would do it from where he was.
Here, we pay tribute to the Ukrainians fighting for their lives and freedoms amid the conflict.
The tweet of the video went viral, with 88,000 likes and more than 27,000 retweets within a few hours, and many chimed in to praise the womans courage.
Vitaly Skakun is hailed as a hero after sacrificing his life to blow up the Henichesky Bridge.The bridge was mined but a Russian column was advancing and there was no time to detonate it remotely. Skakun radioed his unit and told them he would do it manually, saying goodbye. pic.twitter.com6gqIFxlc01
In the audio exchange, which could not be independently verified, the Russian officer says: "This is a military warship. This is a Russian military warship. I suggest you lay down your weapons and surrender to avoid bloodshed and needless casualties. Otherwise, you will be bombed."
As the invasion continues, with civilians in the capital being urged by Ukrainian officials to prepare Molotov cocktails, we are seeing the emergence of everyday heroism  from the soldiers refusing to back down on Snake Island to the man who gave up his own life blowing up a bridge to prevent a Russian crossing.
Shortly afterwards, an explosion was heard - successfully destroying the bridge but also killing Skakun.
A more chilling video emerged from Snake Island in the Black Sea, where an entire garrison of 13 Ukrainian border guards were killed after refusing to surrender to the Russian Navy.
On the second day of the fighting, another unnamed hero emerged when a Ukrainian citizen attempted to block the passage of a Russian convoy.
A Ukrainian woman telling a Russian soldier to put sunflower seeds in his pocket so that flowers will grow when he dies on Ukraines soil has emerged as one of the extraordinary scenes of defiance from the front lines of the Russian invasion.
Vitaly Skakun sacrificed his life to blow up the Henichesky Bridge near Kyiv, in an attempt to block the passage of Russian soldiers.
Video shows a Ukrainian citizen attempting to block a large convoy of Russian vehicles. pic.twitter.compwOU5S9jQy
He was filmed standing in front of tanks as they made their way through the country.
Faced with a column of Russian tanks advancing towards the bridge, a decision was made to destroy it using mines.
The garrisons final act of resistance has become a rallying cry for the public after Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, said they had died heroically while trying to protect the island.
"All border guards died heroically but did not give up. They will be awarded the title of Hero of Ukraine posthumously," Mr Zelensky said.
