Hit Putin in the pocket and hard Readers on the weeks top news
20220225
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2022/02/25/hit-putin-pocket-hard-readers-weeks-top-news/
"I was forced by my family into going to university at Portsmouth, they admitted pretty much anyone. I studied IT in 2001 and wasted two years of my life. Now, Im running a pest control franchise and Im reasonably happy and content with my lot and my earnings.
"If he is able, for a third time, to act with impunity, he will not stop at Donetsk and Luhansk. Nato and the free world must draw a line by immediately deploying troops to Ukraine to deter any further advance in pursuit of Mr Putins declared mission to reintegrate Ukraine with mother Russia.
Vladimir Putin claimed that the goal of the invasion was not to occupy the country, but rather that it is the "demilitarisation and de-Nazification" of Ukraine. Mr Putin explained this by saying Russia is looking to protect residents of Eastern Ukraine from a "regime". Our readers discussed how leaders in the West should retaliate in order to minimise the Russian threat.
"He despises Western politicians as weak, indecisive hand-wringers, and is no doubt counting on a response that is disunited and based on fine words rather than meaningful action.
"Beijing and Moscow see it for what it is: a West full of incompetent, lying liberal clowns as its leaders. We have third rate people in charge with no ability to judge or govern.
"Some sense at last. The financial burden on this country of degree courses which are not relevant to the jobs market and student loans that are rarely repaid is a scandal. To say nothing of the lack of literacy and mathematical prowess in our young people."As an employer, I have seen a rapid decline in the suitability of job applicants related to their age profile in the last 20 years. This can only be related to the education they have received, not their baseline potential for learning.
Providing commentary on the crisis, Telegraph columnist Sherelle Jacobs described the West as "divided, compromised and gormless" as it abandons the goal of liberal international order post Cold War. Our readers agreed that Western countries and their leaders are appearing weak in the face of Russian attacks and need to regain focus in order to stage a defence against Putin.
"Hit him in the pocket and hit him hard. Action is needed by our elected representatives now, not words. Avert your focus from short-term opinion polls and the political greasy pole.
Emily Maitlis and Jon Sopel announced this week that they were leaving the BBC to join media group Global, where they will front a podcast and co-host a radio show on Globals LBC station.
"Like Robin Aitkin I have waited in vain for the clearout, ever since Tim Davie took over. Emily Maitlis has now finally gone after her repeated, blatant rule-breaking, but why is Gary Lineker still there? Why does the BBC give the SNP such an easy ride?
"Nato hasn't 'expanded'. Countries fearful of Russia have pleaded to join Nato for their own security, and today the world can see why.
"Nato was built as a defensive alliance, not an ever-expanding group of countries. The EU was founded on economic terms, not to be a political monolith. Universities were established to teach the next generation and prepare them for work and future innovation, not to discuss whether statues of benefactors should be destroyed.
There are plenty of talented people to be found out there, without an agenda and who would relish the chance to work for the BBC, without being so overpaid to boot."
In the biggest shake-up to higher education funding in a decade, ministers have proposed that pupils should be banned from taking out student loans if they fail to pass their maths and English GCSEs. The overhaul includes the return of student number controls, which aim to limit the huge cost of universities to the taxpayer, while cracking down on so-called 'Mickey Mouse' degrees.
"What Emily Maitlis betrayed in her breeches of impartiality was not so much a Left-wing bias, although she clearly has one, but an assumption that the whole country agrees with her point of view and even shares her emotional state.
"Massively reinforce Nato's borders with the clear message to the Kremlin that an attack on one is an attack on all. The Baltic states, Nato members, could be next. Ukraine is now the West's front line."
On Monday, Boris Johnson unveiled that all Covid regulations, including those that mandate lockdown and require people to self-isolate if they test positive, will be scrapped from Thursday. Allison Pearson argued that although the lifting of restrictions is a time for celebration, there will be withdrawal symptoms. Readers agreed that ending restrictions is long overdue and questioned the long-term impacts that lockdown will continue to have on our society.
"Lets hope this development becomes law and young people as well as our society get a better and more relevant education system as a result."
Writing for The Telegraph, Robin Aitken revealed his joy in seeing the back of Emily Maitlis, who he described as "one of the worst serial offenders" of BBC impartiality rules. This argument resonated with our readers, who discussed the issue of personal agendas interfering in reporting.
In the early hours of Thursday morning, Vladimir Putin officially declared a military offensive on Ukraine, with explosions occurring in Kyiv and across the country. The Russian president explained his actions in a broadcast address in which he referred to threats from Ukraine. Telegraph readers called for retaliation and sanctions in response to the Russian aggression.
"Liberal legitimacy to rule went with the credit crisis, and further with the cretinous austerity work out.
"It was so very different from, for example, Triggernometry or Joe Rogan - podcasts where you can hear the interviewers wanting to hear other views and expand their own understanding of the position. By contrast, Emily Maitlis and Jon Sopel only ever sought reinforcement of their own preconceptions. It's a fascinating and stark contrast."
"Its time university was seen as a privilege to be earned, not a right for all. We do our young people no favours by easy entrance, they waste years of their lives racking up a debt that they will never earn enough to repay. Better to encourage the less academically minded to pursue a career in a useful trade."
"SIR - Sherelle Jacobs is spot on. Britain has been tougher than most, but publicly ruling out the deployment of troops was a huge mistake, serving only to embolden Mr Putin. Forget sanctions and 'diplomacy' he only respects power.
Find out what current stories are getting our readers talking by visiting the Telegraph Community Hub.
"In her rant over Dominic Cummings, she became the UK's self-appointed spokesperson: 'The country can see that and it is shocked the Government cannot'. Speak for yourself, Emily."
"Will all remaining Covid restrictions be lifted? Not for everyone they won't. The discrimination on vaccine status grounds continues, particularly in terms of returning to the UK from abroad, and the Covid Act is still in place, which means that restrictions could be reintroduced. This might be a welcome step in the right direction, but I still wouldn't trust them as far as I could throw them."
Our readers celebrated this decision and they went on to discuss their own experiences of university, as well as alternatives to university for young people.
Read on to find out what our readers from across our comments section and Letters had to say about these stories and more of the week's biggest talking points.
"The West has completely lost its focus. Western armies were built to defend nations and now the biggest concern is transgender rights.
From the Russian invasion of Ukraine to the end of Covid restrictions in England, recap the week's news with the help of Telegraph readers
"The message of 'wokeism', pro-EU, anti-UK fanaticism, divisive and rancour fuelling identity politics and the cult of victimhood - that simply does not reflect the feelings of the majority in the UK.
"In doing so, we would call his bluff in support of the commitment that Britain, America and indeed Russia gave in 1994 to respect Ukraines sovereignty. That would send a clear message that the Baltic States and other former Soviet satellite states will be defended, and send a warning shot across the Chinese bows, just as Margaret Thatchers resolve to recover the Falkland Islands from foreign aggression 40 years ago made the world a safer place.
"SIR - Vladimir Putin and his gang are no more interested in diplomacy than were Hitler or Genghis Khan.
"The first thing an incoming boss who wants to change direction and culture has to do is make some big changes, get rid of those who are a clear obstacle to the planned changes, those who propagate a different message.
"People will be rightly appalled that it has taken so long to move Emily Maitlis out.
"British, EU and Nato leaders, steeped in 21-century sensitivities, must show that they are also willing and able to meet an act reminiscent of 19-century aggression with suitable fortitude, toughness and courage. That is the only currency Mr Putin respects."
"It is a time for celebration - much overdue to my mind. In some ways, it's a shame that 'Partygate' wasn't exposed sooner and the Tory MPs didn't rebel much earlier. Without those events, I strongly suspect Mr Johnson wouldn't have lifted restrictions."
"These policies have created awful divisions and fractures in our society. Not to mention a deep level of cynicism towards the political and administrative classes. You cannot take people for fools and expect to be rewarded with gratitude. People bite back, whether in overt ways, like in Canada, or in some other, more nuanced, fashion. The result though is the same: a fundamentally weaker, and scarier, society all round."
"University is not for everyone. At 42 years of age and with an 11-year-old son who, though a lovely boy, shows like me no academic ability, I would hope that a huge increase in skilled apprenticeships at 16 would be a more worthwhile way forward for the country and the pupil."
Despite modern weaknesses within the West, Sherelle Jacobs believes that the talk "emanating from certain Nato capitals" offers a glimmer of hope and an indication of its old strength. Nonetheless, she also argues that Western powers are unwilling to give Ukraine the help it needs to combat Russia. Our readers discussed the demise of the West in recent years and how this crisis has truly exposed its flaws.
"Covid comes along and we have more appalling management that adds even more to the debt mountain with Track and Trace costing more than the Russian defence budget.
"The Russian thugocracy is alive and kicking. Putin has built a false story to justify actions he has planned for a very long time. He is trying to invert reality and his litany of lies is being swallowed by the people who side with any and every opponent of the West, every time.
"The West, for its faults, is not the aggressor here. Vladimir Putin did exactly the same thing in Transnistria and Abkhazia, including launching a blitz against Georgia."
"Listening to Jon Sopel and Emily Maitlis' Americast was genuinely enlightening as to how and why the liberal-left media class self-perpetuate their world view. Every guest they ever spoke to recycled the same opinions and parroted back to them their own opinions.
"This is all about Vladimir Putin wanting Ukraine under full Russian control and has never been about anything else. Mr Putin has made no secret of his resentment of Ukrainian independence and its wish to face west rather than east. Vladimir Putin has repeatedly claimed Ukraine is Russian, which completely distorts historical facts. Ukraine has long seen this and that's why they begged to be allowed to join Nato, purely for self defence from Moscow.
