How the war in Ukraine has redrawn the travel map
20220225
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/advice/flights-russia-airspace-closed-affect-holiday-travel-map/
Here is how the holiday map is being redrawn due to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
Virgin has also warned of increased flight times, with flights to India or Pakistan expected to take 15 to 60 minutes longer than usual.
The longer flight times are unlikely to impact the cost of your ticket. However, Russias invasion of Ukraine will mean higher fuel prices across Europe, which could in turn mean higher air fares depending on whether your airline has hedged its fuel supplies.
British Airways says: The rerouting of some services may lead to longer flight times and we apologise to customers for the inconvenience.
Under holiday regulations, companies are allowed to pass on increases of up to 8 per cent without allowing you to cancel penalty free. So a 2,000 all-inclusive to Greece which you booked in January could become 2,160.
The Foreign Office has added three countries and one territory to its red list, prompting tour operators to cancel holidays to these regions for 2022.
John Grant of OAG says: In normal times the closure would be serious for all the airlines operating from Europe to North East Asia and down into South Asia, and equally as serious for Russia who charge huge fees for access over their airspace.
Shortly after invading Ukraine, Russia warned that Finland and Sweden would face military consequences if they sought to join Nato after Sanna Marin, the Finnish prime minister, and Magdalena Andersson, her Swedish counterpart, attended an emergency summit with Nato leaders to discuss the crisis.
Rising gas and oil prices could also affect your holiday on the ground. Oil price hikes across Europe will mean your overseas car rental costs could rise in the coming months. The Netherlands and Germany are among the largest importers of Russian crude oil, meaning prices could be particularly high in these countries. Here in the UK, petrol prices have spiked to more than 150 pence per litre.
Italy and Slovakia are particularly reliant on gas imports from Russia, and could be vulnerable to price rises in the coming weeks and months, which could in turn trickle down to the cost of your holiday by way of rising hotel prices and the cost of eating out.
This means that tour operators and cruise lines will be obliged to cancel any upcoming trips to these red-listed areas. Viking Cruises has already opted to cancel all 2022 departures on its Kiev, Black Sea and Bucharest itinerary, and G Adventures has cancelled all planned trips to Russia and said it will no longer accept Russian residents on its itineraries.
A number of popular EU holiday destinations border Ukraine to the west, including Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Poland. The Polish city of Krakow is just 156 miles 251 km from the Ukrainian border
However, both China and Japan remain essentially closed to passenger flights, although cargo services have been operating, and the frequency of services to South Asia have yet to reach pre Covid-19 levels.
While there has been no military activity in the Baltic nations, some holidaymakers are changing their holiday plans in the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia due to the war in Ukraine.
Norway, which was a founding member of Nato in 2004, also has a border with Russia near the town of Kirkenes in the Arctic Circle.
Ryanair says its flights will not be affected in the short-term since it has hedged its supplies for the coming months. However, it is understood that Wizz Air is not hedging its supplies and EasyJet has lower volumes locked in.
Always check the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office website before you travel overseas, and contact your tour operator or insurer if you have any concerns about your holiday.
Andrea Godfrey, Brand Manager and Ukraine specialist at Regent Holidays, said: We have noticed a slowing in enquiries for holidays to the Baltics and a small number of people who are due to depart in the next few months have switched their bookings to alternative destinations such as Iceland and Scandinavia.
This event is probably going to impact no more than a handful of flights a day at the moment but in the longer term it will frustrate the airlines, although they do have alternatives.
Reader Service: It's more important than ever to have holiday cancellation insurance. Learn how to get the right travel cover before you go.
Ukraine has also been red-listed by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office FCDO, meaning travel there is not advised under any circumstances, and all British citizens in Ukraine are advised to leave the country if they judge it safe to do so. There is also a travel advisory against going to Belarus to the north of Ukraine, and the Transnistria region in Moldova.
We still have a lot of bookings to the region for the second half of the year and these have been unaffected so far. Thankfully, demand for our other destinations, including many off the beaten track countries like Saudi Arabia and Timor lEste, is still strong since the lifting of so many Covid regulations.
Russia has closed its airspace to UK carriers along with airlines from many other European countries, and all international aviation authorities have now rerouted flights away from Ukrainian airspace following the Russian invasion. A quick glance at Flightradar24 shows a very busy map of planes above Europe, but no flights above Ukraine and parts of Belarus to the north.
Such threats might make people think twice before booking a holiday to Scandinavia, as well as the Baltic states, but the FCDO has no warnings in place regarding travel to either region. If you choose to cancel your holiday unilaterally, you will not be entitled to a refund. Booking an Atol-protected package with a reliable tour operator is the best way to ensure your money is safe should your holiday destination be red-listed.
The closure of Russian airspace has had a knock-on effect for flight times to the Far East, and the rise in jet fuel prices is expected to have an impact on the cost of holidays in the coming weeks and months.
The FCDO does not advise against travel to any of these countries, although the Foreign Office warns against travelling into Ukraine from these countries. Poland in particular is seeing a significant influx of Ukrainians seeking safety, estimated to number more than a million as of March 7.
There are also some destinations not involved in the war in Ukraine, but which border either Ukraine or Russia, that are seeing holiday cancellations amid fears that the war could have a wider-reaching impact on eastern Europe in the coming months.
While British Airways and Virgin Atlantic are still not back to full operations following the pandemic, some of the routes that will be affected by the closure of Russian airspace include London to Bangkok, Delhi, Singapore and Islamabad, plus limited routes to China and Japan both currently closed to UK arrivals due to Covid.
Canadas NOTAM prohibiting Russian flights creates an exception for single flights that seek and receive special permission to cross its airspace. It is entirely possible that is what has happened here. Full NOTAM here: https:t.co3GtCYRmZUQ
The war in Ukraine is having a knock-on effect for our holidays, with flight prices rising and booking patterns changing since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
The Foreign Office now advises against all travel to Russia, and advises anyone planning to go there "to amend travel plans immediately". All UK airlines are banned from flying to Russia, meaning you will receive a refund from your airline if you had a weekend break planned in Moscow or St Petersburg in the coming weeks or months.
The Lithuania capital city of Vilnius is just 22 miles 36 km from the border of Belarus, while both Latvia and Estonia share borders with Russia. However, all three Baltic countries have been members of NATO since 2004.
Tour operators are legally permitted to add surcharges to the cost of your holiday if they can cite circumstances outside their control, such as rising fuel prices. But not by much.
