Hungarys Viktor Orban Brussels is waging a jihad on elected governments it does not like
20220214
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/14/hungarys-viktor-orban-brussels-waging-jihad-elected-governments/
The speech marked the beginning of Mr Orbans campaign for re-election ahead of the countrys parliamentary elections on April 3.
Therefore they are not interested in the facts, nor in our arguments. They are now fighting a holy war: a rule-of-law jihad.
Budapest and Warsaw face a decision on Wednesday by the European Court of Justice over their complaints against a new mechanism that would link EU funding to respect for the blocs rules and values.
He added: "For them, the rule of law is a means by which they want to knead us into something that resembles them."
"We think differently about the future of nations and nation states we think differently about globalisation and now we think differently about the family," Mr Orban said, proposing a referendum to ensure children have a father and a mother.
"For them, the rule of law is a tool with which they can mould us in their image, Mr Orban said during his annual State of the Nation address.
And, my friends, words rarely help against jihad. Here we must show strength so let the Reconquista begin, he added, referring to the centuries-long retaking of Spain by the Catholic kings after the Islamic invasion at the turn of the 8th century.
The Hungarian leader also warned of a possible flood of refugees from Ukraine if Russia launches a military invasion. However, he spoke out against the EU's plans to hit Moscow with punitive sanctions.
Brussels is waging a jihad on elected governments it does not like, Hungarys firebrand prime minister has said.
Sanctions, punitive policies, lecturing, or any other kind of arrogance on the part of the great powers are out of the question, said Mr Orban, who has close ties with the Kremlin.
Viktor Orban, who has been the countrys leader since 2010, has repeatedly been at loggerheads with the European Union over his anti-immigrant and authoritarian policies.
Both Hungary and Poland, led by conservative and nationalist governments, have clashed with the EU over their refusal to accept migrant quotas and follow the blocs views on LGBT rights.
Mr Orban's speech prompted reports that the Hungarian prime minister could seek to take his country out of the EU, but they were swiftly rebutted by his international spokesman.
'For them, the rule of law is a tool with which they can mould us in their image,' Mr Orban told his annual State of the Nation address
