I stand by my decisions says Angela Merkel as Ukraine suggests she has blood on her hands
20220404
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/04/angela-merkel-row-ukraine-concessions-russia/
"We have to isolate Russia, we have to cut all economic relations, but at the moment it's not possible to cut the gas supplies," Christian Lindner, Germany's finance minister said, ahead of a meeting with eurozone colleagues.
Envoys from the bloc's 27 member states are due to hold "high level" talks in Brussels on Wednesday to discuss tougher sanctions.
A European source confirmed a gas import ban would not feature in the document because of Berlin's opposition. One draft package being discussed could include a ban on Russian coal, but not oil and gas.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Mr Zelensky, said the response "indicates that Western elites are still under dangerous delusions" over the alleged Russian war crimes on the outskirts of the Ukrainian capital.
"I invite Ms Merkel and Mr Sarkozy to visit Bucha and see what the policy of concessions to Russia has led to in 14 years," Mr Zelensky said in a speech on Sunday night.
The war in Ukraine has led some to reassess Ms Merkel's legacy. She retired last year after 16 years in office. Critics argue her pro-Kremlin stance left Germany over-reliant on Russian gas to heat homes and drive domestic industry.
Ukraine on Monday condemned Angela Merkel's "policy of concessions" to Moscow as Western leaders faced mounting pressure to impose tougher sanctions on Russia.
Emmanuel Macron, the French president  whose country imports 20 per cent of its gas from Russia  also suggested oil and coal exports would be a more realistic victim of the EU's fifth round of sanctions.
Ahead of the talks, Mateusz Morawiecki, the Polish prime minister, accused Germany of being the "main roadblock" in imposing a ban on Russian gas imports.
Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine's president, said the former German chancellor's refusal to let Ukraine join Nato in 2008 had ultimately led to the atrocities discovered on the outskirts of Kyiv.
Volodymyr Zelensky implies German appeasement of Russia ultimately led to atrocities such as those discovered in Bucha
In response to the criticism, Mrs Merkel made clear that she "stands by her decision in relation to the 2008 Nato summit in Bucharest" at which the decision to put off Ukrainian membership was made, according to her spokesman.
Despite promising to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels by mid-2024, Berlin on Monday faced renewed pressure from Western allies to impose an immediate embargo on imports.
Germany's defence minister, Christine Lambrecht, said Berlin would be willing to discuss a ban on Russian gas but was soon overruled amid fears that an immediate boycott could tip Germany into recession.
Germany is heavily dependent on Russian gas, which made up to 55 percent of its imports by the time of the Feb 24 invasion of Ukraine.
"In view of the atrocities uncovered in Bucha and other places in Ukraine, all efforts by the government and the international community to stand by Ukraine's side and to bring an end to Russia's barbarism and war against Ukraine have the former chancellor's full support," the aide added.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, who was on a visit to Poland, backed Warsaw's push to "step up pressure on Russia over its illegal invasion of Ukraine".
The scathing criticism came amid a chorus of Western condemnation for the alleged genocide and an attempt by the European Union to ratchet up economic sanctions on the Kremlin.
He suggested the bloc could instead target Russian oil and gas exports, which would be less costly for the European economy but also less painful for the Kremlin, saying: "We must plan tough sanctions, but gas cannot be substituted in the short term. We would inflict more damage on ourselves than on them."
In a swipe at France's failed diplomatic efforts, he also compared Mr Macron's talks with Mr Putin to negotiating with Adolf Hitler.
The Telegraph understands that European Commission officials will present a new package of sanctions on Moscow to EU ambassadors later this week, mainly focused on closing existing loopholes in previous measures.
Germany, France, Austria and Hungary were all accused of standing in the way of a draconian embargo on Russian gas imports, seen as the most effective tool to starve Vladimir Putin's war machine of funds.
In 2008, European leaders, including Ms Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, the former French president, rejected Kyiv's Nato membership bid, instead opting to forge close business ties with Moscow in the hope of dampening Putin's imperialist ambitions.
"They thought that, by refusing Ukraine, they would be able to appease Russia. Now we are fighting for our lives in the most horrific war in Europe since World War Two."
Mr Zelensky on Monday visited Bucha, north-west of Kyiv, where mass graves and murdered citizens were discovered after the area was liberated by Ukrainian resistance fighters.
Berlin and Paris, the bloc's most influential capitals, were said to be more concerned about their pandemic-stricken economies than the death and suffering of Ukrainians at the hands of Russian troops.
