In Russia Putin is struggling to hide the true toll of his war
20220427
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/04/27/russia-putin-struggling-hide-true-toll-war/
There's not a total information blockade in Russia: just like followers of QAnon or other conspiracies, most pro-government Russians choose, with some heavy-handed help, to believe the Kremlins lies. They do so for various context-dependent reasons but mostly out of a sense of patriotism, of us versus them. Yet, just below the surface, there is a simmering rage that the Kremlin does not see ordinary Russians as belonging to the hallowed ranks of us.
Meanwhile, independent Russian media are reporting that conscripts are refusing to serve, despite threats of legal action, and that there have been a number of suspicious fires at enlistment offices. As stories of mobile crematoria and abandoned corpses leak back into Russia from the front, young men appear increasingly unwilling to sacrifice themselves.
Putin seems cognisant of this problem. Some have interpreted his call not to storm the besieged steel factory in Mariupol as recognition of the need to be seen to value Russian soldiers lives. The problem for him is that there is no way out of it without admitting to Russian failure, and thus the state eventually finds itself telling the families of dead soldiers that their sons were nothing, not even worth remembering.
Young conscripts are refusing to serve, despite threats of legal action, as Russians hear stories of abandoned corpses and mobile crematoria
As more and more Russians have become aware that they are fighting a real war in Ukraine, the state propaganda machine has responded by explaining that what started out as a denazification campaign has now morphed into direct existential conflict with Nato and the West. The thinking goes: of course the Russian army isnt doing as well as expected, for it is fighting a bigger enemy than expected.
Across Russian-language Telegram, nationalist channels with large followings call for faster, more effective, and more tactically refined military results without ever stopping to consider whether the Russian state and army are even capable of delivering these outcomes. Nationalist sections of society delude themselves that any Russian blunder is caused by a lack of fighting spirit or, more darkly, because of a fifth column.
The nationalistic elements of Russias political elites have not failed to notice their militarys embarrassing failures, although they have failed to understand them. They are so enamoured with their own militaristic propaganda that their answer to Russia's underwhelming performance in Ukraine is simply to demand more war.
Now there is even talk of detailed plans to host a Victory Day parade in the ruins of occupied Mariupol on May 9th to show how the newly occupied territories are celebrating the Soviet victory over Nazism. This Potemkin victory would signal only a pause in the hostilities, just as in 2014, when the fact Donetsk and Luhansk could host Victory Day parades was cited as a triumph that drew a fleeting line under Russian aggression in Ukraine.
What to do if you risk losing a war you arent technically even fighting? One reason the Kremlin dubbed its invasion of Ukraine a special military operation was because it felt so confident it could accomplish its mission quickly and effectively. Evidently, that confidence was misplaced.
Those who are already in Ukraine might find themselves marching on Victory Day, trumpets blaring, in honour of their forefathers. They should perhaps turn their thoughts not to how they will be remembered, but to whether they will be remembered at all.
In reality, however, the Moscow elite will soon have to face up to the damage wreaked on soldiers morale by the Putin regimes intrinsic corruption, cronyism and callousness. They are at risk of alienating erstwhile supporters across the country  not because they are horrified at what Russia is doing in Ukraine but because they are horrified at the Kremlins refusal to recognise its own war dead.
