Inside Kharkiv the Ukrainian border city that could be the first target of Russian invaders
20220118
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/01/25/inside-ukrainian-city-president-says-could-first-russian-target/
Ms Bednyak is also making contingency plans, having turned her basement into a shelter that is supplied with enough food and water for a week.
Ms Bednyak visits the border two to three times per month to deliver key supplies from Kharkiv to Ukrainian soldiers, such as warm clothing, food, water and vehicle parts.
Mr Zolotarev says colleagues at their IT firm have been asking him questions about what to do in the event of an invasion, due to his military experience.
She says the Ukrainian army is now far better equipped. But she is concerned, as are some Ukrainian officials, that pro-Russian forces may launch a terror attack inside Ukraine and then use it as a pretext for invasion.
Last week, Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraines president, warned that Kharkiv could be the first city to be invaded by Vladimir Putins forces. The city, which has a million inhabitants, sits just 15 miles away from the Russian border.
I cant operate a tank and I dont know how to fire a gun, but definitely I will resist, I will help with supplies, says the 49-year-old, who runs an import-export business. And I would advise the Russian soldiers to stay at home.
Asked for her thoughts on Mr Putin himself and his troops, she hesitates at first as she does not want to swear on record.
I am ready to join up again if they need me to, but I was severely wounded - so in that case it would mean a really severe war, says the veteran with a grim smile.
The 69-year-old Russian leader has long harboured desires to - in his eyes - liberate former Soviet states.
The Ukrainian private was left wheelchair-bound for eight months, then had to relearn how to walk, and still uses a cane.
It was a total disaster - no mechanics, hardly any equipment or outfits and the soldiers were basically starving, she says. We were spending our own money on supplies.
Earlier that same day, Ukrainian police said they had arrested pro-Russian saboteurs in Kharkiv, warning that they were plotting a series of attacks on infrastructure in the city.
Mr Zelenskys remarks caused some disquiet in Kharkiv, but on Tuesday he sought to reassure the public by insisting that Kharkiv is hope, Kharkiv is Ukraine and does not want to be occupied by Russia  it will never be occupied.
For the last eight years she has run her own campaign against the Russians, loading up her Mercedes with kit and supplies for troops on the front line.
Now approaching 40, and working as an IT developer in the city of Kharkiv, Mr Zolotarev is facing the prospect of war all over again, as Russian troops gather a short distance away across the northern border.
But Kharkiv has a large Russian-speaking population, which could make it an attractive target for Mr Putin.
With a large Russian-speaking population and just 15 miles from the frontier, residents of Ukraine's 'Silicon Valley' are preparing for war
If we are talking about soldiers at the border, they are following orders. But if you mean Russian soldiers entering Ukraine and claiming to defend us - I wish them only bad things and think bad things of them, she says.
As for his personal plans, he and his wife would take shelter at a friends secure home, along with their 13-year-old son.
The mother-of-four is a member of a volunteer logistics group that was formed in the heat of the 2014 Ukraine revolution. Back then, she says, the army was in disarray and soldiers barely had enough gear and food to survive, let alone fight off invaders.
Oleg, a 46-year-old taxi driver, has already bought a one-way plane ticket out of Ukraine. I want to leave. I think war is going to happen, he says. Im going to Spain - there are a lot of wars in the world, but they dont have any.
My advice to them is not to stay in the war zone because it can complicate things for our army - it could give power to the enemy, he says. The second piece of advice I give them is to make sure they have cash and carry paper documents, because the first thing to break down could be the phone signals.
Once a hive of Soviet-era industrial activity, these days it is called the Silicon Valley of Ukraine and has the fastest-growing tech sector in the country. The streets are lined with cafes and bars playing Western pop music, while the city itself hosts more than 30 universities.
Tatyana Bednyak, a business owner in Kharkiv, has never fought as a soldier but says this hasnt stopped her from resisting Russian occupation.
Kyrylo Zolotarev was 30 years old when a storm of bullets from a Russian soldiers rifle tore into his elbow and pelvis during the 2014 war in Ukraine.
