Invasion will only backfire and cause deRussification of Ukraine warns Volodymyr Zelensky
20220327
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/27/invasion-will-backfire-cause-de-russification-ukraine-vladimir/
On Saturday, Mr Zelensky mimicked Putins claim that Russia is fighting for the de-Nazification of Ukraine, by saying: Russia itself is doing everything to ensure that de-Russification takes place on our territory. You are doing this over the course of a single generation and forever.
Most of Ukraine's population speak both Ukrainian and Russian, particularly in the east of the country closer to the Russian border. Mr Zelensky said the Russian language was always a part of everyday life in those areas.
But Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, has nonetheless sought to portray the government in Kyiv as one determined to eradicate Russia from public life. The Kremlin fiercely opposed a language law passed by Ukraines parliament in 2019 to make Ukrainian the countrys main language.
Volodymyr Zelensky has warned the invasion of Ukraine will only lead to the de-Russification of his country, in a defiant response to the Kremlins purported pretext for war.
Kremlins barbaric actions will cause Russian language - still widely spoken in his country - to die out, says defiant Ukrainian president
Vladimir Putin has repeatedly sought to justify the invasion of Ukraine, as well as the previous annexation of Crimea in 2014, as a mission to defend the countrys Russian speakers.
He said Kremlin troops had placed billboards in occupied areas telling the public dont be afraid to speak Russian.
The Ukrainian president continued: Just think about what that means there, where Russian was always a part of everyday life like the Ukrainian language, in the east of our country, where you are turning peaceful cities into ruins today.
He said in the video address late on Saturday: The Russian language will be associated only with you - with these explosions and murders, with your crimes.
The Ukrainian president said the indiscriminate killing and destruction of cities by Russian forces was doing everything to make our people stop speaking Russian themselves.
