Joe Biden says Im not walking anything back as he defends calling for Vladimir Putins removal
20220328
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/28/joe-biden-says-not-walking-anything-back-defends-calling-vladimir/
The US president defended the remarks during a terse press conference at the White House on Monday.
Joe Biden said he made "no apologies" for calling for Vladimir Putin's removal, but claimed he was expressing his "personal feelings" not a new US policy as he defended his off-the-cuff remark.
Asked why he had added the comment to his prepared remarks, Mr Biden replied: "because I was talking to the Russian people... I was communicating this to not only the Russian people, but the whole world".
"The question is, is there something to meet on that would justify him being able to end this war," Mr Biden said.
The comment puts Mr Biden's relations with Western allies under strain and fuelled the Kremlins claim that Russia is faced with an existential threat.
White House officials scrambled to do damage control after Mr Biden sparked an international backlash by stating that Mr Putin cannot remain in power during a major speech in Europeon Saturday.
He added: "I wasnt then nor am I now articulating a policy change. I was expressing moral outrage that I felt and I make no apologies," he said, noting that he had just visited with families displaced by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Mr Biden's senior aides were later forced to issue an embarrassing clarification that the US president was not calling for a regime change.
The comments widely regarded as the latest in a series of gaffes made in recent weeks, including implying that US troops would enter Ukraine and that the West would respond "in kind" if Russia deployed chemical weapons.
Mr Biden denied that his remarks had escalated the conflict, saying it was Mr Putin's "escalatory efforts" in Ukraine that were "what complicates things".
The US president said he was expressing 'moral outrage' rather than advocating for regime change
However Mr Biden said he had not ruled out meeting with Mr Putin again as he seeks to bring an end to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"I'm not walking anything back. I was expressing the moral outrage I felt to the way Putin is dealing, and the actions of this man, just the brutality of it, he said.
Speaking on Monday, Mr Biden appeared to blame the media for the White House's recent clarifications, telling a reporter: "you interpret the language that way".
Pressed again on whether his language would embolden Mr Putin, the US president replied: "I don't care what he thinks, he's gonna do what he's gonna do.
This is just stating a simple fact that this kind of behaviour is totally unacceptable. Totally unacceptable."
He added that he was expressing his "personal feelings" during a testy exchange with reporters.
Mr Biden said nobody believes" he was talking about "taking down Putin", and claimed his comment was directed at the Russian people.
"The idea that he is going to do something outrageous because I called him for what he was and what he's doing, I think it's just not rational," he added.
In an emotional speech from Warsaw, made minutes after Russia had fired missiles at Lviv, 40 miles from the Polish border, Mr Biden said: For Gods sake, this man cannot remain in power.
