Kidnapped Ukraine mayor thanks Volodymyr Zelensky for not abandoning me after being freed
20220317
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/17/kidnapped-ukraine-mayor-thanks-volodymyr-zelensky-not-abandoning/
A video posted on Telegram showed Mr Zelensky speaking to Mr Fedorov by phone and telling him he was "happy to hear the voice of a man alive".
Mr Fedorov replied: "Thank you for not abandoning me. I will need one or two days to recover and then I will be at your disposal to contribute to our victory."
"These are basically children, conscripts, who according to the Russian defence ministry are not present in Ukraine. But the whole world sees again that they are there."
Darya Zarivnaya, a press aide to Mr Zelensky, said: "Ivan Fedorov was released from Russian captivity. For him, Russia received nine captured soldiers who were born in 2002 and 2003.
says that mayor of Melitopol was released after a special operation. Zelensky speaks to him jokes: we are happy they took you.. You seem to have a very lively voice, he says.Mayor:Thank you for not dropping me.Z: We dont drop our own. pic.twitter.comciOm6NfQMd
The mayor of Dniprorudne, another town in southern Ukraine, was also abducted at the weekend, drawing strong condemnation from the European Union.
On Wednesday, a senior Ukrainian official said he had been recovered in a "special operation".
Mr Zelensky had called on the leaders of France and Germany to help secure his release.
Following his abduction, Mr Zelensky called him "a mayor who bravely defends Ukraine and the members of his community".
The kidnapped mayor of a Ukrainian city thanked Voldoymyr Zelensky for not abandoning him after he was released in a prisoner exchange with Russian forces.
Vladimir Putin had repeatedly denied that Russian conscripts had been sent to fight in Ukraine.
The deputy head of Ukraine's presidential administration, Kirillo Timoshenko, previously posted a video on Telegram showing soldiers coming out of a building holding a man dressed in black, his head apparently covered with a black bag.
Ukraine handed over nine young captured Russian soldiers to secure his freedom, the Interfax Ukraine news agency reported.
He added that it showed Russia had "moved to a new stage of terror in which they are trying to physically eliminate representatives of legitimate local Ukrainian authorities".
Ivan Fedorov, the mayor of Melitopol, was abducted last week by Russian troops who dragged him away with a bag over his head.
