Kyiv goes into defensive phase  how the second morning of invasion played out
20220224
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/24/russia-ukraine-news-invasion-war-nato-putin-sanctions-latest2/
The Defence Secretary said: "We would like to go further, we'd like to do the SWIFT system - that is the financial system that allows the Russians to move money around the world to receive payments for its gas.
The Ukrainian ministry of defence has called for as many citizens as possible to sign up for the armed forces to protect the country from the Russian military.
The only thing I havent seen yet, is a massive cyber attack. The Russians have that capability. They could drop the electric grid. Perhaps they are holding that back in reserve, perhaps they dont want to show the United States that capability in detail, perhaps they dont want to antagonize the people of Ukraine  although that seems like a lot cause at this point.
The FIA Formula One World Championship visits countries all over the world with a positive vision to unite people, bringing nations together, the statement read.
Todays Russian attacks on a kindergarten and an orphanage are war crimes and violations of the Rome Statute. Together with the General Prosecutors Office we are collecting this and other facts, which we will immediately send to the Hague. Responsibility is inevitable.
Italian prime minister Mario Draghi successfully secured a carve out for Italian luxury goods from the EU's package of economic sanctions against Russia, according to an EU diplomat.
The worlds largest contract chipmaker TMSC said it would comply with all export control rules.
The developments came afterSergei Lavrov, the Russian foreignminister, reiterated Vladimir Putin's warning this morning that Russia wants to "free Ukraine from oppression".
Usually associated withdance videos and fashion tutorials, TikTok is now full of seconds-long clips of conflict in real-time, with pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian videos jostling for attention in a propaganda war.
He added that Britain will send extra forces to Estonia "earlier than planned" in the wake of the conflict.
Biden described Russian President Vladimir Putin as an aggressor with a "sinister vision of the world". Biden added that the sanctions will target wealthy Russians close to Putin.
The Russians seized Chernobyl as a blackmail tactic to use against the West, an adviser to the Ukrainian president has warned.
The World Bank said on Thursday it was preparing options to provide immediate support toUkraine's government, as the development lender and the International Monetary Fund assess the economic fallout from the conflict inUkraine.
Russian military forces have taken control of the strategic Hostomel airfield near Kyiv, and have landed paratroopers in the area, Russias Interfax news agency is reporting.
It includes knocking out the air defence systems, gaining air superiority, moving your tanks and your troops on multi axis to kind of break apart the defenders zone, creating waves of refugees that become a burden to the outgoing government, he told NBC.
"  ,                   .  7", -   pic.twitter.comnz91fi1Tsu
European governing body chiefs will confirm later that the match will be at the Stade de France asSt Petersburg is no longer tenable.
The Ukrainian army is holding defence around Kyiv. The situation is difficult. But we believe in our armed forces,we are supporting them, we are helping."
Mr Zelensky said in a televised statement on Friday that he is calling on the Russian leader to negotiate to putanend to the fighting.
Local media is reporting that tworesidential buildings in Kyiv are on fire from intercepted unidentified enemy aircraft.
"First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70 of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.
"Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany. Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severesic all ties. Kick Russia out of everywhere."
Ukraines Ambassador to Austria Olexander Scherba says said he heard two heavy explosions around 4.20am in Kyiv.
The move follows the UK's ban on flights operated by Russian flag carrier Aeroflot in response to President Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
Speaking at a press conference in Moscow, Lavrov said:"Putin took the decision to conduct a special military operation to demilitarise and de-NazifyUkraineso that, freed from oppression, Ukrainians themselves could freely determine their future".
The EU has agreed to freeze European assets linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over their decision to invade Ukraine, EU officials told AFP on Friday.
Reportedly audio from Snake Island in Black Sea:-This is a Russian military ship. I suggest you lay down your weapons and surrender to avoid bloodshed and unnecessary victims. Otherwise we will open fire on you. -Russian military ship, go fuck yourself. They were all killed https:t.coQmD9RkYamE
Kyiv Mayor Vitaliy Klitschko has said that at least 3 people were injured as a result of an explosion, one of whom is in serious condition, local media site Next TV reported .
The JEF is a British-led grouping made up of Denmark, Estonia, Finland and Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, and Friday's call included the leaders of most of those nations.
Kyiv Mayor Vitaliy Klitschko said that at least 3 people were injured as a result of the explosion, one of whom is in serious condition. Rescuers continue to work at the site of the tragedy and do not rule out the chance of the apartment building collapsing. pic.twitter.comqpPRWb0LJi
The invaders ran over a civilian car with military equipment in Obolon. There was a man inside. pic.twitter.comZ5GBm1Tnq5
What could be the biggestEuropean warin 75 years has begun and Europes armies are not even pretending to be ready. I would not have believed that I would have to experience another war, confessed Alfons Mais, the chief of the German army. The Bundeswehr, that I am privileged to lead, is more or less empty-handed. The policy options we can offer in support of the alliance are extremely limited.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has urged more support forUkraineas a matter of "the greatest urgency" in a meeting with a group that includes the Baltic states, a spokesperson for his office said on Friday.
Solidarity with DmytroKuleba and the Ukrainian people. Putins assault on Ukraine is barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life. We will continue to hold Putin to account and remain steadfast in our support. StandwithUkraine https:t.coZEiHfKXFBB
The CERT said blamed a group codenamed "UNC1151" for the hacking, identifying its members as Minsk-based officers of Belarusian military.
It attributed the rise to a "disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air".
"A fire broke out onboard the ship the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed," the agency said in a statement. "The ship's crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets."
"I'm ashamed that I speak Russian," he said, and switched to Ukrainian. "I know people there in Russia, they are my friends. What do they need from me? A war has come to my house and that's it."
Unfortunately, several of these command groups have already entered Kyiv. The enemy wants to bring the city to its knees and annihilate us.
     .        ""  . ,  ,     .https:t.coisMCmS7367 pic.twitter.comyY6b5ExbAa
Invading Russian forces pressed deep into Ukraine as deadly battles reached the outskirts of Kyiv, with explosions heard in the capital early on Friday.
Australia imposed more sanctions on Friday against Russia, targeting several of its elite citizens and lawmakers, and said it was "unacceptable" that China was easing trade restrictions with Moscow.
She added on her Facebook page that the Russian troops also lost about 516 armoured combat vehicles, 10 aircraft and seven helicopters as of 3pmlocal time on Friday.
Ms Thunberg, 19, who was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize last year, posted on Twitter a picture of her standing with other protesters holding a sign with "Stand WithUkraine" written on it, saying she was "outside the Russian embassy right now".
The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.
"Putin took the decision to conduct a special military operation to demilitarise and de-Nazify Ukraine so that, freed from oppression, Ukrainians themselves could freely determine their future," he said.
French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Vladimir Putin on Thursday in a conversation that was frank, direct and quick to demand Russia end its invasion of Ukraine.
But analysts have warned many genuine videos are being mixed with clips from other conflicts or military drills, which are also going instantly viral alongside realfootage.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister said Kyiv is being hit by rocket strikes, the kind of which the country has not seen since 1941.
The 2022 Champions League final has been switched to Paris after Uefa stripped Russia of hosting rights due to the Ukraine crisis.
Manchester United have ended their sponsorship deal with the Russian airline Aeroflot following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
To keep following the latest news on the Russian invasion of Ukraine this afternoon and into the early evening, please click on this link.
The daughter of billionaire Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich hasdenounced Vladimir Putin on social media in the wake of his invasion of Ukraine.
French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday the new EU sanctions package targeted "the highest officials" in Russia.
Photos and videocirculatingon social media appear toshow explosions and great columns of smoke filling the night sky.
The officials described another Russian element that entered Ukraine from Russia being a bit further away, but that both were headed toward Kyiv with the goal of encircling the city and potentially toppling the Ukrainian government, according to the lawmaker on the call.
Taiwan has said it will join democratic countries in imposing sanctions on Russia over the invasion of Ukraine.
Authorities in Kyiv have told residents of the north-western Obolon areato stay off the streets given the approach of"active hostilities".
The asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov was first reported by the Financial Times based on three sources who said neither of the Russians would be subject to an EU travel ban in order to keep diplomatic channels open.
Mr Zelensky also stated that he was still in Ukraine, despite Russia wanting to "destroy Ukraine politically by taking down the head of state. I am staying in the government quarter together with others. The enemy has designated me as the target No. 1, and my family as the target No. 2."
Alexey Reznikov, the defence minister, said:"I decided, in agreement with the Commander of the Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine... to involve in the Troops of the Patriots those over 60 years old, who are morally and physically ready to resist and defeat the enemy."
"A restriction was introduced on the use of Russian airspace for flights of aircrafts owned, leased or operated by an organisation linked to or registered in the UK," the Rosaviatsia aviation authority said in a statement.
She added: "These events mark the beginning of a new era. Putin is trying to subjugate a friendly European country. He is trying to redraw the map of Europe by force. He must and he will fail."
Ukrainian officials have told civilians in the capitalto prepare Molotov cocktails, a type of homemade bomb, to fight back alongside the army and National Guard.
Reports that the Ukrainian military has delivered a strike on a Russian airfield in Millerovo, Rostov Oblast have now been confirmed. A number of Russian aircrafts have been destroyed.
"Chernobyl has been seized and I think they will blackmail the West. The Presidents Office is preparing a response to possible blackmail through Chernobyl," Mr Arestovich said, as reported by the news site Ukrinform.
The clip shows the man crying as he kisses his daughter and sends his family away on a bus.
"We need to do everything to accept without delay the people who are now fleeing the bombs, the tanks," she told reporters as she arrived for a meeting with her EU counterparts in Brussels.
MajorGeneralIgor Konashenkov, the Russian defence ministry spokesman,said on Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel.
The foreign ministry said in a statement the island will coordinate closely with the United States and other like-minded countries to adopt appropriate measures in order to free Ukraine from the horrors of war.
"We deeply regret that the Kyiv regime has chosen the path of severing all its ties with Russia and everything linked to anything Russian," Maria Zakharova said at her weekly briefing.
The Mayor of Kyiv, Vitalii Klichko, has said the capitalhas entered a defensive phase and that the enemy Russia wants to bring the city to its knees and annihilate us.
There are reports that Russian soldiers have entered the city and that Ukrainians are being urged to fight back with Molotov cocktails guns.
The bloody battle for Ukraine has become the world's first TikTok war as instant videos of soldiers marching into battle, missile strikes raining down on cities and tanks rolling across borders dominate the youth video messaging app.
Sebastian Vettel became the first driver to speak out against Vladimir Putins military action and said that he would not race in the country on Thursday.Defending champion Max Verstappen echoed Vettels thoughts and a meeting between the F1 teams and the FIA was called for Thursday evening after increasing pressure and scrutiny at the prospect of racing in Sochi.
Soldiers marching into battle and missile strikes raining down on cities fill the world's most popular youth video app, reports Verity Bowman.
"The EU and other pro-Western bodies have failed to take a serious and determined stance at the moment. They are all providing Ukraine with plenty of advice."
The Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky pleaded with the international community for assistance and vowed to stay in the capital despite being Russia's "number one target".
One video posted online from that area shows a truck plowing into a civilian vehicle. The circumstances of it are unclear.
Russia intends to take the whole of Ukraine, but its army failed to succeed on the first day of its invasion and lost 450 personnel, Ben Wallace said.
She posted the image on her private Instagram story, stating Mr Putin, not Russia, wants war with Ukraine, on her private Instagram profile page.
Ukrainian officials have told civilians in the capital to prepare Molotov cocktails to fight back, with the Defence Ministrys Facebook page urging people to inform us of troop movements and neutralise the enemy.
Russia on Friday pressed on with the invasion launched Thursday, with European Union countries planning more sanctions against Russia and tens of thousands of people crossing Ukrainian borders into Poland, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia as missiles pounded Kyiv.
The Premier League club have had a partnership with the airline since 2013 and have regularly flown to European matches using the company's aircraft.
It came as Ukraine's nuclear energy agency said on Friday that higher than usual levels of gamma radiation levels had been detected in the area near the decommissioned nuclear plant.
Finance Minister Shunichi Suzuki added thatJapan is also considering effective ways to counter spiking oil prices.
On Thursday evening, Formula 1, the FIA and the teams discussed the position of our sport and, the conclusion is, including the view of all relevant stakeholders, that it is impossible to hold the Russian Grand Prix in the current circumstances.
It is a residential neighbourhood that would offer a clear route into the city centre, where the parliament and the symbolic Maidan square is based.
He denied that Moscow has plans to occupy Ukraine and said "President Putin said we want the Ukrainian people, all people living in Ukraine to have a right to choose their future. No one is going to occupy Ukraine."
Joe Biden said on Thursday that the US and the EU have decided not to cut Russia off from SWIFT, but he said they could revisit the issue.
The Russian military seized two vehicles of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, changed into Ukrainian uniform and are moving to the center of Kyiv. They are followed by a column of Russian military trucks, says Deputy Defense Minister.
A UN refugee agency spokesperson told a briefing in Geneva that at least 100,000 people had been uprooted inUkraineafter fleeing their homes, while several thousand have already crossed into neighbouring countries including Moldova, Romania and Poland.
Vitali Klitschko, the mayor of Kyiv, said that the city had "entered into a defensive phase". "Shots and explosions are ringing out in some neighbourhoods. Saboteurs have already entered Kyiv. The enemy wants to put the capital on its knees and destroy us," he said.
In his candour, Lt Gen Mais was saying out loud what successiveEuropean governmentshave long thought: that Russian invasions wouldnt happen anymore, so theres no need to waste money on a proper military.
On ThursdayPresident Joe Biden hit Russia with new sanctions so as to impede its ability to do business in major currencies.
A total of 10,624 Ukrainians entered Romania through its six border checkpoints on Thursday amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Romanian interior minister Lucian Bode said.
"We must all be clear what the risk of miscalculation would be, and how existential that could very quickly become if people miscalculate and things escalate unnecessarily."
"Glass flew all around.There's now a shell fragment in my kitchen.I was shocked," he said. Nobody in his family was hurt.
Russian forces have likely captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Workers have reportedly been detained by Russian troops.
It was believed to be the first time a Popehas gone to an embassy during a conflict. Usually ambassadors are convoked by the Secretariat of State.
The Defence Secretary told Sky: "If President Putin commits a war crime, then, just as I do if I were to commit a war crime, I should expect to be held to account."
The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russias advance towards Chernihiv. Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.
Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said sanctions would cause problems for Russia but would not be unsolvable, as it had reduced its dependence on foreign imports.
The biggest and most successful of Kremlins propaganda is that most Russians stand with Putin, it reads.
It is now confirmed  Ukrainian military has delivered a strike on a Russian airfield in Millerovo, Rostov OblastA number of enemy aircraft have been destroyed. pic.twitter.comxwex4z5ryg
The Defence Secretary told Sky that: "It's definitely our view that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine."
It's understood that the Russians are trying to decapitate the Ukrainian government here in the coming days by retaking the city.
Ukraine's Air Defence Forces have shot down a Russian aircraft in the Darnytskyi district ofKyiv, said Anton Geraschenko, an adviser to Ukraine's interior minister.
In a briefing earlier today, reported byonline news site Ukrainskaia Pravda, Mr Klichko said: The city has entered a defensive phase. Now in several districts there are several shots and explosions. Ukrainian military forces are neutralising Russian command groups.
Audio has reportedly emerged of the incident in which 13 Ukrainian border guards were killed in the first day of fighting on the the country's Snake Island. Here is a transcript:
A change in locations had been inevitable since Tuesday, and an emergency Uefa meeting was arranged after the invasion escalated on Thursday.
Uefa is also expected to confirm on Friday that Spartak Moscows next home game in the Europa League cannot take place in Russia.
A club spokesperson said: "In light of events in Ukraine, we have withdrawn Aeroflot's sponsorship rights.
The sanctions target four Russian banks that hold more than $1 trillion in assets, including the countrys largest bank, Sberbank. That means every asset they have in America will be frozen, the US president said.
Ben Wallace said he would expect President Putin to be "held to account" if he committed a war crime in Ukraine.
"Fourth, we are limiting Russia's access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.
Russia has banned British airlines from landing at its airports or crossing its airspace, its state civil aviation regulator said on Friday.
He told Mr Putin that Russia has exposed itself to massive sanctions, Mr. Macrons office said. The Kremlin said Mr. Putin "gave an exhaustive explanation of the reasons and circumstances for the decision to conduct a special military operation" and that the pair would stay in contact.
"I would like to address the president of Russia once again: Fighting is happeningall over Ukraine. Let's sit down for talks to stop deaths."
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy confirmed that 137 civilians and military personnel have been killed so far in the conflict.
Mr Macron said the phone call was frank, direct and quick, adding that he called the Russian leader because Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was unable to reach him and had asked the French president to do so on his behalf.
Vladimir, a Kyiv resident, was wounded on his face by an exploding window after a missile hit his residence in the city.
"We will work along with our partners for a rolling wave of sanctions and continuing to ratchet up that pressure on Russia," Scott Morrison said.
The Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has called on Putin to sit down for talks to stop the war.
In a statement released by his press office, Zelensky said:"If you have combat experience in Europe and do not want to look at the indecision of politicians, you can come to our country and join us in defending Europe, where it is very necessary now."
Russia has signalled that Vladimir Putin is prepared to send delegation to Minsk, Belarus for talks with Ukraine.
"We stand ready to provide immediate support toUkraineand are preparing options for such support, including fast-disbursing financing," World Bank President David Malpass said in a statement, adding that the institution was "horrified by the shocking violence and loss of life" inUkraine.
The statement adds that if people face issues while signing up, they should refer to this official tweet.
A video appearing to show a Ukrainian man weeping as he kisses his children goodbye - before staying back to fight against the Russians - has gone viral online.
President Zelensky said: The enemy has marked me down as the number one target. My family is the number two target. They want to destroy Ukraine politically by destroying the head of state.
His children could be heard calling out "Love you Daddy" as the warship sailed past.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Russian news agencies that Russia was willing to send a delegation consisting of foreign and defence ministry officials.
Valerii Zaluzhniy, the Ukrainian lieutenant general, appeared to confirm reports in a statement on the website of Ukraine's military.
"They will be augmented by the headquarters of 12 Mechanised Brigade, meaning that the United Kingdom will have an armoured brigade in Estonia reassuring one of our closest Nato allies."
You might, once, have ignored Germany and looked only at Nato i.e., American leadership. But Joe Biden has made it clear that hes focusing everything on China and will accept strategic defeat elsewhere  as seen in Afghanistan. Putin found himself up against a West that was divided and unled  and took his chance.
The 2022 Russian Grand Prix has been cancelled, Formula One has announced, as they said it is "impossible" to hold the race "in the current circumstances".
Russian forces have captured Zmiinyi Island in the Black Sea, where 82 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered to them, Moscow's defence ministry said.
Sofia Abramovich, 26, said it was Kremlin propaganda that claims most Russians stand with Putin over his decision to wage war on Ukraine.
Swedish climate and environment activist Greta Thunberg said on Twitter she was taking part in a protest on Friday outside the Russian embassy in Stockholm against its invasion ofUkraine.
Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, expressed solidarity with the Ukrainian government and its people, and said Russia's attack on the country was "barbaric" and "unjustified".
We are watching the developments in Ukraine with sadness and shock and hope for a swift and peaceful resolution to the present situation.
Our 10:00am post reported that the Ukrainian government has urged all citizens, regardless of age, to sign up for the armed forces. The government has now confirmed that the statement, which read "No age restrictions", referred to people aged over 60.
Not all possibilities for sanctions have been exhausted yet. The pressure on Russia must increase. Said this to Vonderleyen. I am grateful to the President for her decision on additional financial assistance.
Mr Draghi is also fighting to keep the exemption out of a potential third package of sanctions being planned by Brussels.
Her father is believedto have close ties to the Russian state, and has been named as a person of interest by the UK Government because of his ties to Moscow and his public association with corrupt activity and practices.
Ukrainian soldiers have started taking up positions around Kyiv after Russian tanks and troops were seen in the northern suburbs and gunfire was heard near government buildings.
The measures were added on Friday after being raised in overnight discussions by EU leaders on a new sanctions package that EU foreign ministers from the 27-nation bloc were to validate.
Pope Francis visited the Russian embassy to "express his concern"over Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the Vatican said.
Speaking to the Commons, Mr Heappey said: "We must all in this house be clear that British and NATO troops should not and must not play an active role in Ukraine.
Asked if Putin's actions already constituted a war crime, he said: "I'm not, I'm afraid, an international lawyer.
The statement, attributed to the Commander of the Troops, Yuri Galushkin, reads:"Today, Ukraine needs everything. All procedures for joining are simplified. Bring only your passport and identification number. There are no age restrictions."
Ukraines foreign minister said his country is suffering horrific rocket strikes not seen since the Second World War, as Russian artillery pounded Kyiv in the early hours of Friday morning.
He added:"Contrary to great Russian claims, and indeed President Putin's sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause, he's got that completely wrong, and the Russian army has failed to deliver, on day one, its main objective."
Interior Ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko said "thehardest day will be today" in its efforts to repel Russian forces.
The hardest day will be today. The enemys plan is to break through with tank columns from the side of Ivankiv and Chernihiv to Kyiv. Russian tanks burn perfectly when hit by our ATGMs anti-tank guided missiles,he said.
Taiwan Economy Minister Wang Mei-hua said the island will harshly scrutinise exports to Russia and coordinate with unspecified allies on further actions. She also did not elaborate.
Russian forces that entered Ukraine from Belarus were just 20 miles from Kyiv, according to the AP.
Russia regrets that Kyiv severed diplomatic ties with Moscow, the spokesperson for the Russian foreign ministry said on Friday, a day after Russian forces launched a massive military operation inUkraine.
The measures did not target the Russian president personally, but Biden said sanctioning Putin is on the table.
"We have tried everything to avert that day of the invasion but it has come all the same because the Russian president chose war over human lives. And this is why we will take in all the people that are fleeing now", Ms Baerbock said, adding she had already started to coordinate the distribution of Ukrainian refugees with countries such as Poland and Canada.
Mr Wallace said the Russian armyhad failed to deliver its key objectives, contrasting with the Russian defence ministry which said it had achieved all of its main aims on the first day of Putin's military operation.
The Ukraine military has uploaded footage of an explosion that is says was the result of an intercepted attack
As fighting erupted on Black Sea island, 13 Ukrainian border guards were killed after refusing to surrender to the Russian Navy, with one fighter saying: "Russian warship, go f--- yourself."
There are reports of heavy fighting in the Obolon district northwestern Kyiv, in what appears to be a gun battle between Russian tanks and Ukrainian fighters.
The European Union will accept all people fleeing the violence caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said.
China's CCTV on Friday quoted Mr Putin's conversation with Chinese leader Xi Jinping in which the Russian president "expressed his willingness to hold high-level talks with Kyiv."
Anatoliy Marchenko, 57, who served in the Soviet army, will have to repair his balcony after the strike and could not find his cat, which ran away during shelling.
"But... these are international organisations and if not every country wants them to be thrown out of the SWIFT system, it becomes difficult."
The official said in a Facebook statement that: "In order to intimidate the population of Ukraine, the enemy is increasingly choosing to destroy civilian infrastructure and housing."
"Ukraine continues to fight in the southwestern part of the Black Sea. The bases and ports of Odessa, Yuzhny, Ochakov, and the Black Sea are being defended. Certain forces and means were deployed to the defence of Kyiv."
Dozens of reporters who cover Russian foreign policy and often travel with him, including those working for state media, on Thursday wrote an open letter condemning the war.
Russian forces have lost about 2,800 servicemen and 80 tanks during their assault onUkraine, Deputy Defence Minister Hanna Malyar said on Friday.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an aide to President Volodymyr Zelensky,said that he believes the site has been seized as a "possible blackmail" tactic.
Attacks on Kiev by cruise or ballistic missiles have just continued. I heard two powerful explosions just now,he said shortly before, in the early hours of Friday morning.
In a national address early on Friday, the Ukrainian president said at least 137 Ukrainians have been killed and 316 wounded, with at least one child among the dead.
"The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putin's inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed," a Downing Street spokesperson said after the Joint Expeditionary Force JEF meeting.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky pleaded with the international community for assistance and vowed to stay in the capital despite being Russia's "number one target".
Ukrainian officials have said that all 13 border guards deployed on the island, located south of the port city of Odessa, were killed by arms fire from a Russian warship.
"Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.
The ban took effect from 11am Moscow time,it said, and included flights transiting through Russian airspace.
"I couldn't tell you the difference between breaking international law insofar as directing your forces to invade another country, versus a war crime - e.g. things like genocide, and indeed, you know, torture, etc.
It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned day one military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russias advance.
He declined to comment on how long Russia's invasion of Ukraine would last and said questions regarding Ukrainian civilian deaths should be referred to the military.
His mother, Beverley Baldwin, told the PA news agency: "We are really proud of all of them. We are quite apprehensive and worried and we've just got to support him and hope they all come back safe."
One resident of southeast Kyiv, who told Reuters his name was Sergei, said he woke at around 4am and heard an explosion after going outside to his balcony to smoke.
It could be the case that the Russians are in Obolon because they entered Ukraine from the Belarus border and then drove south.
His comments came asthe Ukrainian military reportedsignificant fighting northwest of Kyivas Russian forces apparently tried to advance on Kyiv from the north.
"We share the concerns of our fans around the world and extend our sympathies to those affected."
It is difficult to be sure what exactly is happening underground. There was one very large explosion overnight which appeared to be linked to the shooting down of an aircraft over the city.
Absolute insanity.Just the abyss of war crimes.Russians are totally ignoring the law of war and openly attack civilians with MRLSs.Okhtyrka has been shelled with BM-27 Uragan, multiple reports say the same in Kharkiv. In Volzel outside Kyiv, an orphanage is shelled. pic.twitter.comVphCY3PP7h
Sergei Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, said on Friday that Moscow wants to "freeUkrainefrom oppression".
"Apparently selling Gucci loafers to oligarchs is more of a priority than hitting back at Putin," the source added.
Mr Kishida said: Japan must clearly show its position that we will never tolerate any attempt to change the status quo by force.
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said on Friday that the new measures include freezing the assets of Russian groups, banks and individuals and suspending exports of semiconductors and other sensitive goods to military-linked organizations in Russia.
The Russian military says it has taken control of a strategic airport just outside the Ukrainian capital and cut Kyiv off from the West.
Two residential buildings in Kyiv are on fire from intercepted unidentified enemy aircraft.According to the State Emergency Service of Ukraine, there is a risk of demolition. Buildings that were hit by the debris are on 7A Koshytsia Street.Photo: Pravda Gerashchenko pic.twitter.comZBZbgL8sAY
Firefighters extinguish a blaze at a damaged residential building at Koshytsa Street, a suburb of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, on Friday.
Families of Diamond's crew waved them off from the harbour walls including the family of Chief Petty Officer Sean Baldwin, 35, from Havant, Hampshire.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called on Europeans with "combat experience" to fight for the country.
Ukrainians slept in bomb shelters and metro stations overnight as Russian attacks on the capital continued.
Ukrainian and USofficials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014 and from Belarus to the north.
Of the roughly 7,000 who are currently in Romania, only 11 have requested political asylum. The others can legally stay for up to 90 days without having to do so.
"Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.
The European Union will accept all people fleeing the violence caused by Russia's invasion ofUkraine, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Friday.
The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.
Ukrainian cybersecurity officials say hackers from neighboring Belarus are targeting the private email addresses of Ukrainian military personnel "and related individuals".
US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told lawmakers on a phone call at 6:30pm Eastern Time that Russian mechanised forces were closing in on the capital, according to a person familiar with the call.
Germany and Italy were hesitant to apply the measure, but most EU countries were in favour of it, two officials said on condition of anonymity.
The Russian forces whichhave entered the city are believed to be centred aroundthe northern district of Obolon, a heavily residential area just 9km north of Kyiv's parliament and city centre.
The Ukrainian defence ministry has said more than 1,000 Russian soldiers have been killed so far during the conflict.
Illia Ponomarenko, a defence reporter with The Kyiv Independent newspaper, said the orphanage hit was located in Volzel, near Kyiv.
Turkish presidentRecep Tayyip Erdogan has accused Nato and the EU of failing to take a "determined stance" on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Officials said Russian troops were advancing on Kyiv from several directions, as Ukrainian forces battled around Mariupol in the south and Kharkiv in the north-east of the country.
Following a late-night European Council meeting on the situation in Ukraine, the President of the European Commission said the package included financial, energy and technological sanctions aimed to deter Mr Putin from redrawing "the map of Europe by force".
The UN Human Rights Office said it has received reports of at least 127 civilian casualties in Ukraine, including 25 people killed and 102 injured, as a result of 'shelling and airstrikes'.
HMS Diamond left Portsmouth Naval Base on Friday, ready to join theoffshore patrol vessel HMS Trent in the eastern Mediterranean as well asfour additional RAF Typhoon jets also being deployed to Cyprus, to take part in Nato patrols in eastern Europe.
Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said the Pontiff spent about 30 minutes at the embassy, in Rome, with the Russian ambassador Alexander Avdeev, but would not comment on reports that the Pope had offered the Vatican's mediation.
Russias invasion began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault.
Russian troops have begun advancing on the capital city of Kyiv, with gunfire and explosions heard near government buildings and tanks seen rolling in.
The site of the world's worst nuclear disaster, which is still radioactive, wasinvaded by Russian forces on Thursday, as Ukraine fought against their "brutal" advance.
Moldova's national naval agency says a ship in "neutral waters" of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.
LOT Polish airlines has said it is suspending flights to Moscow and St Petersburg in Russia from 2pm GMT on Friday due to the current situation, Polish state news agency PAP said.
TheF1 today released a statement confirming the cancellation of the race, which has been a mainstay on the calendar since 2014.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he has asked all 27 European leaders whether his country will be admitted to Nato, but has yet to get an answer.
"More support must be given toUkraine, as a matter of the greatest urgency, the prime minister urged."
I have asked 27 European leaders whether Ukraine will be in NATO .... Everyone is afraid, no one answers, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said in a late night speech https:t.coTco566qKpI pic.twitter.comLZFRh6WM7f
The airport in Hostomel has a long runway capable of accommodating heavy transport planes. Its seizure allows Russia to airlift troops directly to Kyiv's outskirts. Hostomel is just 4 miles north-west of Kyiv.
James Heappey, the Defence Minister, has said that Britain and Nato must not play an active role in the Ukraine conflict because of the grave "risk of miscalculation".
Ursula von der Leyen has outlined a package of further EU sanctions against Russia, saying the invasion of Ukraine marks the "beginning of a new era".
The Ukrainian government'scallfor its citizens to prepare homemade defences, including Molotov cocktails, and enlist in the armed forces if they are able, has resulted inKyiv residentscollating weapons and preparing defences against the impending Russian forces.
"This is a Russian military ship. I suggest you lay down your weapons and surrender to avoid bloodshed and unnecessary victims. Otherwise we will open fire on you."
General Staff of the Armed Forces on the current state of war in Ukraine pic.twitter.comGEyuEp0Lsc
Britain would like to cut off Russia from the SWIFT global interbank payments system, but needs other countries to cooperate, Ben Wallace said.
Ukraine's deputy minister of defence, Hanna Malyar, has said the Russian military seized two cars belonging to Ukrainian forces then changed into the uniform of the Ukrainian army and drove to the centre of Kyiv from Obolon, with a column of military trucks following behind.
Retired four-star US naval officer James Stavridis says Russias military strategy is a textbook invasion, and that only thing missing is a major cyber attack.
The statement came after Mr Malpass told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Saturday that the bank was preparing a $350 million disbursement toUkrainefor budget support by the end of March.
A Royal Navy destroyer has set sail for the Mediterranean to support Nato countries in eastern Europe.
Ukraine's foreign minister has confirmed that Russian military shells have hit a kindergarten and an orphanage.
In an announcement postedto Facebook,Ukraine's Computer Emergency Response Team CERT said the hackers were using password-stealing emails to break into Ukrainian soldiers' email accounts and using the compromised address books to send further malicious messages.
"I wouldn't want to speculate the differences. What I would say is he's clearly broken international law, he's occupying or trying to occupy a sovereign country who made one mistake in his eyes. Their mistake in his eyes was not to choose the Kremlin as a way for their future. And that's all they have done."
Three people were injured in the attack, with one in critical condition, said Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko.
Ukraine's chief of staff said that Russia is using the Gomel airfield in Belarus to line up troops ready to assault Kyiv, due to damage to the Hostomel military airport near the Ukrainian capital.
"In addition to the Royal Tank Regiment battle group that has been in place in Estonia for the last six months, the Royal Welsh battlegroup will be arriving in Estonia earlier than planned to double up our force levels and those doubled-up force levels remain indefinitely.
