Michael Gove eyes way out of Gazprom contracts
20220317
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/17/michael-gove-draws-legal-loophole-help-councils-escape-gazprom/
In a letter sent to council leaders at the end of last week, Mr Gove urged local authorities to "scrutinise their contracts" with Russia.
Officials are hoping the laws under the Social Value Act will allow councils to walk away from Gazprom deals without having to pay huge exit fees.
"We stand ready to talk to any local authority with concerns about its financial position, service delivery, or where it may be facing pressures that it cannot take steps to manage locally.
The Communities Secretary is drawing up plans to use obscure legislation that says public bodies must favour contracts that represent good social value.
Energy market sources said Gazprom is unlikely to attract any new tenders from business customers. They warned that the company's UK business could dry up within the next five years.
Louis Fairfax, managing director at brokerage CUB UK, said: "There are fixed price offers, but they are few and far between. It's more and more common that we have to tell customers they will be lucky if they can get just one offer on the table on any given day. But prior to this, we were seeing four or five offers on a daily basis for a fixed-price customer. It's definitely a problem."
Michael Gove is preparing to use a legal loophole to help councils exit contracts with Russian energy giant Gazprom.
Mr Gove is therefore also exploring legal changes that would let councils pick a more expensive option if there were ethical or political concerns with the cheapest supplier.
Councils are trying to ditch their contracts with Gazprom's UK arm over fears they are inadvertently funding Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine.
It could take weeks to issue new guidance on how to apply the Social Value Act. Officials are also looking at other ways to support councils seeking an exit from Gazprom contracts. There have been no final decisions on the best course of action.
Most commercial customers are looking for fixed-price deals but these have become more scarce amid intensevolatility in global energy markets.
Gazprom is one of the biggest suppliers of energy to commercial and public sector customers in Britain. It has a 21pc share of the business gas market, according to Cornwall Insight.
"I can confirm that the Government is exploring what options are possible to assist local authorities who are reconsidering their contracts. I hope to update you all as soon as practically possible."
Councils face huge bills switching energy suppliers after prices escalated further after the invasion of Ukraine. Many have been forced to choose Gazprom as a supplier because it offered the best value for money.
He said: "I am grateful to all of you who have already set out your support for the people of Ukraine and our collective response to Russian aggression.
"I am also aware that many local authorities have already played a leading role publicly, by setting out their intentions to terminate their contracts with Russian companies, most notably Gazprom. I commend those who have taken the local decision to do so.
