Mikhail Gorbachev US grew arrogant after the fall of the USSR
20211224
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2021/12/24/mikhail-gorbachev-us-grew-arrogant-fall-ussr/
The US grew "arrogant" after the fall of the USSR, the former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has claimed, amid rising tensions between Washington and Moscow over Ukraine and the Nato alliance.
The former Soviet leader, who played a pivotal role in ending the Cold War, told the Russian state news agency RIA Novosti that the mood in the West had been "triumphant... especially in the United States".
Washington and Moscow are expected to hold talks early next year amid fears that Vladimir Putin is planning another incursion into Ukraine with his build-up of Russian troops near the border.
"No, the 'winners' decided to build a new empire. Hence the idea of Nato expansion," Mr Gorbachev added.
In fact, it was "together" that Moscow and Washington had pulled the world out of confrontation and the nuclear race, he said.
The talks are likely to be held in Geneva and could begin "as soon as early January", a US official said.
Russia has accused Nato of inflaming tensions on its doorstep and has demanded guarantees that the US-led alliance withdraw its forces from the region.
In a combative press conference on Thursday, Mr Putin insisted Russia's huge troop build-up near Ukraine was a response to legitimate concerns about Natos military activity close to its borders.
She added: Nato is a defensive alliance, it is not an aggressive alliance. There has been no evidence to suggest anything to the contrary from the United States or Nato members.
Mr Biden's spokeswoman Jen Psaki hit back at the remarks, saying the only aggression the White House saw was "the military build-up by the Russians and the bellicose rhetoric by the leader of Russia.
In an interview on Friday, Mr Gorbachev, 90, was highly critical of the West's attitude to Russia in the aftermath of the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
The former Soviet leader criticised the expansion of Nato ahead of diplomatic talks between the US and Russia over Ukraine
But speaking on Friday, Mr Gorbachev was highly critical of the eastward expansion of the Nato alliance, saying: "How can one count on equal relations with the United States and the West in such a position?"
Mr Putin, the Russian president, has demanded "legal guarantees" from Nato that Ukraine will never become a member of the transatlantic alliance.
