No more than seven years old the children of Sumy blown up as they prepared to flee
20220308
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/08/carnage-sumy-russian-missile-attack/
Alina Yagupa, 20, and also a student, said: Russian troops are ruthlessly bombing civilians, civilian infrastructure, and killing civilians. There are constant fights. Its very scary. People are sitting in basements. Civilians who want to leave the city are being shot. People sit without food, light, or water.
"We have been told that we will go to Poltava. I am praying that we reach a safe zone and this misery is over," he told the Press Trust of India.
Among those on the convoy were foreign students - many from India - who had been trapped in Sumy since Putins invasion launched 13 days ago.
Last night there were three explosions, and flying planes. I felt fear and saw the red sky over the explosion. I'm with my parents. We hid in the basement, under the house. I think it's safe, but it's cold and damp.
Previous attempts to lead civilians to safety had crumbled after Russian troops launched attacks on supposed safe corridors. Roads out of Mariupol, which also tried another attempt at evacuation on Tuesday, had been mined.
In a message posted on Tuesday by Indias embassy in Kyiv, it said: The humanitarian corridor for evacuation of stranded people has been announced in various parts of Ukraine from 1000hrs on 8 March 2022. Considering the security situation, establishment of the next humanitarian corridor is uncertain. All stranded Indian nationals are urged to make use of this opportunity and evacuate using trainsvehicles or any other available means of transport giving due consideration to safety.
Families would have been sleeping or else packing for the evacuation planned on Tuesday morning and agreed between Moscow and Kyiv. The Kremlin didnt care that its bombs were falling on innocent civilians just as they had hope of escaping Vladimir Putins campaign of terror.
But with supplies of food and water running short some grew so desperate they made their own way out of the city in the past few days, paying as much as 1,220 to drivers willing to make the journey.
Graphic photographs and videos posted on social media on Tuesday showed the bloody aftermath of the raid, with the bodies of at least two children clearly visible. They looked no more than six or seven years old.
Narendra Modi, Indias Prime Minister, had on Monday discussed with Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky ways to start the stalled evacuation of Indian students from Sumy. India had urged its citizens to get out while they could.
Emergency workers and locals filmed the carnage, bodies contorted, limbs missing as snow fell in the darkness. By morning the extent of the horror was clear. Houses on and around Romenskaya St, one of the main roads into Sumy, bombed to smithereens. Shops and businesses on the main boulevard also destroyed.
On Tuesday one medical student from India, who did not wish to be identified, confirmed the official evacuation had begun.
Several houses were destroyed by the explosion, and at least two children were killed. I feel disappointment and hatred for Russians. They bring Russian trucks, film for Russian channels, and then leave. It is a circus and propaganda of the Russian people.
Mr Zhyvytsky said the temporary ceasefire had largely held. As the first wave of vehicles left the city it met around 160 Russian military vehicles coming towards them. The civilian convoy stopped to let the Russian forces pass and the encounter went without incident.
When I went outside today there was broken infrastructure, military units, churches, and houses. There were queues at shops and pharmacies and a lack of food and basic necessities.
Dmytro Zhyvytsky, who leads the Sumy regional military administration, said in a video posted on Facebook that Russian warplanes carried out air raids on the city at around 11pm local time.
I went outside to go to the store. There were very few essentials: bread, milk, meat, vegetables. About 20 to 30 people stood in line on the street.
Ukraine said the Kremlins forces had dropped a 500 kilogram bomb on a residential and commercial neighbourhood. A bomb that size landing in an urban area would, according to experts, cause devastation for hundreds of yards with blast waves travelling up to a mile and beyond.
The Russians blew up children in Sumy on Monday night. Hours before allowing an evacuation of the city, Russian bombs rained down on residential blocks and houses. Twenty-one people died in the missile attack, including at least two children, their corpses discovered lying in the rubble, according to officials in Sumy.
"The Ukrainian city of Sumy was given a green corridor, the first stage of evacuation began," the Ukrainian state communications agency announced on Twitter. Videos showed the buses moving off along the snowy road south.
At 10am local time 8am GMT, the evacuation of Sumy began. It became the first city to successfully begin an agreed evacuation, with buses supplied by the Red Cross lining up to take fleeing civilians to Poltava, 100 miles south. Some 20 to 30 private cars, packed with families and their belongings, also joined the convoy.
In its post, the parliament said: Russian planes dropped bombs on Sumy, Ukraine. There are civilian casualties. The bombs hit residential areas of the city. Houses of civilians were demolished and damaged. This is a targeted attack on civilians. The Russian occupants saw what they were attacking.
Hardeep Puri, a minister in the Indian government, said: "Last night, I checked with the control room, 694 Indian students were remaining in Sumy. Today, they have all left in buses for Poltava."
It was estimated there were as many as 1,700 foreign students in Sumy when Russia invaded. Many of those were trapped in hostels on Sumy State Universitys campus, hiding in bomb shelters. Ukrainian soldiers had warned students who tried to leave to stay in the hostels and wait for the official evacuation convoy.
Eyewitness accounts suggested the Russian air force had been deployed to attack the city, with a population of 250,000 people about 200 miles east of Kyiv and just 30 miles from the Russian border.
The corpses of at least two children were discovered in the rubble after an overnight Russian missile attack on the Ukrainian city
I'm staying here. This is my home, this is where I was born, and I don't want to leave my city, said Liana, a 20-year-old student. Every day, rockets hit civilians and homes. Two days ago there was an explosion at the power plants, and we were without water and electricity for two days. Around the city, there is a lot of broken equipment of the Russian army. They come to the villages, rob shops, mock the inhabitants and act like fascists.
"Unfortunately, children are among those killed," said Mr Zhyvytsky. The kids are being killed. We will never forgive this."
In one case a 500 kilogram bomb devastated a residential building in what the Parliament said was a crime against humanity.
In a message on the Twitter account of the parliament of Ukraine, authorities said several houses in the northeastern city were destroyed when Russian planes attacked.
One of the residential areas of Sumy was bombed at night, 11 houses were burned. I heard the attacks. It was like loud thunder and the walls shook. It is impossible to understand unless you hear it.
