Pictured Ukrainian father shot dead by Russian soldiers as he drove his wife and son to safety
20220326
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/26/maksim-iovenko-ukrainian-man-filmed-drone-shot-russian-soldiers/
From what my mum told me, Maksim was turning back. Maksim got out of the car, raised his hands and started shouting that there were children in the car. And they shot him.
Just moments after Iovenko was shot, the Russian troops appeared to drag his body into nearby woodland.
The incident was reported to have happened a few kilometres west of Kyiv on the E40 highway.
The satellite footage, obtained last week by German public service broadcaster ZDF, shows Iovenko turning his car around upon noticing the tank.
Speaking to the BBC, a friend of Iovenko, who was also driving on the highway at the time, told the BBC: We heard shooting. They started shooting at the column. We all turned back.
Maksim Iovenko was driving his wife, who was also fatally shot, and his six-year-old son to safety on March 7 when he spotted a Russian tank parked off the road next to a petrol station.
He then stops the car and gets out, putting his arms in the air in surrender. The Russian forces shoot him and he immediately falls to the ground.
Sergiy Iovenko, his father, said that he still had some hope until he saw the video and could not believe it until he touched his sons body.
Intentionally targeting civilians is considered a war crime under international humanitarian law, although Russia has routinely denied it engages in illegal attacks.
Later, we all stopped and saw that one car was missing. Maksims car. In that car, there was Maksim, his wife, their son and my mum.
Aerial footage shows the civilian driving his wife and six-year-old near Kyiv before stepping out of the car and being shot
According to the Ukrainian operator of the drone, a woman and young child were later led away by the soldiers into a ditch near the scene.
A Ukrainian man who was captured on drone footage being shot by Russian soldiers outside Kyiv has been named.
