Pictured The Bucha mass grave that is so large it can be seen by satellites
20220404
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/04/pictured-bucha-mass-grave-large-can-seen-satellites/
Bucha is a town in Kyiv Oblast that, before the war, was home to around 37,000 people. Analysts fear that further mass graves will be discovered as more areas are liberated.
Anatoly Fedoruk, Buchas mayor, said the corpses of men, women and children had been found littered across the town's streets on Saturday.
The long trench is situated in the grounds of a church in Bucha, the Ukrainian town where departing Russian troops have left behind them the scene of a massacre.
Some of the bodies in the mass grave were either unburied or partially buried in the earth. Its discovery came after the bodies of another 300 civilians were found in the town.
Photos taken from the ground have confirmed that this is a mass grave containing the bodies of Ukrainian civilians
Maxar Technologies, the Colorado-based company that took the satellite pictures, said the first signs of a mass grave being dug were seen on March 10. Ukrainian forces recaptured Bucha on Saturday.
All these people were shot, killed, in the back of the head, Mr Fedoruk said.
Photos taken from the ground have confirmed that this is a mass grave containing the bodies of Ukrainian civilians. Local officials were reported last night to be removing the bodies, which number 57.
The trench is given away by the fresh earth on either side of it, a light brown that stands out against the damp green of the rest of the church grounds. The church is that of Andrew and Pyervozvannoho All Saints, identifiable from its golden domes.
Accounts of civilian killings have been reported by numerous witnesses in areas recently abandoned by Russian forces, which withdrew from several dozen settlements around Kyiv this week.
Videos from the ground show at least 20 bodies  mainly men in civilian clothes  lying in a single street. Some appeared to have their hands tied behind their backs.
At 45ft long, the mass grave is so large that it is visible in satellite images.
