Pictured The ominous Russian assault ships lining up in the Black Sea that hint at attack on Odesa
20220303
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/03/odesa-expecting-attack-russian-assault-ships-black-sea/
Images emerged on Thursday morning of Russian amphibious assault ships in the Black Sea poised for a possible attack near Odesa, in a move that could open up a corridor to Kyiv from the south.
The real power of an amphibious assault group loitering off a coast is the fear and doubt it forces into the minds of an adversary. Where will it land? What is it carrying? Can I take the risk of ignoring it?
In short, the ability to adopt an ambiguous stance hundreds of miles out to sea whilst still being able to threaten these areas with combat power is highly desired by politicians and military commanders alike.
If landed unmolested, this force could strengthen the limited success Russian forces have achieved in Kherson in the south, or swing north to threaten Kyiv from a new flank.
It does not require permission to transit international waters and can linger at sea a constant, niggling problem for defending forces.
The two new structures, called Littoral Response Groups and based around Arbroath-based 45 Commando Royal Marines and 40 Commando from Taunton, are designed to signal Britain's new global military posture.
In total a force of nearly 3,000 troops and over 100 tanks could be put ashore.
The days of amphibious troops wading ashore from landing craft and charging up heavily defended beaches are consigned to history.
Defenders cannot cover every possible landing point and, besides, the assault ships could be lurking a hundred miles further up the coast by dawn on Friday.
But, if you were a commander of the Ukrainian army watching as the assault ships off the coast approach the shore then turn and disappear over the horizon, would you take the risk of ignoring them?
Russia's amphibious troops will force fear and doubt into the minds of Ukrainians - but can they risk ignoring it?
An amphibious force can sail early to demonstrate national will and capability, or be dispatched without fanfare if political understatement is desired.
In a region such as the Black Sea, the prospect of an amphibious assault is a real headache for military commanders.
The United Nations says 40 per cent of the worlds population live within 100 miles of the sea the so-called littoral. This area contains many of the worlds capital cities and economic centres.
The Russian force, currently off the coast of Ukraine, shows how amphibious forces can have an effect with little military hardware on show.
Why do they need to land tanks and infantry near Odesa, risking a counter-attack from the Ukrainians, when they could deploy from the sanctuary of Russian-held Crimea?
Also filmed loitering off the coast were two Alligator-class ships, each capable of holding surface-to-air missiles, 20 tanks and 300 troops, and five Ropucha-class vessels that could each launch 10 tanks and 190 troops ashore.
One Ivan Gren-class Landing Ship was spotted, thought to be the Pyotr Morgunov, and capable of carrying attack helicopters, 13 tanks or 36 infantry vehicles and 300 troops.
Its posture can be adjusted according to diplomatic sensitivities, with other forces joining it as it moves inexorably towards an area of tension.
But coordinating military operations is complicated at the best of times. Doing it in a mix of land, sea and air is one reason why the Royal Navy and Royal Marines have reorganised.
These days, assaults from marine and other seaborne infantry usually start with helicopters suddenly appearing near their objectives, while huge amphibious landing ships, laden with tanks and other heavy weaponry, manoeuvre into civilian ports.
