Poland braces for massive influx of refugees fleeing Ukraine as fears of Russian invasion mount
20220213
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/13/russia-ukraine-crisis-invasion-news-putin-nato-latest-news/
The Israeli government is said to be considering a major military evacuation of citizens from Ukraine, after it was reportedly briefed by Washington that the invasion may begin on Tuesday.
Poland has said it is braced for a massive influx of refugees fleeing Ukraine, as flights to the country were redirected and cancelled, prompting fears it could be cut off ahead of a Russian invasion.
One Ukrainian carrier, SkyUp, has suspended ticket sales until Wednesday and had to divert a flight to Moldova on Sunday after the plane's owner barred it from entering Ukrainian airspace.
The advice contrasts with urgent appeals by the British and US embassies, among others, who have told their citizens to flee Ukraine immediately.
"It is very unlikely that there will be new cover coming to the market," they added, drawing a comparison with similar restrictions affecting Afghanistan when the Taliban took over last year.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian officials recommend that flights do not cross the Black Sea, where more than 30 Russian ships have started training exercises near the Crimea peninsula as part of wider drills.
Instead, a message posted on the website of the French embassy in Kyiv recommended that people stock up on food, water, petrol and warm clothes.
Benny Gantz, the Israeli defence minister, has put the army on standby to assist in airlifting citizens out of Ukraine should the need arise, Haaretz reported.
"Cover is being reduced, it is being cancelled but some insurers are still covering it because they have already written the policies," the source said.
Without insurance covering their aircraft, airlines will have to divert flights around Ukraine, and cancel those into and out of the country.
It came as France broke ranks with other key Nato members by advising citizens in Ukraine that they did not yet need to leave the country.
Dutch airline KLM has already said it will stop flying to Ukraine, while Germany's Lufthansa said it was also considering a suspension of flights.
Mariusz Kaminski, the Polish interior minister, said Warsaw was preparing for a number of scenarios, including a need to set up accommodation for refugees fleeing across the western border.
Insurers are understood to be cutting back aviation cover for flights through Ukrainian airspace, as Russia continues to amass huge amounts of firepower at the country's borders.
"The most important point is that Ukraine itself sees no point in closing the sky. This is nonsense. And, in my opinion, it somewhat resembles a kind of partial blockade," Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to the Ukrainian president's chief of staff, said.
A source at a major global brokerage told the Telegraph that there is "a lot of nervousness in the market", leading insurers to cancel cover when they can.
"In connection with the situation in Ukraine we are preparing for various scenarios. One of them is regional preparations related to a possible influx of refugees from Ukraine," he said.
Ukraine's government sought to play down airline concerns and dismissed fears of a de facto closure of Ukrainian airspace as "nonsense".
Britons also risk being trapped as flights are cancelled and insurers cut back on aviation cover for journeys through Ukrainian airspace
Naftali Bennett, the Israeli prime minister, hopes to evacuate citizens from Ukraine before any fighting begins, Haaretz reported. The Israeli foreign ministry says around 15,000 Israelis are based in Ukraine.
