Putin might just settle for a land grab and leave the puppet regime aside if his price for peace is to be believed
20220307
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/07/putin-might-just-settle-land-grab-leave-puppet-regime-aside/
Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, said the war would be over in a moment if their demands were met.
But it could give a glimmer of insight into what Vladmir Putins plan was when he ordered the invasion of a country he claims is run by Nazis.
Mr Putin recently declared that Russia and Ukraine were one people and told Emmanuel Macron, the French president, that he planned to conquer the whole of the country.
But Mr Peskovs comments suggest he could be satisfied with a large chunk of its land - at least for now - and may not insist on installing a puppet regime in Kyiv.
Whether the offer is a final, bottom line is only likely to be known to Mr Putin, whodid not tell many of his aides he planned to invade Ukraine until the last moment.
Mr Putin has blamed Kyiv for a failed ceasefire to allow for evacuations of the besieged city of Mariupol.
The Russian president, who has made an artform of keeping the West guessing, will claim a crushing victory regardless.
A third round of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine is expected today, on the same day Moscow didnt turn up to a hearing accusing it of war crimes in the country.
The deal, which would surely be unacceptable to the Ukrainians, would spell the end of the countrys ambitions to join the EU and Nato.
Russia may have given its clearest sense yet of Moscows objectives in the invasion of Ukraine.
Russia wants Ukraine to cease military action, change its constitution to enshrine neutrality, acknowledge Crimea as Russian territory and recognise the separatist republics of Donetsk and Lugansk as independent territories.
Was this part of Mr Putins plan all along or if he is simply, opportunistically adapting his strategy to the circumstances?
For now a truce, and on such draconian terms, seems highly unlikely even if it did prove to be a sincere offer.
The deal, which would surely be unacceptable to the Ukrainians, would spell the end of the countrys ambitions to join the EU and Nato
