Roman Abramovich attends RussiaUkraine peace talks weeks after he was poisoned
20220329
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/29/roman-abramovich-attends-russia-ukraine-peace-talks-weeks-poisoned/
The Chelsea FC owner, who was sanctioned by the West for his ties to Vladimir Putins regime and is thought to be acting as a go-between between Moscow and Kyiv, was pictured at the Istanbul talks on Tuesday.
President Zelensky has said Ukraine is willing to pledge to neutrality but will resist any Russian calls to carve up its territory.
Negotiations are expected to centre on balancing Russian demands for the demilitarisation of Ukraine with Kyivs need for security guarantees from countries including the UK and US.
A source close to Mr Abramovich said: "This could be someone there in the Kremlin who thinks he has betrayed them by trying to pursue peace."
The suspected poisoning of the billionaire was not intended to kill him and the two Ukrainian representatives, the lead Russia investigator with investigative news outlet Bellingcat has said.
Mr Quince said: "As much as there is scepticism globally about whether these peace talks will be successful, I desperately hope that they are."
Sanctioned is at talks in Turkey despite claims he suffered temporary blindness after attending March 3
Roman Abramovich is attending peace talks between Russia and Ukraine in Turkey, despite allegations the oligarch was poisoned at a previous round of negotiations.
Education minister Will Quince told Sky News the UK would be looking to "establish the facts" around the claims.
Ahead of Tuesdays talks, Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba warned, I advise anyone going for negotiations with Russia not to eat or drink anything, and preferably avoid touching surfaces.
The Kremlin confirmed Mr Abramovich was at the talks but said he was not an official member of the Russian delegation. It said the accusations of poisoning were false and part of an Information war.
If it was a poisoning, it was a "worrying development", a Government minister has said.
Ahead of the new talks, Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan urged officials to achieve a ceasefire and "put an end to this tragedy", saying it paved the way for a meeting of Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelensky.
"It could well be seen as a warning sign to them to not join the ranks of those who dissent, and to not be too much of an honest broker, he said.
It emerged on Monday that Mr Abramovich, and two Ukrainian negotiators, reportedly suffered peeling skin and temporary blindness following informal negotiations in Kyiv earlier this month.
Christo Grozev told Times Radio the "most plausible" explanation for the alleged poisoning was that it was a warning to Mr Abramovich, who has volunteered to act as mediator in the peace negotiations.
