Russia and Ukraine draw up 15point peace plan
20220316
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/16/ukraine-could-become-neutral-state-like-austria-moscow-kyiv/
Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, told RBC News on Wednesday: The negotiations are not easy for obvious reasons. But nevertheless, there is some hope of reaching a compromise.
Putin has also demanded recognition for Russian rule in Crimea, which he annexed illegally in 2014, and for Kyiv to recognise the separatist republics of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent states.
Reported treaty would allow Kyiv to keep a standing army, but prevent it from ever joining Nato
Mykhailo Podolyak, a negotiator, said: Ukraine is now in a direct state of war with Russia. Consequently, the model can only be Ukrainian and only on legally verified security guarantees.
The compromise has the potential to meet one of Vladimir Putins key demands: that Ukraine never joins Nato. However, other Russian demands will prove hugely problematic for Kyiv.
Mr Podolyak told the Financial Times any deal would mean Russia surrendering territory it had gained since the invasion began on Feb 24.
Russian and Ukrainian negotiators were considering a plan involving a constitutional commitment to neutrality, the Kremlin said on a third day of heavy shelling of Ukrainian cities.
Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraines president, called for fair peace with real security guarantees that work, after explosions rocked the capital this morning.
A similar 1955 pledge convinced the Soviet Union to end the decade-long occupation of Austria after the Second World War.
Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, warned that we are not near the end, at this stage while Mr Zelensky renewed calls for Nato to enforce a no-fly zone over his country in an address to the US Congress.
Mr Lavrov said that the Ukrainian president had recently made a number of very interesting statements that show a more realistic assessment of whats going on.
The Russian leader told Charles Michel, the president of the European Council, that Kyiv was not showing a serious commitment to his demands.
He said that Moscows aim was to defend people in the separatist Kremlin-backed region of the Donbas from Kyiv, and the demilitarisation of Ukraine.
Neutral status is now being seriously discussed seriously along, of course, with security guarantees. This is what is now being discussed at the talks. There are absolutely specific wordings and in my view, the sides are close to agreeing on them.
On Tuesday, he said that Ukraine would not join Nato despite promises by the alliance that it would one day become a member. On Wednesday, he said peace talks with Moscow were becoming more realistic.
Austria declared itself permanently neutral that year, leading to the Soviet Union agreeing to an end to its occupation. It promised not to join any military alliance, such as Nato, and to never host foreign military bases on its soil.
The deal would allow Ukraine to keep a standing army, but prevent it from ever joining Nato or hosting foreign military bases, sources familiar with the negotiations told the Financial Times.
There are also fears that Putin could be using the peace talks to buy time to reinforce his army, which has been bogged down in Ukraine and suffered heavy losses.
Ukraine rejected the Austrian comparison, but there were signs of rising optimism that a deal could be struck, despite the continuing bloodshed in the country and a counter-offensive launched in Kyiv.
Russia and Ukraine have reportedly drawn up a 15-point peace deal that would bring a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops  in return for commitments from Kyiv to become a neutral country and accept limits on the size of its army.
