Russia says talks with Nato have hit dead end heightening fears of Ukraine invasion
20220113
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/01/13/russia-seeks-concessions-west-talks-reach-dead-end/
"We see an increasingly tense situation," Tomas ngshammar, the regiment's spokesperson, told Swedish Radio. "Ukraine is not that far away, and if we see a military conflict there, it will affect us, so we need to show the surrounding world that we are on our toes.
Fears over Ukraine are being felt across Europe, with Sweden starting patrols on the strategic island of Gotland
Senate Democrats on Wednesday unveiled new potential sanctions against Russia that target President Vladimir Putin personally and the Kremlins key banks.
Polands foreign minister Zbigniew Rau, launching his countrys year-long chairmanship of the OSCE, said Europe was closer to war than any time in the last 30 years.
The Kremlin has dismissed the idea of further sanctions as an empty threat, with foreign minister Sergey Lavrov describing the plans as a sign of Washingtons nervous breakdown.
I dont see any point in getting together and sitting down to talk in the coming days about the same things without having a clear idea whether there is any scope or flexibility on the other side to work on these serious issues, Mr Ryabkov told Russian media.
Russia has said talks with Nato on the Ukraine crisis had reached a dead end, escalating fears of an imminent invasion.
Alexander Lukashevich, head of the Russian delegation in Vienna, told reporters after the talks he was disappointed by what he had heard.
Swedish Armed Forces on Wednesday dispatched two Saab JAS Gripen aircraft and a Visby-class corvette to meet the three Russian landing ships which had sailed around the coast of Norway from Russia's Arctic coast.
Washington is preparing how it will respond if talks fail and Russia does go ahead with an invasion of Ukraine.
Michael Carpenter, the US permanent representative to the 57-nation grouping, warned after the talks that the drumbeat of war is sounding loud, and the rhetoric has gotten rather shrill."
Moscow would not continue discussing secondary security issues if the West was deaf to the countrys more pressing security concerns, he said.
Were trying to set our differences in a diplomatic way, he said. If we fail, we should provide guarantees for our security by other means.
Russia and the US met for security talks in Geneva this week, ahead of a meeting between Moscow and Nato, the first in two years, in Brussels on Wednesday. The flurry of diplomatic activity culminated in talks between Russia and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE in Vienna on Thursday.
Sergey Ryabkov, Russias deputy foreign minister and a lead negotiator in the talks, said the meetings had reached a dead end of sorts.
Escalating fears over Ukraine are being felt across Europe, with Sweden yesterday  THURS starting patrols of the airport and harbours of its strategic Baltic island of Gotland.
High-stakes talks between Moscow and the West have been taking place across Europe this week in a bid to find a solution to the crisis, amid a 100,000-strong build-up of Russian troops along the Ukrainian border.
The Kremlin last month demanded that Ukraine never be allowed to join Nato and that the alliance should withdraw its troops from Eastern Europe. The bloc has rejected both proposals and put forward confidence-building measures such as limiting military drills.
