Russia has agreed to almost all of our peace proposals says Ukrainian negotiator
20220403
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/03/ukraines-negotiator-says-russia-agrees-almost-proposals/
He added that the proposals that Ukraine has agreed to were "exactly what Russia has been seeking since 2014".
Ukraine's delegation earlier this week agreed to give up its Nato aspirations as long as the West were to offer it security guarantees
Speaking about the West offering Ukraine security guarantees as part of the deal, Mr Arakhamia said he has a "feeling that the US and the UK will be the last to join when they see that others agree".
Kyiv also proposed to set a 15-year timeframe for discussing the legal status of Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula occupied by Russia since 2014.
The Ukrainian delegation at the talks in Istanbul earlier this week agreed to give up its ambition to join Nato. But they asked for other countries to guarantee its future security as a condition to making concessions to Russia, as the ferocious invasion of Ukraine enters its sixth week.
Russias chief negotiator did not refute Mr Arakhamias statement altogether on Sunday, but sought to make it look like it was Ukraine that accepted Russias demands, not the other way round.
David Arakhamia, one of the Ukrainian officials who was negotiating with the Russians in Istanbul, said late on Saturday that his Russian counterparts had verbally agreed to all but one proposal laid out by his team.
One of Ukraines negotiators in peace talks with Russia says Moscow has agreed to almost all of their proposals, paving the way to a possible meeting between the leaders of the countries.
"The Russian Federation has given an official answer to all of our proposals, which is that they accept the Ukrainian position, except for the issue of Crimea," Mr Arakhamia said on Ukrainian television.
"The Ukrainian delegation has become more realistic on the issues concerning Ukraines neutral and non-nuclear status, but the draft agreement is not ready yet for the top-level meeting, Vladimir Medinsky said in his blog, commenting on a possible meeting between Putin and Zelensky.
The Russian reaction gives him hope that Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, and Vladimir Putin, the Russian leader, would meet for talks soon to hammer out a possible peace deal.
He said talks on the draft peace deal will continue via a video link on Monday.
"Our goal right now is to wrap up on the final stage of all the issues we have touched upon and lay the groundwork for a possible meeting of the presidents," he added.
