Russia fails to take territory for first time since war with Ukraine began
20220707
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/07/07/russia-fails-take-territory-first-time-since-war-ukraine-began/
In televised comments to Russian parliamentary leaders, he said: "Today, we hear that they want to defeat us on the battlefield. What can you say, let them try. We have heard many times that the West wants to fight us to the last Ukrainian.
Both tasks take considerable time, although they do not imply a complete cessation of combat operation.
Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, said on Thursday that Western artillery systems - including American Himars and British M270 multiple launch rocket systems - started working very powerfully.
The lull may indicate that Moscow is taking an operational pause to reconstitute its forces for an attack on the Ukrainian strongholds of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, following the exhausting two-month battle for the Luhansk region.
Images released by Ukraine on Thursday showed three Ukrainian soldiers raising the blue and yellow national flag on a patch of ground next to the remains of a flattened building.
A series of strikes have hit Russian ammunition depots over the past week, as Ukraine seeks to starve Russias artillery of shells.
Russian commanders will likely be under pressure to push on before more Western heavy weapons arrive to reinforce the Ukrainian defence.
Wednesday was the first day since the beginning of the war that Russia neither claimed to nor was assessed to have made any territorial gains, said the Institute for the Study of War, an American think tank, on Thursday.
After Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, ordered a retreat from Kyiv in March, it took about six weeks for his army to be in the correct position and shape for the attack on Donbas.
A Russian missile strike on Kramatorsk killed at least one civilian and injured six others, despite the slowdown in frontline fighting.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the Donetsk region, said six buildings - including a hotel and an apartment block - were damaged in the strike on Kramatorsk and warned the initial death toll could rise.
The Russian defence ministry said several Ukrainian troops had landed on the island before dawn and that its air force immediately launched a strike with high-precision missiles against them.
Russia did not take any land in Ukraine this week for the first time in the war, as it appeared to halt large-scale offensive operations in Donbas ahead of a renewed push.
At least three people were killed and five injured in a multiple rocket launcher strike on the city of Kharkiv, said Oleh Syniehubov, head of Kharkiv Regional Military Administration.
Reconstitution requires resting and replacing exhausted soldiers and equipment, as well as reorganising the chain of command and composition of units for the coming mission.
Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of the Ukrainian security council, told the Wall Street Journal that the country had received nine Himars to date. The United States initially said it would deliver eight by the end of July.
Sloviansk also came under fire. Vadym Lyakh, its mayor, said there had been casualties but gave no further details.
It came as Ukrainian forces landed and raised the national flag on Snake Island, the rock in the western Black Sea that Russia abandoned last week
This is a tragedy for the Ukrainian people, but it seems that everything is heading towards this.
Kramatorsk and Sloviansk are expected to be the next targets for Russias invasion force, after Ukraine retreated from Lysychansk, its last foothold in the Luhansk region, on Sunday.
Kremlin appears to halt major attack operations in Donbas, so its forces can recuperate ahead of a fresh onslaught
This is a deliberate attack on civilians. This will continue until we drive them out, he said.
He said: Our defenders inflict very noticeable strikes on depots and other spots that are important to the occupiers logistics. This significantly reduced the offensive potential of the Russian army.
Other officials have warned that the deliveries are not enough to match the Russians gun for gun and that many more weapons are needed if they are to halt and eventually reverse the invasion.
