Russian musicians can play the Proms  if they oppose the Ukraine invasion
20220426
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/04/26/russian-musicians-can-play-proms-oppose-ukraine-invasion/
In recent years, the Last Night of the Proms has become a political battleground, with anti-Brexit campaigners handing out EU flags to wave alongside Union flags.
No, we havent. Of course, weve thought about that very carefully and we do have Russian artists coming this summer, Pickard said.
However, this year the Royal Albert Hall is expected to be a sea of blue and yellow, with Prommers showing their support for Ukraine.
He has publicly denounced the war, saying: Putins insidious attack on Ukraine, which violates international law, is a knife in the back of the entire peaceful world. It is also an attack on the arts which, as we know, unite across all borders.
Its the Proms back with a vengeance, said Pickard, referring to the past two years in which the event was subject to Covid restrictions.
Star names include the Russian-born Kirill Petrenko, who is chief conductor of the Berliner Philharmoniker and whose father is Ukrainian.
Many of them have spoken out very openly against the regime. We have had private conversations with others and Im confident there is nobody there who is a supporter of the regime.
Organisers said they had rejected the idea of a Wimbledon-style ban on Russians, but stressed that there was no place for supporters of Vladimir Putin.
Speaking at the launch of this years programme, David Pickard, director of the BBC Proms, was asked if organisers had done a Wimbledon and imposed a ban on Russians.
The Proms will return to a full eight-week season from July 15, with 84 concerts featuring more than 3,000 musicians.
Other Russian-born performers include Alina Ibragimova, the violinist who began her career as a child playing with the Bolshoi Theatre Orchestra before moving to the UK and studying at the Guildhall and Royal College of Music.
Organisers say they do not want a Wimbledon-style ban, but stress that there is no place for supporters of Vladimir Putin
A performance of Puccinis Il Tabarro will feature tenor Ivan Gyngazov, a rising star of Russian opera.
The BBC will broadcast 22 of the concerts on television and iPlayer. Clive Myrie will present the First Night of the Proms while Katie Derham will host the Last Night. Other presenters include Clara Amfo, Edith Bowman, Jess Gillam, Petroc Trelawny and Chris Packham.
Vasily Petrenko will take part in the Proms as music director of the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. He has previously said: Being an international artist with family living in both Russia and Ukraine, I am shocked by the conflict and appalled at the destruction of innocent lives. Peace must be restored as soon as possible.
Instead, the event will nail its colours to the mast by hosting the newly formed Ukrainian Freedom Orchestra. The Ukrainian government is granting a special exemption for males of fighting age to travel to London for the performance.
And I think if there were somebody that were to express those views - to be putting it bluntly, there would be no place for them at the Proms.
Pickard said he understood that some musicians could not speak out publicly because they feared for family members still in Russia.
The BBC is to allow Russian musicians to appear at the Proms, provided they have publicly or privately voiced opposition to the invasion of Ukraine.
He described the formation of the Ukrainian Freedom Orchestra as extraordinary and said: Everybody in this project believes it is such a powerful statement. It will be led by Keri-Lynn Wilson, a Canadian conductor of Ukrainian heritage.
Some of the musicians are recent refugees, some are members of European orchestras and others are musicians from Kyiv, Lviv, Kharkiv, Odesa and elsewhere in Ukraine.
