Russian oligarchs break silence over Vladimir Putins invasion
20220227
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/27/russian-oligarch-breaks-silence-vladimir-putins-invasion/
Mr Nemtsov, then one of Russias most outspoken critics of Mr Putin, had at the time of his death been organising marches against the war in Ukraine.
Meanwhile Anatoly Chubais, a Kremlin insider who oversaw privatisation in Russia in the 1990s, shared a picture of Boris Nemtsov, the leader of the Russian opposition who was shot dead in front of the Kremlin seven years ago on Sunday.
Mr Fridman, the co-founder of Alfa-Bank, one of the countrys largest private banks, said in a message to staff at his London-based private equity firm LetterOne: War can never be the answer.
Even the daughter of Ramzan Kadyrov, the strongman leader of Chechnya who at the weekend called for fighting against Ukraine to be intensified, appeared to join the anti-war movement, posting a black square to her Instagram page like a number of Russian celebrities.
The interventions by billionaires Oleg Derpipaksa and Mikhail Fridman came as police arrested hundreds of people at protests across the country on Sunday against a conflict that has shocked not only the West but also Russians from all walks of life.
Chanting "Long live Belarus" and "Glory to Ukraine", they said they wanted the world to understand that ordinary Belarusians do not support the attack on their neighbour.
I am convinced however that war can never be the answer. This crisis will cost lives and damage two nations who have been brothers for hundreds of years.
While a solution seems frighteningly far off, I can only join those whose fervent desire is for the bloodshed to end.
From Berlin to Baghdad to Quito, demonstrators chanted shame against Russian President Vladimir Putin, while others waved banners with slogans like Putin murderer or stop the monster.
In Moscow, riot police dragged what appeared to be teenagers off the streets as they chanted No to war and Where is your conscience?. More than 5,000 people have been arrested since the demonstrations broke out last week.
Fridman added: I do not make political statements, I am a businessman with responsibilities to my many thousands of employees in Russia and Ukraine.
The oligarch, who once hosted former Chancellor George Osborne on his super-yacht, has been sanctioned in the US since 2018 but has not been targeted in the UK.
On this phone line, you can find out whether your relatives are still alive, taken prisoner, injured, and you can decide when and how to take the body of your deceased relative, said Anton Gerashchenko, adviser at the Ukrainian Internal Affairs Ministry.
Meanwhile Mr Deripaska, the founder of Russian aluminium giant Rusal, used a social media post to call for peace talks:
Peace is very important, said Mr Deripaska, who was apparently caught off guard by the invasion. Last week, he wrote on social media that he did not believe there would be a war, in a post that has since been deleted.
Other anti-war protests took place from Iraq to Ecuador on Sunday following global rallies, including in London, on Saturday.
In the message, seen by The Telegraph, he said: I was born in Western Ukraine and lived there until I was 17. My parents are Ukrainian citizens and live in Lviv, my favourite city.
"It is important to me for Germany to show that it is standing for democracy in Europe," said Hans Georg Kieler, 49, who had turned out at the demonstration.
Mr Fridman has an estimated fortune of some $15bn and divides his time between Russia and the UK.
Two of Russias most prominent oligarchs have spoken out against Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine in a major turning point in public reaction to the war.
I have two sons and I don't want to give them to that bloody monster. War is a tragedy for all of us, 48-year-old Dmitry Maltsev, who joined Sundays rally in St. Petersburg.
Amid calls for the war to end, Ukraine said it would establish a hotline called Return alive from Ukraine so that Russian families with sons sent to the conflict could check on the status of their children.
Criticism from billionaires Oleg Deripaska and Mikhail Fridman a blow to Putin, who has long relied on the loyalty of the business elite
She urged the West to impose "the strongest possible sanctions" on the Minsk regime for its part in the conflict.
But I have also spent much of my life as a citizen of Russia, building and growing businesses. I am deeply attached to Ukrainian and Russian peoples and see the current conflict as a tragedy for them both.
Around the world people turned out for rallies in solidarity with Ukraine, including a crowd of an estimated 100,000 in Berlin.
NOBODY wants war! wrote Ayshat Kadyrova, who has staged shows of her Islamic fashion designs in Paris.
Celebrities and some MPs have already expressed their opposition to the bloody invasion but statements on Sunday from Mr Deripaska and Mr Fridman will be a bitter blow to the president, who has long relied on the unshakable loyalty of the business elite.
If your loved one is in our captivity, you can leave a short message for your husband, son, he said.
Meanwhile, Russians took to the streets again in several cities on Sunday for anti-war rallies, despite police arresting hundreds of protesters each day since the start of the invasion.
In Lithuania, Belarusian opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya led several hundred people in protest against Minsk allowing Putin's army to use the country as a launchpad into Ukraine.
Mothers of Russian soldiers have expressed anguish about a lack of information from their own military about the whereabouts of their children. The Ukrainian hotline had already received hundreds of calls, media reported.
"Our Ukrainian brothers would not forgive us for our silence," said Ms Tikhanovskaya, who lives in exile in Lithuania following threats to her children from the regime of Alexander Lukashenko.
