Russia finally admits to significant losses of troops in war against Ukraine
20220408
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/07/fakes-lies-vladimir-putin-spokesperson-denies-russian-atrocities/
He told him: Were hearing that everything is blamed on Russia and we completely disagree with that.
Mr Peskov denied that Russian forces were shelling civilian buildings but replied the conflict was a tragedy.
Mr Peskov denied that the Russian military was guilty of atrocities in Bucha, a Kyiv suburb where dozens of Ukrainian civilians were found with their hands tied and gunshots to the back of their heads.
We deny the Russian military can have something in common with these atrocities and that dead bodies were shown on the streets of Bucha, he said.
However, he dismissed the possibility that the Russian leader would appear before a war crimes court, as the West has threatened.
We dont see any possibility for that, we dont consider it to be realistic, he said.
Mr Peskov also singled out Boris Johnson for criticism, saying his very loud rhetoric was not constructive.
In a confrontational interview with Sky News, Mr Peskov rebutted evidence that Russian forces had committed atrocities in Ukraine, but admitted: We have significant losses of troops and its a huge tragedy for us.
In the lengthy exchange, Mr Peskov stuck broadly to Moscows talking points when confronted with evidence of atrocities committed by Russian troops against civilians.
Russia has sustained significant military losses, the Kremlin admitted on Thursday night in its first British television interview, as it called their deaths a tragedy.
Vladimir Putin's spokesman says the deaths are a 'huge tragedy' but dismisses claims of atrocities against civilians as 'fakes and lies'
He admonished Mark Austin, the Sky News presenter, accusing the media of not presenting an objective picture with two sides.
When shown satellite images and other evidence of attacks against civilians, including the targeting of a hospital, Mr Peskov continued to insist the images were faked.
At a later point, Mr Austin referenced the horrific images of Ukrainian casualties and asked the Kremlin spokesman: How do you sleep at night?
He signalled that Putin wanted to see an end to the war in the near future, saying the Kremlin hoped it would reach its goals in the coming days.
Dmitry Peskov, Vladimir Putins spokesman, said the Russian president did not fear prosecution over war crimes because Moscow did not consider such a trial a realistic possibility.
