RussiaUkraine latest More than one million Ukrainians evacuated to Russia claims Kremlin
20220430
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/30/ukraine-news-russia-putin-war-mariupol-evacuation-mobilisation/
The report reads: "Russia hopes to rectify issues that have previously constrained its invasion by geographically concentrating combat power, shortening supply lines and simplifying command and control.
Russian air defences prevented a Ukrainian aircraft from entering the Bryansk region on Saturday, the region's governor has said.
As former chancellor, Schroeder is entitled to several offices in the German parliament and a budget for staff. The perks cost the taxpayer around 400,000 euros per year.
Russia kidnapped paramedics rushing to save survivors of the Mariupol theatre bombing, the teenage daughter of a missing volunteer has revealed.
The German government will consider withdrawing perks given to ex-chancellor Gerhard Schroeder because of his close ties to Putin
It is "no longer conceivable that an office is made available to him paid for by the taxpayer", Lindner said.
Dialogue between Russia and the USon strategic stability is formally "frozen", the TASS news agency cited a Russian foreign ministry official as saying on Saturday.
Continued dialogue with EmmanuelMacron. Discussed defense cooperation, interaction on s path to  membership. Grateful for  humanitarian aid, readiness to treat  defenders, decision to continue the work of  mission to assist in the investigation of RFs crimes.
"I mean,its just unconscionableand I dont have the mental capacity to understand how you connect those two things."
"If he does succeed militarily in the terms he has set out, there will then be a very difficult peace conversation, and I doubt that either the Ukrainian government or Western powers would be able to come to any form of sensible agreement with him".
The mother-of-three said seeing the reunion on Friday after five weeks of planning and applying for visas was "incredible" and "like seeing a long-lost family reunite".
Speaking at a press briefing, Mr Kirby appeared to get emotional talking about the conflict, and said:"Its hard to square his BS that this is about Nazism in Ukraine, and its about protecting Russians in Ukraine, and its about defending Russian national interests, when none of them, none of them were threatened by Ukraine.
When Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine at the end of February, Putin dubbed it a special operation and even barred Russian media from using the word war, thinking it would all be over in a few weeks. But more than two months later, the offensive has stalled.
The military are outraged that the blitz on Kyiv has failed, a source close to Russian military officials told The Telegraph.
The governor of Russia's western Kursk region said several shells were fired on Saturday at a checkpoint near its border from the direction ofUkraine.
Macron also spoke to Zelensky about his "strong concern" over Russia's bombing of Ukrainian cities and the "unbearable situation" in the besieged port of Mariupol.
"We can do this extraction operation... which will save our soldiers, our civilians, our kids, she said. We need to do this right now, because people  every hour, every second  are dying."
"There was a boy riding a bicycle, they the Russian soldiers stopped him, put a bag over his head and tied his arms. Someone asked what they were going to do to him... It was humiliation above all."
The council said that the artwork included works by famous painters Arkhip Kuindzhi and Ivan Aivazovsky, as well as a handwritten Torah scroll and the Gospel of 1811, made by the Venetian printing house for the Greeks of Mariupol.
"Russia still faces considerable challenges. It has been forced to merge and redeploy depleted and disparate units from the failed advances in north-east Ukraine. Many of these units are likely suffering from weakened morale.
Russia saidthat its artillery units had hit 389 Ukrainian targets overnight, including 35 control points, 15 arms and ammunition depots, and several areas holding Ukrainian troops and military equipment
Finance Minister Christian Lindner told the Funke newspaper group that there should be "consequences" for Schroeder's refusal to sever ties withRussian groups and his failure to condemn the invasion ofUkraine.
Taras Vysotskyi said he feared that Russia could steal the majority of the 1.5 million tonnes of grain in areas now under its control.
One of the volunteers, Galina Kroshka, said three buses had been sent to Popasna on Friday to help evacuate hundreds of civilians.
When asked what would happen if Russia start winning in eastern Ukraine, Sir Alex said: "It's clear that that is the Russian plan. They seek to essentially capture the Donbas, establish a land-bridge to Crimea, before any sincere engagement in a peace conversation. That is obviously the plan.
A Ukrainian businessman is turning scraps ofwreckagefrom a downed Russian fighter plane into souvenir key fobs and selling them abroad to support the war effort.
Kyiv's regional police chief Andriy Nebytov said the victims were "tortured for a long period of time" before each being "shot in the ear".
Speaking in a video posted on his Telegram channel, governor Roman Starovoit said that there were no casualties or damage.
Kateryna Prokopenko, 27, whose husband Denys Prokopenko commands the Azov regiment, called for a Dunkirk-style evacuation drive to rescue both soldiers and civilians.
The pilot's helmet and goggles will reportedly go on sale at auction soon in London.
In the latest military intelligence report, the MoD suggests that Russia is looking to concentrate on certain geographic areas to simplify command and control, and to rectify issues that have plagued its 'special military operation' in Ukraine since the start of the invasion.
"It is clearly in our interests to ensure he is not in a position to enter any political discussion from a position of strength, and I think any progress the Ukrainian forces make in slowing him down or ideally stopping him will be positive news for us.
The 1.2 million people evacuated include 120,000 foreigners and civilians from the Russian-backed regions of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics.
Russia's ambassador to the US has rejected Pentagon spokesman John Kirby's accusation that Vladimir Putin has acted with "cruelty and depravity" in Ukraine.
In an interview with AP,Yuliia Fedusiuk, 29, the wife of Arseniy Fedusiuk, a member of the Azov regiment, said: "The lives of soldiers matter too. We cant only talk about civilians. We are hoping that we can rescue soldiers too, not only dead, not only injured, but all of them".
Ukraine is one of the world's largest exporters of grain, with shortages of the product being a hugely sensitive issue among Ukrainians, due to difficult memories of the 1930s famine 'Holodomor' which was caused by Soviet deportations of wealthier peasants and seizure of agricultural land.
Anatoly Antonov described Mr Kirby's comments as "offensive and unacceptable" and akin to "street insults".
The bodies of three men with their hands tied were found in a pit near Bucha, according to Ukrainian police
Russia said on Saturday that its artillery units had hit 389 Ukrainian targets overnight, including 35 control points, 15 arms and ammunition depots, and several areas holding Ukrainian troops and military equipment.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 30 April 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.coTU1DzgHpEu StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.commfMgJGMqAL
In the video, reportedly shown on Russian television, the man appears to give his name as Andrew Hill.
"On April 29, a pit with the bodies of three men was found in the Bucha district," a police statement said.
He also accused the US of not wanting the war in Ukraine to end so they could benefit from arms sales, saying: "What matters for John Kirby and his colleagues is that the American military-industrial complex receives additional income by getting rid of obsolete weapons from their warehouses".
"Many of my friends tell me '$1,000 - nobody will give you this for this piece of metal, it's crazy," said Iurii Vysoven, founder of 'Drones for Ukraine'.
After two months of "terrible fear" living under Russian occupation, several hundred people were evacuated from the village of Ruska Lozova, north of Kharkiv, as it was freed by the Ukrainian army.
"The victims' hands were tied, cloths were covering their eyes and some were gagged. There are traces of torture on the corpses, as well as gunshot wounds to various parts of the body."
Vladimir Yermakov, the foreign ministry's head of nuclear non-proliferation, said all nuclear powers must stick to the logic laid out in official documents aimed at preventing nuclear war.
He said: "Over the past years, the United States and its allies have done nothing to stop the intra-Ukrainian conflict... they pumped up the Kyiv regime with weapons, trained and armed the Ukrainian army and nationalist battalions, and generally carried out the military-political development of the territory of Ukraine.
He speaks with an English accent, has blood on his hand and his arm in a sling, and a bandage around his head.
Vladimir Yermakov, the foreign ministry's head of nuclear non-proliferation, said those contacts could be resumed once Russia completes its 'special military operation'inUkraine.
Skabeyeva addresses the camera with relish: The Ukrainians are crumbling in front of us! Everything our Western partners are telling us, the stories about how theyre winning the war, is an entirely pathetic attempt to support the Ukrainian army!
Russia and the West are closer to nuclear war than during the height of the Cuban Missile Crisis, the great-granddaughter of NikitaKhrushchev has said.
He also claimed that Nato countries are "doing everything to prevent" a ceasefire with Ukraine.
A British woman has successfully united hundreds ofUkrainian refugeeswith host families in the UK, by organising coaches to safely transport them from eastern Europe.
Yermakov said the Kremlin believed the USintended to finalise projects to deploy medium and short-range missiles in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, but offered no supporting evidence.
TheForeignOfficeis investigating reports that a British national has been detained by Russia after a video emerged showing a manin camouflage clothes being questioned.
In a studio with enormous screens showing images of purportedly fallen Ukrainian soldiers, guests stand in a circle. An enormous Z the letter that now symbolises Russias invasion is emblazoned on the floor.
The German government will consider withdrawing perks given to ex-chancellor Gerhard Schroeder because of his close ties toVladimir Putin, Germany's finance minister said on Saturday.
"On the sixth day, the electricity and the water were cut off... We went back to our apartment after a week and there was an armoured personnel carrier under our window. We were very scared," Tatiana Efimovna, 69, said.
The war in Ukraine is a stark reminder that there is no substitute for credible defence, the Prince of Wales has said, in a strong statement to Britains military.
Thanks for following along with our live Ukraine updates. Here's a summary of Saturday's most important developments:
Bucha, a small town near Kyiv, has become synonymous with allegations of Russian war crimes after dozens of bodies in civilian clothing, some with their hands tied, and mass graves, were found there in early April.
The bodies of three men with their hands tied were found in a pit near Bucha, Ukrainianpolice said on Saturday.
Speaking on the Today programme, Ms Khrushcheva said: "What really saved the world at the time was that both Khrushchev and Kennedy, whatever they thought of each other's ideology and disagreed with it, and didn't want to give in and blink first, yet when the threat appeared of a potential conflict of any kind they immediately backed off.
The Times report that Major StepanTarabalka, 29, was killed when the MiG-29 he was flying was shot down by Russian forces on March 13.
This week, she personally escorted 137 Ukrainians on a 36-hour journey from Lviv to Kent, to meettheir British host families.
Two buses sent to rescue civilians from a Ukrainian town under heavy attack from Russian soldiers have reportedly gone missing.
"Now that we have raised a lot more money, we feel a lot more responsibility," he said. "My dream is this fund - we wouldn't need it anymore. My dream is to win, everyone safe."
"The emergence of such weapons in those regions will further worsen the situation and fuel the arms race," he said.
"We are closer to more issues, nuclear, than any other way, because I don't see today any side, particularly the Russian side, backing off, and that's what really scares me the most".
Ukraine warned on Friday that peace talks with Moscow were in danger of collapse and said Russia was pounding areas in the east as USlawmakers vowed to swiftly approve a massive new weapons package for Kyiv.
According to the United Nations, around 5.4 million people have fled Ukraine since the start of the invasion.
Two Ukrainian military wives have called for soldiers to be evacuated from the besieged Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol along with civilians.
Mikola Khanatov said there was no news about the second vehicle, a school bus driven by a teacher.
But the longer Putins special military operation drags on, the more often I hear excuses. This was meant to be a blitzkrieg lasting days. Were now in the conflicts third month.
A military official from Popasna, in the Donbas region, said one of the two volunteer-driven buses had come under fire while still in the town.
President Emmanuel Macron has said France will increase its military and humanitarian support to Ukraine, following a conversation with Volodymyr Zelensky.
The French president's office said the country's aid package to Ukraine amounts to "more than 615 tonnes of equipment, including medical equipment, generators for hospitals, food aid, shelter aid and emergency vehicles".
Every day sinceRussia invaded Ukraineon 24 February, Ive been immersed in the world of Russian state TV, tracking thenarratives that are pushed to viewersacross the worlds largest country, writes Francis Scarr.
Russia believes the risks of nuclear war should be kept to a minimum and that any armed conflict between nuclear powers should be prevented, the TASS news agency quoted a foreign ministry official as saying on Saturday.
Nine years ago, when I began learning Russian at university, Id not heard of either Vladimir Solovyov or Olga Skabeyeva, whose TV talk shows now dominate my working life as a media monitor.
Sir Alex Younger, the former head of MI6, has said that peace talks would be "very difficult" to achieve in Ukraine if Vladimir Putin succeeds in his military aims in the east of the country.
Speaking toBBC Radio 4's Today programme, Sir Alex said:"Putin does not have a reverse gear, he never has. He underestimated the scale of what he was taking on, but he has now modified his approach, arguably now his objectives are more realistic and he is not going to give up.
The fighter pilot known as the 'Ghost of Kyiv' died in an air battle last month after allegedly shooting down more than 40 Russian aircraft.
In his office, Vysoven has an example of the infra-red thermal imaging drones that he buys for the Ukrainian army with the proceeds of the keychains.
"I think it's key for all of us to understand the long-term and intractable nature of the conflict that's taking place, and that is a tragedy for the Ukrainian people".
Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov has accused the US and other Nato countries of using Ukraine as "one of the tools to contain Russia", with their involvement in the country having pushed the Kremlin to launch their 'special military operation'.
More than one million Ukrainians have been evacuated to Russia since the start of the invasion, Russianforeign minister Sergey Lavrov has claimed.
He rose to international fame after the Ukrainian government claimed he had shot down six Russian aircraft on the very first day of the invasion.
Harriet Asher, 39, from Hampshire, has so far helped to resettle up to 500 refugees by organising coaches from Ukraine to Poland, and then from Poland to the UK. She has also helped some travel by plane.
The occupiers liberated Mariupol from its historical and cultural heritage. They stole and moved more than 2,000 unique exhibits from museums in Mariupol to Donetsk, the Mariupol city council said in a statement posted on Telegram.
Nina Khrushcheva, an academic whose great-grandfather was leader of the Soviet Union during the 1962 crisis, warned the conflict inUkraineis more dangerous because neither side appears prepared to "back off".
Speaking to China's Xinhua news agency, Lavrov said the military alliance's interference in Ukraine left Russia with "no other choice" but to recognise the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics and launch their invasion.
Svyatoslav, 40, said: "We were in the basements without food for two months, we were eating what we had."
Russia has been forced to merge and redeploy units from failed advances in the north-east regions of Ukraine, the UK's Ministry of Defence has said.
Schroeder, who is a lobbyist for Russian gas, sparkedoutrage after he told The New York Times that he would only give up his links if Russia stopped delivering gas to Germany. He said he did not believe this would happen.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of trying to destroy the Donbas and all who live there.
Ukraine's deputy minister for agriculture has accused Russia of stealing hundreds of thousands of tonnes of grain from occupied territory.
Vladimir Putin is set to declare all-out war on Ukraine as his military chiefs seek payback for their invasion failures, according to Russian sources and Western officials.
Russia staved off a default on its debt Friday by making a last-minute payment using its precious dollar reserves sitting outside the country, USTreasury officials said.
Every day, for hours on end across Russias three main channels, Skabeyeva and her colleagues tell me that the conflict is going according to plan and that its objectives of demilitarising and de-Nazifying Ukraine will be fully achieved.
Ukrainian officials have accused Russian soldiers of seizing more than 2,000 artworks from museums in Mariupol and moving them to parts of the Russian-controlled Donbas region.
The aircraft is a Russian Su-34 two-seater tactical fighter-bomber that the Ukrainian military claimed to haveshot down over the town of Borodianka early in March.
Were very worried. Our buses didnt come back, and weve had no contact with them since yesterday. We cant go to Popasna ourselves until the situation is clearer, said Galina.
"Shortcomings in Russian tactical coordination remain. A lack of unit-level skills and inconsistent air support have left Russia unable to fully leverage its combat mass, despite localised improvements".
"It has become a norm here that administration officials base their judgements on dirty lies of the Ukrainian authorities," Mr Antonov wrote on social media.
Frustrated army chiefs are urging the Russian president to drop the term special operation used for the invasion and instead declare war, which would enable mass mobilisation of Russians.
"Its hard to square that rhetoric by what hes actually doing inside Ukraine to innocent people, shot in the back of the head, hands tied behind their backs, pregnant women being killed, hospitals being bombed," Mr Kirby added.
However, Kyiv has accused the Kremlin of deporting thousands of Ukrainians to Russia against their will.
