Russian spies launch cyber attack on Ukraines electrical grid
20220412
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2022/04/12/russian-spies-launch-cyber-attack-ukraines-electrical-grid/
Ukraine has accused a Russian spy agency of carrying out a cyber attack intended to shut down part of its electricity grid.
They are supposed to be well protected from outside access because of the severe consequences if a malicious party interferes with them.
Experts have previously said that cyberattacks on electricity grids, while harmful and high profile, are unlikely to have long-lasting ramifications.
The country's Computer Emergency Response Team, which defends against foreign hackers, said: The idea of the attackers involved the decommissioning of several infrastructural elements.
A malicious software bomb was set to digitally detonate last Friday, the team said. The bomb consisted of so-called wiper malware that deletes all files on computers it infects.
The Ukrainian CERT said the Russians had infiltrated the electricity generation companys computer networks no later than February 2022, the month when Russia invaded Ukraine.
Such malware has previously been used by Russia but this is thought to be the first time since the February invasion where it has been used against critical infrastructure.
Russian cyber-attackers created customised malicious software intended to disconnect high-voltage substations belonging to a Ukrainian power company.
Russia honed its hackers skills against electricity infrastructure in a series of attacks against the Ukrainian grid several years ago.
Its first effort in 2015 cut power to 80,000 customers for six hours. A followup in 2016 saw a fifth of Kyiv residents losing power for an hour.
Within Russia the centre is known as Unit 74455, the Foreign Office said in 2020.
Slovakian cyber security company ESET, which helped the Ukrainians detect and remove the Russian malware, said its staff had seen several destructive malware families being deployed.
Ukraine named the attackers as Sandworm, a well-known cyber security threat group. Sandworm has previously been identified by the Foreign Office as a unit of the Russian GRU spy agency called the Main Centre for Special Technologies.
Malware planted by the Russians was tailored to cause maximum damage through a set of unique parameters for the respective substations.
ESET believes the malware gave the Russians access to the electricity companys industrial control systems used to control equipment such as generators, switchgear and other critical equipment.
