Russia hits out at kindergarten Canada over annotated UN letter
20220318
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/18/russia-hits-kindergarten-canada-annotated-un-letter/
The acidic additions were labelled "suggested edits" by the Canadians, who accused Russia of showing "sheer contempt" for the UN and international law and called the resolution "farcical".
Missive meant to drum up UN support for Russian resolution on aid to Ukraine  but made no mention of responsibility for war
The letter accused "Western colleagues" of "politicising the humanitarian issue", and Canada replied: "Do you think the UN membership actually believes this? Please explain."
He sniped that Canada had twice failed to win a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council.
They accused Russia of "bombing schools and hospitals and looting aid" in an "illegal war of aggression" that defied "logic or reason".
Thank you RussiaUN for your letter dated March 16.Please see our suggested edits below. StandWithUkraine RespectTheCharter pic.twitter.com0M663R0tUW
The letter was described as "doomed to fail" and "farcical" by US diplomats. Russia cancelled a scheduled vote on it on Thursday.
Dmitry Polyanskiy, the first deputy permanent representative of Russia to the UN, told the Canadians their tweet "shows that your diplomatic skills and good manners are at their lowest ebb".
The letter was meant to drum up UN support for a Russian resolution on aid to Ukraine but made no mention of Vladimir Putin's responsibility for the war.
In the letter, a Russian diplomat wrote: "With regards to an urgent matter related to the dire humanitarian situation in and around Ukraine".
Russia accused Canada of "kindergarten-level diplomacy" after diplomats posted a Russian letter to the United Nations on social media, having corrected it in red and added barbed commentary on the invasion of Ukraine.
The Twitter spat escalated after UN missions from other countries retweeted the Canadian social post, which Moscow described as "Russophobic libel".
