Russian tank convoy in Ukraine may no longer exist says US
20220401
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/01/russian-tank-convoy-ukraine-may-no-longer-exist-says-us/
During a White House press briefing, Mr Biden's communications director Kate Bedingfield offered a further assessment of Russia's situation.
John Kirby, the Pentagon's chief spokesperson, said: "I don't even know if it still exists at this point... They never really accomplished their mission".
It formed part of what the White House said was "incontrovertible evidence" that Russia's invasion of Ukraine has been a "strategic failure".
Ms Bedingfield added: "Putin himself has said that the sanctions have imposed unprecedented costs on the Russian economy."
"We've been very clear that any re-engagement of diplomacy at that level would require significant demonstration from the Russians of serious de-escalation, and we have not seen that," she said.
White House says it has 'incontrovertible evidence' that Russia's invasion has been a 'strategic failure'
But within days the offensive stalled amid a series of ambushes from Ukrainian forces in what became a symbol of Russia's battlefield difficulties.
"We have seen incontrovertible evidence that this has been a strategic disaster for Russia," she said.
The convoy of armoured vehicles and supply trucks was intended to mount an overwhelming attack on the Ukrainian capital from the north.
The Russians splintered into smaller units to try to make headway towards Kyiv. However the US defence officials are now unsure whether the convoy exists.
Ms Bedingfield appeared to rule out the possibility that Mr Biden could speak with Mr Putin in the near-future.
"There's some indication that he has fired or put under house arrest some of his advisers," the US president told reporters at the White House.
It came as Joe Biden suggested Russian president Vladimir Putin appeared to be "self-isolated" and may have ostracised his advisers.
"But I don't want to put too much stock in this at this time because we don't have that much hard evidence".
Russia's convoy of military vehicles near Kyiv, which once stretched some 40 miles, may no longer exist after failing to accomplish its mission, the Pentagon said.
Asked about US intelligence indicating that Mr Putin's advisers may have disagreed with the Russian leader's decision to invade Ukraine, she replied: "I don't think it's a surprise to anybody that morale is low among the Russian military".
