Russia and Ukraine at odds over neutrality in 15point peace plan
20220316
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/16/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelensky-peace-austria/
Sergei Lavrov says a deal is close but cautious Kyiv keeps its distance from the so-called Austrian solution
Austria and Sweden joined the EU in 1995, despite their neutrality, which is a precedent that could keep Kyivs hopes of one day joining the bloc alive. Russia has previously suggested Ukraine would not be allowed to join the EU.
A similar 1955 pledge to not join any military alliance or host foreign bases convinced the Soviet Union to end the decade-long occupation of Austria after the Second World War.
Speaking at a Nato summit in Brussels, Ben Wallace doubted Putins commitment to peace and said Britain was poised to increase arms deliveries to Kyiv.
Vladimir Putin on Wednesday said Russia was prepared to discuss Austrian-style neutrality for Ukraine as it emerged the two countries had drawn up a 15-point peace deal that would bring a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops.
Neutral status is now being seriously discussed seriously along, of course, with security guarantees, he said. There are absolutely specific wordings and in my view, the sides are close to agreeing on them.
Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said a peace deal was close as it was reported Kyiv should undertake a constitutional commitment to become a neutral country, which would prevent it from ever joining Nato, and accept limits on the size of its army in return.
It was reported that Kyiv could ask for protection from the US, UK and Turkey as part of the deal.
He said Moscows aim was to defend people in the separatist Kremlin-backed region of the Donbas from Kyiv and demilitarisation of Ukraine.
Ukraine rejected the Austrian comparison. Ukraine is now in a direct state of war with Russia. Consequently, the model can only be Ukrainian and only on legally verified security guarantees, negotiator Mikhailo Podolyak said.
But Kyiv said the 15-point plan was a requesting position of the Russian side and nothing more and called into question the idea of an Austria-style deal.
The Russian leader told Charles Michel, the European Council president, on Tuesday night that Kyiv was not showing a serious commitment to his demands.
Any people, and especially the Russian people, will always be able to distinguish the true patriots from the scum and the traitors, and just to spit them out like a midge that accidentally flew into their mouths, he said on a third day of heavy shelling of Ukrainian cities.
Certainly when it comes to Russia, you need to judge them on their actions and not on their numerous words, the Defence Secretary said.
Sweden has maintained its policy of non-alignment that it pursued during the Cold War, although the war in Ukraine has reignited the debate over Nato membership.
Mr Podolyak told the Financial Times any deal would mean Russia surrendering territory it had gained since the invasion.
The compromise has the potential to meet one of Putins key demands that Ukraine never joins Nato. However, other Russian demands will prove hugely problematic for Ukraine.
Putin also warned that Russia would never submit to a Western plot to destroy his country and claimed the invasion he ordered on February 24 was going to plan.
Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, warned we are not near the end, at this stage as Mr Zelensky renewed calls for Nato to enforce a no fly zone over Ukraine in an address to Congress.
Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraines president, called for a fair peace with real security guarantees that work after explosions rocked the capital Kyiv on Wednesday.
Putin has also demanded recognition for Russian rule in Crimea, which he annexed illegally in 2014, and Kyiv to recognise the separatist republics of Donetsk and Lugansk as independent states.
The negotiations are not easy for obvious reasons, Lavrov told RBC news. But nevertheless, there is some hope of reaching a compromise.
There are also fears that Putin could be using the peace talks to buy time to reinforce his army, which has been bogged down in Ukraine and suffered heavy losses.
The collective West wants to divide our society... to provoke civil confrontation in Russia and to use its fifth column to strive to achieve its aim. And there is one aim - the destruction of Russia, he said in a televised speech.
