Russian planes and rockets risk being grounded by Lloyds of London ban
20220224
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/03/russian-planes-rockets-risk-grounded-lloyds-london-ban/
Russian planes and rocketsrisk being grounded within days after its airlines and space programme were shut out of thecrucial Lloyds of London insurance market.
The ban, announced by the Treasury on Thursday, is the latest in a string of sanctions against the Kremlin after Vladimir Putins forces invaded Ukraine last week.
OneWeb has suspended all launches from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan that is leased to Russia.
There is some capacity in the Russian insurance market itself to independently underwrite aviation risk, but that will not be sustainable. The net effect of all of this is that Russian commercial and private aviation is now on death ground.
Russian private aircraft also face being grounded by the new rules banning them from the UK insurance sector.
Blocking the Russian aviation and space industry from the Lloyd's market will have grave consequences, experts warned.
Depriving Russian airlines of access to the Lloyd's market, with apparent immediate effect, is nearly catastrophic for the airlines, as intended. It could, however, also potentially cause collateral damage to the balance sheets of western aircraft lessors and financiers.
One senior Lloyds space underwriter said it would force Russia to halt future launches or make them without insurance.
Unlike the space industry, where there is the option to launch without insurance in some circumstances, the carriers must have valid policies in place.
The core principle of insurance is that everyone takes little exposure. It is unlikely that one insurer, even if they had capacity, would like to take 100pc of the risk. It is going to have an impact, definitely.
Simply put: no insurance means no flights, he said. Most aviation risk is insured and reinsured in the Lloyd's market, and most Russian aviation risk is re-insured there.
Russian airlines and private jets have been banned from flying to British or through UK airspace. The EU has imposed similar restrictions.
Finding insurance for future satellites would be challenging, the underwriter added, especially if the US, continental Europe and Japanese insurance markets followed the UKs lead.
Paul Jebely, head of asset finance at law firm Withers, said that banning the Russian aviation sector could lead to all flights being cancelled - even to countries where restrictions were not in place.
The Lloyds market provides somewhere between 20pc and 30pc of the worldwide capacity in terms of insurance, he said.
