Russia pulls back helicopters from key airport in Ukraines south as setbacks mount
20220323
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/23/russia-pulls-back-helicopters-key-airport-ukraines-south-setbacks/
Mason Clark, a senior analyst and Russia team leader at the Institute for the Study of War, told the newspaper that the Russians on the whole were pulling back manned aircraft as a result of losses sustained against Ukrainian forces.
Now, following a recent attack on Kherson airport by Ukrainian troops, Russia has withdrawn most of its helicopters from the strategic outpost, according to analysis of satellite images by the New York Times.
The Ukrainian presidents office said that fighting had continued at Kherson airport on Tuesday, with "powerful blasts" rocking the area during the course of the day. It said it was assessing damage in the area, without elaborating.
Military experts believe it could indicate the extent to which Russia has suffered setbacks in the south of Ukraine amid faltering campaigns to take other important cities such as Mykolaiv and Odesa.
Kherson, around 60 miles north-west of Crimea, was the first significant Ukrainian city to be occupied by Russian forces, but the surrounding region has yet to be taken.
Mr Clark said the Russian air operations may also have been impacted by casualties of crew and mechanical support staff and exhaustion.
Pictures captured by the space imaging company Planet Labs apparently shows the removal of equipment from the airport over the space of six days.
Frederick W Kagan, the director of the Critical Threats project at the American Enterprise Institute, told the New York Times: "The Ukrainian attack on the airport itself shows the vulnerability of the position, and the Russians may have decided that its unwise to keep expensive aircraft parked there."
The attack has formed part of ongoing efforts by the Ukrainians to retake territory lost in the Kherson region, which stretches from the Black Sea coast to the mouth of Dnieper River.
Satellite images suggest Russian helicopters have been removed from Kherson airfield as Russian troops struggle to quell fierce resistance
He added that the Russians appeared to have temporarily given up efforts to take Mykolaiv, which is on an inlet of the Black Sea, and Odesa, which is a key economic hub.
Russian helicopters appear to have been pulled back from an airport in the key city of Kherson, satellite images suggest, as the invading force struggles to quell ferocious resistance to its Black Sea offensive.
Last week, a suspected Ukrainian strike on Kherson airport set several helicopters and vehicles ablaze. Satellite images captured the scene as the runway was engulfed by a dense black column of smoke rising from at least three blazing helicopters.
Social media footage verified by the newspaper from March 18 shows Russian military vehicles - with their distinctive "Z" emblem visible - towing helicopters away from Kherson airport through a town around 25 miles to the south-east.
