Russia faces a new Soviet era amid exodus of western brands
20220309
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/09/western-brands-quitting-russia-threaten-condemn-country-new/
We came here because we thought this would be an unforgettable experience, one worker in the queue said at the time. We are interested in everything American.
Yet it was not always an easy sell. Craig Cohon was the first person employed by Coca-Cola in Russia. His father George, incidentally, was responsible for the McDonalds opening in the state, as well as in Canada.
All this might suggest that sentiment in Russia could turn on Vladimir Putin and his war. It is true that thousands of Russians are looking to emigrate out of the country, Prof Zubok says. They're afraid that they will not be able to continue their old lifestyle under the new conditions of Western sanctions.
This week Yum! Brands said it was suspending its 70 KFC restaurants in Russia, and was working to suspend the 50 Pizza Hut outlets. Burger King maintains its sites are managed by independent local operators and says it has committed to redirect profits from those to humanitarian efforts.
It came amid a swell of Western companies attempting to forge pathways into the state, with some managing to do so even at the height of the Cold War when Russia was firmly behind the Iron Curtain.
On Tuesday the fast food chain confirmed it would be temporarily closing the doors of its 850 restaurants in Russia. Our values mean we cannot ignore the needless human suffering unfolding in Ukraine, chief executive Chris Kempczinski told staff.
Levi Strauss was also a firm favourite in the state, which became Russia in 1991, with its jeans known as some of the most in-demand items on Soviet Russias black market. It provided kit for the Soviet track team when they visited America in 1971.
PepsiCo, for instance, navigated the icy relationship between the US and the USSR in 1971, famously taking payment for concentrate in return for selling vodka and merchant ships in America.
In restaurants alone, the gap will prove significant. McDonalds is Russias largest chain, followed by Burger King, KFC and Pizza Hut, according to information agency Credinform.
Hours later Coca-Cola and Starbucks followed suit: the exodus of Western brands viewed as having introduced a new world to the USSR, and later Russia, was gathering pace. Their retreat threatens to isolate Russian consumer markets from Western commerce and capitalism.
For locals, the prices may have seemed steep. A Big Mac, or Bolshoi Mak, cost a Soviet worker an average two and a half hours in wages, compared to the US where 20 minutes was enough to earn the same meal. But that did little to keep the crowds away.
When McDonalds opened its golden arches in the USSR, Mike Parry claims to have been the first to be served. His order of choice was a quarter pounder with fries.
It was a struggle getting Coke into Russia, but on December 17th, 1991, the Mayor of Moscow signed our deal, he writes on his website. Just a couple of years after that, we opened our first Coca-Cola factory in Moscow.
Prof Zubok argues: I wouldnt say Russia will be thrown back into the old Soviet times. Russian entrepreneurs will try to fill the vacuum, but they cannot fill all that vacuum.
Since then, Russia has been a feeding ground for companies to supercharge growth. In 2007, the first Starbucks was opened  10 years after registering a trademark in Russia.
Still, he isnt convinced all will view the new curbs on their lives this way.
The likes of Levi's and Pizza Hut brought capitalism behind the Iron Curtain  their departure risks a return to life in the USSR
That opportunity now appears to be vanishing as barriers are erected between Russia and the West. Brands are waking up to a choice that must be made: face a potential boycott in Western markets or continue to operate in Russia. While many choose the former, others including Papa Johns are business as usual.
In 2020, Pizza Hut rival Papa Johns laid out plans to quadruple sales in Russia in the next four years, and open 30 new stores. In 2011, Christopher Wynne, who has the exclusive rights for Papa Johns in Russia through his company PJ Western, said: I could succeed in my sleep, theres so much opportunity here.
In an effort to spur some interest, Cohons first decision on arriving in Russia in the nineties was to send a shipment of Coca-Cola with a Russian Polar Expedition to the North Pole.
The opening up of Russia was an extended process that lasted a decade, if not two, says Professor Vladislav Zubok of the London School of Economics. At the end of that, Russia was open for business, and Western brands were key in modernising the country.
More than 30 years later, crowds once again built up outside McDonalds this week  but this time, it was so customers could savour their last taste.
McDonalds entry into the USSR in the 1990s was more than the simple opening of a simple restaurant, said former Russia boss Marc Carena in 2020, who has since moved to Mars. It came to symbolise the entire opening of the USSR to the West.
It was almost like a revival of the Beatles, says the news editor, who was part of the UK media group ferried over by the fast food chain in 1990, and through the crowds in Pushkin Square. We were told the queue was three miles long. Some people had been there for two days.
Fast forward a few years, and signs of capitalism were abundant. A bizarre 1998 TV commercial for Pizza Hut aired featuring Mikhail Gorbachev, the final leader of the Soviet Union, arguing with his granddaughter about the source of despair or joy in Russia. They ultimately decide that, because of Gorbachev, the country has Pizza Hut. Hail to Gorbachev, customers exclaim.
