Sacked arrested How Vladimir Putin is turning on his military advisers
20220330
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/30/vladimir-putin-turns-military-advisers-ukraine-invasion-falters/
More evidence emerged this week showing that Russias military might be running out of resources and apparently resorting to poorly trained conscripts from separatist stalets in eastern Ukraine.
Mr Gavrilovs boss, Viktor Zolotov, has kept a low profile after he became the first senior official to admit in the second week of the war that the invasion was taking longer than expected.
Many of them openly questioned the rationale of the war and said they had not been told where they were going when they crossed the border into Ukraine.
But five weeks into the war, there is mounting evidence that the Russian president is turning on his own spy chiefs and military advisers as his invasion falters.
CNN last week quoted several unnamed defence officials who said the United States could not determine if Russia has designated a military commander to oversee the invasion of Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin set out to capture Kyiv and topple its government at lightning speed when he launched his invasion of Ukraine under the guise of a special operation.
According to declassified US intelligence reports, Putin feels he has been misled by military leaders who have failed to inform him how poorly his campaign in Ukraine is going.
Ukraine even opened a hotline for the families of the captured Russians to bring them back home, as Russia would not acknowledge their existence.
A group of young men who were forcibly mobilised by pro-Kremlin, self-proclaimed authorities in the Donbas posted a video on social media on Monday, complaining that they were being sent to fight in Ukraine as cannon fodder.
Mr Beseda was reportedly in charge of intelligence operations in Ukraine. Reports of his dismissal match a widely held assessment that the intelligence agencies have been feeding the Russian leader information that overestimated Moscows clout in Ukraine.
The chief of the much-feared intelligence agency stuttered and stumbled as Putin repeatedly interrupted him, grilling him about his stance on the separatists independence.
The National Guard, which typically deals with opposition rallies at home, has been fighting in Ukraine and has also reportedly sustained serious losses.
Russia has sustained heavy casualties in Ukraine. The Russian defence ministry confirmed about 1,500 deaths, but Ukraine claims Russian losses are at least 10 times as high.
Cracks in the facade of the Russian military started to appear shortly after the invasion, with photographs and videos of Russian conscripts captured by the Ukrainian army flooding social media.
Putins own remarks in the first week of the war suggested that he expected Ukrainians to surrender within days, while the Russian army would rout Ukrainian forces and reach Kyiv by the end of the week.
The defence officials also backed previous reports that units from different military districts appeared to be competing for resources, rather than fighting as a joint force and coordinating their efforts.
The men, sitting in the back of a truck, showed their oversized helmets and automatic rifles dating back to the 1940s.
A few days later, Russian media reported the dismissal of Gen Roman Gavrilov, deputy head of the National Guard, who used to serve in Putins security detail.
While the extent of Russias mounting casualties is still hard to assess, local media in Russia have already confirmed the death of seven Russian generals in Ukraine - a staggering figure for one month of hostilities.
Cracks between Putin - a career intelligence agent - and his spy chiefs were laid bare two days before the start of the war, when he publicly dressed down Sergei Naryshkin, head of the SVR foreign intelligence agency, in a televised discussion about recognising the independence of two separatists statelets in eastern Ukraine.
Russian officials never confirmed the reports. However, Christo Grozev, of the Bellingcat open-source intelligence team, quoted sources saying that Gen Gavrilov was arrested either for the wasteful squandering of fuel or for leaking military intelligence that led to loss of life.
In a move that underlined the Kremlins deep disappointment in its intelligence agencies, Col Gen Sergei Beseda, head of the foreign intelligence branch of the FSB, was reportedly sacked and arrested during the second week of the war.
Yet in Putins Womens Day address earlier this month, he insisted that Russian mothers could be sure that conscripts would not be involved in the military operation in Ukraine.
A day later, a Russian defence ministry spokesman went on television to say that it had uncovered several instances of conscripts ending up in Ukraine.
Oleksiy Danilov, chairman of Russias National Security Council, earlier this month quoted intelligence sources saying that Putin had sacked at least eight generals over losses in the invasion. However, those reports cannot be verified.
Russian president feels misled by spy chiefs and generals over failings of the war, with several reportedly sacked or arrested
What are we doing here? a man in the video said. So many of us have died. The Russian defence ministry has no idea about us or what were doing here.
He and his deputy were detained in early March and placed under house arrest on suspicion of corruption and providing false information about Ukraine, according to reports. The FSB has not confirmed the arrests.
A US official said on Wednesday that Putin "didnt even know his military was using and losing conscripts, which was showing a clear breakdown in the flow of accurate information".
