Saturday morning UK news briefing Todays top headlines from The Telegraph
20220813
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/08/13/saturday-morning-uk-news-briefing-todays-top-headlines-telegraph/
Rushdie's agent Andrew Wylie told the New York Times that the news was "not good," adding that Rushdie could not speak, while the nerves in his arm were severed in the attack and his liver was "stabbed and damaged". Read the full story.
An official drought has been declared in eight of 14 areas across England, encompassing most of the central and southern parts of the country. Read the full story.
The four-man band allegedly started excavating the tunnel from an abandoned shop near the Vatican in Rome but when a section of it under a road collapsed, one of them found himself trapped around 20ft underground. Read the full story.
The FBI raid on Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate was partly based on suspicions of violations of the Espionage Act, according to a search warrant.
Rail union baron Mick Lynch has suggested that Ukrainians playing with Nazi imagery and the influence of the EU provoked trouble in the invaded country.
Welcome to your early morning news briefing from The Telegraph - a round-up of the top stories we are covering today. To receive twice-daily briefings by email, sign up to our Front Page newsletter for free.
It emerged that, in the raid on Monday, agents recovered "top secret" documents, including some considered so sensitive they were only meant to be viewed in special government facilities. Read the full story.
The biggest drought in 20 years has been declared across the majority of England, as farmers said half their crops could fail, households were warned of taps running dry and supermarkets faced water shortages.
Sir Salman Rushdie is reportedly on a ventilator and may lose an eye after he was stabbed on stage in the US on Friday.
Asked about Russian aggression, the general secretary of the RMT appeared to partly place the blame on the EU and corrupt politicians in Ukraine. Read the full story.
A hapless Italian robber who became stuck for eight hours in a tunnel that was dug as part of an alleged attempt to raid a bank had to be rescued after his gang called the authorities for help.
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email,sign up to the Front Page newsletter here. For two-minute audio updates, tryThe Briefing- on podcasts, smart speakers and WhatsApp.
