Skateboarding 15yearold boy hailed hero of Ukraine for saving Kyiv with his toy drone
20220607
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/06/07/skateboarding-15-year-old-boy-hailed-hero-ukraine-saving-kyiv/
Consumer drones have been used widely during the Russian invasion to document evidence of war crimes and troop movements. Such images leave Russia with few places to hide as they are shared widely on social media and with Ukrainian forces.
The civil defence forces had come to him because they needed the GPS coordinates of the convoy.
He was the only one who was experienced with drones in that region, said Yurii Kasjanov, the commander of the armed forces' unmanned reconnaissance section. Hes a real hero, a hero of Ukraine.
A skateboarding Ukrainian teenager has been hailed a hero after using a toy drone to help his countrys forces blast back Russians advancing on the capital.
Andrii Pokrasa, 15, managed to spot the light of a convoy of military vehicles from his drone after being called upon to help out because of his experience with the devices. He shared the information with the Ukrainian military who were able to destroy the convoy.
The details of Pokrasas findings were sent to a territorial defence unit via social media, who were then able to stop the forces near Berezivka, which lies around 40 kilometres west of Kyiv.
Pokrasa described the moment he spotted the convoy as very, very scary, but was determined not to let the Russians succeed in invading his town.
I gave them the coordinates and photos, and after that they targeted the location, he said. And I needed to coordinate more specifically where they should shell with artillery.
They provided us information where approximately the Russian column could be. Our goal was to find the exact coordinates and provide the coordinates to the soldiers, Pokrasa told Global News.
Its a game-changer for the war, Taras Troiak, a former drone retailer who heads the Federation of Drone Owners of Ukraine, told Global News. If we didnt have such operators and drones who can help the Ukrainian army, I think Kyiv already could be occupied by Russian forces.
It was one of the biggest columns that was moving on the Zhytomyr road and we managed to find it because one of the trucks turned on its lights for a long time.
