Slovyansks remainers prepare for last stand against Russian invaders
20220707
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/07/07/slovyansks-remainers-prepare-last-stand-against-russian-invaders/
With the city poised to be flattened by Kremlin firepower, the citizens who havent fled either have nothing left to lose or a lot to fear
He added that despite the shelling, which also killed six people on Sunday, officials were powerless to force people to leave.
In April 2014, in the wake of the Maidan revolution that overthrew a pro-Kremlin government in Kyiv, they staged their own counter-coup in Slovyansk, sending in masked gunmen to seize control of municipal buildings. But after less than three months in separatist control, Ukrainian forces retook the city on July 5 2014.
When The Telegraph took a tour around town on Wednesday, the streets were deathly quiet, save for the occasional thunderous boom from the Russian front line, now less than 10 miles east.
Now with Severodonetsk finally in Moscows hands, Slovyansk is next in the firing line. And for residents who have yet to heed the warnings, the Russians added one of their own on Tuesday.
One city council worker told The Telegraph that staff were advised to stay off work on Monday because of fears that Russian forces would use the date to send an anniversary message.
Whether that punchy neighbour will now also land control of Slovyansk remains to be seen. If they do, though, it seems they will have some residents quietly cheering them on.
In what appeared to be a deliberate attack on civilians, a shell landed directly in Slovyansks central marketplace when it was busy with customers, killing two and injuring seven.
Fighting alongside the Russian forces are pro-Kremlin militias from the breakaway Donetsk Peoples Republic, for whom victory in Slovyansk may feel particularly sweet.
The message from Slovyansks leaders to their people has been loud and clear for weeks: leave now, unless you want to meet Vladimir Putins army.
My mum is still here and shes too old to want to leave, so Im looking after her, said Lisa, who declined to give her surname, as she worked through three different bank cards.
Yet a few of Slovyansks hardcore remainers seem notably sanguine at the prospect of a Kremlin incursion, and not because of ill-health or alcohol-impaired judgment.
Near the marketplace, still a smoking ruin, Slovyansks 100-metre-long main drag is now all but empty, with most shops either sandbagged or boarded up. The only place attracting any customers was a bank ATM, where anxious residents were drawing out whatever savings they still had left.
Yet even now, with the city poised to be flattened by Russias superior artillery, a few stragglers still linger behind. There were the elderly and stubborn, the dutiful and patriotic, and those with nothing else to lose. There were those who were too drunk to care either way  and also those who felt that meeting the Russian army would be no bad thing.
Rather more blase was Andrey, a wizened, haggard figure wandering to his home in a Soviet-era housing block nearby. He was, he said, unconcerned about the Russians because his days were numbered anyway.
Sitting on a rail and road junction in the Donetsk region, Slovyansk is one of the key objectives of Russias offensive in the Donbas.
I have a problem with my heart, so I am not scared of death, he said, his voice rasping. Whether I die today or tomorrow, it doesnt really matter to me anymore.
It is their choice, but we have warned them a lot already, and its got a lot more intensive in the last few days, he continued. Will we keep hold of Slovyansk? I think so. Its just a question of whether there will be anything left of it.
The Donbas city of 100,000 sits about 50 miles west of Severodonetsk, where Russias superior artillery has slowly ground down Ukrainian forces over the past month.
Sergei, who was in his 50s, declined to say specifically that he was pro-Russian. But he gave a cryptic comparison that made his feelings fairly clear.
Were stuck here because were not wealthy and we have nowhere else to go. Im just praying to God that the Russians dont come.
Local officials branded it terrorism, although they were not particularly surprised. For one, shelling of civilian areas is now a routine Russian scare tactic ahead of any urban assault. And for another, it marked the anniversary of a day in 2014 when Russian separatists who briefly ruled Slovyansk were finally kicked out.
His claims were confirmed by Yuri Pidlylsnyi, a city official and one of the few still working in Slovyansks sandbagged town hall. He said: We knew it was the anniversary date, so we said to our staff to stay at home.
From the outskirts of the city on Wednesday, signs of the oncoming storm were visible. Ukrainian military vehicles thundered along the main road, carrying troops and artillery. Further east, palls of white smoke drifted across the horizon.
Imagine one neighbour is being irritated by another neighbour for 30 years, and gives that neighbour a punch, he said. Then imagine that the irritating neighbour goes crying for help to the rest of the world.
