Stepbystep guide on how an allout Russian invasion of Ukraine could unfold
20220214
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/14/russia-invasion-ukraine-explained-weapons-map-kyiv/
Any aerial bombardment is likely to be short lived, lasting a few hours. Russia will fire shells from long range, well back from the front line, targeting any Ukraine military out in the open. Shells will also be deployed against known choke points, such as strategic railway lines, crossroads, airfields and bridges in an attempt to cut off Ukraine forces and prevent reinforcements.
Missiles can be fired from the ground hundreds of miles away. The BM-30 Smerch artillery launcher, for example, fires 300mm diameter rockets from 12 barrels simultaneously. The latest variant, the 9A52-4 Tornado, has an operational range of 850km.
The Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think tank, had identified three likely axes of advance for Russia to seize territory up to the Dnepr River and into Kyiv: a Northern Route that would include outflanking Ukraine defences from Belarus a 200-mile central route through Donetsk and a third assault from the Crimea in the south.
Russias ground campaign began once it was satisfied the artillery had cleared a path for tanks and armoured vehicles to roll into Ukraine.
Ukraines electricity grid, communication systems and government ministries were targets of suspected Russian cyber attacks in the wake of the 2014 invasion of Crimea. Much of Ukraines critical infrastructures, including its electricity grid, remain connected to Russia, making it virtually impossible to defend from attacks.
US intelligence and security agencies had warned of the likelihood of a massive cyber attack on key Ukrainian infrastructure as a prelude to full-scale invasion.
After a massive cyber attack designed to destabilise Ukraine and an aerial bombardment to cut off strategic routes, Russia cleared a path for tanks to roll into the country.
Analysts had believed its forces would attempt to surround and isolate Ukraines troops, destroying them in pockets. With air superiority established, it is likely Russian special forces might be dropped in by helicopter behind Ukraine lines to further disrupt command centres and other strategic targets with sabotage operations.
"I have made the decision of a military operation," Putin said in a surprise television announcement, and soon after explosions were heard in Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, and several other cities.
Anne Neuberger, the US deputy national security adviser for cyber, said: Weve been warning for weeks and months, both publicly and privately, that cyber attacks could be part of a broad-based Russian effort to destabilise and further invade Ukraine. The Russians understand disabling or destroying critical infrastructure can augment pressure on the countrys government, military and population, and accelerate the receding to Russian objectives.
With up to 190,000 Russian troops massed on Ukraines borders and an additional 15,000 Russian-backed separatists in the occupied Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, Putin gave the order to invade overnight. The prospects now are grim. A full-scale war would be the bloodiest on European soil since the Second World War.
Fighter jets and helicopters could be sent in to destroy anything not taken out by the aerial bombardment. They will also hope to win the remaining battle of the air early on. Ukraine has, according to Flight Internationals directory of world air forces, fewer than 100 combat aircraft, including 43 state of the art, Russian-made Mig-29s and 15 combat helicopters. Russia has 10 times the firepower, including 70 Mig-29s and 80 Mig-31s. Air superiority is a given - Russia in the event of invasion will rule the skies.
A full-blown war between Russia and Ukraine has begun, with Vladimir Putin launching a "military operation" in Ukraine on Thursday morning. How it will unfold now, however, is unclear.
Strategists had suggested that Russian forces would try to avoid Ukraines major cities in the push west. If the Ukraine Army had found itself overwhelmed in the first few hours, its forces would likely retreat to the cities and try to protect Kyiv and other urban areas.
Russias Black Sea Fleet has been strengthened since the annexation of the Crimea and is expected to play an important, supporting role in any invasion. The fleet, based in the Black Sea and Sea of Azov, consists of dozens of anti-submarine frigates and guided missile destroyers.
The Kremlin hoped to sever Ukraines communications connections to the outside world, jamming mobile phone signals and launching a cyber attack on its internet services. It will also try to disrupt internal communications within the Ukraine military to devastating effect.
It is estimated that of the 190,000 troops on the borders, about 30,000 are stationed in Belarus no more than 150 miles from Kyiv. The main effort of Russias ground campaign would be to create a pincer movement from the north that encircled Kyiv and enveloped the bulk of Ukraines ground forces in the eastern part of the country, said Michael Kofman and Jeffrey Edmonds, Russian military experts at the Center for Naval Analyses in a paper published this week.
Along with the armoured firepower will come specialist military engineering equipment to build bridges, repair roads and rail tracks, clear minefields and keep the Russian Army on the move. The one thing Moscow will not want is to get bogged down, allowing Ukrainian forces to regroup. The Kremlin will want the war won in days.
The Iskander rocket launcher has a shorter range of 300 miles, but a much more explosive warhead. Both systems were spotted being driven into the Donbas region on Tuesday, putting Kyiv, Ukraines capital, within reach.
Russia has a few hundred state of the art T-14 Armata tanks and thousands of T-72 and T-80 Soviet-era tanks that have been upgraded with modern armour and weaponry. Russia has already set up field hospitals on the borders and is believed to be deploying mobile crematoria to follow its troops onto the battlefield.
The longer any conflict drags on the bigger the problem for Russia in keeping up supply lines, as well as the obvious cost in life and to its economy. The Center for Strategic and international Studies said Russia may be unable to avoid sustained urban combat in several major metropolitan areas. It also pointed out that Russian forces took six weeks to gain control of Grozny, with a population of 400,000, in the first Chechen War.
Stalin called artillery the God of War. The Kremlin still loves its artillery and Russia had been expected to launch wave after wave of mostly unguided long-range missile strikes prior to any ground assault.
Russian military tacticians have historically, at least, preferred to dominate an area with missile and artillery fire. The aerial bombardment is designed to render any organised opposition obsolete - that is kill troops and disable resistance - before the launch of ground forces. Russia is expected to deploy battlefield drones to spot Ukraine command and control centres and military communication hubs in the field and target artillery at those.
Urban, street-by-street conflict would be messy and bloody, with ideal conditions for resistance forces defending the last pockets of Ukraine. Ukrainian forces have been training for this outcome in the abandoned cities near Chernobyl.
President Vladimir Putin authorised what he called a 'special military operation' to invade Ukraine overnight
Russian submarines have also been spotted in the area. Cruise missiles with a range of 1,000 miles would supplement any aerial bombardment from the north and east. Korfman and Edmonds believe the fleet is now capable of launching a significant amphibious operation and could deploy 1,000 to 2,000 ground troops to assist forces launching an invasion.
The Center for Strategic and International Studies suggested that Kharkiv, close to the Russian border but a hub for road and rail, was critical if Russia wants to win a war quickly. If Kharkiv resisted, then strategists thought Putins army would struggle to strike out to Kyiv.
For some days, the US and UK have issued warnings that Russia will stage false flag attacks to justify an invasion. The propaganda war is already raging.
