Strong resistance means Russian advance in Ukraine has failed its initial objectives say Western officials
20220225
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/25/russia-ukraine-nlaw-objectives-putin-resistance-war/
The strong resistance put up by Ukrainian forces across the country has meant only limited gains have been made by the invading troops, Western officials told The Telegraph.
US defence officials said on Friday that Ukraines air and missile defence capability was still operational.
Ben Wallace, Britains Defence Secretary, said Vladimir Putins recklessness had cost him a bloody nose.
He didnt get his way in his political beliefs or legacy beliefs that he was really uniting the great peoples of Ukraine with his people and that they would hail him as some sort of liberator, he said on LBC.
The Russian advance in Ukraine has stalled and achieved none of its first day objectives, according to Western security officials.
He will get a legacy from this. It wont be the one he wants, itll be one that we decide in the international community.
In the skies over Hostomel, a town to the north-west of Kyiv, Ukrainian Mi-24 Hind helicopters were in action against Russian forces on Friday.
The Russian military, having taken control of the Antonov international airport in Hostomel in the opening hours of the war, was later repulsed by Ukrainian forces.
Russia has made some progress in a number of areas, although Ukraine retains control of all key cities.
We have a general sense that they Russia are not moving on Kyiv as fast as they anticipated doing.
Western officials said the airbase had changed hands a number of times since the invasion started and was still subject to significant fighting.
Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance, focusing on the defence of key cities throughout Ukraine.
There were reports of clashes in the northern suburbs of Kyiv involving Russian saboteur groups and special forces. There was fierce fighting in the northern city of Chernikiv, close to the border with Russia.
The situation around the former nuclear site of Chernobyl was less clear, although officials attributed the reported increase in radiation levels in the area to be the result of dust kicked up in the exclusion zone by all the extra activity on the ground.
Ukrainian military airfields and bases have proved more resilient than was expected and Russian vehicle columns travelling by road have been ambushed across the country.
Despite a large number of airbases having been attacked in the early hours of the invasion, Ukrainian military aircraft are still operating.
Russia has yet to achieve air superiority in the skies, with Ukrainian Su-27 and Mig-29 fighters and Mi-24 helicopter gunships still active.
Were not going to compromise the intelligence weve got but  we are pretty certain that in the Kremlin last night there would have been some pretty urgent reflections on the speed of the advance, compared to what they anticipated.
Fighting around key cities intensifies as UK minister for the Armed Forces says Putin may well have bitten off more than he can chew
Around half the available Russian forces  60 Battalion Tactical Groups  have so far entered Ukraine.
Sir Jim Hockenhull, Britains Chief of Defence Intelligence, said: Russian forces continue to advance on two axes towards Kyiv. Their objective is to encircle the capital, to secure control of the population and change the regime.
Three Russian amphibious assault ships in the Sea of Azov were poised to land hundreds of troops near the coastal city of Mariupol.
Although Russian forces have been operating in the east of Ukraine since 2014s initial invasion, most units will not have fought against well-prepared defensive positions and modern anti-tank weapons, such as the Anglo-Swedish NLAW, 2,000 of which were supplied by the UK in recent weeks.
Ukrainian air defence systems were reportedly still effective as the onslaught entered its third day.
The Russian attempt to wipe out Ukraines air force has not been as effective as the Russians have wished, according to Western officials, which must create some doubt as to how Russia is employing air power.
Bridges have been destroyed and ambushes launched on armoured columns by Ukrainian forces fighting for their homeland.
Such weapons were said to have neutralised 15 T-72 tanks in Hlukhiv in the north of the country.
The bulk of the gains by Russian forces have been in rural areas. The Ukrainian resistance is concentrating in urban areas, trading ground in order to fight from stronger defensive positions.
The bulk of Russian tanks and armoured forces were held around 50km 30 miles north of Kyiv by effective Ukrainian delaying tactics.
Further afield, around 10,000 Chechen National Guards were due to deploy on Friday to support the invasion.
Updating Parliament on Friday, James Heappey, minister for the Armed Forces, said Russias failure to achieve its objectives on the first day would have resulted in urgent reflections in the Kremlin.
It is unclear precisely how they would be employed in Ukraine but it is thought Russia would deploy them on occupation duties if and when they prevail.
Overnight Russia launched a concerted series of strikes on targets in Kyiv. Multiple rocket launchers have been employed in Chernihiv and Kharkiv.
The airfield is assessed as too damaged for fighter jets to use, but attack and transport helicopter operations  such as an air assault operation into Kyiv  are still possible from the site.
Speaking on Friday morning about the slow pace of Russias advance, Ben Wallace said Putin didnt get his way militarily despite all the boasting and the big forces.
