Sunday morning UK news briefing Todays top headlines from The Telegraph
20220313
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/03/13/sunday-morning-uk-news-briefing-todays-top-headlines-telegraph/
The Kremlin has warned it will launch attacks on Western weapons supplies to Ukraine, raising the prospect of a direct confrontation between Russia and Nato.
Welcome to your early morning news briefing from The Telegraph - a round-up of the top stories we are covering today. To receive twice-daily briefings by email, sign up to our Front Page newsletter for free.
The Chancellor is understood to have accepted that the scale of the Ukraine crisis requires a fresh intervention by the Government as families face the biggest cost-of-living squeeze in a generation. Read the full story.
The Homes for Ukraine scheme will initially allow people to sponsor named individuals or families to stay in their homes. It will then be opened up to charities, businesses and faith organisations to sponsor large groups. Read the full story.
Shipments of anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles have been flooding into Ukraine from the US, UK and allies, and the Pentagon indicated it was determined to send even more sophisticated weaponry in future. Read the full story.
Rishi Sunak is preparing a "two stage" set of further interventions to tackle the cost-of-living crisis, having conceded the need for a significantly beefed-up spring statement next week, The Telegraph understands.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will next week embark on their first official tour of the Caribbean, following in the Queens footsteps, from travelling in the same Jeep she first used there 60 years ago, to hearing tales about the "royal rat" she was offered for dinner.
The Cambridges, who are making their first joint overseas trip since the Covid-19 pandemic, will celebrate the Queens legacy in Belize, Jamaica and the Bahamas with a Platinum Jubilee outing. Read the full story.
Michelle Donelan, the universities minister, joined the student watchdog in rebuking vice-chancellors who are still imposing curbs despite Englands last remaining restrictions being ditched. Read the full story.
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email,sign up to the Front Page newsletter here. For two-minute audio updates, tryThe Briefing- on podcasts, smart speakers and WhatsApp.
Universities should not force students to wear masks as they have "sacrificed enough", a minister has said as eleven Russell Group institutions keep rules in place.
Households will be paid 350 per month to host refugees as part of an unprecedented scheme that will see Britain open its doors to an unlimited number of Ukrainians fleeing the Russian onslaught.
