Suspected Kremlin spies arrested after raid on Albanian arms factory
20220821
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/08/21/suspected-kremlin-spies-arrested-raid-albanian-arms-factory/
Mr Peleshi hailed the injured guards as heroes, saying they would soon be discharged after visiting them on Sunday in hospital, where they were pictured looking healthy. Earlier photos shared online had shown them with dressings over their eyes.
Two Russians and a Ukrainian were arrested during an apparent espionage mission to an Albanian weapons factory on Saturday, the Albanian defence ministry said.
"Three persons were accompanied by police which in cooperation with other institutions is investigating the case," the statement said, adding that military police, army intelligence police and civil and anti-terror police are coordinating the case.
Niko Peleshi, Albanias defence minister, said: "In view of the broad regional context and the geopolitical context, this cannot be dismissed as just an ordinary, civilian incident, but we cannot rush to conclusions."
Albania, a formerly communist country that joined Nato in 2009, has strongly opposed Russias invasion of Ukraine and joined EU and US sanctions against Moscow.
Arms smuggling has been an issue in the Balkan country since its civil war in 1997, when large stockpiles of Cold War-era weapons were looted.
While Albania does not have openly pro-Russian political parties, Josep Borrell, the EU's foreign policy chief, is worried about potential Russian meddling following the invasion of Ukraine.
"What pride for the military guards who neutralised three individuals suspected of espionage," he wrote on Twitter, adding: "Now let's wait for the full clarification of this event."
During the Cold War, the Gramsh weapons plant manufactured Soviet AK-47 assault rifles, but since the fall of communism in 1990 the factory has switched from production to dismantling small arms. It also repairs Albanian military weapons, according to the defence ministry.
The EU is "concerned about Russias possible influence and interference in the Western Balkans", he said in March, adding that "Russian disinformation and propaganda are on the rise".
Tirana-based media said the three suspects were bloggers who often visited abandoned military bases and other big plants in different countries.
Two Russians and a Ukrainian were detained at the Gramsh weapons plant 50 miles from Tirana after guards noticed a person taking photographs
A guard at the Gramsh weapons plant 50 miles south of the capital Tirana noticed a person inside the facility without permission taking photographs, a spokesman for the ministry said.
The incident occurred amid fears Russias invasion of Ukraine could spread beyond its borders as both sides become locked in an attritional struggle to advance along largely static front lines.
There was little further information available about the potential motives of the suspects, but Prime Minister Edi Rama said he suspected espionage.
The suspect was identified as a 24-year-old Russian citizen with the initials M Z. Another Russian woman, ST, 33, and a Ukrainian man, FA, 25, were arrested outside the complex and their vehicle seized.
Guards detained the individual but in the process were injured by a "neoparalysing spray", the statement said, likely referring to pepper spray.
