The Putin doctrine is an economic catastrophe for Russias neighbours
20220111
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/01/11/putin-doctrine-economic-catastrophe/
A change of government will be forbidden by the Russians, with force if necessary, and compliant autocrats - a series of what are in effect mini-Putins - will be kept in power indefinitely.
Over the past week it has become clear that the Putin doctrine is now a geopolitical reality. Russian paratroopers moved into Kazakhstan to crush mounting opposition to the regime of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the former president who still seems to unofficially rule the country.
Just take a look at some of the figures for proof of that. If you go back to 1990, and the end of the old Soviet bloc, Russia had double the GDP per capita of Poland, and roughly the same as the Czech Republic $3,400 per head in Russia, compared with $1,700 in Poland, and $3,900 in the what was then Czechoslovakia.
According to all the models in the economics textbooks, the string of countries that the Kremlin refers to as its near abroad, such as Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Georgia, should be among the fastest growing in the world, with booming investment, dozens of gleaming new manufacturing hubs, and lots of new companies pushing out into the world.
Countries that are drained of freedom are quickly drained of entrepreneurship and initiative as well.
Ukraine is steadily being bullied into the fold, with troops stationed on the border threatening to invade at any moment. Belarus is already under the Kremlins thumb, and so are countries such as Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan along or close to its borders.
The Western powers should be opposing it to support freedom - but also because it will help the world economy expand much faster at a time when we need all the growth we can get.
And now? Both former satellites have raced ahead of the country that was once the master. Polish GDP per capita is 50pc higher than Russias $15,000 per capita, compared with $10,000 for Russia, and the Czech Republics $22,000 more than double, even though neither have any significant natural resources apart from some coal.
Germany, which refuses to spend any serious money on defence, as well as being completely reliant on Russian gas, is most to blame, but so are many others. And yet while the politics are serious enough, the economics matter as well. The Putin doctrine will be a disaster for growth.
Finland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia may well be next on the list. Who knows, perhaps even Poland and Slovakia. The list is growing longer all the time.
Wealth will be drained away into foreign bank accounts, freedoms squashed and development stifled. In truth, there may not be much anyone can do about that. Unless the Russians themselves decide to overthrow Vladimir Putins regime not much can be done within the country itself.
They have young, hard-working populations. They are rich in resources. And they have an almost perfect location between a booming Asia and wealthy Europe.
Putin-ism may have been effective at cementing power for the Russian president and his coterie of billionaire oligarchs. But it has been a failure for the wider economy, with cronyism and corruption rife, and wealth purely dependent on the right connections.
With its mix of cronyism, corruption and robber capitalism, Putins toxic governing formula might work for keeping a tiny elite in power, but there can be no question it stifles growth and development. If the doctrine is allowed to stand, the world will be poorer for it.
It still exports a lot of oil, gas and minerals, but just about nothing else, and aside from the energy giants there arent any Russian companies anyone has ever heard off. In terms of development, Putins long reign has proved a dead end.
Most of all that is of course a military, diplomatic, strategic and political issue. Western Europe, which should be standing up to Russian aggression, has allowed itself to become negligently dependent on its energy.
That is terrible for human rights, and for political development of course. But it will also be a disaster for the economy.
It has worked in Taiwan, Vietnam, much of Africa, and of course in eastern and central Europe as well. It should work in the countries ringing Russia. The trouble is, an intellectually and economically dead form of autocracy is being imposed on all of them.
And yet, that is the model the Russian president now insists on imposing on the ring of countries that surround his country. Corrupt autocrats and their cronies will be propped up in power indefinitely, and by force when necessary.
In truth, these should surely be fast-growing nations. After all, they have all the ingredients in place that normally turbocharge developing countries. They have young populations. They have lots of natural resources. They are right at the crossroads of Asia and Europe, making them natural hubs for manufacturing and distribution.
But there is a problem. The Putin doctrine. With Russian military intervention in Kazakhstan in the past week and with Ukraine being bullied into submission, it is clear that the Russian President Vladimir Putin intends to keep all his neighbours under tight control.
It is hard to think of a better place to put a factory right now than right on what used to be the Silk Road connecting two continents. And perhaps most of all they have the potential to catch up rapidly with the developed world, borrowing ideas and technologies proven elsewhere.
And yet the newly minted Putin doctrine that demands obedience from every country in the region should surely be resisted. Imposing Russian-style autocracy on great swathes of the world will be a huge drag on growth, and stunt economies that should be racing ahead.
