The West needs wiser heads in the battle for Ukraine
20220716
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/07/16/west-needs-wiser-heads-battle-ukraine/
There must be no hint of division to encourage Moscow, no more emollient telephone conversations from the lyse Palace in Paris. The Continent requires leaders who will not waver over the coming weeks, but who instead will prepare their own people for the small sacrifices that may be to come. After all, that leadership, and those sacrifices, are only a fraction of those currently on display in Ukraine.
The temptation to start making concessions to end that war, then, is clear. And just when political resolve and renewed commitment to supporting Kyiv is required, governments in Western Europe look weak and beset by gridlock. In France, President Macron has lost his parliamentary majority in Italy, Prime Minister Mario Draghis coalition government is close to collapse Germany, whose response has been hesitant from the outset, now faces being cut off from the Russian gas which heats its homes and powers its economy.
Creeping artillery bombardments level urban areas indiscriminately, and missile strikes far from the front line, like the one in Vinnytsia on Thursday that killed at least 23, including several children, demolish office and apartment blocks. From university buildings to shopping centres, Vladimir Putin has unleashed not a precision operation, but a total war.
The toll of Russias refocused military assault on Ukraine is becoming clearer every day. Ukraines leaders talk of hundreds of soldiers killed and wounded on the battlefield. Increasingly, however, civilians are also paying a price.
Putin has always calculated that Ukraines Western backers will have neither the patience nor the stomach for a protracted fight. Yet the eastwards flow of weapons to Kyiv must continue even as the westwards flow of gas from Russia lessens and stops.
The Continent requires leaders who will not waver, but will prepare their peoples for the small sacrifices  to come
