The Free West is winning the war against the RussiaChina axis of autocracy
20220502
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/05/02/free-west-winning-war-against-russia-china-axis-autocracy/
Similarly, the CCP is starting to subtly alter its grand bargain with its people. Since the 1990s, Chinese citizens have accepted totalitarianism on the condition that it delivers jobs and prosperity. But increasingly the countrys leaders are endeavouring to shore up their power by controlling citizens rather than delivering growth. Legal experts warn that Xi Jinpings anti-corruption campaigns are enabling officials to lock up entrepreneurs that they deem to have grown overly independent of the state. The CCP also recently banned an entire sector of the economy, private tuition, fearful that the financial burden is preventing families from having more children. Time will tell whether the Chinese people will eventually sense that their social contract with the state is in jeopardy, and revolt.
Indeed, Russias humiliation in Ukraine shows how vulnerable authoritarian systems are to epic-scale errors by their elites. Putin, surrounded by sycophants, grossly underestimated Ukrainian resolve and overestimated the capabilities of the Russian army. We are seeing, too, how autocracies  which build their legitimacy on the illusion of flawless judgment  have perilously little room for manoeuvre to correct big mistakes. Having plunged Russia into a conflict it cannot win, Putin cannot withdraw or even secure limited gains through a peace settlement, because that would call into question his decision to launch the war with such maximalist aims in the first place.
The irony is that, with the world plunged into a battle of civilisations between free and unfree societies, the superiority of liberty over tyranny has never been more stark. Russias disastrous invasion of Ukraine is a textbook example of how top-down authoritarian systems can crumble in the face of resistance. The Ukrainians have proved nimble, adapting quickly to challenges and effectively deploying game-changing technologies like drones. The Russian army, by contrast, has been slow to grasp what is perhaps the biggest emerging lesson of this war: that large, unconcealable equipment like tanks and helicopters no longer provide the advantages they once did. If anything, Vladimir Putin has doubled-down on central control. The catastrophic number of high-ranking Russian casualties is testament to the demand that his generals station themselves ever closer to the frontline.
Moreover, despite the fact that the policy is clearly a disaster, the CCP cannot change course, lest it lose face. The party hasnt escaped the need of all autocracies to project strength in the face of weakness. Pursuing Zero Covid has allowed the CCP to simulate boundless state power, even over an invisible virus, while distracting from its struggles to create effective vaccines. Of course, this political theatre has actually weakened China, trapping it in a devastating cycle that forces it to shut down every time Covid case numbers grow.
The West has been experiencing a crisis of confidence. Europes response to the Russian assault on Ukraine has been fragmented and lacklustre. America and its allies continue to bury their heads in the sand over the consequences of Chinas rise. This weakness of will on the global stage is matched by a wobbling faith in liberal principles at home. The West compromised its values as it slogged its way through the pandemic. The likes of Brexit and Trump even convinced some Western elites that free societies must soften their attachment to democracy to better protect them from the whims of the mob.
Have confidence: our foes are failing because their authoritarian systems are inferior to free societies
The Chinese Communist Party has also proved capable of radical changes in direction. In the wake of the collapse of the USSR, it played a blinder by opening up China to free market forces. It lifted millions out of poverty as a result while staving off movements for political freedom. Today, it is ruthlessly seeking to reinvent China in the face of adversity once again. Terrified of falling into the middle income trap and unable to build a domestic consumer market, it is putting tech innovation at the heart of its plans for economic growth  blueprints that put the Wests half-baked tech strategies to shame.
Both Beijing and Moscow are displaying another basic weakness of authoritarian states: the elites that preside over them will always put their own power before the interests of the people they rule. This is becoming obvious with respect to the invasion of Ukraine. It is surely in Russias interests to cut its losses. Only by ending the war and Western sanctions can Moscow hope to overhaul its military and revise its long-term strategic game. Putin and his cronies will not put their country first, however, because it would threaten their position internally. As it stands, his country now faces an agonising and drawn-out defeat on the battlefield, and perhaps even the loss of its status as a major power.
The Kremlins inability to show weakness has debilitated Russia not just in the heat of battle, but steadily over time. The Russian military failed to undertake radical reform after the end of the Cold War. Nor has it addressed its problems with corruption. As a result, fuel embezzlement and equipment shortages have compromised its battle performance. Achievable technological innovations, which might have tipped the scales in Russias favour, have simply failed to emerge.
And yet Beijing is starting to show the same fundamental weaknesses as Russia. The CCPs calamitous Zero Covid policy betrays its vulnerability to monumental errors of judgment. While the rest of the world goes back to normal, Shanghai has become a lockdown fortress, fomenting unrest and causing economic chaos.
But what about China? Beijing appears to have overcome a lot of the shortcomings inherent in authoritarian regimes. Unlike Russia, it has proved more than capable of humble self-reflection. Keenly aware of its military inferiority, it has worked to close the gap in conventional forces with the US and neutralise Washingtons strongest assets  for example, countering air and navy prowess with hypersonics.
Of course, the Western model is not perfect. Our militaries need to be more open to change if we are to dominate modern warfare. Our politics is too short-termist. Unlike the Thatcher and Reagan years, our leaders lack a lucid sense that liberty must be championed as both a strategic asset and moral good. Still it is clear from the woes of China and Russia that free societies retain the edge. That should give us confidence about the tough times ahead.
