The fightback against woke capitalism has finally begun
20220425
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/04/25/fightback-against-woke-capitalism-has-finally-begun/
You cannot simultaneously prevent and prepare for war. We call on President Biden to de-escalate tensions and work for peace rather than prepare for war. Sending thousands more US troops to Europe in response to Russias threats against Ukraine only fans the flame of war.
Netflix, Disney and Twitter are all suffering the consequences of their forays into political activism
A fightback was long overdue. The only coherent social purpose a company can have is to make a decent product, at a fair price, to pay its staff and suppliers on time, and make profits to pay for investment and dividends. In reality, that is difficult enough in itself.
It was always a little mysterious why Disneys theme park in Florida had a special tax status in the first place. I guess it gives a whole new meaning to the phrase Magic Kingdom, at least for finance directors.
And finally, and perhaps most importantly, it is a distraction from the main business of building a company. Time spent in meetings discussing whether one of the founders was involved in the slave trade, whether diversity training needs to be increased, or whether every supplier is completely on message, is time that isnt spent designing new products, crafting marketing strategies, or ironing out supply chains. Over time that starts to add up.
The special tax status of Disney World has finally been withdrawn after a row with the state government over gender issues. Elon Musk has called out the politically correct, sanctimonious programming at Netflix as one of the explanations for its sudden drop in subscriber numbers.
It would hardly be a surprise if he launched a bid after he has finished with the equally Left-leaning Twitter. At $100bn 79bn, he can afford it indeed a space may be emerging for a conglomerate that hoovers up all the companies that are disappearing into a haze of political activism.
Not many companies manage to tick all those boxes year after year and the few that do deserve our support. The resistance against corporate political activism has started and deserves as much support as possible  and in the meantime if a family trip to Disney World Florida costs a little more this summer you will know who to blame.
Everyone agrees that they should be sensitive to all the different views among staff, customers and suppliers, that they should develop talent regardless of background, open recruitment to a wide variety of different people and make sure that the board and senior management is not only filled with middle-aged white guys. That is just being good at running a company.
Put it all together and one point is clearly emerging. The fightback against woke capitalism has finally begun. And now the fightback has started, it is only going to grow and grow. Of course, there is nothing wrong with companies keeping up with the times.
Thats not the only example. In the last few days alone there have been several others. As subscriber numbers dropped, and its share price crashed, Tesla founder Elon Musk quite rightly pointed to dull, woke programming as one of the major problems at Netflix.
In reality, that is long overdue. The only genuine social purpose of a private company is to make a decent product, at a fair price, and to pay its staff and suppliers on time. Everything else is just a distraction and it is time that the fightback began.
A new group in the US has been launched to organise shareholder revolts against management teams that prioritise liberal activism over making profits for their shareholders, while a handful of tech companies have become so fed up with their staff demanding they take a stance on one issue or another that they have now banned political discussion in the workplace.
Taken one by one, none of those amount to very much. But add them all together and a pattern is starting to emerge. The woke corporation, with its incessant virtue-signalling, its childish posturing and its endless, expensively publicised sermonising, is finally getting its comeuppance.
When it was built, it was effectively turned into its own city state, with the power to make its own laws and set its own taxes, which perhaps not very surprisingly turned out to be very low. It was a kind of Singapore with princesses. That has now been abruptly terminated.
The result? You end up with Ben  Jerrys blaming the White House for Russias aggression against Ukraine, or widespread corporate support for Marxist organisations such as Black Lives Matter. Next, like most extreme political movements, it has quickly become very intolerant, purging any kind of opposing view and engaging in witch hunts against anyone who deviates by even a millimetre from whatever batty position is popular this week.
His group has already started mobilising shareholders in Bank of America to organise against it pushing critical race theory training on its staff, and it has a range of other companies in its sights. That comes on the back of companies such as Coinbase banning political discussions at work its boss Brian Armstrong even offered generous severance terms to any staff who felt uncomfortable with that.
The reason? It is widely assumed that it was retaliation for Disneys opposition to a controversial  or at least controversial to militant woke activists  law that forbade discussion of gender orientation in kindergartens. Disney will now face far higher tax bills as a result of its position, while shareholders will make less money, and the price of a ride may have to go up.
And last week, former McDonalds chief executive Ed Rensi launched The Boardroom Initiative to push for shareholder revolts against corporate giants promoting political campaigns over profits. Since Rensi is the man who created the McNugget  for which some of us at least are eternally grateful  he is not to be trifled with.
But there are three big problems with the version of ultra-liberal, activist capitalism that has emerged over the last few years. First, small groups of staff within companies have hijacked what started as mainstream corporate social responsibility departments and pushed them towards more and more extreme positions.
