The public have lost faith in our NHS religion
20220331
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/03/31/public-turning-against-arrogant-nhs/
That Get What Youre Given and Like It attitude is typical of an untouchable behemoth which this year will swallow 176.5 billion of our taxes. And that survey was conducted last year. Plenty more gold leaf has chipped off the NHS halo since then. The faith of the most devout worshipper will have been tested by the appalling report into the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust by the midwife Donna Ockenden. Not only did the trusts dogma-driven, penny-pinching maternity care somehow manage to kill or irreparably damage 300 perfect, beautiful babies, as Ockenden observed the trust tended to blame mothers ... in some cases even for their own deaths.
People seem particularly fed up about not being able to see a GP. One reader told me he was so frustrated he turned up at 8am at his surgery to try and bag an appointment. He got one. In three weeks time. On the phone. Tug forelock and respectfully incline head: Thanking you kindly, our NHS, for letting us use the service we pay for!
You have my permission to go the full Will Smith on any politician who dares to say the health service is 'the envy of the world'
Dear God. Are we really going to go on genuflecting before that? If the NHS is a religion, it badly needs a reformation. It was set up to provide care from Cradle to the Grave yes, and in Shropshire midwife-led units cradle to grave was a 48-hour period.
Are we starting to fall out of love with the NHS? Time was when it was considered heresy to even ask such a question. In 1992, Nigel Lawson observed that the NHS is the closest thing the English have to a religion and the pandemic with its ritualistic clap for carers seemed to put the seal of infallibility on our below-average by international standards health service. But now, lo and behold, we find out from the British Social Attitudes Survey that public satisfaction with the NHS is at its lowest for 25 years.
You know we must be doing something right when Russia warns that the UK is in its bad books. We can be proud of the huge assistance to Ukraine that this country has provided. But what about refugees? Tens of thousands of people have offered spare bedrooms, flats and Airbnb lets to displaced women and children. But despite 28,300 applications under the Homes for Ukraine scheme, only 2,700 visas have been granted.
My inbox is groaning with horror stories from midwives and obstetricians. All are too scared of NHS retribution to go on the record. Callie, who quit her job in the South-West, says that rupture of membranes was done automatically at 4 centimetres to speed up labour. This often causes foetal distress. It went against everything we had been taught but the emphasis was get baby out ASAP without a C-section.
Ukrainians are starting to give up on the UK. Cynics suggest that this suits the Home Office just fine. It shouldnt. How has this country ended up accommodating, at vast expense, the illegal migrants we dont want and repelling the genuine refugees that we do?
I find it hard to read that sentence without experiencing high emotion. You have my permission to go the full Will Smith on any politician who dares to say the NHS is the envy of the world. Youre safer giving birth in Bratislava than Oswestry.
Charlotte emailed to say she had registered. I thought it would be quite simple, she said, Actually, no. The visa form, running to about 30 pages, is so complicated it takes a minimum of two hours to fill in. And its one form per person. The sponsor must try and get endless bits of useless information from Ukrainian families at the end of a dodgy phone line. Even if the applicant is a seven-year-old child they must reveal whether they have ever had a criminal record  or a speeding ticket.
Politicians fear the publics affection for the NHS, which is why it can get away with murder. Responding to the Ockenden report, Health Secretary Sajid Javid, said, All the individuals who are responsible for these serious and repeated failures will be held to account. Well, that would be a first. Simon Wright, chief executive of the trust for four years, when it was placed in special measures, left the job to become a continuous improvement consultant for the Virginia Mason Institute. His firm has a contract with NHS England to improve safety at five NHS trusts including  youre going to love this!  Shrewsbury and Telford. Sorry about the dead babies.
Then there are the health and safety requirements for you and your home. Certain councils are demanding sponsors pay for gas, electricity and carbon monoxide checks. If the bedroom you are offering some poor Ukrainian, who is seeking alternative accommodation because their own bedroom no longer exists, well, if it doesnt meet council requirements in terms of size, forget it! Some sponsors, and I cant believe I am writing this, have even had to prove when their chimney was last swept.
