Thousands of Russians flee to US to escape conscription amid Ukraine war
20220226
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/26/thousands-russians-flee-us-escape-conscription-amid-ukraine/
Exclusive: Opponents of Vladimir Putin flying to Mexico with the hope of crossing the border to claim political asylum
We have never been so busy, said Ekaterina Mouratova, a Russian-American immigration lawyer based in Miami. But the number is going to skyrocket. I have got tons of emails in the last few days - hundreds. They are mostly men between 20 and 55 who are asking if they can get protection from the US if Russia does a mandatory military draft. These people do not want to go to war.
Ms Mouratovas company, the Immigration Centre of Ekaterina Mouratova, is already dealing with dozens of people a week who have flown from Russia, Ukraine and Belarus to Cancun in Mexico, then travelled to Tijuana and presented themselves to US border agents.
The family flew to Zurich, on to Cancun and then up to Tijuana where they also bought a car, this time a BMW costing $2,300 that took them to the US border. We have many friends that plan to do the same. They are asking how we did it.
In 2020, just 467 Russians were detained at America's southern border. Last year, that number soared to 9,376 - a result of the Russian crackdown on dissent following widespread protests spearheaded by opposition leader Alexei Navalny, experts say.
In cities across Russia on Thursday night, thousands of people protested against the invasion and more than 1,500 were arrested.
Not many people knew about this route at the time. But now, the video has tens of thousands of views. Lots of people are asking if they can do it too, he said.
Ukrainians have also been fleeing for months. Vasyl, a mechanical engineer from Donetsk, left with his fashion designer wife and their four children, aged 14, 11, 3 and 2, before Christmas as the situation worsened.
We called different consulates but could not get a visa, he said from North Carolina. And then we saw the Mexican route.
At that point, he found a video by a man named Dmitry Politov that had just a few hundred views. The 29-year-old Muscovite who also marched with Navalny supporters feared for his freedom and worried that he could still be targeted in Europe.
The Telegraph has spoken to bank managers, engineers and fashion designers who have all left their homes in search of a new life in the US after being targeted by police in Russia.
One day they came to my apartment to seize my computer and electronics. I told them there was nothing on there, but they said they would for sure find extremist material. This was not an empty threat so I went to a friend's apartment and started to research where I could go.
People started threatening my mother and I saw that police were arresting people on false charges saying they were extremists.
Thousands of Russians are trying to reach the United States to claim political asylum and avoid being drafted to the army, the Telegraph can reveal.
Immigration lawyers in America have been inundated with inquiries from Russian men and their families asking if the US will grant them political protection amid fears of conscription, following Vladimir Putins decision to invade Ukraine.
Yevgeniys mind was made up and within 48 hours, without telling anyone, he and his wife were on a flight to Cancun.
He then cancelled his return flight and headed for Tijuana, on the border with San Diego. There, he went up to US border officials and claimed political asylum.
Yevgeniy believes he made himself a target after filing an official complaint about his mistreatment.
Its sad, said Ms Mouratova. I have hundreds of clients with the same stories. They are not revolutionaries, they are simple people who are facing very harsh consequences. They are not economic migrants either. They have left everything behind.
But the numbers are still increasing. Last month, 1,028 Russians and 248 Ukrainians made their way across the border, mostly crossing from Tijuana to San Diego.
I think about my mother a lot, said Yevgeniy. "I know the police visited her to ask about me. I just hope they do not do anything to her . She is an old lady. This has nothing to do with her. She was sad I left, but she understands. I do not know when or if I will see her again. But if I had stayed in Russia, I would now be in prison.
Conditions in Russia are becoming harsher and harsher and there is a lot of political instability around the region. More and more people are looking for a way out.
When people saw the luxurious lifestyle politicians had and that they werent doing anything for the people, lots of us took to the streets, he said, speaking on the phone from Florida. But the protests became violent. I was beaten up and thrown in jail to teach me a lesson.
But now, immigration lawyers say the numbers will skyrocket amid fears that military-age men will be called up to fight in the war with Ukraine - which has already called up conscripts and reservists aged between 18 and 60.
Legal routes to the US are very difficult for most Russians. When the pandemic hit, consular services were affected, but the situation has deteriorated further as relations between the two superpowers have worsened. The US embassy in Moscow is no longer offering tourist visas to Russians.
One of her clients, Yevgeniy, a bank manager from Moscow, made the journey in September.
In recent months, record numbers of Russian citizens have been apprehended on the US border with Mexico, as an easy path to the US offers opponents of Vladimir Putins government an escape.
Yevgeniy flew north to Tijuana, but because the footbridge was shut, he had to spend $3,000 on a 12-year-old Honda Accord and drive straight up to the US border guards, where he claimed asylum.
In a 33-minute video, he explains and then carries out his plan. Politov travelled to Cancun because in Mexico, Russians need only an electronic visa to enter, rather than having to visit a consulate.
