Tuesday morning news briefing End of the siege of Mariupol
20220517
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/05/17/tuesday-morning-uk-news-briefing-todays-top-headlines-telegraph2/
Impact of lockdown  Toddlers' speech and motor skills have dropped sharply in the wake of the pandemic, official figures show. Experts said repeated lockdowns had left young children without the chance to play and learn how to communicate, setting back their development. The Royal College of Speech and Language therapists raised fears that the gaps being seen now could widen in coming years. Assessments show one in five children is not meeting expected standards by the age of two.
If you are planning a staycation, finding the perfect spot away from the crowds but not too far from the action can be a tricky balancing act. Greg Dickinson has identified geographic "Goldilocks" zones  the cheaper destinations just off the beaten track where your money will go further. See the spots that are within striking distance of the big attractions, but far enough removed for peace and quiet at the end of the day.
Tim Wallace reports that the bleak assessment will add to pressure on the Treasury to hold an emergency Budget to tackle the cost of living crisis, after Chancellor Rishi Sunak chose to raise taxes at the same times as incomes were squeezed.
Meanwhile, Nicola Sturgeon has said the Ukraine war has strengthened her belief an independent Scotland must join Nato, despite her opposition to nuclear weapons.
Many experts believe the institution was too slow to raise interest rates as prices took off last year and it has also been criticised for failing to reduce its quantitative easing money-printing programme over the past decade.
The soldiers were given safe passage by Vladimir Putin's forces pending an exchange deal. More than 260 men were evacuated from one of the largest steelwork plants in Europe that had become a symbol of resistance for 82 days, as Kyiv conceded that it would no longer defend the city.
After the Governor of the Bank of England warned of "apocalyptic" global food price rises and said he is "helpless" in the face of surging inflation, what next?
The comments from Andrew Bailey are likely to increase pressure from Conservative MPs who are exasperated that he failed to act sooner.
Puffy asparagus and feta omelette  Whisking egg whites and folding through the yolks produces a puffy, light omelette in this recipe by Alice Zaslavsky. See the recipe and try our Cookbook newsletter for more inspiration.
Conversations with Friends  Sally Rooney's books are full of Left-wing rhetoric but, argues Jessa Crispin, their characters are ultimately as conventional as they come. She explores the strange  and wrong-headed  cult of the 'Marxist Millennial' author.
Rather, she has revealed the ways she is trying to improve her derrire by increasing muscle tone after admiring "curvy" women in Miami.
The First Minister used a speech in Washington to argue that Vladimir Putin's invasion of Russias neighbour had shown joining the alliance was "absolutely right and essential".
"We hope we will be able to save the lives of our guys," Volodymyr Zelensky said in a late-night address. "There are severely wounded ones among them. Ukraine needs Ukrainian heroes alive."
But, as Scottish political editor Simon Johnson reports, she failed to mention to her American audience her desire to scrap Britain's Trident deterrent from the Faslane naval base if Scotland separated from the UK.
Also from this AM's Front Page newsletter: Calls for emergency Budget after 'apocalyptic' warning  skinny is 'old fashioned'. Sign up below
The ex-Spice Girl  once said to have a 23-inch waist  is unlikely to be found at her local fish and chip shop anytime soon.
Participants covered in mud compete in the ancient Vietnamese sport of mud ball wrestling at Van village in the Van Ha commune, in the northeastern province of Bac Giang. Two teams of eight attempt to put a 15kg ball made of ironwood in a hole at the opposing team's end of the arena. Read more of our journalism from around the world.
In his latest cartoon, Matt finds a joke in the soaring cost of living. And view cartoonist Blower's latest work.
It came as a Ukrainian military base was targeted in a Russian missile attack early today as a series of loud explosions rocked the western city of Lviv.
The evacuation appeared to cede control of the strategic southern port city to Russia after months of bombardment, drawing to a close one of the war's bloodiest and most high-profile battles.
Rozina Sabur and Nataliya Vasilyeva report how, from negotiation to evacuation, the operation happened in secret.
Senior executives at Britain's biggest mobile phone networks plotted to destroy the high street chain Phones 4u and boost their own profit margins, a court heard. Bosses at EE, Vodafone and O2 had "nakedly anti-competitive" conversations with each other as they schemed to remove Phones 4u from the market, London's High Court was told. Meanwhile, filings have revealed that Donald Trump is legally obliged to post on his libertarian social network before sharing his thoughts elsewhere.
After a disastrous 2-0 defeat at Newcastle United last night, Granit Xhaka insisted that Arsenal "did not deserve to be on the pitch". Read Sam Dean's report from the match that all but ended Arsenal's hopes of qualifying for next season's Champions League. And Luke Edwards says they left like a team heading into the Europa League with a manager who could not seem to know how or why the capitulation had occurred.
Their defiant last stand is over. After holding out for more than two months in bunkers and tunnels, Ukrainian troops trapped in the final stronghold in Mariupol were last night evacuated from the besieged Azovstal steelworks.
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email,sign up to the Front Page newsletter here. For two-minute audio updates, tryThe Briefing- on podcasts, smart speakers and WhatsApp.
She eats little more than grilled fish and steamed vegetables. But Victoria Beckham has called time on the desire to be thin, declaring it an "old fashioned attitude".
