Turn down your thermostat to stop Russia using gas as economic and political weapon
20220303
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/03/turn-thermostat-stop-russia-using-gas-economic-political-weapon/
Russia has already been accused of adding to a surge in wholesale gas price this year by restricting supplies to Europe on the spot market.
"Next week, the Commission will propose a pathway for Europe to become independent from Russian gas as soon as possible," she said.
Kadri Simson, European Commissioner for energy, said Russia's attack on Ukraine was a watershed moment.
The Kremlin's invasion of Ukraine has forced an urgent rethink of the continents dependence on Russia for energy.
In a major step, the recommendations include not striking any new gas supply contracts with Russia.
It also calls for faster replacement of gas boilers in homes with heat pumps, faster deployment of wind and solar projects, and better energy efficiency.
Adjusting the thermostat for buildings heating would deliver immediate annual energy savings of around 10bn cubic metres for each degree of reduction while also bringing down energy bills.
Nobody is under any illusions anymore," he said. "Russias use of its natural gas resources as an economic and political weapon show Europe needs quickly to be ready to face considerable uncertainty over Russian gas supplies next winter.
"The IEAs analysis outlines a number of concrete steps we can take towards that goal. It is a very timely and valuable contribution to our work.
Fatih Birol, the IEAs executive director, said Russia was using its resources as an economic and political weapon.
International Energy Agency says one degree reduction would cut European consumption by 10bn cubic metres a year
Europe gets about 40pc of its gas from Russia meaning it continues to fund Vladimir Putins regime even as the West try to cripple his economy.
Households have been urged to turn down their thermostats to prevent the Kremlin from using its gas as an economic and political weapon in an unprecedented intervention by the International Energy Agency.
Sanctions could yet be applied on energy exports while Russia could also retaliate against measures imposed so far by cutting off energy supplies.
Adjusting heating controls in Europes gas-heated buildings would be another avenue for temporary action, saving considerable amounts of energy. The average temperature for buildings heating across the EU at present is above 22C.
The advice on thermostats is part of a 10-point plan to reduce the European Unions reliance on Russian natural gas set out by the IEA on Thursday.
The IEA was set up to improve market resilience in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis. Its members are OECD countries including the UK, the US and France.
The IEA's plan does not address whether it would support sanctions on Russian energy exports.
Many European citizens have already responded to Russias invasion of Ukraine in various ways, via donations or in some cases by directly assisting refugees from Ukraine, the IEA said.
It said a one degree reduction could reduce Europes gas consumption by about 10bn cubic metres a year.
