UK agrees to sell warships and missiles to Ukraine as tensions with Russia grow
20211117
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2021/11/17/uk-agrees-sell-warships-missiles-ukraine-tensions-russia-grow/
On Wednesday, Boris Johnson warned it would be a tragic, tragic mistake for the Kremlin to think there was anything to be gained by military adventurism in Ukraine.
Appearing before MPs at the Liaison Committee, the Prime Minister was asked what military assistance the UK was prepared to offer Poland and Ukraine to deter Russian aggression.
The deal will include the procurement of two mine countermeasure vessels, the joint production of eight missile ships, as well as the delivery of and retrofit of weapons systems to existing vessels.
The Prime Minister declared that what weve got to do is to make sure that everybody understands the cost of miscalculation on the borders of both Ukraine and Poland would be enormous.
Ben Wallace has agreed to enhance Ukraines naval capabilities in light of increasing Russian aggression, which has seen thousands of migrants camp out at the Polish border with Belarus for a second week. Warsaw has accused Vladimir Putin of orchestrating the crisis along with the Belarusian dictator, Alexander Lukashenko.
Ukraine, sadly for historical reasons, does not have the same guarantee from Nato powers. Ukraine doesnt even have a membership action programme, Mr Johnson added.
It comes after the former defence secretary Michael Fallon wrote in The Telegraph that he had made the case as far back as 2014 to arm the Ukrainian Army, but had been denied the chance by the cabinet.
However, he said that the compromise of Operation Orbital, which saw British troops train more than 20,000 Ukrainian troops was not enough, as he called for the UK to build up defensive capability and resilience right across Ukraine.
Britain will sell warships and missiles to Ukraine after the Defence Secretary signed a new deal with the country amid tensions with Russia.
Mr Fallon wrote: We gifted some protective equipment, but my coalition cabinet colleagues wouldnt go further: they didnt want to provoke Russia. I was restricted to providing non-lethal assistance that will reduce fatalities and casualties.
Defence secretary, Ben Wallace, and his Ukrainian counterpart, Oleksii Yuriyovych Reznikov, said in a joint statement: Our governments have no desire to be adversarial, or seek in any way to strategically encircle or undermine the Russian Federation.
Mr Johnson distinguished between the two very different cases. Poland has a Nato security guarantee and under Article 5 were committed to the defence of Poland, he said.
In early November, the UK signed a treaty with Ukraine for British exports to go to Ukraine to enhance its maritime presence. The treaty will enable Kyiv to seek loans from the UK to buy British warships and missiles.
It comes after a week of growing tensions in which Russia claimed that it had diverted an RAF reconnaissance aircraft over the Black Sea when it was in international airspace. The RAF was then forced to scramble a quick reaction alert to track two Russian nuclear capable bombers over the North Sea, while earlier this week Russia tested an anti-satellite weapon in space.
There will also be the joint production of a frigate and technical support to the country for the building of naval infrastructure.
