Ukrainians block roads leading to Europes largest nuclear power plant
20220302
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/02/ukraine-nuclear-power-plant-zaporizhzhia-russia-invasion/
Makeshift blockade erected to prevent access to Zaporizhzhia facility as Russian troops advance in the area
While a direct strike on the plant is unlikely, experts also voiced concerns that safety could be compromised or the risk of an accident will increase, either if staff were to struggle to reach the plant or there was a prolonged interruption in the power supply needed to keep the fuel rods cool.
Russia has seized control of the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the scene of the worlds worst nuclear disaster in 1986. This led to the Ukrainian foreign ministry to warn of the possibility of another ecological disaster.
The Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant is believed to be the largest nuclear reactor in Europe, as well as among the top 10 largest in the world. It was brought online in the mid-Eighties. Made up of six out of Ukraines 15 reactors, it generates nearly half of the countrys electricity. It also has a storage depot for nuclear-spent fuel.
Hundreds of people were filmed amassing on the main road leading to the town of Enerhodar, just south of the huge Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
An accident can happen like the one at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant or the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Russian generals  think again! Radiation does not know nationalities, it does not spare anyone!
However, Russia claimed that its military has taken control of the area around the plant on the Dnieper river in south-eastern Ukraine as they moved up from the south of the country.
Rafael Grossi, the director-general of the IAEA, was said to be gravely concerned about military activity near the plant.
Pictures of the defences were released as Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraines ministry of internal affairs, warned that the impending firefight around Enerhodar could culminate in munitions accidentally striking the Zaporizhzhia plant.
But Mr Geraschenko called on Russian generals to bypass Zaporizhzhia just north of the plant, claiming that the possibility of fierce fighting in the area could result in a nuclear accident.
The clip, taken from a drone, also showed a long barricade of sandbags set up across a railway line and road running parallel that are believed to lead to the town.
Writing on his Facebook page, he said: Because of Putins madness, Europe is again on the brink of a nuclear catastrophe. The city where the largest nuclear power plant in Europe is located is preparing for a battle with the invaders.
Video footage posted on social media showed Ukrainians building makeshift roadblocks with lorries, scrap cars and piles of tyres.
Ukrainian citizens have blocked roads leading to Europes largest power plant as Russia warned that it risks triggering another Chernobyl catastrophe as troops advance in the area.
While nuclear power plants have diesel generators as a backup power supply, they also rely on deliveries of fuel, which can be interrupted during fierce fighting.
He added: It is the first time a military conflict is happening amidst the facilities of a large, established nuclear programme.
The IAEA says that it has received a request from Ukraine to provide immediate assistance in coordinating activities in relation to the safety of Chernobyl and other sites.
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, the global nuclear watchdog, said that it had received a letter from Russia saying personnel at the Zaporizhzhia plant continued their work on providing nuclear safety and monitoring radiation in normal mode of operation.
Normal radiation levels in the area increased slightly, apparently due to military activity in the area disturbing the soil.
