Ukraine war could turn into Russias Vietnam says Ben Wallace
20220505
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/05/ukraine-war-could-turn-russias-vietnam-says-ben-wallace/
Speaking in Finland during a visit to British troops on exercises, Mr Wallace said the war in Ukraine could result in a frozen conflict, like the Korean peninsula, or a military collapse - such as the US experienced in 1973.
Mr Lukashenko, one of the Russian president's closest allies, said the war in Ukraine was dragging on and it was time to resume peace negotiations. However, he stopped short of criticising Putin directly.
Speaking in Mariupol, Sergei Kiriyenko, Putin's deputy chief of staff, said it would be "impossible" to hold a parade but "the time will come and will come soon", the Russian state-owned newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta said.
As fighting in the Donbas continued, a leading Kremlin official said there would be no Victory Day parade in the Russian-controlled territories of Donetsk and Luhansk on May 9.
Stressing that this did not mean Russia was likely to invade another country, the Defence Secretary said Putin might take the opportunity to say he was "defending the world against Nazis" and that his so-called "special military operation" was "now a bigger thing", in order to mobilise Russian society.
"This could be a Vietnam. Armies reach a breaking point. If the Russians collapse like they did north of Kyiv, it could very quickly turn from a quagmire to a rout and the whole thing could collapse back into Russia."
The suggestion that Putin's anticipated lightning military success has become seriously bogged down was echoed by Aleksandr Lukashenko, the leader of Belarus.
"As part of the planned combat training activities for the forces in the Baltic Fleet of the Kaliningrad region, training was conducted to deliver mock missile strikes with crews from the Iskander operational-tactical missile systems," the Russian ministry of defence said.
On Thursday, it emerged that Russia has tested the combat readiness of nuclear-capable missiles based in its Kaliningrad exclave inside central Europe.
Suggestions of a potential wider mobilisation were refuted by a senior Russian MP. Yuri Shvytkin, the deputy chairman of the Duma's defence committee, said the Kremlin had no plans to escalate the war in Ukraine by introducing martial law.
Conflict could transform from a 'quagmire to a rout' with a 'collapse' of Vladimir Putin's troops, warns Defence Secretary
"In recent days, foreign media has been circulating information that a general mobilisation is being prepared in Russia," he said an interview with a Russian radio station. "These rumours are being spread in order to sow confusion and panic among the population."
Hinting at suggestions that locals opposed to the war had taken action to slow the movement of Russian forces attempting to reposition to push into the Donbas region, Mr Wallace noted that Belarusian rail lines had developed the habit of exploding.
Ben Wallace said that the strain of operating beyond its borders and the potential loss of public support at home could result in the "collapse" of Vladimir Putin's, despite fielding far more advanced weapons than Ukraine.
"I am not immersed in this problem enough to say whether it goes according to plan, like the Russians say, or like I feel it," he told the Associated Press. "I want to stress one more time, I feel like this operation has dragged on."
Belarus has offered only half-hearted support for Moscow's invasion and has not committed troops south of the border.
"Vietnam lasted 15 years and led to the overwhelming defeat, the rout, of the biggest military power with highly advanced weapons over their enemy, because they had home advantage and public support," he said.
Mr Wallace said Putin could use the May 9 parade in Moscow "as a chance to broaden the fight" over Ukraine.
The war in Ukraine could be Russia's Vietnam if it turns from a "quagmire to a rout", the Defence Secretary has said.
The exercise again raises tension around Kaliningrad, which lies on the Baltic Sea coast, where the Kremlin has said that it will position nuclear weapons if Finland and Sweden join Nato, which they are expected to do within a month.
