Ukraine afternoon briefing Five developments as Kyiv accuses Moscow of staging terror attacks
20220414
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/14/ukraine-afternoon-briefing-five-developments-kyiv-accuses-moscow/
Finland, which shares a 810-mile border with Russia, and Sweden are considering joining the alliance.
Kyiv has rejected claims by Moscow that Ukrainian forces had carried out attacks along the border between the countries including a strike that Russia claimed left seven injured.
Good evening. Ukraine's national security and defence council has accused Moscow of staging "terror attacks" on its own territory to stir up "anti-Ukrainian hysteria".
Ukraine says it is reopening humanitarian corridors through nine routes in Ukraine's east and south, to facilitate the evacuation of civilians from war-scarred regions after a day-long pause that Kyiv attributed to Russian violations.
One of Vladimir Putin's closest allies has warned Nato that if Sweden and Finland joined the US-led military alliance, Russia would deploy nuclear weapons and hypersonic missiles in an exclave in the heart of Europe.
Russian officials accused Ukraine of sending helicopters to bomb a town in the southern Bryansk region about six miles from the border, after reporting seven injured in shelling.
"Humanitarian corridors in the Lugansk region will be run under the condition of cessation of shelling by the occupying forces," Vereshchuk said Thursday.
According to the Russian ministry of defence, the flagship of the Black Sea fleet was evacuated overnight after a fire caused munitions on board to explode.
Ukrainian authorities have been urging people in the southeastern Donbas area to quickly move west in advance of a feared, large-scale Russian offensive to capture its composite regions, Donetsk and Lugansk.
Russian warship, go f--- yourself, a border guard told Russias Moskva missile cruiser on the first day of war when asked to surrender.
Ukraine's national security and defence council in a statement on social media instead accused Russia of staging "terror attacks" on its own territory to stir up "anti-Ukrainian hysteria" in the country.
Iryna Vereshchuk, Deputy Prime Minister, said in a statement on social media that the routes would be operating a day after they were shut because they were, she had said, "too dangerous".
Medvedev also explicitly raised the nuclear threat by saying that there could be no more talk of a "nuclear free" Baltic - where Russia has its Kaliningrad exclave sandwiched between Poland and Lithuania.
It marks the latest in a series of allegations of cross-border attacks by Kyiv on Russian territory.
Here are the key updates from this afternoon - and you can follow all the latest developments on our liveblog here.
It comes after Russia accused Ukrainian forces of carrying out attacks along the border between the countries.
Russian forces claim to have captured a British man who fought against them in the besieged city of Mariupol.
The man shows signs of being badly beaten in the image, which was posted by a pro-Russian Twitter account.
Aiden Aslin, who joined Ukraines military as a marine in 2018, appears to have been photographed restrained in handcuffs after surrendering to Russian troops.
It was the fearful, quickly muttered expression of defiance that has become Ukraines unofficial national motto.
Dmitry Medvedev, deputy chairman of Russia's Security Council, said that should Sweden and Finland join Nato then Russia would have to strengthen its land, naval and air forces in the Baltic Sea.
Plus: Evacuations resume in Ukraine's east and south, and Russian warship seriously damaged in suspected missile hit
Elsewhere, Russian forces claim to have captured a British man who fought against them in the besieged city of Mariupol.
