Ukraines battlehardened soldiers dig into trenches as they await Russian assault in the Donbas
20220329
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/29/ukraines-battle-hardened-soldiers-dug-trenches-await-russian/
Each unit of the SOF is made up of 300 troops, including an infantry brigade equivalent to the US army ranger regiment. The units are tasked with reconnaissance missions, intelligence gathering and combat. SOF have been trained by UK special forces as well as instructors from other Nato countries and were specifically tasked with negating the threat posed by Russia and separatist-backed groups in Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine.
Military experts believe that with both sides now lined up along a single front, hostilities could grind on for three years or more
Philip Ingram, a former colonel in British military intelligence, said: Ukraine has its most capable formations around the Donbas. That is where they expected the first invasion to come from. Their defences are well prepared. Russia can keep going for years and unfortunately the Ukrainian people will suffer the most.
Among the Ukrainian troops are 2,000 Special Operations Forces SOF, the equivalent of the UKs SAS and SBS. Janes, the experts on open source defence intelligence, said Ukrainian SOF are playing a pivotal role in the conflict.
Tens of thousands of troops trained by the British and dug into First World War-style trenches will now fight Ukraines last stand in the Donbas.
Ben Barry, a retired brigadier and senior fellow for land warfare at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, said Russia would try to divert Ukraine troops from joining the defences in the Donbas.
Russian troops are also advancing from the north, launching attacks on the town of Izyum. The town is strategically vital to Ukraine in keeping open supply routes to the larger city of Sloviansk, from where dug-in troops are being resupplied with food, ammunition, weaponry and medicines. Izyum has seen fierce fighting in recent days, with video footage showing bombed-out buildings as Vladimir Putins forces try to open a line of advance to the south.
He said it was unclear how many of the 10 brigades that had been stationed in the region had been moved to Kyiv and other areas at the outbreak of the Ukraine war. But he drew parallels with Bosnia, where the sides, only after fighting to exhaustion, finally agreed a ceasefire. The war in Bosnia lasted two and a half years and only mutual exhaustion led to peace, he said. Ukraines troops are already very well dug in in First World War-style trenches. We dont know what proportion of the forces are in JFO and what proportion have been sent elsewhere. But Ukraine has had time to prepare their defences.
The Kremlin - if it is to be believed - is cutting back its military operations in Kyiv and the northern city of Chernihiv and concentrating its forces on its new Plan B objective of capturing the Donbas. Ukraines battle-hardened soldiers will be waiting for them.
There are dangers for Ukraine. Russia is retreating from Kyiv but will now try a pincer movement to encircle Ukrainian forces in the Donbas. Russian forces can move north from Mariupol, the port that is about to fall under Moscow control.
According to Janes, the SOF resemble their Nato partners and are equipped with body armour, night vision goggles and anti-tank weapons systems including javelin and NLAW. But they also received in 2020 several hundred thermobaric rocket launchers, effectively flame throwers with a range of up to a kilometre. SOF have deployed unmanned drones that have had a devastating effect on Russian convoys bogged down north of Kyiv. The troops are highly mobile in armoured 4x4s.
Military experts said on Tuesday that with both sides now lined up along a single war front, hostilities could grind on for three years or more. But Ukraine is well dug in and well drilled. About 22,000 Ukrainian troops have received British training since 2015 under Operation Orbital, a programme put in place to shore up Ukraines eastern front.
In the run-up to the war, 10 Ukrainian brigades - as many as 40,000 men - were stationed in the region, dug into trenches and waiting for the enemy to attack. It is unclear how many of the brigades, part of Ukraines Joint Forces Operation JFO in the Donbas, remain in the east. A number may well have been deployed to protect Kyiv and will now likely be hastily redeployed to the east.
