Ukraine morning briefing Five key developments as Russia intensifies assault on Severodonetsk
20220529
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/29/ukraine-morning-briefing-five-key-developments-russia-intensifies/
Hundreds of Lithuanians are clubbing together to buy an advanced military drone for Ukraine in its war against Russia, in a show of solidarity with a fellow country formerly under Moscow's rule.
Good morning. Russian forces intensified their assault on the Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk on Sunday after claiming to have captured the nearby rail hub of Lyman.
The military chief of the heavily-bombedeastern Ukrainian city ofSeverodonetsk said Ukrainian troops were in a "tough defensive position" as Russia intensified its efforts to capture the city.
Some 3 million euros 2.5 million have been raised in just three days - out of the 5 million euros needed - largely in small amounts, according to Laisves TV, a Lithuanian internet broadcaster that launched the drive.
Speaking on national television on Saturday evening, Mr Striuk said the Mir Hotel was at the centre of the most intense fighting.
"The city is being constantly shelled. The humanitarian headquarters that is located in the city was practically immobilised today, because it is not safe to move around the city, and the work of the headquarters was suspended."
"Poroshenko had received all the formal permissions to leave the country and had been included ... in the official delegation of the Parliament of Ukraine for this event," his European Solidarity parliamentary faction said.
Some 50 homes in the village of Demydiv remain partially submerged months after a dam was destroyed and the area flooded to stop Russian troops from advancing on Ukraine capital Kyiv, regional governor Oleksiy Kuleba said late on Saturday.
Invading forces appear close to seizing all of the Luhansk region, one of the more modest war goals the Kremlin set after abandoning its assault on the capital, Kyiv, in the face of Ukrainian resistance.
Former Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko was prevented from leaving Ukraine to take part in a meeting of a Nato body in Lithuania, his party's parliamentary faction said on Saturday.
"Before this war started, none of us thought that we would be buying guns. But it's a normal thing now. Something must be done for the world to get better," said Agne Belickaite, 32, who sent 100 euros as soon as the fundraising launched on Wednesday.
Serhiy Bratchuk, a spokesman for the Odesa regional military administration in southern Ukraine, said in an online post that "so many Harpoons have been handed over to us that we can sink the entire Russian Black Sea Fleet. Why not?"
"At this time, about 50 houses in the village of Demydiv remain flooded," Kuleba wrote in a post on the Telegram messaging app.
Ukraine has started receiving Harpoon anti-ship missiles from Denmark and self-propelled howitzers from the United States, arms that will bolster forces fighting Russia's invasion, Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said on Saturday.
"The coastal defence of our country will not only be strengthened by Harpoon missiles  they will be used by trained Ukrainian teams," Mr Reznikov wrote on his Facebook page.
"I've been donating to buy guns for Ukraine for a while now. And will do so until the victory," she told Reuters, adding she was motivated in part by fears Russia could attack Lithuania.
Ukrainian media reported Mr Poroshenko could not cross the border due to "technical problems" with a permit allowing him to leave the country.
"People are understanding of the situation. We, in turn, make every effort to resolve the issue."
He said Harpoon shore-to-ship missiles would be operated alongside Ukrainian Neptune missiles to defend the coast, including the southern port of Odesa.
The drone has proven effective in recent years against Russian forces and their allies in conflicts in Syria and Libya, and its purchase is being orchestrated by Lithuania's Ministry of Defence, which told Reuters it planned to sign a letter of intent to buy the craft from Turkey next week.
The Ukrainian military blew up a dam on the river Irpin in February, sending water surging into the village and thousands of acres around it, flooding houses and fields, but preventing Russian tanks from reaching the capital city.
Mr Poroshenko was stopped twice at a border crossing with Poland while he was on his way to the meeting of Nato's Parliamentary Assembly, a consultative interparliamentary organisation, the statement said.
Plus:  Lithuanians dig deep to buy drone for Ukraine and houses still flooded in village of Demydiv
The cities ofSeverodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk are the last major areas under Ukrainian control in the Luhansk region.
