Ukraine evening briefing Five developments as Russia launches powerful assault on Azovstal plant
20220503
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/03/ukraine-evening-briefing-five-developments-russia-launches-powerful/
Vadym Prystaiko said: "Now it's time maybe for a temporary relaxation of visa requirements just to relieve people from this unnecessary, long, bureaucratic and difficult bureaucratic procedures."
A Ukrainian counter-offensive has pushed Russian forces 25 miles east of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city, according to US officials.
Below are the key developments from this afternoon - and you can follow more on our live blog here.
They also said Russian gains in Donbas had been "minimal at best" and "quite frankly anaemic", and Putin's troops appeared to be displaying a risk aversion to casualties.
Russian forces are launching an assault on the Azovstal steel plant, the last hold-out of Ukrainian forces in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukraine confirmed on Tuesday.
Ukraine's ambassador to the UK has urged Priti Patel, the Home Secretary, to relax the "unnecessary, long, bureaucratic" visa scheme for people fleeing the war.
Good evening. The Russian army has begun an assault on Mariupol's Azovstal steel plant, using artillery and planes to target the facility.
The official added that in areas of Donbas they were "moving in and then declaring victory, and then withdrawing their troops only to let the Ukrainians take it back.
"Of course, it would be necessary for the leader of the Kremlin to make available some window of opportunity," Francis was quoted as saying.
Elsewhere, Boris Johnson evoked Winston Churchill in the first address made by a Western leader to the Ukrainian parliament since the war began. Speaking via video link to the Verkhovna Rada, he told lawmakers: "This is Ukraine's finest hour."
A senior US defence official said: "They were hoping to get Kharkiv and hold it."
"A powerful assault on the territory of the Azovstal plant is underway with support from armoured vehicles and tanks," Sviatoslav Palamar, deputy commander of Ukraine's Azov military unit, said in a statement on social media, adding that Russian forces were attempting "to land a large number of infantry by boat".
Of the 74,700 Ukrainians who applied for visas under the sponsorship scheme, only 15 per cent have arrived in Britain.
Popes for decades have sought to visit Moscow as part of the longstanding effort to heal relations with the Russian Orthodox Church, which split with Rome more than 1,000 years ago. But an invitation has never been forthcoming.
"Using artillery and aircraft, units of the Russian army and the Donetsk People's Republic are beginning to destroy" the "firing positions" of the Ukrainian troops, the defence ministry said in a statement.
The Russian army said its forces and pro-Moscow separatists were using artillery and planes to target the complex.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson became the first Western leader to address the Ukrainian parliament on Tuesday. Speaking via video link to the Verkhovna Rada, Mr Johnson promised that "Ukraine will win" in the war against Russia.
It was not immediately clear what the attacks meant for the fresh attempt to evacuate civilians from the complex.
"But we still have not had a response and we are still pushing, even if I fear that Putin cannot and does not want to have this meeting at this moment."
Echoing the words of Winston Churchill, he added: "This is Ukraines finest hour, that will be remembered and recounted for generations to come.
According to the latest Government figures, 59,000 people have had their visa applications approved but have not yet reached Britain.
Francis said he made the offer about three weeks into Russia's invasion, via the Vatican secretary of state, Cardinal Pietro Parolin.
The Ukrainian government said that around 100 people had been brought out over the weekend after a UN-mediated safe passage was established.
In an interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Pope Francis revealed that he has offered to travel to Moscow to meet with Vladimir Putin to try to end Russia's war in Ukraine - but he is yet to hear back from the Russian leader.
Plus: Boris Johnson declares 'Ukraine will win' in speech to Kyiv's parliament, and Pope Francis reveals he offered to meet Vladimir Putin
The "powerful" offensive was launched despite plans on Tuesday to evacuate remaining civilians from the complex, where they have been holed up for weeks alongside Ukrainian resistance fighters.
"Your children and grandchildren will say that Ukrainians taught the world that the brute force of an aggressor counts for nothing against the moral force of a people determined to be free."
