Ukraine under pressure to bow to Russian demands after meeting with Emmanuel Macron
20220208
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/08/ukraine-pressure-bow-russian-demands-meeting-emmanuel-macron/
Ukrainian officials say privately that those provisions would fatally undermine the country's sovereignty by granting the Kremlin a lever to control both foreign and domestic policy, and so unpopular with the public they could trigger the collapse of any government that tried to implement them.
But he warned that even a repackaged Minsk agreement under a different name would face considerable public resistance and would likely exacerbate division in Ukrainian society that the Kremlin would seek to exploit.
"We have a common view with President Macron on threats and challenges to the security of Ukraine, of the whole of Europe, of the world in general," he said.
While Moscow, Kyiv, and Western capitals have always insisted they believe in the deal, it has never been fully implemented and low-level fighting has continued in eastern Ukraine has continued ever since. At least 14,000 people have been killed in the war there to date.
Minsk II was drawn up as the Russian army and its local separatist allies were in the process of encircling and defeating Ukrainian forces in eastern Ukraine in 2015, and the immediate provision was to impose a ceasefire and withdrawal of heavy weapons.
But speaking in Kyiv alongside Mr Zelensky on Tuesday morning, Mr Macron called the agreement the only path to a sustainable peace.
I discussed these questions with president Putin yesterday, and he confirmed his intention to continue implementation of the Minsk agreements," he said. "I also heard today from you that you are also ready to fulfil these agreements," he added to Mr Zelensky.
It came after Mr Putin demanded Ukraine implement the agreement, saying: Like it or not, my beauty, you have to put up with it.
Pavlo Klimkin, who was Ukraines foreign minister when the agreement was signed, told the Telegraph before Mr Macron's visit that discussions between Kyiv and Western capitals about how to implement Minsk "not on purely Russian terms" were underway.
It also requires several amendments to Ukrainian laws and constitution designed to re-integrate the Russian-controlled separatist "republics", which broke away during the 2014-2015 war, back into Ukraine.
Mr Macron said on Tuesday that he had secured agreement from both Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky to implement the Minsk II peace agreement, which is deeply unpopular in Ukraine, following meetings in Moscow and Kyiv.
Mr Putin has denied planning a war, but earlier warned of "military-technical" action if Nato refuses to give substantive promises that it will never expand again and rule out Ukraine's future membership.
Ukraine was on Tuesday under pressure to bow to Russian demands to change its constitution after Emmanuel Macron signalled the West would back the move as a path to avert war.
The president was using a Russian idiom for telling children to do something they do not want to. The Kremlin dismissed speculation Mr Putin was quoting an obscene rock song that also uses the phrase.
He said after his talks with Mr Macron on Monday that Russia would "do everything to find compromises that suit everyone" and that a number of proposals put forward by the French president could "form a basis for further steps" on easing the crisis. He did not give further details.
Asked about Mr Putin's remark the previous night he said Ukraine was indeed a beauty, but that it did not belong to the Russian president.
Mr Zelensky did not mention Minsk directly, but said he hoped a meeting of German, French, Ukrainian and Russian officials in Berlin on Thursday could pave the way for a summit between the four countries leaders aimed at reviving the stalled peace process.
Russia has massed over 100,000 troops on its borders with Ukraine and in neighbouring Belarus in what Western governments believe is preparation for a possible large-scale invasion.
The French president signalled the West would back Russian demands for Ukraine to change its constitution to avert an invasion
