Ukraine requests more military aid from West amid concerns of Russian buildup on borders
20211118
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2021/11/18/ukraine-requests-military-aid-west-amid-russia-buildup-concerns/
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken last week voiced fresh concern about Russian troop movements and warned Moscow against any possible invasion.
But social media videos have in recent days shown Russia moving troops, tanks and missiles towards the Ukrainian border, raising concerns over an escalation in the conflict.
The minister said that after his visits to Washington and Brussels in recent days, "work is underway to develop a comprehensive package of containment of Russia".
"Russia's aggressiveness, both diplomatic and military, increased considerably in recent weeks", Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said.
It was not clear whether the new law was related to Russian border activity or the immigration crisis in neighbouring Belarus.
On Wednesday, Britain announced it would sell warships and missiles to Ukraine after the Defence Secretary signed a new deal with the country amid tensions with Moscow.
The Ukrainian army has been locked in a simmering conflict with pro-Russia separatists in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions that erupted after Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014.
It came as Kyiv passed fresh legislation to allow the country's border guards to use more force, firearms, weapons and military equipment including ships and aircraft.
Mr Kuleba said that this package means "political support" for Ukraine from its Western partners, "increased diplomatic and sanctions pressure" on Russia, and agreements "on the supply of additional defence weapons for our army".
Ukraine and its Western allies accuse Russia of sending troops and arms across the borders - claims Moscow denies.
After an uptick in violence at the beginning of the year, Russia massed around 100,000 troops on Ukraine's borders in the spring, raising fears of a major escalation in the conflict.
Ukraine said on Thursday it was seeking more military aid from its Western allies after they voiced concerns over Russian troop movements along its border.
Russia later announced a pullback but both Ukraine and its ally the United States said at the time the withdrawal was limited.
The European Union said earlier that it was also alarmed by Russian military activities close to Ukraine's border.
