UkraineRussia evening briefing Five key developments as Moscow says it will target Western weapons convoys
20220312
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/12/ukraine-russia-evening-briefing-five-key-developments-moscow/
A top Ukrainian security officialearlier warned Belarus not to send troops toUkraine, sayingKyiv was showing restraint towards Belarus despite the country being used as a launchpad for Russian planes.
Good evening. Russia has warned that it will target weapons supplies sent to Ukraine by Nato member states, potentially escalating a war that Western leaders are desperate to contain.
The French and German leaders reiterated their call for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine as a condition for full negotiations, the official added.
The fight for Kyiv will be Russia's new "Stalingrad if they want to make it so", a Ukrainian MP has said, as attacks on the capital continued to intensify.
Viktor Gulevich, Belarus's chief of general staff, said that Minsk has no plans to join the Russian invasion ofUkraine, but is sending five battalion tactical groups to its border on rotation to replenish forces already stationed there.
Here are five key developments from this afternoon  and you can follow the latest news in our live blog.
At a briefing in Moscow, Sergei Ryabkov, the Russian deputy foreign minister, said Russian forces would treat convoys of weapons as legitimate military targets and could attack them.
"We warned the United States that pumping Ukraine with weapons from several countries orchestrated by them is not just a dangerous move but an action that turns the corresponding convoys into legitimate targets," said Mr Ryabkov.
Sviatoslav Yurah told the BBC's Radio 4 Today programme: "It's a massive town of millions and if the Russians try to come in they will have quite a fight on their hands - this will be their Stalingrad if they want to make it so.
Since the start of the war, the West has sent thousands of what it has called "defensive weapons" to Ukraine, including around 17,000 anti-tank weapons and 900 stinger anti-aircraft missiles. Ukrainian soldiers have praised the effectiveness of Javelin anti-tank missiles sent by Britain.
Supplies of anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles, rifles and body armour have been vital in bolstering Ukraine's defence since the Russian invasion began on Feb 24.
Plus: Volodymyr Zelensky says 1,300 Ukrainian troops have been killed so far as he calls for a ceasefire with Russia
Mr Zelenksy said that a ceasefire would be required for peace negotiations to take place with Moscow.
However, the Ukrainian president said that the two sides were now exchanging "concrete proposals" rather than just slapping each other with ultimatums.
Vladimir Putin did not show willingness to end the warwith Ukraine during a call today with French President EmmanuelMacronand German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, a French presidency official said.
Around 1,300 Ukrainian troops have been killed since the start of the Russian invasion, President Volodymyr Zelensky said today, adding that over 500 Russian troops surrendered yesterday.
