Ukrainian town to rename street in honour of new hero Boris Johnson
20220420
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/20/ukrainian-town-rename-street-honour-new-hero-boris-johnson/
It said in a statement: "The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is one of the most principled opponents of the Russian invasion, a leader in sanctions on Russia and defence support for Ukraine. Rename Mayakovsky Street to Boris Johnson Street."
The UK has provided more than 450 million in defensive military aid to Ukraine in addition to around 400 million of economic and humanitarian support since Russia invaded on Feb 24.
During Mr Johnson's visit to meet Mr Zelensky, the Ukrainian defence ministry suggested more western countries should follow his lead in offering more defensive and non-lethal aid.
A street in Ukraine has been named after Boris Johnson after he was hailed for leading the international response to the Russian invasion.
The news was broken in an online post by a council official, who said the new name represented "new heroes".
Lesia Vasylenko, a Ukrainian MP, wrote after the announcement: "Derussification is spreading fast across Ukraine. All Moscow and Pushkin streets are getting new names. A town in the Odesa region will soon get a Boris Johnson street, for example. All I can say is support Ukraine."
Despite initially failing to impress Lenin, the experimental poet emerged as a celebrated "poetic journalist" whose output was seemingly in tune with the ideology of the Soviet regime. But he became increasingly frustrated with the state and increasing cultural censorship before taking his life aged 30.
Vladimir Mayakovsky, after whom the street was named until now, was a Russian poet and playwright at the forefront of the "Russian futurist" movement.
The Prime Minister was praised by Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, for his "decisive and significant support" when he earlier this month became the first G7 leader to visit Kyiv during the war.
A council in Fontanka, just outside the port city of Odesa, is now planning to name a residential road after Mr Johnson.
Celebrating the "show of solidarity" between the nations, it said: We are strengthening our union of democracies. Be brave, like Boris. Be brave, like Ukraine."
