Ukraine morning briefing Russia will not end war until all objectives are achieved
20220525
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/25/ukraine-morning-briefing-russia-will-not-end-war-objectives/
Sergei Shoigu, Russia's defence minister, claims his country is deliberately slowing its offensive in Ukraine in order to allow civilians to evacuate, RIA news agency has reported.
As Ukraine looks ahead to rebuilding its country, Kyiv is considering the possibility of issuing debt receipts backed by frozen Russian assets to raise the funds, a presidential adviser has said.
There were unconfirmed reports Russian forceshad cut off the road through which Kyiv has been resupplying its fighters in Severodonetsk.
The situation on the eastern front is extremely difficult, because the fate of this country is perhaps being decided there right now.
Mr Zelensky renewed calls for heavy weapons from foreign partners, saying arms for Kyiv were the best investment in stability in the world.
The Russian offensive in the Donbas has made significant gains, with Ukrainian officials saying the fate of the country could be decided in the ongoing battles.
Meanwhile, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has warned that Western countries must not trade security for economic profit, referring to debates over the use of Chinese technology in 5G networks and the Nord Stream 2 pipeline for Russian gas.
Ms von der Leyen has said that Russia is using food supplies as a weapon with global repercussions, just like it does in the energy sector.
Here's what happened overnight  and you can follow the latest updates in our live blog.
The cities straddle the Siversky Donets river, and Ukrainian forces are heavily dug in after resisting Moscow-backed separatists in the war of 2014.
Three months to the day since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine, President Volodymr Zelensky mourned the thousands of Ukrainian men and women who have perished.
Now we are observing the most active phase of the full-scale aggression which Russia unfolded against our country, Oleksandr Motuzyanyk, a spokesman for the Ukrainian ministry of defence, said.
"The longer this war lasts, the greater will be the price of protecting freedom not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole free world."
But in Moscow, Russian Defence Minister SergeiShoigu made it clear Russia was bedding in for a long war in Ukraine.
Plus: George Soros warns conflict risks sparking another world war and Ursula von der Leyen calls for talks with Moscow
"We will continue the special military operation until all the objectives have been achieved," Shoigu said, using Moscow's name for the war.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that supplying Ukraine with rocket-propelled grenades, tanks, anti-ship missiles and other weapons is "the best investment in maintaining stability in the world and in preventing many serious crises that Russia is planning or has already provoked".
It comes as France's Europe minister said Ukraine would eventually be part of the European Union.
Moscows troops were close to encircling the neighbouring cities of Severodonetsk and Lyschansk, whose capture would give them control of half of the eastern region.
Russian forces have sought to encircle Ukrainian troops in twin eastern cities straddling a river as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned Moscow was seeking to destroy the eastern Donbas region where it has focused its attacks.
European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen has called for talks with Moscow on unlocking wheat exports that are trapped in Ukraine as a result of a Russian sea blockade.
A billionaire investor and advocate of European integration has warned that the conflict in Ukraine could spiral into a Third World War that ends western civilisation.George Soros said that the conflict had shaken Europe to its core in a speech to the World Economic Forum in Davos.The invasion may have been the beginning of the Third World War and our civilisation may not survive it, he said.The 91-year-old also said that Germany has a heavy price to pay for its economic ties to Russia and China.
