Ukrainians should be allowed to decide their future Readers on peace talks with Russia
20220330
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/30/ukrainians-should-allowed-decide-future-readers-peace-talks/
"Sanctions should not be lifted once Russia has withdrawn. When they have paid for the damages and rebuilding of Ukraine and paid families for their loved ones suffering, plus all those committing war crimes are charged, then perhaps sanctions can be eased.
"I absolutely agree that Ukraine should be allowed to decide their future, and how that will look, without interference from anyone. However, that should be down entirely to the Ukraine citizens, and not just President Zelensky.
"I just hope that this can be brought to a peaceful conclusion, as only the most ill-informed of us would want a world war. Once peace is restored, then is the time for the Ukraine people to speak, and this time, to ensure their voices are, in fact, heard, whatever that takes."
"Ukraine has little to gain from 'compromise' dressed up as 'humanitarian relief'. Russia has waged a war of aggression, committing grievous war crimes. Only Vladimir Putin's removal should prompt a ceasefire only reparations for the economic and human misery caused by Russia should prompt a peace treaty.
In an extraordinary development on the war in Ukraine, Sergei Shoigu, Russias defence minister,said Moscow would drastically reduce military activity around Kyiv and Chernihiv in light of constructive negotiations in Istanbul on Tuesday.
"Of course it is Ukraines decision. They have paid the price. The West must provide whatever we can to help them without involving NATO in a war.
"That can only happen if referendums on each issue are allowed, before any lasting agreements are made.
"There are apparently close family links between Ukrainian and Russian people. Outside interference in the decision would be toxic."
"After suffering disastrous setbacks and a huge loss of Russian lives, the enfeebled president is now trying to broker terms that he hopes will get him off the hook back home and internationally, but he has made yet another of his many disastrous misjudgments.
"It's clear that Russian speakers in the Donbas and Crimea have a very different opinion to Ukrainian speakers in the West. There is a cultural and linguistic split, very similar to Northern Ireland or Kosovo and Serbia.
"It will take generations to heal the human cost, but sanctions should remain in place until Russia puts up the money to repair the collateral damage it has inflicted on Ukraine."
The recent development has provoked discussion from our readers on what the future holds for Ukraine, with many arguing that it is for the Ukrainian people to decide, possibly through a referendum. Another reader has suggested if Ukraine cannot come to a joint decision, it should look at an amicable split, as there was in Czechoslovakia.
"Ukraine must hold out for the complete withdrawal of Russian forces, must receive reparations for the huge loss of Ukrainian lives and funding for the reconstruction of the country.
"Russia needs to be taught a lesson, and removing sanctions as soon as they scurry back, licking their wounds, is not the answer."
"The mistake is to imagine that 'territorial integrity' should be set in stone and the will of the majority should be able to overrule a significant minority located in the East.
Read on to see what your fellow readers had to say and join the conversation in the comments section below.
What do you think will happen next over the war in Europe? Join the discussion in the comments section
"In the short-term, Vladimir Putin will retire to the Donbas and Crimea, regroup, re-arm and try again from a closer position. I wouldn't trust him at all. The reality is that complete withdrawal from Ukraine is the only way it will be safe long-term, but a respite will do Ukraine some good, too."
"There are two linguistic groups in Ukraine one based in the west and the other in the east, and they don't agree about what the future of their country should be.
Ukraines military noted the withdrawals around the two cities, which appeared to confirm the ministers statement.
The Kremlin now seems to have confined its territorial demands to the annexation of the Donbas region. For its part, Ukraine is seeking to maintain its territorial integrity while accepting a neutral status.
"If we look back in history, we see that borders and nations have constantly altered over time, and it is a fool's errand to imagine that its possible to resist historical change.
"If Russian and Ukrainian speakers in Ukraine can't agree about their future together, then there should be an amicable split, just as there was in Czechoslovakia."
"Vladimir Putin had a simple choice. He voiced it numerous times - that he would not invade Ukraine. He reneged on that promise and he, as Russian citizens too, must face the consequences for his outrageous war."
"It is widely advocated that Ukrainian speakers in the west should be able to impose their will on Russian speakers in the east. That tyranny of the majority will not work any more than it worked in Northern Ireland or Serbia.
"The more arms we give Ukraine, the easier they will find negotiating their future. It is in the power of the West to help Ukraine find its own self-determined future."
"Russia has failed in its attempt to take over Ukraine as it had imagined it would do.
"The West should have insisted on an internationally supervised referendum in Crimea, but instead we stubbornly insisted that we had to support the decision of a communist dictator in 1954.
