Ukraine destroys Russian warships and missile defence system on Snake Island
20220507
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/07/ukraine-destroys-russian-warships-missile-defence-system-snake/
Video also captured an attack on a building on the island, where Russian personnel were seen patrolling around the building before the blast.
The Moskva, which was once considered the most powerful ship in the Black Sea, became the first warship to sink after being hit by a Ukrainian missile attack on April 14.
"The traditional parade of the Russian Black Sea fleet on May 9 this year will be held near Snake Island - at the bottom of the sea," the defence ministry said on social media.
Enemy units remaining on Snake Island remain without air cover and will be destroyed and burned out like cockroaches or locusts, Anton Gerashchenko, a Ukrainian official, said.
Another statement posted by the military on social media said the Bayraktar drone strike had also destroyed Tor-M2 anti-aircraft system being delivered to the island.
Snake Island has become a symbol of resistance for Ukraine after a radio exchange, in which Ukrainian soldiers used an expletive in rebuffing a demand by the Russian warship Moskva to surrender, went viral at the start of the war.
Ukraine has destroyed a second Russian warship close to the Black Seas Snake Island, according to Kyiv, where the countrys forces were rewarded for ignoring Russian demands to surrender.
An armed drone destroyed a Serna-class landing craft and a missile defence system at the small island under Russian control, a statement by Ukraine's defence ministry said.
In ariel footage, military personnel could be seen moving around the landing ship moments before a white flash left debris littering the scene.
The attack was confirmed by satellite images that showed thick black smoke rising off the island, which lies some 20 miles off the coast of Ukraine.
Ariel footage shows the attack on Snake Island, which has become a symbol of resistance for Ukraine
