UkraineRussia morning briefing Five key developments as Russian troops kidnap Melitopol mayor
20220312
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/12/ukraine-russia-morning-briefing-five-key-developments-russian/
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 11 March 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.coDi8gwToXVp  StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.com6GCXsPCQWa
US officials believe a 537 million superyacht in a drydock in Italy could belong to Vladimir Putin, according to a report.
Details of the plans will be set out in the coming days, Downing Street said.
It came as Boris Johnson joined with other G7 leaders on Friday to commit to further increase the pressure on the Russian president's regime. The group agreed to take steps to deny Russia "most favoured nation" status on key products, which No 10 said would significantly reduce the ability of Russian businesses to export.
Sharing the news on Friday evening, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK stood "united with our G7 partners", and would "continue strengthening our response" to put a halt to Russia's aggression against its neighbour.
Good morning. Russia's 40-mile military convoy north of Kyiv was beginning to circle around the city before what is expected to be a fierce siege.
"A group of 10 occupiers kidnapped the mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov," Ukraine's parliament said on Twitter. It said the mayor was seized when he was at the city's crisis centre dealing with supply issues.
The MoD also said that Russian aircraft are relying on inaccurate "dumb" munitions, which are unguided and raise the likelihood of civilian casualties.
Ukraine has also warned that Belarus could join the invasion as early as Saturday after Russian fighter jets fired into the country from Ukrainian air space in an apparent false flag attack.
A total of 7,144 people were evacuated from four Ukrainian cities on Friday, PresidentZelensky said in a televised address, a sharply lower number than managed to leave in each of the two previous days.
The New York Times said US intelligence agencies have made no conclusions about the ownership of the Scheherazade but officials told the newspaper that there were indications that it is linked to the Russian president.
The UK is intending to further ramp up pressure on the Kremlin with plans to ban exports of luxury goods to Russia in the latest move to isolate Vladimir Putin.
On Tuesday it was reported that Italian authorities were looking into the 459-foot long vessel, which has been moored at Marina di Carrara since September. Italian officials claimed a former crew member said it belonged to Putin.
In a video message late on Friday, Mr Zelensky confirmed the abduction, calling Mr Fedorov "a mayor who bravely defends Ukraine and the members of his community".
The mayor of southern Ukraine's Melitopol was kidnapped on Friday by Russian soldiers occupying the city, Volodymyr Zelensky said.
Mr Zelensky accused Russia of refusing to allow people out of the besieged city of Mariupol and said Ukraine would try again to deliver food and medicines there on Saturday.
Plus: Superyacht in Italy 'could belong to Putin' and Britain set to ban luxury exports to Russia
Here's what you missed overnight  and you can follow the latest news in our live blog.
Russians forces have in the past 24 hours conducted air strikes on Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk, cities in the west of Ukraine, according to the Ministry of Defence's daily intelligence update late on Thursday night.
