Ukraine launches counteroffensive to retake Kherson from Russia
20220829
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/08/29/ukraine-launches-counter-offensive-retake-kherson-russia/
In recent weeks, Ukraine's armed forces have used Western-provided weaponry, such as the US Himars rocket launchers, to soften their Russian enemies by targeting supply lines and logistical hubs behind the frontline.Ukraine's Centre for Strategic Communication and Information Security on Monday wrote on Twitter that its armed forces had breached the occupiers first line of defence near Kherson.Ukraine has a real chance to get back its occupied territories, especially considering the very successful use of western weapons by the Ukrainian army, it added.The counter-offensive appeared to start early on Monday, with long-range strikes on Russian command centres and bridges, cutting off a supply of weapons and reinforcements to Russian forces in Kherson from occupied Crimea.There were unconfirmed reports that Ukraine's armed forces staged the initial attacks with tanks, artillery and helicopters to break through the first line of defences near Kherson.
Last month, there were said to be 13 Russian battalion tactical groups, usually consisting of around 800 troops, stationed in the south of the country.
The long-awaited Ukrainian counter-offensive to seize Kherson officially began on Monday, marking a major step forward in Kyiv's campaign to retake key Russian-held territory in the south.
Footage shared online appeared to show stockpiles of ammunition at an abandoned Russian position in the Kherson Oblast.According to early reports from the Odesa-based Dumskaya newspaper, Ukrainian armed forces liberated a number of settlements after launching their counter-offensive from the right bank of the Dnipro River.
In the Kherson region, Russian troops have moved away from their positions, paratroopers are fleeing the battlefield, the Kakhovka Operational Group of Troops said in a Facebook post on Monday.
Sound of air raid sirens and explosions filled the skies as the operation to recapture the strategically important city begun
As the sound of air raid sirens and explosions filled the skies above southern Ukraine, senior officials confirmed the start of an operation aimed at recapturing the strategically important city of Kherson.The first line of Russian defences on the Kherson front has been breached, Sergei Khlan, an aide to the ousted Ukrainian head of the southern region, said on the Telegram messaging app.Today there was a powerful artillery attack on enemy positions in ... the entire territory of the occupied Kherson region. This is the announcement of what we have been waiting for since the spring  it is the beginning of the de-occupation of the Kherson region.Over the past two months, Kyiv has been preparing for the major counter-attack to reverse Russia's territorial gain from the early weeks of the war.Kherson, the main target for the operation, was the first major city to fall as Russian forces pushed north out of Crimea at the beginning of the invasion. It has since been used by Moscow as a strategic hub and staging post for its offensives across southern Ukraine.
Mykhailo Podolyak, a senior aide to Volodymyr Zelensky, added: "The only possible option for negotiations with Russia is being conducted by a special Ukrainian delegation in the southern and other directions of the frontline."'Negotiations' are going well. We expect new 'compromises' in the form of 'gestures of goodwill'."As Ukraine's troops made apparent gains towards Nova Kakhovka, a city east of Kherson, residents with Russian SIM cards were on Monday warned to evacuate the area by Kremlin-installed officials.An evacuation has been announced today during the day, the siren has been sounding most of the day. People have left their jobs, they are in bomb shelters, said Vladimir Leontiev, its puppet governor, as air raid sirens and explosions could be heard across the city.Ukraine has regularly targeted the bridge at Nova Kakhovka, the second biggest city in the Kherson region and is vital for delivering supplies to Russian forces.The Kakhovka group of Ukrainian soldiers claimed to have forced the 109th regiment of the so-called peoples militia of the self-declared Donetsk Peoples Republic from their defensive positions. The Russian paratroopers said to have been sent to support them also fled the battlefield.
In a message on the Telegram messaging app, Andriy Yerkmak, the Ukrainian president's chief of staff, said Kyiv's armed forces were "grinding down the enemy" as "Kherson lay ahead".
In what appeared to be initial retaliation to the counter-offensive from Moscow, Ukrainian officials reported heavy shelling on civilian buildings in Mykolaiv.Footage was shared online of an apparent Russian artillery attack on the city's Inhul bridge, missing the crossing, which was being used by civilians, by inches.Despite this, pro-Kremlin officials refused to admit that the well-trailed offensive had begun. This is another Ukrainian propaganda fake, said Sergei Aksyonov, the pro-Russia head of Crimea. This is the same rubbish information as previously.Ukrainian officials on Monday sought to urge caution around the offensive because of a significant effort by Russia to reinforce its forces in the area.
According to military analysts Rochan Consulting, this number has now risen to around 30.Natalia Humeniuk, spokeswoman for Ukraine's southern operation, said: The news is out there, it has inspired everyone, now we need to be patient and understand the sequence of actions of the military units.
Kovalevhad been an MP for the Servant of the People party, headed by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, but switched sides in April to support the Kremlins invasion. He was appointed deputy head of agriculture- a key position given the importance of grain - in the Kherson region.
The murder on Monday of a former Ukrainian politician in occupied Kherson - the fifth apparent assassination by partisans in the region - appeared to be linked to the start of the counter-offensive.
Alexei Kovalev was reportedly found by his mother late last night dead at his home in the town of Holya Pristan near the city. He had been shot in the head with a pump-action shotgun and his wife had been stabbed to death, according to reports.
