UkraineRussia evening briefing Five developments as Nato vows to help Ukraine against nuclear and chemical attacks
20220323
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/23/ukraine-russia-evening-briefing-five-developments-nato-vows/
It comes as the Biden administration has made a formal determination that Russian troops have committed war crimes in Ukraine and said it would work with others to prosecute offenders.
Nato leaders are set to agree extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia, alliance chief Jens Stoltenberg has said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned that 100,000 people remain trapped in the beseiged city of Mariupol. Human Rights Watch has described the southern port city as a "freezing hellscape riddled with dead bodies and destroyed buildings".
Read the key updates from this afternoon below and follow the latest developments on our liveblog here.
The assessment was based on a "careful review" of public and intelligence sources since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine last month, he said.
"Today, I can announce that, based on information currently available, the US Government assesses that members of Russia's forces have committed war crimes in Ukraine," Blinken said in a statement released as he was travelling to Brussels with President Joe Biden for an emergency summit of Nato leaders.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that almost 100,000 people are still trapped in the ruins of Mariupol.
He said: "Russia should stop this dangerous irresponsible nuclear rhetoric. But let there be no doubt about our readiness to protect and defend allies against any threat anytime... Russia must understand that it can never win a nuclear war."
Ukraine has so far managed to hold Mykolaiv, a ship-building city on Ukraines Black Sea coast, against attack.
The alliance is also set to approve significant new troop deployments for eastern allies, in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia,in response to Russia's invasion, he added.
According to an alleged intercepted call, half of a Russian column advancing on the city of Mykolaiv "have frostbite on their feet".
The port city has been the scene of some of the war's worst devastation, as Russia continues a nearly month-old offensive by bombarding cities and towns.
Kherson, around 60 miles northwest of Crimea, was the first significant Ukrainian city to be occupied by Russian forces, but the surrounding region has yet to be taken.
It comes after more than 7,000 escaped on Tuesday. Human Rights Watch described the southern port city as a "freezing hellscape riddled with dead bodies and destroyed buildings".
Now, following a recent attack on Kherson airport by Ukrainian troops, Russia has withdrawn most of its helicopters from the strategic outpost, according to analysis of satellite images by the New York Times.
Military experts believe it could indicate the extent to which Russia has suffered setbacks in the south of Ukraine amid faltering campaigns to take other important cities such as Mykolaiv and Odesa.
Audio purported to be from a call between a Russian officer and his superior lays bare the harsh conditions facing the invading force as the war drags into its fourth week.
"Tomorrow, I expect allies will agree to provide additional support, including cybersecurity assistance as well as equipment to help Ukraine protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats," Mr Stoltenberg said, ahead of an urgent Nato summit in Brussels on Thursday.
Plus: US finds Russian troops have committed war crimes, and 100,000 remain trapped in Mariupol
Russian helicopters appear to have been pulled back from an airport in the key city of Kherson, satellite images suggest, as the invading force struggles to quell ferocious resistance to its Black Sea offensive.
Good evening. Nato leaders are set to agree to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia, alliance chief Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday.
The US Government has made a formal determination that Russian troops have committed war crimes in Ukraine and said it would work with others to prosecute offenders, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday.
