Ukraine needs a victory before autumn to silence Western doubters
20220705
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/07/05/ukraine-needs-victory-autumn-silence-western-doubters/
The Ukranians are still in the fight and the coming struggles for Siviersky, Slavyansk, Bakhmut and Kramatorsk will be no less difficult.
He will have to begin to turn the tide before autumn for a chance of doing that.
Perhaps Putins army is hollowed out. Perhaps it is relying on men and weapons made in the 1960s. And yes, perhaps it has paid dearly for each metre of ground.
Sergei Gaidai, the energetic governor of Luhansk region, told The Telegraph in May that Severodonetsk must be held as long as possible - despite the deaths - to tie down the bulk of Russian troops, inflict as much attrition on them as possible and buy time for a counteroffensive.
But like the Russians in Donbas, the Ukrainians have failed to achieve a decisive breakthrough. It is unclear whether they can muster the concentrations of men and arms needed to do so.
In Mariupol, Severodonetsk and now Lysychansk, superior Russian numbers have prevailed. And shells are once again hitting outlying suburbs of Kharkiv.
The tactical gain has brought almost no strategic advantage and Russias initial plans for a grand battle of encirclement in Donbas to destroy the Ukrainian army have failed.
But there are plenty of influential voices in Western capitals - particularly Washington, Berlin and Paris - who still believe Western support for Ukraine is futile.
They have used Western-supplied weapons to evict the Russians from Snake Island and long-range HIMARS strikes are every day obliterating high-value targets like ammunition dumps and command posts in the Russian rear.
Hopes for a Ukrainian counter-stroke are currently pinned on the Kherson region, where Kyivs forces have been making incremental, probing gains for some weeks.
Volodymyr Zelensky is running out of time to shore up support, with some believing his countrys battle against Russia is futile
On Monday morning alone, they destroyed three ammunition dumps and struck the Russian airbase in occupied Melitopol, sending smoke from explosions towering into the air.
They are now reported to be in sight of Kherson itself, which fell to the Russians in the early days of the war.
But many new Ukrainian recruits, including irregulars from the Territorial Defence were thrown piece-meal into Donbas to hold back the Russian offensive. It is unclear whether the new brigades exist, let alone when they will reach the front if they do.
If that effort is sustained, Ukraines victory in the long-term is almost inevitable. Russia cannot out-produce Western economies.
Russian forces rode in triumph into the centre of the shattered city, claiming one of Vladimir Putins stated objectives - the full liberation of the Luhansk peoples republic.
Until and unless the Ukrainian army begins to put encirclements around the Russians, the self-proclaimed realists will feel vindicated - and their calls for a ceasefire and settlement in Moscows favour will gain influence with governments.
It took the best part of three months, but the battle for the Luhansk region is over.
Back then, the idea was that Ukraine would be able to field newly-trained and equipped brigades by August this year.
A Ukrainian offensive victory would be seen as vindication of the policy championed by Britain, Poland and - for the time being - Joe Bidens administration in the United States.
Over the weekend, Ukrainian forces fell back from Lysychansk, their last toe-hold in the province, to avoid imminent encirclement.
Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, has made clear to his Western allies that he would like to finish the war by Christmas.
With the exception of Russian retreats from Kyiv in March and from Kharkiv in May, the grinding battles of attrition have ended almost entirely in Russias favour
In short, that Ukraine must win the war and the West must do all it can to help do so.
Retaking it would be a major achievement for the Ukrainians and a blow to Russian confidence.
