UkraineRussia morning briefing Five key developments as UK vows to support resistance
20220226
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/26/ukraine-russia-morning-briefing-five-key-developments-uk-vows/
"I think there is a fanaticism and a fervour in Putin's language that is very concerning. He has gone all in on this," he said.
This morning, the Ukrainian army said it had repelled a Russian attack on one ofKyiv's mainavenues.
"That is a decision for the National Security Council to take but it is something that the Prime Minister has asked us in the Ministry of Defence to look at and plan for," he said.
It came as James Heappey, the UK armed forces minister, warned of more "utterly brutal fighting" ahead.
Ukraine's health minister said on Saturday that 198 civilians, including three children, had been killed so far by Russian forces.
"When Putin kills Ukrainians we appeal to mothers in Russia and Belarus to protest against Russia war in Ukraine. We defend lives and humanity!"
It is believed that the assistance includes lethal aid, such as ammunition, anti-tank weapons and anti-air weapons, and non-lethal aid such as medical supplies.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said nowis "a crucial moment" to decide on Ukraine's membership of the European Union.
A young mother has given birth to her daughter in an underground metro station in Kyiv.
In a tweet, he said he had discussed with Charles Michel, the European Council President, "further effective assistance and the heroic struggle of Ukrainians for their free future".
"I think you are going to see more and more utterly brutal fighting and some of Russian and Ukraine's bravest and best are going to lose their lives because of Putin's hubris."
Mr Heappey said the Government was working on plans to support a resistance movement and a Ukrainian government in exile if Kyiv does fall.
"I am here. We will not lay down any weapons. We will defend our state, because our weapons are our truth," he declared, denouncing as disinformation claims that he had surrendered or fled.
Good morning. The battle for Kyiv is intensifying, with Russian troops bearing down onthe heart of Ukraine's capital. But the Ukrainians are holding their positions for now.
"He has put a huge proportion of the Russian armed forces into this campaign in Ukraine and I am very concerned that he has backed himself into a corner.
Meanwhile, Russia's military has reported destroying key pieces of Ukraine's infrastructure - while keeping silent on potential Russian casualties.
Mr Heappey said that Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, had chaired a donors conference on Friday with 25 nations, some of whom pledged to send arms and other aid.
James Heappey, the armed forces minister, has said this morning that the UK is looking to continue its supply of weapons to the Ukrainian armed forces.
Nataliya Vasilyeva, ourMoscow correspondent, writes that Igor Konashenkov, a spokesman for the Russian Defence Ministry, said this morning it had taken down 87 Ukrainian tanks, 7 aircraft, 9 helicopters since the start of the operation.
Wearing olive green military-style clothing and looking tired but determined, he declared: "Our truth is that this is our land, our country, our children and we will protect all of this. This is what I wanted to tell you. Glory to Ukraine!"
Mr Zelensky had been asked to evacuate at the behest of the US government, but turned down their offer, telling America: "The fight is here I need ammunition, not a ride".
The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, has shot a defiant selfie video in which he pledges to stay in Kyiv and fight.
"Russian troops are taking all the necessary measures to ensure the safety of civilians," he said.
He also said Moscow had destroyed or damaged 14 military airfields, 19 command posts and 24 missile defence systems.
Hannah Hopko, a Ukrainian politician, shared a picture of baby Miaonline, saying: "Mia was born this night in stressful environment - bombing of Kyiv.
"We know what the Ukrainians want. We are doing our best to get it to them," he told Sky News.
Plus: Defiant president stands firm in the streets of Kyiv, a baby born as bombs fell and children reported among civilians killed
