Ukraines unofficial motto Russian warship go f yourself finally comes to pass
20220414
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/14/russian-warship-notorious-firing-snake-island-defenders-seriously/
The Kremlin said the boat was set on fire by an explosion of ammunition and sunk as it was being towed back to port. The cause of the fire, it said, was being investigated.
Flagship Moskva missile cruiser, notorious for attacking Snake Island, was seriously damaged in a suspected missile hit
Russian analysts will now be working frantically to work out why the Moskvas defences failed.
Besides the suggestions that Moskva was distracted by a drone, there has been speculation that the Ukrainians waited for bad weather so the radar signature of the approaching missiles could be disguised by waves.
The loss of the Moskva does not entirely reverse that picture. Russia still has far more and better armed vessels in theatre than Ukraine, which lost almost its entire navy in Crimea in 2014.
Arvydas Anuauskas, the Lithuanian defence minister, wrote on Facebook that the cruiser began to send out distress signals around 1.05am, was on its side nine minutes later and had sunk by 3am. He said a Romanian and a Turkish ship managed to rescue at least some of the 585 people on board.
At 611ft bow to stern, 68ft wide and 12,500 tons, the Moskva is - or was - just a touch larger than the General Belgrano, the Argentinean battle cruiser sunk by HMS Conquerer in May 1982 - currently the largest ship lost to enemy action since 1945.
She was recommissioned as the Moskva and made the flagship of the Black Sea Fleet in 2000, armed with enough Bazalt anti-ship missiles to take out an entire carrier group.
The Neptune missiles they used on Wednesday have never been used in action before and only entered service a year ago.
The Ukrainians have not claimed to have sunk it, and the Russian ministry of defence said later on Thursday morning that the fire was out, it was still floating and was being tugged back to port.
In Syria in 2015 and 2016, she provided air defence for the Russian base at Latakia.
The Reverse Side of the Medal, a pro-Russian Telegram channel linked to the Wagner mercenary group, told a similar tale.
It is burning, Oleksiy Arestovich, an adviser to Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, told a non-plussed television interviewer at around the same time.
The former would fit the pattern of operational initiative and verve that has characterised many Ukrainian operations on land.
The terse announcement came after Maksym Marchenko, the governor of Ukraines Odesa region, announced on Telegram that the ship had been hit by two Neptune anti-ship missiles and had gone exactly where it was told to.
On Thursday night, Russia said the flagship of its Black Sea fleet had sunk after Ukraine claimed to have struck the vessel with missiles.
Russian warship, go f--- yourself, a border guard told Russias Moskva missile cruiser on the first day of war when asked to surrender.
It said the vessels defences had been distracted by a Ukrainian Bayraktar drone and that the missile hit on the port side, causing it immediately to list badly. It was abandoned because of the threat of an ammunition explosion, it said.
And perhaps the Captain of the Moskva and his superiors in Sevastopol and Moscow became complacent.
Built in the Ukrainian port of Mykolaiv and launched in 1983 as the Slava, she was one of three relatively simple but rugged late Soviet-era missile cruisers designed to take on American aircraft carriers.
What is clear is that one of Russias most powerful naval assets has been knocked out of the war, at least for the time being.
After all, the Ukrainians did not use anti-ship missiles earlier in the war - presumably because they do not have many, and were preserving them for an emergency like the threatened amphibious landing.
One of Russias many advantages going into this war was its total domination of the waves.
It is not clear whether they decided to attack the Moskva because they saw an opportunity, or because they have received enough new coastal defence missiles from the West to afford to take offensive action.
But it has pierced a myth of Russian maritime invincibility, as surely as the Ukrainian army has on land.
It is not entirely clear what the vessel was up to when it was hit on Wednesday night.
She saw action during Russias 2008 war against Georgia, during which she sustained a single missile strike. She later took part in the Crimean annexation, when she blockaded Ukrainian vessels at anchorage in Novoozernoye.
Throughout March, the cruiser escorted an amphibious landing force that several times appeared poised to attempt a landing near Odessa.
It was the fearful, quickly muttered expression of defiance that has become Ukraines unofficial national motto.
And because the fire, explosion, missile attack or all three happened after dark and at sea, we do not have the usual mobile phone videos that have so usefully illuminated the progress of the land war.
Possibly, they were simply out of date. The Moskva is, after all, a Cold War era vessel.
The latter would be a sign that Western support could yet turn the tide of this war.
It was on the evening of the first day of the war that Ukrainian border guards told Moskvas captain to go f--- yourself. He responded with a bombardment from the ships deck guns, before landing soldiers and capturing the defenders.
It is now clear Russian ships cannot operate with impunity that Ukraine possesses more formidable shore-based defences than many thought and that an amphibious landing now may be entirely unfeasible.
"Due to all these factors, according to preliminary information, and very sadly, the cruiser has joined Roscosmos' group of submarine satellites," it wrote, in a wry reference to the Russian state space agency.
That plan appeared to be shelved after a land force trying to reach the city were defeated at Mykolaiv.
