Ukrainian special ops rescue five from Russianoccupied Kherson in daring raid
20220712
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/07/12/ukraine-news-russia-war-invasion-gas-europe-nordstream-himars/
But Lukashenko pointed to the expansion of the Nato military alliance, saying the "newly-minted crusaders" were "forming an armoured fist" to attack Russia.
Rockets from multiple rocket launchers landed on two medical facilities and residential buildings, Vitaly Kim said.
"We will continue to consult closely on exchange markets and cooperate as appropriate on currency issues, in line with our G7 and G20 commitments," the two sides said in a joint statement after the meeting, referring to the Group of Seven and Group of 20 economies.
OHCHR, which has dozens of human rights monitors in the country, said in its weekly update that 5,024 people had been killed and 6,520 injured.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 12 July 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.covzAuk7j6hs StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comKhsMlL4GW0
Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko has claimed that the West is preparing to attack Russia via the country.
Ukraineindicated in recent days that it might launch a counteroffensive to reclaim territory in the country's south as Russia devotes resources to capturing all of the eastern Donbas region.
The precision of the strike suggested Ukrainian forces used US-supplied multiple-launch High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, or HIMARS, to hit the area.
Ukraine's east has been left devastated from relentless bombardments, with deadly Russian rocket strikes on Monday slamming Kharkiv in a targeted attack on a "shopping centre and civilian residences", regional chief Oleg Synyegubov said.
"Strategic plans for an attack against Russia are being developed," Lukashenko alleged, saying the West would seek to target Russia "throughUkraineand through Belarus".
Boris Johnson recently committed to increasing defence spending to 2.5pcof GDP by the end of the decade after a Cabinet row over the issue.
Andriy Yermak, chief of staff to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, said on Sunday the strike was "another terrorist attack," and that Russia should be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism as a result.
Authorities said "five Ukraine citizens held by the Russian occupiers were released," during a "special operation" by forces of the Ukrainian military intelligence.
Vladimir Leontyev, head of the Kakhovka District military-civilian administration in the Kherson region, said the injured had been taken to a city and a military hospital, adding the attack had sparked an explosion at warehouses containing fertiliser and damaged other buildings.
But this is not enough to prevent Britain from falling behind other Nato countries in the spending league table, including Poland and Lithuania, which have increased their military budgets following Moscow's invasion ofUkraine, according to Mr Hunt.
"So far there are 12 wounded," Mr Kim said in a post on the Telegram messaging app.
Military delegations from Turkey, Russia andUkraineand a United Nations delegation will be conducting talks in Istanbul tomorrow regarding safe transfer of grain waiting in Ukrainian ports to international markets via sea route, he said.
"Our information further indicates that Iran is preparing to train Russian forces to use these UAVs, with initial training sessions slated to begin as soon as early July," he said.
"I was thrown into the bathroom, it was all chaos, I was in shock, all covered in blood," she said, crying.
Iran responded by saying that "no special development" had taken place andcooperation with Russia "in the field of some modern technologies predates the war inUkraine".
He said on Saturday the non-refundable grant had been agreed "due to Russia's large-scale aggression againstUkraine" and would go towards state budget costs for medical services.
"There are still many people under the rubble. The injured are being taken to the hospital, but many people are blocked in their apartments and houses."
Russian-backed separatists inUkraineinaugurated their "embassy" in Moscow on Tuesday as the Kremlin presses ahead with its offensive in the pro-Western country.
At least 12 people were wounded in shelling of Ukraine's southern city of Mykolaiv overnight, the regional governor has said.
Iran is planning to supply hundreds of drones with combat weapon capabilities to Russia for use in Ukraine, a top US official said on Monday.
"We are working hard indeed, but there is still a way to go," Guterres told reporters. "Many people are talking about it, we prefer to try and do it."
He refused to name the five countries, but added he expected the other countries in the 27-member bloc to step up their efforts soon.
Same-sex marriage could be legalised in Ukraine,after a petition gained enough signatures for the president to consider the proposal.
Dozens of people have been injured following a strike by Ukrainian troops in the Russian-held town ofNova Kakhovka in the Kherson region.
The USTreasury Secretary and Japan's finance minister have joined forces totackle rising prices of food and energy, as well as volatility in currency markets, exacerbated by Russia's war inUkraine.
"There are six people confirmed. And many dozens injured, with shrapnel wounds, cuts,"Vladimir Leontyev, head of the Kakhovka District military-civilian administration in Kherson, said.
A Russian-installed official inKhersongave a different version of events, claiming that at least seven people had been killed and that civilians and civilian infrastructure had been hit.
Shmyhal confirmed receipt of a grant which he said on Saturday would come from a Single-Donor Trust Fund created by the World Bank's International Bank for Reconstruction, the International Development Association and the United States Agency for International Development USAID.
Same-sex marriages and civil partnerships are not formally recognised in Ukraine, though homosexuality is not outlawed.
Turkey has played a key role in talks between the United Nations, Russia andUkraineon a potential Black Sea corridor to export grain fromUkraine.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on Tuesday that "there is still a way to go" in talks to try and resumeUkraineBlack Sea exports of grain.
"This will give Ukraine the necessary funds to cover urgent needs and ensure the operation of critical infrastructure," said Zbynek Stanjura, Minister of Finance from the Czech Republic, which holds the EU's rotating presidency.
Russia is likely planning to launch some of its most intense attacks yet inthe Donetsk region, the Ukrainian army has warned.
US-supplied Himars rocket strikesare so accurate they can land on a single penny and Russian forces should be prepared for a hammering over the coming weeks, a blogger who witnessed a strike reported.
"For the moment, we have frozen - coming from oligarchs and other entities - 13.8 billion euros 11.7 billion, so it's quite huge," Reynders told reporters in Prague.
Russia's parliamentary session ended last week without the bill being passed. That makes any progress unlikely until at least mid-September, when the lower house of parliament, the Duma, begins reviewing proposed laws in its autumn session.
Janet Yellen andShunichi Suzukisaid the war had raised exchange rate volatility, which could pose adverse implications for economic and financial stability, and pledged to cooperate "as appropriate" on currency issues.
At least six people have been confirmed dead in an attackby Ukrainian armed forces in Nova Kakhovka, in the Kherson region, Russian state news agency TASS reported.
More than 420 tonnes of rubble had been cleared and nine people rescued from under the ruins, the regional emergency services directorate wrote on Facebook on Tuesday.
Six civilians were killed, including a 17-year-old and his father, who were driving past at the time of the attack,according to reports.
Ukraine's Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal thanked the United States on Tuesday for its "incredible support" afterUkrainereceived a further $1.7-billion 1.4bn in international financial assistance.
According to experts, Russia is using barrages to pave the way for a renewed push for territory by ground forces.
"But I must say that a very large part of it is more than 12 billion... coming from five member states," he added ahead of an informal meeting of EU justice ministers held by the Czech presidency of the EU.
Ukrainian military officials responsible for the south of the country said Ukrainian shelling and missiles had killed 52 Russian servicemen, artillery, armoured vehicles "and a warehouse with ammunition in Nova Kakhovka".
Mr Shapps pointed to the kit limitations of the Navy and the RAF, adding: "The Army is shrinking in manpower, artillery and armour. Quality is vital, but quantity has a quality all of its own."
However, it announced on Monday morning that there would be a three-month pause to the scheme because of a lack of safe accommodation available.
Jake Sullivan, the White House national security adviser, said the information received by the US supported views that the Russian military is facing challenges sustaining its weaponry after significant losses in Ukraine.
"By the time I left the bathroom, the room was full up of rubble, three floors fell down.
According to TASS, in addition to damaged buildings, the attack also led to an explosion at fertiliser warehouses in the region.
"There are signs of enemy units preparing to intensify combat operations in the direction of Kramatorsk and Bakhmut," the army said, referring to two main cities still under Ukrainian control.
"History is repeating itself," he said, in an apparent reference to the invasion of Russia by Napoleon's troops in 1812 and by Nazi Germany in 1941.
Russia, which denies deliberately targeting civilians, said on Monday it had "destroyed the temporary deployment point" of a Ukrainian territorial defence unit in Chasiv Yar.
This has created obstacles for LGBT people fighting against Russia's invasion. Under Ukrainian law, if a soldier in a same-sex relationship dies, their partner cannot collect their body or bury them.
Russian President Vladimir Putin will travel to Tehran on July 19 for a Syria summit with his Iranian counterpart Ebrahim Raisi and Turkey's Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Kremlin has announced.
The country's president Volodymyr Zelensky has ten days to respond to the petition demanding the change, signed nearly 28,000 times.
"There are still many people under the rubble. The injured are being taken to the hospital, but many people are blocked in their apartments and houses," Mr Leontyev added.
"The Iranian government is preparing to provide Russia with up to several hundred UAVs unmanned aerial vehicles, including weapons-capable UAVs, on an expedited timeline," Sullivan told reporters.
The talks comes at a time of record high food prices globally, as conflict inUkraine, the world's largest grain supplier, has fuelled concerns about food security.
"In this context, we are grateful to Secretary General Antonio Guterres for his active efforts to find a solution that will guarantee the security of the southern regions of our country," he said.
"Grateful to US  POTUS US President Joe Biden for incredible support," he wrote on Twitter.
The European Union has frozen Russian assets worth $13.8 billion since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders has said.
The UN human rights office OHCHR said on Tuesday that more than 5,000 civilians had been killed inUkrainesince Russia invaded on February 24, adding that the real toll was likely much higher.
The area Ukraine struck is oneof strategic importance with Black Sea access, a once thriving agricultural industry, and a location just north of Russian-annexed Crimea.
German Finance Minister Christian Lindner put the value of assets frozen by Germany alone at 4.48 billion euros 3.79 bn in mid-June.
On Tuesday, the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic unveiled its "embassy" in central Moscow, next to diplomatic missions of several Western countries.
The head of the breakaway region's foreign ministry, Natalya Nikanorova, said the situation on the ground had worsened in recent days so they opted for a modest ceremony.
Ukraine said it hasstruck Russian military units and an ammunitions depot in the Russian-controlled region of Kherson, where Moscow-backed authorities claimed seven people had been killed.
A military serviceman, a former police officer and three civilians had been freed and one of thosereleased has a "serious combat wound",Ukraine's armed forcessaid in a statement.
"Ukraineadvocates that the issue of unblocking Ukrainian grain be resolved under the auspices of the U.N.," foreign ministry spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko told Reuters.
Belarus, the Kremlin's main ally, has served as a staging ground for the Russian army in its offensive on neighbouringUkraine. Western countries have never publicly said they are planning to attack Russia.
Moscow's plan to implement a new law enabling authorities to seize the assets of Western firms leaving the country failed to get through parliament before the summer recess, giving companies more time to negotiate exits.
Jake Sullivan, the White House national security advisor, said the information received by the US supported views that the Russian military is facing challenges sustaining its weaponry after significant losses inUkraine.
As part of emergency measures, the Scottish government has chartered a ferry, the MS Victoria, which will be docked in Leith and have 739 rooms in which people can be temporarily accommodated.
Ukrainian authorities said on Tuesday that their forces targeted a Russian ammunition depot in southernUkraineovernight, resulting in a massive explosion captured on social media.
Nicola Sturgeons government has said that Scotland will refuse to accept new applications to house Ukrainian refugees and that it plans to send those fleeing the Russian invasion to live in disused high-rises and on a ferry.
"If true, this move likely indicates difficulties in replacing the significant numbers of Russian casualties," the UK's Ministry of Defence said on Tuesday.
Grant Shapps has said the UK "can't afford not to" boost defence spending and wants to increase it to 3 per centof GDP.
Yesterday I happened to witness a Himars strike on Chernobayevkain Kherson, practically in front of my eyes, Roman Saponkov, a Russian military blogger embedded with frontline Russian forces wrote on Telegram on Monday.
Separatist officials have long said they want their regions to eventually join Russia, but Nikanorova said on Tuesday the main goal was "to liberate the republic" and that "after that there will be a referendum".
Head to our Ukraine page for the latest, and our live updates will resume in the morning.
"Unfortunately, there are casualties, a large number of injured, dozens of people were left homeless," Russian state news agency TASS quoted Mr Leontyev as saying.
The death toll under a collapsed apartment block in the Donetsk region town of Chasiv Yar has climbed to 43,with rescue work still not over four days after the building was hit by Russian rocket fire, emergency services said.
At least seven people were killed in an attack by Ukrainian armed forces on Monday in the Russian-held town of Nova Kakhovka inUkraine's southern Kherson region, Russian state news agency TASS has said.
The moment a residential block was hit by Russia in ChasovYar in Donetsk region. 33 people killed. The count goes on. Another war crime gets registered. The war continues pic.twitter.comc6RVX2HlRW
"The defence of the realm is the first duty of Her Majesty's Government. Can we afford to spend more money on this core responsibility? The answer is, we can't afford not to."
Speaking to military graduates and officers, Lukashenko said he discussed the alleged Western plot with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday.
A survivor, who gave her name as Venera, has spoken through tears of wanting to save her two kittens after herChasiv Yar apartment block burst into flames following Russia's attack.
Iran is planning to supply hundreds of drones with combat weapon capabilities to Russia for use inUkraine, a top US officialhas said.
Ahead of scheduled four-way talks in Turkey to unblockUkraine's grain exports,Ukraine's foreign ministry said on Tuesday the grain issue must be resolved under the auspices of the United Nations.
The Ukrainian military's southern command said a rocket strike targeted the depot in Russian-held Nova Kakhovka, about 35 miles 55km east of the Black Sea port city of Kherson, controlled by Russian forces.
"The Iranian government is preparing to provide Russia with up to several hundred UAVs unmanned aerial vehicles, including weapons-capable UAVs, on an expedited timeline," Mr Sullivan told reporters.
Writing in The Times, the Transport Secretary said: "Freedom is not free. That is why, as prime minister, I will raise defence spending to 3pcof GDP, in contrast to Nato's recommended minimum of 2pc."
The delay may ease concerns that Moscow is taking a more aggressive approach to remaining Western firms, heightened by President Vladimir Putin's decision last month to seize full control of the Sakhalin-2 gas and oil project by decree.
"There are already seven dead for sure and about 60 wounded," TASS quoted Vladimir Leontyev, head of Russia-installed Kakhovka District military-civilian administration in the Kherson region.
"The president's visit to Tehran is being planned for July 19," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. He said the trio would meet for peace talks on Syria.
Five Ukrainiantroops have been rescuedin a special operation in the southern Kherson region, occupied by pro-Russian forces.
Ive been under fire many times, but I was struck by the fact that the whole packet, five or six rockets, landed practically on a penny, he wrote on Telegram. Usually MLRS lands in a wide area, and at maximum range it completely scatters like a fan. It makes an impression, I wont dispute that.
Military delegations from Turkey, Russia andUkrainewill meet with UNofficials on Wednesday to discuss the issue, Turkish Defence Minister Hulusi Akar said on Tuesday.
Yellen also acknowledged the yen's substantial depreciation in recent weeks, but said the US view remained that currency intervention was warranted only in "rare and exceptional circumstances".
Earlier this year, the government said it would become a super sponsorfor the resettlement scheme, and the First Minister insisted there would be no cap on the number of refugees welcomed.
EU finance ministers have approved one billion euros 846m in financial aid to Ukraine, a first instalment of a promised nine billion euro 7.6bn budget for Kyiv agreed by European leaders in May.
A satellite photo taken on Tuesday and analysed by The Associated Press showed significant damage. A massive crater stood in the place of where a large warehouse-like structure once stood in the city,
The Russian army's troop shortage may forceMoscow to turn to "non-traditional recruitment" -such as recruiting prisoners - to plug holes in their military.
Military delegations from Turkey, Russia andUkrainewill meet with a United Nations delegation to discuss the safe export of Ukrainian grain amid worsening food supply shortages.
President Vladimir Putin recognised the independence ofUkraine's breakaway regions of Donetsk and Lugansk just days before he ordered the start of Moscow's intervention on February 24.
