Ukraine invasion not moving as fast as we would like admits top Russian official
20220314
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/14/ukraine-invasion-not-moving-fast-would-like-admits-top-russian/
Mr Zolotov oversees Russias riot police, which are used to crush opposition protests at home and have been involved in Russias military operation in Ukraine. The National Guard is expected to act as the main law enforcement in the territories occupied by the Russian army.
Russias defence ministry warned Kyiv on Monday that it would be carrying out retaliatory air strikes on Ukraines military sites, after what it said was a deadly shelling of civilians by Ukrainian forces in the separatist-controlled city of Donetsk.
Meanwhile, peace talks between Russia and Ukraine on Monday failed to bring any significant progress.
Meanwhile, a senior US official said at a briefing on Monday that almost all of Russia's advances remain stalled.
Vladimir Medinsky, Russias lead negotiator, said meetings would continue on Tuesday. Mr Medinsky made no mention of any change to Russias negotiating position, but Kremlin officials in recent days have appeared to be scaling back their demands.
"For advocates of a no-fly zone, it would have had no effect on these strikes, the official said.
Shortly after the invasion, Putin branded the Kyiv government a gang of drug users and neo-Nazis and suggested that Moscow would not rest until Mr Zelenskys administration was toppled. The rhetoric has somewhat softened since.
A top Russian official has become the first of Vladimir Putins inner circle to admit the Ukraine invasion is not going to plan, as Washington reported Moscows forces stalling on almost all fronts.
Russian officials continue to deny having caused any civilian casualties and have repeatedly blamed Ukrainian nationalists for using the population as a human shield.
The US official said on Monday that there were no US military personnel, contractors or US civilians at the base in Yavoriv at the time of the attack.
Mykhail Podolyak - an adviser to Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president - said the latest round talks would pause for a technical break, so that the parties could do some extra work to clarify unspecified issues.
It seems that changing the government of Ukraine is not on the list anymore, he told CNN. He said that when he confronted Putin, the Russian leader claimed he never demanded it.
He claimed that this is only because Nazis are hiding behind civilians, the elderly, women and children and set up firing positions at kindergartens, schools and residential buildings.
The attack at the military site near a Nato member state has pushed Kyiv to renew its call to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine - an idea that the UK and other Nato allies have rejected, fearing that it might trigger a wider military confrontation.
Member of Vladimir Putins inner circle appears to contradict Kremlin claims of war going according to plan
Russia at the weekend launched a deadly air strike on a military range in western Ukraine, just 12 miles away from the Polish border.
The US official said the missiles that hit the military range were launched by Russias long-range bombers form Russian airspace.
The Russian military urged Ukranians who work at military facilities or live nearby to leave the potentially dangerous areas.
Sauli Niinisto, the Finnish president, who spoke to Putin on Friday, said the Kremlin had ditched the idea of a regime change in Kyiv.
Viktor Zolotov, head of the Russian National Guard and the presidents former personal bodyguard, said that things are not moving as fast as we would like.
Last week, Sergei Shoigu, Russias defence minister, said everything was going according to the plan. In public, Putin has not shown any frustration with the pace of the invasion.
Russian forces approaching Kyiv from the east remained some 15 miles from the capital and faced "heavy resistance" from Ukrainian forces, making no noticeable progress, the official said.
But Russian troops appear to be increasingly bogged down in Ukraine, where they have come up against fierce military resistance and an overwhelmingly hostile population.
