US security chiefs scramble to prevent Russian interference in midterms
20220524
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/05/24/us-security-chiefs-scramble-prevent-russian-interference-midterms/
Joe Biden and the Democrats are heading into a difficult midterms and a recent Ipsos MORI poll found that more than half of Americans are concerned about Russia spreading misinformation online in this years election.
Mr Smith said the Kremlins tactics to take territory in Ukraine involved trying to take down the network and then send in the troops.
Ms Easterly said she is much more concerned about physical threats to election officials and disinformation threats to the American people's confidence.
Jen Easterly, US director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, said the US has been forced to beef up its election cybersecurity after the Kremlin was accused of influencing the 2016 vote to help Donald Trump win.
He said that the day before the invasion Russia launched attacks on roughly 300 targets in Ukraine, all designed to take out computer networks, basically in the government, but also some banks, IT companies and the like.
Polling ahead of the midterms suggests that the Democrats risk losing control of at least one of the US Congresss chambers.
US security chiefs are scrambling to prevent Russian interference in the midterm elections as they are "very concerned" about the Kremlin using cyber warfare and online disinformation.
Ms Easterly said at the World Economic Forum in Davos that US officials are very concerned but have raised the bar on election infrastructure cybersecurity.
That will be a huge stumbling block for Mr Bidens legislative agenda as his approval ratings are hit by soaring living costs.
I frankly, don't think that Russia needs to do anything to create chaos in our elections.
It came as the head of the European Defence Agency admitted that swathes of EU countries shunned region-wide cyber defence exercises despite the threat from Russia.
Ji ediv, chief executive of the EDA, said in Davos that only 15 out of the EUs 27 countries were willing to cooperate on cyber defence training amid fears that Russia will expand its cyber war.
Microsoft president Brad Smith revealed the tech giant has spotted a Russian tactic of conducting a cyber attack on an area in Ukraine before sending troops in. He said the Kremlin ordered a cyber attack 12 hours before it started the invasion of Ukraine in February.
His rating slipped to a new low last week with only 39pc of voters saying they approved of his presidency. Only two in 10 Americans said the economy is good or heading in the right direction.
US forced to beef up election cybersecurity after the Kremlin was accused of influencing the 2016 vote
I'm projecting myself into November because obviously we are very concerned about foreign influence, Ms Easterly said.
