US spies helped Ukraine know exactly when and where Russian bombs would fall
20220427
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/27/us-spies-helped-ukraine-know-exactly-russian-bombs-would-fall/
Lt General Scott Berrier, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said: "I would say where we are at is revolutionary in terms of what we have been able to do" as he described the coordination with Ukrainian counterparts to Congress last month.
The White House National Security Council did not comment on the specific incidents where the US is thought to have helped foil Russia, but said: "We are regularly providing detailed, timely intelligence to the Ukrainians on the battlefield to help them defend their country against Russian aggression and will continue to do so."
The intelligence led Ukraine to shoot down a Russian plane carrying hundreds of troops to Hostomel Airport in the Kyiv suburbs in the early days of the war, according to NBC News.
US revealed the coordinates of Russian forces and aircraft in an unprecedented information sharing operation that helped repel Kyiv assault
The close security cooperation began in the aftermath of Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014, but has increased exponentially since Russia's war in Ukraine began in February.
Analysts have noted that in addition to covert intelligence, Ukrainian officials have effectively used other tools at their disposal - such as satellite imagery and intercepting walkie-talkies used by Russian soldiers.
Others have noted that it is not just the strength of US intelligence that must be credited, but the Ukrainians' agility in acting upon it.
The network said it had other examples of specific US intelligence that provided a boost but was not publishing it for fear of jeopardising the intelligence channels.
At the onset of the invasion, US intelligence officials had barred intelligence sharing that could lead to lethal strikes on Russians, fearing it would put Washington into direct conflict with Moscow.
The CIA is also devoting "significant resources" to protect Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, a top target for Moscow.
Although Russian forces briefly captured the airport for a short time, they were unable to use Hostomel as an airbridge to replenish their resources and ultimately capture Kyiv.
It has allowed the US to share exact coordinates for the positions of Russian forces so that Ukrainians could fire on them.
"The Russian military has literally been cratering empty fields where air defences were once set up," one US official told NBC.
US officials believe the level of sharing - unprecedented for a non-Nato partner - has been critical to Ukraine's surprising success in largely repelling Vladimir Putin's advance, despite Russia's superior military.
In an unprecedented information sharing operation, US spy agencies have even divulged the coordinates of Russian forces and aircraft to Ukrainian forces, allowing them to pre-empt attacks.
In some instances, American intelligence has meant Ukraine repositions its air defence systems or planes just before they were targeted.
The agency is working with Ukrainian officials on "how best to move him around" and making sure the President is not located with the rest of his chain of command, a US official told NBC News.
The shoot-down helped thwart Moscow's hopes of flooding the area with troops and equipment, a significant setback for Russia in its attempt to take the capital.
In addition to helping Ukrainian forces target Russian planes, American intelligence has helped Ukraine to protect its own aircraft on several occasions by pre-empting Russian missile strikes.
The US helped foil Moscow's efforts to take Kyiv and repelled its advances elsewhere by sharing such detailed intelligence that Ukraine knew exactly when and where Russian bombs would fall, it has emerged.
