Vladimir Putins food blockade craven and reckless says Boris Johnson
20220519
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/19/ukraine-news-russia-putin-war-latest-mariupol-azovstal-update/
However, he said the mayors of Kyiv and Kharkiv had had to warn people not to return home to those cities as it was still unsafe.
Shells have hit an alcohol factory in the village of Tyotkino and several other buildings, Starovoit wrote on messaging app Telegram.
The US Presidentgreeted Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Anderssonand President Sauli Niinisto of Finland at the White House with handshakes and laughter as they met to discuss Nato as well as broader European security concerns.
And here we see that in the third month of a full-scale war, Russia is trying to find its wunderwaffe. Allegedly a laser. All this clearly indicates the complete failure of the invasion.
Russia says 959 Ukrainian soldiers have surrendered at the plant, including 80 wounded, since Monday.
Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has criticised the "second-class treatment" of Kyiv by some EU countries,after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said the war-torn country's bid to join the bloc cannot be sped up.
nbspJapan will double fiscal aid for Ukraine to $600 million in a coordinated move with the World Bank to back the country's near-term fiscal necessities damaged by Russia's invasion, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida told reporters on Thursday.
If you had to leave your home and all your worldly belongings in an instant to run for your life, as thousands of Ukrainians have, what would you grab? Money, your passport, some spare clothes?
For many Ukrainian families, the one thing they could not leave behind was their pets. Pictures have emerged of refugeescarrying cats, dogs and birds as they rush to safety.
"Every economic sanction reinforces our clear message to Putin, we will not stop until Ukraine prevails."
Ukrainian forces shelled a border village in Russia's western region of Kursk at dawn on Thursday, killing at least one civilian, regional governor Roman Starovoit said.
Russian forcesseizedthe country's largest nuclear power plant on March 4 after heavy shelling and a fire at the plant.
Finland and Sweden formally applied on Wednesday to join Nato, but Turkey has objected, saying that the countries support terrorist groups.
Downing Street said: The Prime Minister raised his significant concerns about the growing fallout from Russias illegal invasion and President Putins craven and reckless blockade of Ukraines Black Sea ports, including rising food prices in developing countries.
According to the Kyiv Independent, thestate-owned grid operator Ukrenergoon Thursday said: Ukraines power system currently has no physical connections with Russias power system. Therefore, the supply of electricity from Ukrainian power plants to Russia is currently physically impossible."
"I think there is a way through. I think we will get there in the end and it is very important that we listen to all members and their concerns in that process and we will certainly be listening to Turkey," the Defence Ministertold parliament, adding he would be speaking to his Turkish counterpart.
Ukrainian forces shelled a border village in Russia's western region of Kursk at dawn this morning, killing at least one civilian, regional governor Roman Starovoit said.
Boris Johnson has branded Vladimir Putins blockade of Ukrainian food exports craven and reckless, after the UN warned it could lead to global famine.
The city lies in the region of Zaporizhzhia and in a belt of southern Ukrainian land that was occupied by Russian forces after they invaded.
The organisation released a statement saying the registration process began on Tuesday and is ongoing.
"And now he has a new mission  to tell the world about the events in Ukraine and direct his authority to increase international assistance to our state. I am sure that is all for you it will work!"
"We have mobilised 18.4 billion US dollars of budget support, including 9.2 billion US dollars of recent commitments in the lead up to the Petersberg meeting, to helpUkraineclose its financing gap and continue ensuring the delivery of basic services to the Ukrainian people," G7finance ministers and central bankers said in the draft document.
Turkey will "say no" to Finland and Sweden's bid for Nato membership, presidentRecep Tayyip Erdoan has said.
"Another enemy attack on Tyotkino, which took place at dawn unfortunately ended in tragedy. At the moment, we know of at least one civilian death," he said, adding that others were wounded and receiving medical attention.
Since the start of the war in Ukraine, Emilio Morenatti hasmade two trips to the country in his role as a photographer.
The registration process involves filling out a form with personal details like name, date of birth and next of kin, with the information subsequently used to keep record of those who have been captured and to help the organisation to keep in touch with families.
The slots, which are now unused as a result of the ban on Russian airlines, could have been worth around 50 million.
Russia's announcement of a new laser weapon system is like the Nazi's search for a "Wunderwaffe" - wonder weapon - and shows the invasion is failing Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has said.
The defence force - the reservist branch of Ukraine's armed forces - said in an online posting that explosives had detonated under a rail car carrying military personnel. It did not elaborate on the extent of the damage.
"We are in close contact with Finland, Sweden and Turkey. We are addressing the concerns that Turkey has expressed".
President Volodymyr Zelensky posted a video on Twitter wearing avyshyvanka, and described it as a "holy protective amulet" to protect Ukrainians during the war against Russia.
Boris Johnson raised "significant concerns" about rising food prices linked to Russia's invasion during a call with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky, Downing Street has said.
It comes after theministry expelled atotal of 85 diplomats  34 from France, 27 from Spain and 24 from Italy  on Wednesday in response to similar moves by those countries.
Ukraine is among the world's top five exporters of important agricultural products like corn, wheat and barley, as well as being a key exporter of sunflower and meal.
In the propaganda of Nazi Germany there was such a term wunderwaffe, he said. The clearer it became they had no chance in the war, the more propaganda there was about the wonder weapon, which would be so powerful that it would provide a turning point in the war.
"Honouring our commitments to them is not just a question of our credibility. Today more than ever, their integration is also in our strategic interests," he said, pointing to the influence of "external powers" in the region, including Russia.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 19 May 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.coqqKi2Uagzx StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.com1JYJHtSWRT
"Today I'm proud to welcome and offer the strong support in the United States for the applications of two great democracies, and two close, highly capable partners to join the strongest, most powerful defensive alliance in the history of the world,"Bidensaid, from the Rose Garden.
Russia will only consider opening access to Ukraine's Black Sea ports if scrapping sanctions against it are also considered, the Foreign Ministry has said.
Moscow said nearly 700 more Ukrainian fighters had surrendered in Russian-held Mariupol as it shored up a key gain in the south, while the United States became the latest Western country to reopen its embassy in Kyiv.
But those animals that were abandoned roam the streets in search of food and love. One of these much-loved pets found me, while I was reporting in Ukraine, and I could not leave that dog behind.
Different Ukrainian regions have their own patterns, and though the originalvyshyvanka is white, it is now available in a wide range of colours.
Russia's Aeroflot, Ural Airlines and Rossiya Airlines have been targeted with new sanctions to prevent them selling off landing slots at UK airports.
Oleksiy Gromov, deputy chief of the general staff of Ukraines armed forces, has said the evacuation of Ukrainian troops from Mariupol continues.
Reaffirmed British solidarity with the Ukrainian people to my friend ZelenskyyUa this morning, particularly for the brave defenders of Mariupol. The President and I had a wide ranging discussion  14
Ukraine is marking Vyshyvanka Day today - a celebration of the traditional Ukrainian embroidered shirt.
The group of seven countries - Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US -also said they will "continue to stand by Ukraine throughout this war and beyond and are prepared to do more as needed".
The brutality of the invasion that began on February 24 shook Sweden and Finland, and the neighbours - after decades of military non-alignment - decided to seek Nato membership despite warnings from the Kremlin.
Earlier on Thursday, the UN's secretary-general,Antnio Guterres, warned that food shortages caused by the war in Ukraine could lead to "malnutrition, mass hunger and famine, in a crisis that could last for years".
Serebrennikov told AFP he understood their positions, but warned organisations against cutting off the Russian people as a whole.
Speaking from the White House on Thursday, where he is meeting with US President Joe Biden,Niinist said:"We take terrorism seriously, we condemn terrorism seriously in all its forms and we are actively engaged in combating it".
The director said: "They are in a terrible situation, this war is a catastrophe. For them it's even difficult to hear the Russian language. I can understand that.
The ministry's statement comes after the UN's food chief, David Beasley, warnedVladimir Putin that millions of people would die around the world because of Russia's blockade of the ports, which are an important trading hub.
I want to make it clear that in the event of an attack on Sweden or Finland during their accession, Poland will come to their aid.
Traditionalvyshyvankas usually feature elaborate floral patterns down the middle of the front of the shirt. Some patterns carry special meanings, such as hope, love, chastity or fertility.
The Prime Minister spoke to his Ukrainian counterpart this morning to discuss "a range of issues, including military support and global food security".
Ukraine is marking Vyshyvanka Day today - a celebration of the traditional Ukrainian embroidered shirt - with many politicians, TV presenters and citizens proudly showing off their clothing.
"We feel strongly that anything and everything Russian must be cancelled," said Andrew Fesiak, founder of Ukrainian production firm F Films. "At a time when Ukrainian film-makers are forced to stop making movies because they either need to flee for their lives or take up arms... Russian film-makers cannot pretend that everything is fine and that they are not to blame."
Top commanders of Ukrainian fighters who had made their last stand at the Azovstal steelworks in the port city are still inside the plant, according to the leader of pro-Russian separatists in control of the area, Denis Pushilin, quoted by local news agency DNA on Wednesday.
The UN has estimated that 1.7 billion people in 100 countries will be impacted by a drop in grain supplies from Ukraine and Russia this year.
Schroeder, Germany's chancellor from 1998 to 2005, has come under fire for refusing to quit his posts with Russian energy giants Rosneft and Gazprom following Moscow's war inUkraine.
President Volodymyr Zelensky said Mr Shevchenko, whom he met in Kyiv on Wednesday, had been appointed the first ambassador of UNITED24, a fundraising initiative to collect donations for the "restoration and development" of Ukraine.
"The food supply for millions of Ukrainians and millions more around the world has quite literally been held hostage by the Russian military."
A 21-year-old Russian soldier has asked a Ukrainian widow to forgive him for the murder of her husband, as a court in Kyiv met for a second hearing on Thursday in the first war crimes trial of the conflict.
Speaking at the White House, where she met with US President Joe Biden along with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto, she said:"My government has come to the conclusion that the security of the Swedish people will be best protected within the Nato alliance, and this is backed by very broad support in the Swedish parliament".
Speaking at an event in Westminster, Vadym Prystaiko said: "We see Ukrainians are frustrated with the growing discomfort, the growing struggle with different systems around the European Union, because they are missing their loved ones, theyre missing their homes, theyre missing their jobs."
Russia's announcement of a new laser weapon system is like the Nazi's search for a "Wunderwaffe" - wonder weapon - and shows the invasion is failing, President Zelenskysaid.
"I ran over to my husband, he was already dead. Shot in the head. I screamed, I screamed so much," she said.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "As long as Vladimir Putin continues his barbarous assault on Ukraine, we will continue to target the Russian economy.
Mariupol has been devastated by Russian attacks, and a US official says invading forces have carried out atrocities during their attempt to take the city.
The Prime Minister raised his significant concerns in a call with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday, as the pair planned how they could reopen the critical sea and land supply chains blocked by Russia, particularly in the Black Sea.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken accused Russia on Thursday of using food as a weapon inUkraine,by holding "hostage"the food supply for not just millions of Ukrainians, but also millions around the world who rely on Ukrainian exports.
Their talks came after UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres warned Vladimir Putin that his war in Ukraine could result in a global food crisis lasting years.
The G7 countries have committed $18.4 billion in transfers and loans to helpUkrainemeet its immediate financing needs, according to a draft communique seen by Reuters on Thursday.
Former Ukraine, Chelsea and AC Milan striker Andriy Shevchenko has a new goal - to help raise funds for rebuilding his country following Russia's invasion.
Mr Shevchenko, now 45, is widely regarded as his countrys greatest ever player. He played for Ukraine 111 times, scoring 48 goals, and represented Dynamo Kyiv before playing abroad. He was coach of the national team for five years until last August.
"Andriy, with his work and sporting achievements, gained great confidence on the international stage," Mr Zelensky wrote on the Telegram messaging app.
Do not offer us a ceasefire - this is impossible without total Russian troops withdrawal. Ukraine is not interested in new "Minsk" and the war renewal in a few years. Until  is ready to fully liberate occupied territories, our negotiating team is weapons, sanctions and money.
Switzerland is reopening its embassy in Kyiv, with five staff members, including the ambassador, set to return to the Ukrainian capital over the next few days, said the Swiss Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA.
Moscow has unveiled a new laser weapon that it claims can destroy satellites 900 miles above the Earth in five seconds
Vladimir Putin is weaponising global food supplies by stealing grain and destroying agricultural equipment as part of his war in Ukraine, Western officials have said.
She added that Nato will be strengthened by admitting Sweden and Finland as members, as the two nations are "security providers with sophisticated defence capabilities. And we are champions of freedom, democracy, and human rights".
Ben Wallace said on Thursday that he believed there was a way to address Turkey's concerns over Sweden and Finland joining Nato.
The UK targeted more Russian airlines - Aeroflot, Ural Airlines and Rossiya Airlines - with sanctions. Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, said: "As long as Putin continues his barbarous assault on Ukraine, we will continue to target the Russian economy".
The ICRC added that it is not involved in transporting Ukrainian POWs to the places where they will be held, likely to Russian-controlled Donetsk or other controlled regions.
Thevyshyvanka is one of the best-known symbols of Ukrainian culture, with a history that reaches back several centuries.
"We've already closed our airspace to Russian airlines. Today we're making sure they can't cash in their lucrative landing slots at our airports.
Speaking in an interview on Wednesday, Erdoan was quoted as saying: "We will continue our policy in a determined way. We have told allies that we will say no to Finland and Sweden's Nato membership".
He has accused the two Nordic countries of financing "terrorists" and supplying groups, including the Kurdistan Workers Party PKK and Syrian Kurdish YPG, with weapons.
"Some Russian officials recognize that despite claiming to be 'liberators' of... Mariupol, Russian forces are carrying out grievous abuses in the city, including beating and electrocuting city officials," the official says.
Reuters could not independently verify the defence force's assertion, posted on Facebook, that it had carried out the attack in the occupied southern Ukrainian city of Melitopol.
"The accession process is not a matter of a few months or years," he said.
Joe Biden welcomed Sweden's prime minister Magdalena Andersson and Finland's President Sauli Niinisto to the White House on Thursday.
The International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC has said it has registered hundreds of Ukrainian prisoners of war from the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
A No 10 spokesman added: "The Prime Minister raised his significant concerns about the growing global fallout from Russias illegal invasion and President Putins craven and reckless blockade of Ukraines Black Sea ports, including rising food prices in developing countries."
"There are no shortcuts on the way to the EU," Mr Scholz said, adding that an exception for Ukraine would be unfair to the Western Balkan countries also seeking membership.
Finnish President Sauli Niinist has saidhis country is willing to talk to Turkey about its concerns over Finland joining Nato.
Russia's defence ministry has said 771 Ukrainian fighters havesurrendered from the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 1,730 since Monday, RIA reported.
Ukrainian speakers have also been critical of the festival's decision to include Russian directorKirill - who has gone into exile since the start of the war in Ukraine after calling for its end -in the competition for the Palme d'Or with his film 'Tchaikovsky's Wife', as they accused him of historically receiving funding from the Kremlin.
Hundreds of Ukrainian fighters have surrendered from the labyrinth of bunkers and tunnels below the plant, though Moscow and Kyiv have given different estimates on numbers.
More than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers including senior commanders, remain inside the besieged Azovstal steel plant in the southern port city of Mariupol, says Denis Pushilin, a pro-Russian separatist leader.
As an amputee himself, it was a particularly personal trip for him to meet the innocent citizens that have become collateral damage in the war.
Ukraine's defence ministry says it will do "everything necessary" to rescue the personnel still in the plant's tunnels.
The International Committee of the Red Cross ICRCsaid it has registered hundreds of Ukrainian prisoners of war from the besieged Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
He also rejected the Kremlin's claim that Western sanctions imposed on Moscow were fuelling the food crisis.
The two leaders discussed options to "open up critical sea and land supply routes for Ukrainian grain stocks" so that supply chains could be restored.
The Kremlin responded by saying it would only order the lifting of its blockades if European and US sanctions imposed on Moscow were also lifted.
The decision to reopen the embassy after it was temporarily closed two and a half months ago was based on an in-depth analysis of the security situation, added the FDFA.
Ukrainians at the Cannes Film Festival said on Thursday that all Russians should have been banned from the event - even those who have spoken out against the war.
Vladimir Putin has deployed his Terminator military vehicles in Ukraine, as Russia throws everything in its arsenal atcapturing the contested areas in the east.
Ukraine's top presidential adviser and member of the negotiating team, Mykhailo Podolyak, has said a ceasefire with Russia is "impossible without a total Russian troops withdrawal".
The Kremlin claimed its new generation of laser would allow its invasion forces to conserve its arsenal of more expensive long-range missiles.
Niinist said"open and constructive" discussions with Turkey are already under way and will continue in the coming days.
He added that "Nato is a security alliance and we cannot accept terrorists to be in it".
"Strategic ambiguity on Ukraine's European perspective practised by some EU capitals in the past years has failed and must end," Mr Kuleba said on Twitter, saying this had "only emboldened" Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Swedens prime minister, Magdalena Andersson, has said her country will be "best protected within the Nato alliance" in the face of Russia's "full-scale aggression" in Ukraine.
Both President Joe Biden's fellow Democrats and Republicans had urged Ms Brink's quick confirmation. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved Mr Brink unanimously earlier on Wednesday, after holding her confirmation hearing just two weeks after Biden announced the nomination on April 25.
"The coalition parliamentary groups have drawn consequences from the behaviour of former chancellor and lobbyist Gerhard Schroeder in view of the Russian invasion ofUkraine," the parliament said.
Googles Russian unit has declared bankruptcy after authorities seized the tech giants bank account in the country, making it unable to pay staff
Russia has expelled five Portuguese diplomats in retaliation for the country's expulsion of 10 of Moscow's representatives.
The USSenate unanimously approved veteran diplomat Bridget Brink on Wednesday to be ambassador to Ukraine, filling a critical post that has been vacant for three years as Washington works to increase support for the government in Kyiv.
Serhiy Haidai said two women were among the victims, and were found dead in a flat that had been hit by a missile.
The visit follows the two Nordic nations decisions' to apply to join Nato, which the US President has said he strongly supports.
Germany on Thursday removed perks accorded to former chancellor Gerhard Schroeder over his refusal to sever ties with Russian energy giants.
MrScholz said he will travel to the Western Balkans before a meeting of the European Council takes place next month, bearing the message that the region belongs in the European Union.
Mariupolwill be rebuilt in the model of Grozny, said the Chechen warlord who led fighters in the brutal siege of the Ukrainian port city
Ukraine's bid to join the EU cannot be sped up despite the country's invasion by Russia, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said, adding that the bloc must find a 'fast and pragmatic' way to help Kyiv.
"I acknowledge my blame... I ask you to forgive me," he told the widow, Kateryna Shelipova, at the hearing.
The widow said she had heard distant gun shots fired from their yard while she was out collecting water from a well, and ran home only to find her husband dead.
"They meet every Natorequirement and then some, and having two new Natomembers in the high north will enhance the security of our alliance."
Ukraines power system currently has no physical connections with Russias power system. Therefore, the supply of electricity from Ukrainian power plants to Russia is currently physically impossible, Ukrenergo said in a statement.
Polands prime ministerMateusz Morawieckihas said that his nation would defend Sweden and Finland in the event of an attack before they joined Nato.
Mr Zelensky mocked Russias claim that it is using a new laser weapon that can destroy satellites 900 miles above earth in seconds.
The number of casualties has not yet been finalised, he added, as the area remains under fire.
He added that Kyiv is not interested in a new "Minsk", referring to the 2015 Minsk agreement which attempted to create a ceasefire between the Ukrainian government and Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
It says the injured are being treated in a hospital in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region, which is controlled by pro-Russian rebels.
Moscow's troops have been accused of widespread atrocities against civilians during their devastating campaign, and Ukraine began its first war crimes trial of the conflict on Wednesday with a Russian soldier pleading guilty.
12 civilians have been killed and more than 40 wounded by Russian shelling in the city of Severodonetsk, in the Luhansk region, the head of Ukraine's military administration has said.
"But for European culture to cut off Russian culture would be a big mistake and I'm happy the festival chose the right way - not to work with officials but not to ban an independent Russian film with a sad story from the 19th century."
nbspUkraine has reportedly dismissedthe claim by Russia that the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant will supply it with electricity.
The second, a six-week stint after a month at home with his family in Barcelona, was more personal.
Under the Geneva Convention, the ICRC is permitted access to POWs, and is able to interview them without witness or restriction.
Mr Johnson also expressed his "undimmed admiration for the brave defenders of Mariupol" and urged Russia to treat prisoners of war with dignity and respect.
Reflecting the brutality of the conflict which has reinvigorated the transatlantic alliance, Ukraine held its first war crimes trial since Moscow poured troops across the border beginning February 24, with a 21-year-old Russian soldier pleading guilty to the cold-blooded murder of a Ukrainian civilian.
The six Western Balkan countries with EU membership aspirations - Montenegro, Serbia, Albania, North Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo - have been engaged in years-long reform process, MrScholz told lawmakers in Berlin yesterday.
JoeBidenwelcomed the leaders of Sweden and Finland to the White House on Thursday, as he expressed support for the two countries' bids to join Nato.
"The decision to weaponise food is Moscow's and Moscow's alone," Blinken said. "As a result of the Russian government's actions some 20 million tons of grain sit unused in Ukrainian silos as global food supply dwindle, prices skyrocket, causing more around the world to experience food insecurity."
Shells have hit an alcohol factory in the village of Tyotkino and several other buildings, Mr Starovoit wrote on messaging app Telegram.
Addressing the UN Security Council, Blinken said: "The Russian government seems to think that using food as a weapon will help accomplish what its invasion has not - to break the spirit of the Ukrainian people.
I consider the accession of Sweden and Finland to Nato as an important signal of strengthening security inEurope, he said during a news conference.
Ukraine has ordered its garrison in Mariupol to stand down, but the ultimate outcome of Europe's bloodiest battle for decades remains unresolved.
Thanks for following along with Thursday's live updates - we'll be back tomorrow morning with all the latest news. Here are 10 key developments you may have missed:
The first, for a month, involved him capturing the start of the invasion and the people fleeing.
He added that his country decided to apply for Nato membership following a "rapid, but very thorough process".
It said that the "office of the former chancellor shall be suspended" as Schroeder "no longer upholds the continuing obligations of his office".
The launch of Kyiv's judicial reckoning over alleged atrocities committed on its soil after 12 weeks of war and thousands of deaths came as President Vladimir Putin was forced to confront the vexing prospect of NATO sharply expanding its reach on his borders.
Addressing the Russian president, Beasley said: "If you have any heart at all for the rest of the world, regardless of how you feel about Ukraine, you need to open up those ports".
When asked whether he had been obliged to follow an order that amounted to a war crime, he replied "no", but seemed visibly shaken throughout proceedings, according to Reuters.
Shelipova told the court she would not object if Shishimarin was released to Russia as part of a prisoner swap to get "our boys" out of Mariupol.
The United States said Wednesday it is confident Finland and Sweden will become part of Nato, despite vocal Turkish protests - an expansion that would dramatically realign European security in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine's territorial defence force said on Wednesday its fighters had blown up an armoured train carrying Russian troops, but an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelinskiy later said the attack had been confined to rails near the train.
President Joe Biden will host the leaders of Finland and Sweden on Thursday to discuss their Nato membership bids, while Ukraine said no military option was left to rescue the soldiers still inside a steel plant besieged by Russian forces.
Vadim Shishimarin, a tank commander, pleaded guilty on Wednesday to killing an unarmed 62-year-old civilian, Oleksandr Shelipov, in the northeast Ukrainian village of Chupakhivka on February 28.
"I warmly welcome and strongly support the historic applications from Finland and Sweden for membership in Nato," Mr Biden said in a statement Wednesday, offering US support against any "aggression" while their bids are considered.
As Danielle Sheridan reported from Ukraine, she fell in love with one of its forgotten victims  and decided to bring her home
The Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement that it had summoned Madalena Fischer, the Portuguese ambassador in Moscow, andtold her Portugal's decision to declare 10 Russian diplomats persona non grata was an "unfriendly step" that warranted a response.
Meanwhile, Nato's secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said in Copenhagen on Thursday: "It is not uncommon in Natoto have differing opinions on major decisions. We have much experience in Nato, when there is a difference of opinion, of sitting down and finding solutions.
More than a million Ukrainian refugees have now returned home, according to the countrys ambassador to the UK.
Japan, a member of the Group of Seven industrialised nations, had previously announced $300 million in loans to Ukraine in April.
