Vladimir Putin would be mad to invade Ukraine  but he might just do it
20220219
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/19/vladimir-putin-would-mad-invade-ukraine-might-just-do/
The inevitable economic sanctions would not break the Russian economy, but would seriously damage it. The burden would fall on a population clearly unenthused by a war against a people they still consider not just neighbours but cousins. The growing toll of dead and wounded would be impossible to conceal, and contribute to already high levels of disenchantment.
Which is why optimists can still hope that the sudden escalation of Kremlin propaganda at home and continued troop build-up are just part of a strategy of tension, one more turn of the screw to try and force Kyiv and the West into concessions.
However, the last vestiges of constitutionalism would have to be jettisoned and this would increasingly become an ugly, clumsy, old-fashioned police state, with a stagnant economy, a disillusioned population, and nowhere to go but down  much like the old Soviet Union.
What looks disastrously self-destructive to outsiders may seem logical  even necessary  to the Russian president
However, as Western leaders warn of imminent escalation, the alarming possibility is that what looks disastrously self-destructive to outsiders may seem logical  even necessary  to him.
For example, Sergei Naryshkin, the foreign intelligence service director, has claimed that "nationalists and Western mentors" are driving Kyiv into attacking rebel-held areas. If his private guidance to Putin is the same as his public pronouncements, the Kremlin might genuinely feel it faces a threat that must be pre-empted.
If Moscow does launch the full-scale invasion of Ukraine that the West claims is imminent, it is hard to understand the logic.
The capacity of the Russian military to shatter Ukraine's is not in doubt, but this would not be without casualties. More to the point, that would be the easy part. Taking Ukraine's cities and holding and controlling territory would lock Moscow into a vicious, open-ended counter-insurgency against a population that has been prepared for resistance. The West will support and arm them  and Ukraine's long western borders are impossible to seal.
In 1979, Dmitri Ustinov, the defence minister, refused to heed the warnings of his generals and let the leadership believe that invading Afghanistan would be a bloodless, six-month show of force. Ten years later, the Soviets retreated.
Even the most pragmatic and rational of leaders can commit terrible blunders if working on inaccurate information. Clearly obsessed with Ukraine, an over-blown threat from Nato and his own historical legacy, Putin may be about to make the biggest mistake of his political career  yet presumably would be doing so unaware of just what a gamble it would be.
What we do not know, though, is what Putin is being told. Like so many autocrats, over time he has surrounded himself increasingly with cronies, yes men and like-minded mini-mes.
When Boris Yeltsin was contemplating invading rebellious Chechnya in 1994, Pavel Grachev, his over-promoted defence minister, claimed it would take one paratrooper regiment a couple of hours. Twenty months later, Moscow effectively called a draw.
Common sense would suggest that Vladimir Putin is carrying out one of the most intricate and expansive bluffs ever.
Of course, Putin still has control of the security apparatus  even though there are signs of quiet dissatisfaction there, too  and it is unlikely that he would be toppled by public unrest or elite conspiracy.
What if he is being told that a brittle Ukrainian government will fold at the first push? That, as in Crimea in 2014, half the Ukrainian army would defect? That the Ukrainian people will welcome liberation from the clowns, neo-fascists and Western puppets in Kyiv?
