Vladimir Putin poised to declare allout war on Ukraine
20220429
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/29/vladimir-putin-poised-declare-all-out-war-ukraine-sources/
Liberal economists in the Kremlin service have so far staved off switching Russias once vibrant market economy to a wartime mode, deflecting attempts to nationalise Western businesses, among other things.
This smells of further desperation, he said, adding that the appointment could be a precursor move to Putin calling for a declaration of war on May 9.
Nikolai Patrushev, chairman of the Russian Security Council, criticised entrepreneurs fascination with market mechanisms and called for a self-sufficient economy.
The new assignment is a surprising move that could indicate Putins growing isolation, former Major General Rupert Jones, who was the commander of all operations on UK territory, told The Telegraph.
It seems their calls are being heard. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace on Thursday said Putin was likely to announce general mobilisation of the Russian population within weeks to make up for military losses.
The military are outraged that the blitz on Kyiv has failed, Irina Borogan, a Russian expert close to Moscow security services,told The Telegraph.
Separately, an advisor to Ukraines interior minister said that Gen Gerasimov, head of the Russian army, had arrived in Eastern Ukraine.
When violent unrest erupted in Kazakhstan in January this year, the CSTO agreed to send a joint peacekeeping mission there. Other members, however, do not have militaries even remotely as big as Moscows.
Army chiefs want the president to drop the term special operation and declare war which would enable mass mobilisation of Russians
After reeling off a list of Moscows failures - from the sinking of the flagship of its Black Sea fleet to acts of sabotage against infrastructure within Russia - he asked: What else has to happen before the dwarves in the Kremlin realise they are in an all-out, harsh war and start to act accordingly?.
Putin has worked with Gerasimov for a very long time, Maj Gen Jones said. But at the critical moment Putin doesnt feel he needs his strategic commander in Moscow advising him. Theres something quite interesting in that dynamic, it reinforces the idea of Putins isolation.
Vladimir Vladimirovich, can you please make up your mind: are we fighting or are we playing around? he asked in one emotional video. He questioned why Russia had yet to turn Ukraines airfields into lunar craters.
Mobilisation would mean Russia will need to call up reservists and keep conscripts beyond their one-year term, a politically fraught decision. Martial law would close the countrys borders and nationalise swathes of the economy which is already hanging by a thread.
When Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine at the end of February, Putin dubbed it a special operation and even barred Russian media from using the word war, thinking it would all be over in a few weeks. But more than two months later, the offensive has stalled.
The Kremlin has in recent years showered the armed forces with funding and praise while sabre rattling at any opportunity - in part to make up for humiliating military campaigns over the last few decades, including in Afghanistan and Chechnya.
Declaring all-out war with Ukraine would entail two things the Kremlin has so far tried to avoid: martial law and mass mobilisation.
The strengthened armed forces now appear to be getting frustrated with Putins scaled-down offensive in eastern Ukraine, when Moscow had once looked set to take Kyiv in the early days of the war.
Russia is also a member of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation CSTO that includes several other former Soviet nations. As with NATO, its charter says that an aggression against one member should be perceived as aggression against the whole of the bloc - and there could be a joint military response if Putin said Ukraine or the West were attacking Russia.
Vladimir Putin is set to declare all-out war on Ukraine as his military chiefs seek payback for their invasion failures, according to Russian sources and Western officials.
Alexander Arutyunov, a retired Russian commando and usually one of the countrys most popular pro-Kremlin bloggers, has turned into another voice of discontent.
Putin has been anxious to maintain a semblance of normality in Russia amid crippling Western sanctions, ordering his cabinet to come up with financial aid for families and businesses.
Known for his rabidly anti-Ukraine views, Mr Girkin has lashed out online at the Kremlin for being too soft on Ukraine.
But one of Putins closest advisers in a rare public intervention this week spoke out for moving the economy onto a war footing.
Igor Girkin, a retired military intelligence officer better known leading separatist forces in eastern Ukraine before he was recalled to Moscow in 2014, has over the years provided a window into the thinking of rank-and-file Russian officers.
Frustrated army chiefs are urging the Russian president to drop the term special operation used for the invasion and instead declare war, which would enable mass mobilisation of Russians.
He is probably going to declarethat we are now at war with the worlds Nazis and we need to mass mobilise the Russian people, Mr Wallace said. The Defence Secretary added that the announcement could come on May 9 when Russia celebrates the victory of the Soviet army over Nazi Germany.
People in the army are seeking payback for failures of the past and they want to go further in Ukraine.
