Vladimir Putin sets out his key demands to halt Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220307
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/07/vladimir-putin-sets-key-demands-halt-russian-invasion-ukraine/
Russia was again accused of preventing the evacuation of civilians in besieged cities including Mariupol, with Ukraine claiming Russian forces were shelling escape routes.
Oleg Deripaska, the Russian oligarch, made a new plea to end hostilities, saying: "We need peace as soon as possible because we have already passed the point of no return."
Leonid Volkov, a close adviser to Alexei Navaly, the jailed Russian opposition leader, said the new demands for a ceasefire shed light on Putin's "failure of a war", adding that civilians were being subjected to "two more weeks of senseless bombings" only for Putin to be trying to return to a peace deal first offered in 2015.
After 12 days of intense fighting, the Russian president's spokesman claimed the war could be halted "in a moment" if Kyiv agreed to a series of demands from Moscow.
They included Ukraine recognising Moscow's right to rule Crimea and the independence of two Russian-held separatist regions, and that Kyiv remains neutral and does not join either Nato or the European Union.
But senior sources inside the British Government said the deal should be treated with "scepticism" amid fears the Kremlin was setting a trap as a prelude to the further bombardment of Ukraine cities.
Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine's president, will on Tuesday address the House of Commons by video link in a further show of the West's support for his government.
Moscow calls for independence in rebel regions and ban on Kyiv joining Nato or EU, as Kremlin military offensive remains stalled
Mr Johnson has said that a ban on Russian oil is "on the table" after vowing to increase Britain's fossil fuel production in a bid to cut reliance on the Putin regime.
Russian troops continued on Monday to suffer heavy losses and had failed to establish air superiority, while a 40-mile armoured convoy north of Kyiv was stalled and open to counter-attack.
In contrast to Putin's refusal to recognise Ukraine's right to exist, Dmitry Peskov,his spokesman, on Monday accepted the country was an "independent state" and laid out the most explicit terms yet for a ceasefire.
On Monday, Mr Johnson held talks with Joe Biden, the US president, and Emmanuel Macron and Olaf Scholz, the French and German leaders, in which they said any negotiations on Ukraine's future "would have to put the needs and wishes of Ukrainians first".
The Kremlin on Monday offered its terms for a peace deal with Ukraine on another day when Vladimir Putin's invasion remained bogged down.
Growing evidence of Putin's frustration came on Monday when it emerged that he had been trying to recruit Syrian mercenaries, offering them $200 to $300 a day, to join his faltering invasion. They were being offered a six-month deployment to "operate as guards" in Ukraine.
A Downing Street spokesman said: "The leaders condemned Russia's barbaric action and expressed their ongoing solidarity with the people of Ukraine. The Prime Minister stressed that our goal must be ensuring Putin's failure in this act of aggression against Ukraine."
Ukraine's deputy prime minister described the offer of safe passage leading to Russia or Belarus, rather than western Ukraine, as "absurd".
Putin's opponents said the offer represented a climbdown on his call to "de-Nazify" Ukraine and showed that his war had been a "failure".
A third round of talks held in Belarus failed to reach agreement on Monday night. Ukraine said there had been some "small positive" on the establishment of humanitarian corridors, while a Kremlin aide said the negotiations had "failed to live up to our expectations".
Mr Zelensky could repeat his call for the UK and other Western countries to establish a no-fly zone  something Boris Johnson has ruled out because it would mean shooting down Russian planes.
Russia is being hit by further sanctions, and two major global consulting companies that employ a total of 10,000 people in Russia said they were suspending operations in the country.
He added that Europe could not turn off gas from Russia "overnight", amid fractures between the US and the EU on sanctions that sparked chaos in markets across the world.
The Telegraph has learnt that the UK is drawing up plans to give weapons to the Ukrainian forces for months or even years after any Russian victory to form a "resistance" movement inside the country.
