Vladimir Putins popularity in Russia rises since Ukraine war  according to Kremlin
20220701
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/07/01/vladimir-putins-popularity-rises-despite-ukraine-war-crippling/
The Kremlin propaganda also regularly portrays Putins war crimes as fakes, such as the missile attack on a shopping centre hundreds of miles from the frontlines this week and the rape and pillage of Bucha, north of Kyiv, in March.
The improved ratings for Putin will frustrate Western strategists, who designed tough sanctions to make life in Russia harder after the invasion of Ukraine, as well as to turn ordinary Russians against their government.
Support for Putin's invasion of Ukraine on Feb 24 remains strong in Russia, where Kremlin-linked media channels have been pumping out pro-war messages for the past four months.
The Kremlin has banned both criticism of its invasion of Ukraine and any talk of war, instead referring to it as a "special operation". It has also banned various Western media from its internet, including The Telegraph.
Vladimir Putin's approval rating among Russians has shot up since the start of the Ukraine war, polling by a Kremlin-owned unit has said.
The VTsIOM poll said that 78 per cent of Russians now think that their president is doing a good job, compared with 70 per cent in February.
Despite the relative hardships of sanctions, VTsIOM said in another poll released earlier this week that 61 per cent of Russians had confidence in the direction that the country was taking - the highest level since 2005. It also said that 72 per cent of Russians supported the invasion of Ukraine.
Citizens apparently think the president is doing a good job, according to a survey by Kremlin-owned polling unit
The Kremlin's core messages have focused on the inevitability of Putin's decision to order an invasion, because he needed to purge Ukraine of Nazis.
It also portrays Russian soldiers as liberators freeing ethnic Russia from Kyiv's yoke, much like Soviet soldiers in the Second World War defeated Nazi Germany.
