Vladimir Putin says Russia has been cancelled like JK Rowling as Harry Potter author hits back
20220325
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/25/vladimir-putin-says-russia-has-cancelled-like-jk-rowling/
Despite a backlash from trans advocates, Ms Rowling doubled down, saying: If sex isnt real, theres no same-sex attraction. If sex isnt real, the lived reality of women globally is erased.
On Thursday the Russian embassy in France tweeted - and then deleted - a cartoon showing a corpse labelled with the word Europe being injected with a syringe labelled cancel culture.
Transgender Russians have also been allowed to change their legal gender on identity documents since 1997, although there are many obstacles to the process and invasive surgical requirements remain in place, according to the Council for Global Equality.
I know and love trans people, but erasing the concept of sex removes the ability of many to meaningfully discuss their lives. It isnt hate to speak the truth.
However, she has continued to face criticism for her beliefs, with Harry Potter stars Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint all weighing into the debate, saying that they support the trans community.
St Petersburg will no longer hold this years Champions League final, and the Russian Grand Prix, in Sochi, has been cancelled.
"Her books are published all over the world. Just because she did not satisfy the demands of gender rights.
In 2013, the Russian Duma passed legal amendments prohibiting propaganda of non-traditional sexual relationships among minors.
The 56-year-old tweeted: People who menstruate. Im sure there used to be a word for those people. Someone help me out. Wumben? Wimpund? Woomud?
Same-sex marriage "will not happen" as long as he's in the Kremlin, he said in 2020.
The 69-year-old, who often paints himself as a picture of virile masculinity, said last year that Russia should adhere to its own spiritual values and historical traditions, while mocking the West for its sociocultural disturbances.
But there is common sense. I stick to the traditional approach that a woman is a woman, a man is a man, a mum is a mum, and a dad is a dad.
"Thank you so, so much to everyone who has already donated to Lumos's Ukraine appeal."
I respect every trans persons right to live any way that feels authentic and comfortable to them. Id march with you if you were discriminated against on the basis of being trans. At the same time, my life has been shaped by being female. I do not believe its hateful to say so.
Ms Rowling first sparked debate on gender identity when she retweeted an opinion piece discussing people who menstruate.
If someone thinks that women and men are the same thing, then be my guest, he said.
The author, who also writes under the pen name Robert Galbraith, said she was personally matching all donations to the Lumos emergency appeal up to 1 million.
Russia is in the grip of Western sanctions, but many global organisations have implemented their own policies, further stymying the country on the world stage.
Vladimir Putin says that the West is trying to cancel Russia and its history just as it did to JK Rowling for her views on gender identity, provoking an angry response from the Harry Potter author.
With eyes drawn to her Twitter feed, Ms Rowling detailed the work her Lumos charity is doing in Ukraine.
The Russian president said the Harry Potter author was singled out for not satisfying 'the demands of gender rights'
Comparing the ideological culture wars to Russias actual invasion of Ukraine, Mr Putin said: "They cancelled Joanne Rowling recently, the children's author.
The Royal Opera House has pulled a planned residency by Moscows Bolshoi Ballet, the Munich Philharmonic has parted ways with its chief conductor, Valery Gergiev, over his ties to Mr Putin and Russia has been thrown out of Eurovision.
He has likened the new wave of trans activism to a new strain of a pandemic.
Going further, he said the notion that children are taught that a boy can become a girl and vice versa is monstrous and on the verge of a crime against humanity.
"They are trying to cancel our country. I am talking about the progressive discrimination of everything to do with Russia - this trend that is unfolding in a number of Western states," Mr Putin said.
The author went on to write an essay explaining how she was partly motivated to speak about transgender issues because of her experience of domestic abuse and sexual assault.
In a carefully choreographed speech to Russian artists on Friday, Mr Putin attempted to liken the Wests ostracization of his country to the disavowal of Ms Rowling in some circles after she shared her views on sexual identity and trans people.
His words sparked a quick riposte from Ms Rowling, who said: "Critiques of Western cancel culture are possibly not best made by those currently slaughtering civilians for the crime of resistance, or who jail and poison their critics."
