Volodymyr Zelensky fires intelligence chief for inaction at start of Russian invasion
20220530
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/30/volodymyr-zelensky-fires-intelligence-chief-inaction-start-russian/
Mr Poroshenko denied the accusations, calling them a political hit-job on behalf of Mr Zelensky.
I have never allowed anyone to wipe their feet off me, be it a president or an ordinary person, he said.
Last week, the SBU unveiled testimony by a jailed Ukrainian tycoon who accused Petro Poroshenko, a former Ukrainian president, of profiting by purchasing coal from territory currently held by pro-Russian separatists.
Volodymyr Zelensky has become embroiled in a row with the former security chief of Kharkiv after sacking him on the weekend for alleged inaction in the face of Russias invasion.
Mr Dudin said his political rivals were trying to make him a scapegoat for their own failures and lashed out at the Ukrainian army for withdrawing from the citys outskirts on the first days of the war.
The Ukrainian president on Sunday visited the eastern region of Kharkiv in a first trip to the frontlines since Russia withdrew from Kyiv.
Roman Dudins unexpected dismissal is the first sign of Mr Zelenskys unhappiness with the way some officials in Ukrainian provinces responded to the start of the invasion when Ukraine lost swathes of land to Russian forces in a matter of days.
Mr Dudins dismissal appears to mark a return of the political infighting in Ukraine that has been barely seen since the outbreak of war on February 24th.
The only thing I can be punished for is the fact that I handed out weapons to people. Kharkiv would have been captured otherwise. As far as other accusations go Im ready to take a lie detector test or anything else like that.
Mr Zelensky did not specify Mr Dudins suspected transgressions but the security chief on Monday pushed back in a long-winded statement accusing the president of smearing his reputation.
The Ukrainian president visited the eastern region of Kharkiv on Sunday, where he lashed out at Roman Dudin in televised address
I have come here, made inquiries and fired the head of the Kharkiv region for the fact that instead of working to defend the city in the first days of the war he was only thinking about himself, the Ukrainian leader said in a late-night televised address without giving any details.
The former security chief also said he had hours of incriminating footage showing local officials plotting to collaborate with the Russians.
While examining the devastation in a region that remains partly controlled by Russia, Mr Zelensky lashed out at the local chief of the SBU security agency.
