Volodymyr Zelensky challenges Olaf Scholz to visit Kyiv and prove German unity
20220506
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/06/ukraine-president-volodymyr-zelensky-olaf-scholz-german-chancellor/
Arms shipments are set to include seven self-propelled Howitzers, one of Germanys most powerful weapons.
The Ukrainian president once blocked attempts by his German counterpart to visit Kyiv in response to Berlins close economic ties with Russia.
Earlier this week, Mr Scholz said he had no plans to travel to Ukraine because of the snub.
He has overseen a number of significant policy U-turns in the wake of Russias invasion of Ukraine on Feb 24.
He added: Sometimes in history, we have to make certain steps for unity... even if there is some kind of coldness in specific relations.
The iconic tanks were used by the Red Army to defeat the Nazis in 1945.
German politicians argue this criticism has been overblown, as they continue to step up their support for Ukraine.
Berlin dropped its long-standing policy of not sending weapons into conflict zones and promised to ramp up investment on its own defences to meet Natos spending target of two per cent of GDP.
The Prime Minister has signed off on multiple weapons and humanitarian aid shipments to Kyiv to help repel Moscows invasion forces.
Mr Zelensky said Kyivs door was open to the German chancellor, despite his refusal to travel to the Ukrainian capital because of a diplomatic snub.
If everyone in the world  or at least the vast majority  were steadfast and courageous leaders as Ukraine, as Britain, I am sure we would have already ended this war and restored peace throughout our liberated territory for all our people, he said.
However, the decision to send them came only after weeks of sustained pressure by Kyiv and other western allies to reserve its position.
Having previously accused Berlin of being too close to Moscow, the Ukrainian president insisted that such a move would be a very powerful political step in proving his loyalties.
In a slick campaign video shared on social media by a Ukrainian MP, a woman draped in a Ukrainian flag could be seen towing away two Russian T-34 tanks from the Soviet Memorial in Berlin.
Ukrainian president said visiting on May 9, Russias Victory Day, would be a powerful political step to show loyalty against invasion
In a separate speech at a charity event, Mr Zelensky said if countries had given the same backing to Ukraine as Britain the war would have already ended.
Relations between Berlin and Kyiv have been fraught since the start of the war. Ukraine has repeatedly accused Germany of dithering on arms shipments and energy sanctions against Russia.
At the same event, a charity auction raising funds for Ukraine, Boris Johnson said that the UK would continue to intensify efforts to help Ukraine for as long as it needed.
Hes invited to come to Ukraine, Mr Zelensky told a Chatham House event. He can make this very powerful political step by coming on May 9.
Vladimir Putin wants to celebrate success in eastern Ukraine on Victory Day on May 9, the anniversary of the Soviet Unions triumph over Germany in the Second World War.
Mr Zelenskys invitation to Mr Scholz and Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Germanys president, signalled an end to those political tensions.
It replicated the efforts of Ukrainian farmers filmed towing away Russian tanks and other captured military hardware.
Olaf Scholz should come to Kyiv on May 9 to prove Germany is on Ukraines side, Volodymyr Zelensky said on Friday.
