Wars in Europe rarely start on a Wednesday scoffs Kremlin
20220217
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/17/wars-europe-rarely-start-wednesday-scoffs-kremlin/
"Western hysteria is still far from its culmination," Mr Peskov said. "We need to have patience, as the remission will not come quickly."
On Tuesday night Mr Peskov even joked: "I would suggest they Ukrainians set an alarm clock and see for themselves."
Ukrainians, meanwhile, have been living amid signs of a possible invasion for several weeks, with an estimated 150,000 Russian troops surrounding much of their country for military exercises.
Asked Wednesday whether Russia's presidential administration operated differently overnight, he told reporters that everyone slept calmly and resumed work in the morning as usual.
Russian officials wasted little time mocking the West for incorrectly predicting that Moscow's invasion of Ukraine would begin on Wednesday.
Russia said this week it was starting to pull back some troops, but Western military officials say there's no evidence of a serious withdrawal.
Beneath the sarcasm, Russia has narrated the current Ukraine crisis from the outset: first by moving troops toward Ukraine, then by periodically holding out the possibility of a diplomatic solution, keeping foreign officials and global markets on constant edge.
"I'd like to ask if US and British sources of disinformation ... could publish the schedule of our upcoming invasions for the year. I'd like to plan my holidays," Russia's foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on social media.
He insisted in an interview with German daily newspaper Welt that "there won't be an attack this Wednesday."
Russian officials have openly mocked the West for fearing that an invasion of Ukraine would begin on Feb 16
The most well-known purveyor of Russian diplomatic sarcasm is Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. He is known worldwide for his quips - often said in English - over 18 years as the Kremlin's top diplomat.
While Putin offered more talks this week, his intentions in Ukraine remain unclear. Western intelligence suggests an invasion of some kind could still happen - on a future Wednesday or any day of the week.
Russia's ambassador to the European Union, Vladimir Chizhov, accused Westerners of "slander" for alleging an invasion was afoot.
The statement seemed more flippant than historically significant. World War I started on a Tuesday and World War II started in Europe on a Friday, but Europe's history of war over centuries includes conflicts that kicked off throughout the week.
On Wednesday, Mr Lavrov described the West as sadly "lacking basic upbringing" for trying to dictate or predict Russia's plans.
