Watch Russian saboteur plot in Kyiv ends in deadly hail of bullets
20220225
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/25/gun-battle-kyiv-ambush-russian-plot/
Off camera, the sound of a non-stop hail of gunfire suggests multiple soldiers are shooting at the vehicle.
Four of its six wheels are punctured and the driver appears unable to steer as it careers across two roads, grass verges and a pavement before coming to rest on the edge of a car park.
A soldier manning the anti-aircraft gun truck jumps to the ground wounded, possibly shot by the soldier behind the van. He tries to take cover, with his head propped against the middle wheel of the vehicle on the opposite side of the truck from the gunman.
Three soldiers, said to be Russians disguised as Ukrainians, killed at end of battle in streets of the capital
Video posted on Twitter shows a six-wheeled lorry, carrying a twin-barrelled anti-aircraft gun, coming under fire shortly before 7am local time 5am GMT as it drives at speed down the middle of the road in the Obolon residential district north of the capital.
Mobile phone footage showing a lethal ambush on a Russian truck in Kyiv was posted on social media within moments of it happening on Friday.
As he does so, a second Russian vehicle  a caterpillar-tracked missile launcher  comes under fire as it drives down a road behind the truck. It suddenly veers to its left, crushing a black car driving in the opposite direction.
As the truck comes to rest, a Ukrainian soldier takes cover behind a white Transit-sized van 20 yards away and opens fire.
Three soldiers, said to be Russians disguised as Ukrainians, lay dead at the end of a fierce gun battle that lasted for more than two minutes. The footage was filmed by civilians from flats overlooking the scene.
Civilians with crowbars and axes surrounded his car and pulled at the twisted metal to get him out, with a small graze on his forehead his only visible injury.
Other videos show that a third man, possibly a passenger in the truck, was also killed.
The Ukrainian soldier cautiously moves around the front of the truck and, when he gets a clear view of the Russian lying on the ground, fires five times, killing him.
Meanwhile, the soldier behind the white van opens fire on the cab of the truck, whose driver is killed.
