Watch Russia fails to thwart pranksters beaming Ukrainian flag onto embassy
20220414
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/14/watch-russians-fail-thwart-pranksters-beaming-image-ukrainian/
The Ukrainian flag is showboating by now, dominating the white faade. When the Russian spotlight pursues it, the Ukrainian flag jiggles away. The 43-second clip ends with audible laughter.
The attempted military escort is thwarted. The Ukrainian flag is so bright that the white spotlight hardly shows up. Emboldened, the Ukrainian flag makes a further incursion into Russian territory, adding insult to injury by provocatively bobbing up and down.
That is exactly how it has been used by pro-Ukrainian pranksters. A video uploaded to social media this morning shows Boris Nemtsov Plaza, home of the embassy, at night-time. Onto the thick foliage of the trees to the embassys right is projected the Ukrainian flag, vivid blue and yellow against a dark backdrop.
The Russian embassy in Washington DC has a faade that is mostly large, flat and white. It is a design that, however accidentally, gives the building some resemblance to a projector screen.
This is not the first attempt to embarrass the embassy staff. Its location, Boris Nemtsov Plaza, is a stretch of Wisconsin Avenue NW that, in 2018, was named after a Russian opposition politician who spoke out against Vladimir Putins corruption and was shot dead in 2015.
The flag, apparently beamed from the other side of the wide avenue, begins to tack to the left. Inexorably it moves towards the Russian embassy, arriving at the top-left corner. The embassy is already lit by large, faint spotlights in the red, white and blue of Russias flag  and by a second, weaker Ukrainian flag, suggesting some prankster coordination.
Despite their best efforts, staff at the base in Washington DC were unable to intercept the vivid projection of blue and yellow
It is the stronger flag that prompts the interception attempt that has made this video go viral. Up sweeps a white Russian spotlight, straight to the incoming Ukrainian flag. Theyre trying to drown you out, comments an onlooker.
