Watch Ukrainian air force carry out night time air raid on Snake Island
20220508
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/08/watch-ukrainian-air-force-carry-night-time-air-raid-snake-island/
Ukraine: The Ukrainian Air force is still alive- seen here are two Ukrainian Su-27 striking Russian facilities on the famous Snake Island in the Black Sea, in remarkable footage filmed by a TB-2 drone.As we can observe, there is serious damage. pic.twitter.comogN3gOU8uJ
Further to this assault, Kyiv said in a statement on Saturday that an armed drone had destroyed a Serna-class landing craft and a missile defence system at Snake Island.
The Ukrainian soldiers were captured by the Russians, but later exchanged in a prisoner swap. The Moskva - the flagship vessel in Russias Black Sea force - was terminally damaged by Ukrainian rockets and later sank while being towed back to port.
There are at least two major secondary explosions, suggesting a hit on ammunition or fuel storage area, according to military experts.
In remarkable footage, two Su-27s enter very low from the south of the island and drop what appear to be high-drag bombs, scoring direct hits on the main complex and buildings on the eastern side.
It released grainy over-head footage on social media showing in black and white what appeared to be an explosion over a light craft with debris spilling outwards.
Two Ukrainian air force pilots have carried out an audacious night time attack on the Russian-occupied Snake Island, levelling buildings held by enemy combatants.
The brave attack on the island 20 miles off Ukraine is thought to have taken place in the last few days, according to updated satellite imagery.
The military said in a separate statement on social media that the Bayraktar drone strike had also destroyed a Tor-M2 anti-aircraft system being delivered to the island.
It is thought that because there were no defence systems, and the Russian occupants would be focusing on the north - towards the Ukrainian coast - that a back door aerial attack from the south would be possible.
Snake Island became a symbol of Ukrainian resistance after a radio exchange went viral at the start of the war, in which Ukrainian soldiers used an expletive in rebuffing a demand by the Russian warship Moskva to surrender.
Footage shows what is thought to be direct hits on a missile bunker or fuel storage unit, as well as the islands main building complex
The island has been occupied by Russian troops, who were warned just days ago by Anton Gerashchenko, a Ukrainian official, that they would be destroyed and burned out like cockroaches or locusts.
Aerial footage, filmed by a nearby TB-2 drone, shows two Ukrainian Su-27 fighter jets swooping low over the Black Sea island and firing rockets at the facilities, which then blow up.
It is thought that they may have scored direct hits on a missile bunker or fuel storage unit, as well as the islands main building complex.
"The traditional parade of the Russian Black Sea fleet on May 9 this year will be held near Snake Island - at the bottom of the sea," the defence ministry added.
