Watch Russia releases hoax video of Ben Wallace discussing Ukraines nuclear ambitions
20220322
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/21/russia-releases-video-ben-wallace-supporting-ukraines-nuclear/
The video was released on YouTube just hours after Downing Street accused Vladimir Putins Russia of hoaxing the Defence Secretary and Priti Patel, the Home Secretary, through impostors posing as Ukrainian politicians in calls with the pair.
He noted they had not released the section where he criticised Putin for the invasion and illegal annexation of Crimea, saying: They wont have put in where I stood up for the free press.
His tweet carried a picture of the two Russian intelligence officers, Anatoliy Chepiga and Alexander Mishkin, who unsuccessfully attempted to poison Sergei Skripal, a former KGB spy and defector, in a clumsy and bungled operation.
Earlier, Number 10 said that government investigators had established that the Kremlin was behind the dirty tricks operation targeting Mr Wallace and Ms Patel. There was also a third attempt  to hoax Nadine Dorries, the Culture Secretary  that failed.
This is standard practice for Russian information operations and disinformation is a tactic straight from the Kremlin playbook to try to distract from their illegal activities in Ukraine and the human rights abuses being committed there.
Things must be going so badly for the Kremlin that they are now resorting to pranks and video fakes. Not the actions of a confident Government, but then again after the Salisbury Cathedral sightseeing story, anything is possible.. pic.twitter.comGE6B1VNGNt
Russia has released a video of Ben Wallace obtained by state hoaxers purporting to show him discussing Ukraines nuclear ambitions.
The Defence Secretary allegedly replied that he thought Russia will not really like that, before saying all those bigger questions would have to be discussed with the Prime Minister.
Mr Wallace told The Telegraph that they had spliced and doctored the video to remove his response that the UK were treaty signatories to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and could not have anything to do with it. He said it was total clipped garbage.
We are seeing a string of distraction stories and outright lies from the Kremlin, reflecting Putins desperation as he seeks to hide the scale of the conflict and Russias failings on the battlefield, the Prime Ministers official spokesman said.
Downing Street said that the hoax video calls to Britains ministers were an attempt by Putins regime to distract from military problems in Ukraine.
Defence Secretary hits out at the doctored footage of his discussion with callers pretending to be the Ukrainian prime minister
Mr Wallace had previously said he believed Russia was behind the incident, but this is the first time the Government has directly blamed the Kremlin.
In the video of the Microsoft Teams call released and billed as part 1, Mr Wallace is seen in a car apparently talking to an impostor posing as Denys Shmyhal, the Ukrainian prime minister.
The video was published under the account of Vladimir Vovan Krasnov, a Russian phone-based prankster who, with his partner, Alexei Lexus Stolyarov, hoaxed the Duke of Sussex in 2020 by impersonating Greta Thunberg, the climate activist, and getting to comment about the Royal family.
Mr Wallace, who was in Poland at the time, is purportedly asked by Mr Shmyhal whether he would like to continue our nuclear programme to defend against Russia.
The Prime Ministers official spokesman said: The Russian state was responsible for the hoax telephone calls made to UK ministers last week.
Boris Johnsons official spokesman warned that the Russians would use doctored versions of the calls in a disinformation campaign to support its illegal invasion of Ukraine.
