Watch Families dive for cover during Russian missile strikes that hit Kremenchuk shopping centre
20220628
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/06/28/watch-drone-footage-shows-extent-devastation-kremenchuk-shopping/
Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, last night described the attack as one of the most brazen terrorist attacks in European history.
Authorities in the region put the death toll at the shopping centre at 18, saying 59 more were injured and about 40 were still missing.
This is the moment families scrambled for cover in a park when Russian cruise missiles destroyed a factory and nearby shopping centre in Ukraine.
Mr Konashenkov said the Russia airstrike destroyed the weaponry that was bound to be sent to the eastern Ukraine, the epicentre of the war's heaviest fighting.
"Ammunition for Western weaponry stored at the warehouse detonated, causing a fire at a shopping centre nearby that has not been operational," he said in a statement.
Another camera angle shows a couple running away from the epicentre of the explosion, before the man rolls on the ground and then leaps into the water.
Second missile strikes warehouse next to park as Russia hits Amstor shopping centre in Ukrainian town of Kremenchuk
Russia media last night either avoided reporting on the Kremenchuk bombing or offered a string of mutually exclusive theories about what happened including an outright denial of any casualties.
The Amstor shopping centre in the central Ukrainian town of Kremenchuk was hit by two guided missiles on Monday while about 1,000 shoppers and staff were inside.
In another clip, a parent is seen grabbing their child from the edge of the pond and running for cover behind a tree moments before the blast.
He admitted that the shopping centre caught fire because of the Russian attack but insisted that Moscow thought it was shut down.
Russia's defence ministry has claimed responsibility for yesterday's deadly bombing but insisted it did not know what the mall was open.
In Germany, the leaders of the G7 on Monday night branded the Russian strike abominable as they vowed to hold Vladimir Putin accountable for the war crime.
CCTV captured the moment a second missile struck nearby. A bright flash lit up the park a split second before trees and shrubs were shaken by a blast wave and garden furniture and other objects rained down onto the lawn and into the pond.
Drone footage released on Tuesday showed the roof over the central section of the sprawling building entirely collapsed and turned into a pile of rubble with the wings of the structure mangled.
Firefighters worked at the scene through the night to put out the fire and let the rescue teams search for the missing people but hopes of finding someone alive amid the smouldering ruins were increasingly dim by Tuesday afternoon.
Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the Russian military, said on Tuesday morning that Russia on Monday used "high-precision weapons" to target hangers at a local factory storing fresh ammunition and weapons supplies from the US and Europe.
