Watch Brave Ukrainians defuse giant Russian bomb with two hands and bottle of water
20220310
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/10/brave-ukrainians-defuse-giant-russian-bomb-two-hands-bottle/
The two men have been hailed worldwide for their 'mind-boggling bravery' and nerves of steel
The men are equipped with only the water and a pair of gloves, with no helmets. The defusing process would ordinarily be performed remotely.
The resultant supersonic blast destroys buildings with a devastating pressure wave that can crush human bodies even if they are not in the immediate vicinity of the strike.
A video showing the hair-raising moment two bomb disposal personnel defused a Russian bomb with their own hands and a bottle of water has gone viral.
Thermobaric bombs suck in oxygen from the surrounding air to generate a high-temperature explosion, typically producing a blast wave of a significantly longer duration than that of a conventional explosive.
The Russian MoD has confirmed the use of the TOS-1A weapon system in Ukraine. The TOS-1A uses thermobaric rockets, creating incendiary and blast effects, said the Ministery of Defence.
Experts say that the water was used to reduce friction in the fuse well, where explosive residue can get into the screw's threading. All it would take to set the bomb off is heat, shock and friction.
More than two million people have watched the 31-second clip from Ukraine, which shows one man pouring the bottle over the end of the bomb while the other twists the seal out of it.
Charles Lister, senior fellow and the director of the countering terrorism and extremism programs at the Middle East Institute, posted the video to Twitter.
"The water is to prevent static discharge. Steady hands, nerves of steel, said Nick Stylianou, a Sky News journalist.
It was shared shortly after Russia admitted to using thermobaric rockets in Ukraine that have the capability to rupture lungs.
Fired as missiles, on impact with a target the rockets spread a fuel-air cloud that detonates a fraction of a second later.
This Russia-dropped bomb would flatten a building  and yet these Ukraine EODs defuse it with 2 hands and a bottle of water, while shells audibly land nearby, Mr Lister said.
