Wednesday morning news briefing  EU losing will to back Ukraine
20220824
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/08/24/wednesday-morning-uk-news-briefing-todays-top-headlines-telegraph/
Olivia Pratt-Korbel was shot dead when a balaclava-clad gunman chased a gang rival into her house in the Knotty Ash area of the city on Monday night.
After a nine-year-old girl became the latest victim of Liverpool's gangland gun violence, campaigners in the city said "something has got to change".
Chelsea have embarked on a frantic dash to secure their long-term transfer targets, after lodging bids totalling 130million for Wesley Fofana and Anthony Gordon. Our transfer window guide details each Premier League club's business. Meanwhile, Joe Root has admitted that he did not appreciate the extent of Ben Stokes's difficulties with mental health, after his successor as England Test captain revealed he was taking medication as he continued to struggle with his father's death.
But, as the cost of living crisis bites ever deeper, some host families are starting to question whether they will be able to afford to house their guests for much longer.
Eurostar trains will not stop in Kent for up to three years, the operator said as it blamed the decision on Brexit and its post-pandemic recovery. The county could remain disconnected from the Continent until 2025 after the train company dashed hopes of a gradual return of services next year. Laura Onita reports on why it expects further friction. In China, tower blocks are being torn down as Xi Jinping's government seeks to prop up the country's stalling property market.
In the six months since Russia invaded Ukraine, Kyiv has received significant European support. But Britain fears that help could dry up amid the cost of living crisis.
Peter Stanford and Abigail Buchanan meet some of those who are committed to their guests despite tough financial times.PS: If you missed it last night, I can recommend our special report on what could come next for Ukraine after six months of war.
When The Telegraph published Ed Grenby's tongue-in-cheek article on the scourge of middle class glamping, readers had plenty to say in response. It is clearly a topic close to your hearts: amid more than 450 comments, there were colourful recollections of camping in bygone years, a smattering of handy tips mostly booze-related, and some fun horror stories too. But the real debate was the contentious traditional camping vs modern glamping argument. Read what your fellow Telegraph readers said  and share your own thoughts in the comments.
And senior reporter Daniel Capurro learns about the ease with which guns can be bought on Merseyside.
Finland's prime minister has apologised after an image emerged of topless influencers taken during a private party at her taxpayer-funded residence. In a since-deleted TikTok post, two social media personalities kissed each other and covered their bare breasts with a "Finland" sign at Sanna Marin's home. Ms Marin, whose private life has recently been in the limelight, confirmed the picture had been taken at her residence.
European governments were said to be increasingly concerned about spending on arms and humanitarian supplies in the face of soaring energy prices, according to a source briefed on the talks.
Flight risk  As the global aviation sector gradually returns to pre-pandemic travel norms, Taiwan-based pilots are still stuck firmly in the past. Asia correspondent Nicola Smith explores the fight to halt a never ending lockdown for Taiwan's pilots.
Crime correspondent Martin Evans examines how Liverpool has been plagued with gun-related violence as rival drug gangs carry out tit-for-tat attacks in which innocent people can be caught in the crossfire.
Economists said the eurozone had already entered recession, with German businesses suffering their worst slump for two years.
We have crunched the data across 33 categories to reveal which is the best. It was a closely fought contest, with just a handful of points separating some of the top 10. See the results here.
What are the ingredients for a perfect English holiday? Telegraph Travel has sought to identify the greatest county of them all  the corner of our green and pleasant land that offers what holidaymakers treasure in the greatest abundance.
Britain's scheme of national generosity is a small beacon of hope. Launched in March, Homes for Ukraine has seen tens of thousands open their homes to refugees for a minimum period of six months.
Meanwhile, Liz Truss, writing in today's Telegraph, pledges to increase intelligence sharing from MI6 if she were to become prime minister.
In his latest cartoon, Matt took inspiration from a story about how dogs shed tears of joy. For more insight on Matt's work, sign up to his newsletter.
Courgette risotto with melting mozzarella  Season and stir as you go with this dish by Diana Henry.
The US, which told all its citizens to leave Ukraine ahead of a feared increase in Russian strikes on its Independence Day, is about to announce $3 billion 2.5 billion of new weaponry in its single largest package to date.
Spiralling energy costs  Industry chiefs are preparing for the energy crisis to last for another three years as National Grid draws up emergency plans to reduce power demand from factories across Britain. Large industrial companies would be paid to cut gas usage every winter until 2025 as National Grid attempts to avoid uncontrolled blackouts that would cause "a major economic and societal impact". It came as forecasts suggested a new high for the energy price cap in April. And Tom Rees explores how the energy crisis is already laying waste to the high street.
The Telegraph understands that UK diplomats have been travelling to European capitals to make the case against cutting aid.
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email,sign up to the Front Page newsletter here. For two-minute audio updates, tryThe Briefing- on podcasts, smart speakers and WhatsApp.
Also from this AM's Front Page newsletter: The city where firearms are all too easy to buy  the best English counties ranked. Sign up below
