West seriously concerned Russia could unleash chemical weapons on Ukraine
20220309
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/09/west-seriously-concerned-russia-could-unleash-chemical-weapons/
Officials are warning that Moscow is setting the scene for an attack by claiming Kyiv will stage a false flag operation
Western officials warned of their "serious concern" that Vladimir Putin could use chemical weapons in Ukraine to commit further atrocities during the invasion.
Putins risk threshold is higher. His willingness to endure civilian and military casualties is almost out of our comprehension.
She claimed Ukraine has been secretly developing highly hazardous pathogens of plague, anthrax, rabbit-fever, cholera and other lethal diseases.
The comments came after Britains Ministry of Defence said there had been a notable intensification of Russian accusations that Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons since Feb 24.
On Tuesday Russias Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said evidence had been discovered that Ukraine had been concealing traces of a military biological programme implemented with funding from the United States.
MP Bob Seely, a long-term Russia-watcher, said on Tuesday that such an attack in Ukraine would be disastrous. He pointed to the way Russia used chemical weapons on Syria to clear the city of Aleppo in just 12 days.
One Western official said: "I think we've got good reason to be concerned about possible use of non-conventional weapons, partly because of what we've seen has happened in other theatres.
You cant live in the Kyiv and Kharkiv metros when you have chemical weapons being used, because chlorine and sarin are heavier than air.
They will seep and flow like water into basements and suffocate those people, he told the Telegraph.
The risks are still quite small of chemical weapons being used, but if you give Putin no options, you increase, if only mildly, the small chances of them being used.
"As I've mentioned before, for example, what we've seen in Syria, partly because we've seen a bit of setting the scene for that in the false flag claims that are coming out, and other indications as well.
But there are also fears that it could be used to lay the groundwork for a Russian chemical attack, just as Moscow did ahead of a chemical attack on Douma in Syria.
Their assessment was that an "utterly horrific" attack on the capital of Kyiv could come as Russian forces overcome the logistical issues suspected of delaying their attacks.
At the time, Russia disseminated allegations across its media channels that the Syrian rebels were preparing chemical weapons with the help of the West.
These narratives are long standing but are currently likely being amplified as part of a retrospective justification for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
