What Marine Le Pens election could mean for Nato and Ukraine
20220423
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/23/marine-le-pens-election-could-mean-nato-ukraine/
Ms Le Pen claims to have compassion and solidarity for the suffering of Ukrainians but the National Rally leader has a long track record of public admiration for Vladimir Putin.
Her National Rally MEPs voted in the European Parliament against sanctions on Russia for the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014.
If Volodymyr Zelensky had a vote in Sundays elections, he would cast it for Mr Macron.
She will undermine EU efforts to sanction Moscow which will encourage Putin to continue his bloody war in the face of a divided response to his aggression.
She will take France, the EUs sole major military power, out of Natos integrated command and demand a weaker line from the Alliance in the face of Vladmir Putins illegal invasion.
This is not enough but is a diplomatic achievement because such measures need the backing of all 27 member states.
Mr Macron has backed tough EU sanctions that are costing the French economy, committed troops to Eastern Europe in a new battlegroup, sent weapons to Ukraine and been influential in forming Natos response to the crisis.
She has called for a rapprochement with Moscow as soon as the war in Ukraine is over, which stands in stark contrast to Britains insistence that Putin must fail.
That may be unsatisfactory but it is better than Ms Le Pens refusal to entertain energy embargoes altogether.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz has ruled out an immediate ban on gas but Germany is moving slowly toward weaning itself off its addiction to Kremlin-controlled imports.
France rejoined the command structure in 2009 after leaving it in 1966. Leaving it again would not mean quitting Nato or giving up the obligation to defend fellow Alliance members.
It would raise questions over the future of French reinforcements sent to Romania to bolster Natos flank at a time when Western unity is vital.
Emmanuel Macron calls Putin Ms Le Pens banker. Her hard-Right party received a 9 million loan from a Russian bank allegedly close to the Kremlin, which she explains away by complaining no French bank would lend to her.
The vast majority of troops at Natos disposal are controlled by member countries but during certain security threats or missions, those troops come under Nato control.
He has rightly been criticised for pursuing failed diplomacy with Putin but there is no question whose side he is on.
The EU has so far imposed five rounds of unprecedented sanctions against Russia, including moves to ban coal.
Natos US-led integrated command structure deploys forces made avaliable to it by member countries, which Ms Le Pen opposes on sovereignty grounds.
But, at the very least, it will introduce uncertainty among the Alliance, especially among the Baltic nations, and encourage those tempted to appease Mr Putin.
Ms Le Pen may have pulped campaign literature showing her meeting the Russian president but a glance at her policies show where her loyalties lie.
In a televised debate with Mr Macon on Wednesday, she said energy sanctions amounted to France committing hari kiri because of the impact on the cost of living.
Marine Le Pen claims to have 'compassion' for the suffering of Ukrainians but has a long track record of public admiration for Putin
It is increasingly likely that an oil embargo will follow. Gas has proved more difficult because of opposition from Germany and Hungary, which are heavily dependent on Russian imports.
Ms Le Pen has said she will block any EU sanctions hitting Russian oil and gas if she can spring a surprise victory over incumbent Emmanuel Macron.
Marine Le Pen will blow a hole under the waterline of the Wests response to the Ukraine crisis if she is elected president of France on Sunday.
