Why Ukraines Snake Island victory could be a major blow for Putin
20220630
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/06/30/how-russias-retreat-snake-island-could-restart-grain-trade/
For all the many setbacks his forces have suffered and the highly doubtful claim this war was all about protecting the people of the Donbas all along, Putins desire to turn the whole of Ukraine into a client state has never diminished.
Ukraine's victory on Snake Island could be critical to reopening shipping lanes to grain trapped on the docks of Odesa.
Snake Island is that tiny lump of rock in the Black Sea, 20km off the south-west tip of Ukraine and made famous in the early days of this war with the resolute call from the defenders for the Russian warship shelling them to go f--- itself.The frigate in question, the Moskva, flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet, was later sunk in one of the most stunning blows Ukraine has landed on her invader since February 24.As the war has ebbed and flowed on land, the island has proved critical for both sides.
With Snake Island in Ukrainian hands, the threat to Russias Black Sea fleet will go up, the risk of an amphibious assault on Odesa will go down, the chances of the Kremlin smashing Ukraines economy is reduced and Putins stranglehold over the provision of grain to the worlds poorest regions, and indeed food prices globally, is weakened - as will his economy be when prices settle.Tactical actions can sometimes have strategic effects. Wars can be won or lost over the smallest details.Whether that blasted chunk of rock in the Black Sea is one such detail will be revealed, probably sooner than later.
It will be dangerous work, but removing Russian mines from the sea will be possible if the threat from the remnants of Moscows Black Sea fleet is reduced.
Other Black Sea nations such as Romania and Bulgaria might also be involved. Nato members of course, but not operating as a Nato mission. Britain has ruled out being part of grain convoys.Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkeys president, is currently in Madrid at a summit with other Nato leaders. Perhaps a deal on this very issue is being hammered out today?
Russian ownership of Snake Island made any attempt to export grain from Odesa almost impossible.
Turkey is likely to be critical here. As custodian of the Montreux Convention, which controls access through the Bosphorus Strait in times of conflict, Ankaras naval forces could take the lead in clearing the way and escorting out civilian ships.
Ukrainian ownership of Snake Island - which it will no doubt quickly populate with air and sea defences - has the potential to ease the global shortage of grain.
Russia says it has lost interest in the island - possibly as a result of Ukraine deploying French Caesar self-propelled artillery systems in Odesa - making any amphibious assault on Odesa much harder.
Wars can sometimes turn on the most seemingly insignificant factors.Time will show whether Russias decision to abandon Snake Island - which for the sake of analysis we will take at face value for now - is one such moment.
If Russia has given up the ambition of taking Odesa and the whole south coast of the country in a bid to strangle Ukraines economy, it is a huge development.
In Ukrainian hands, the threat to Moscows Black Sea fleet will go up, and the risk of an amphibious assault on Odesa will go down
