Worlds largest aircraft feared to have been destroyed by Russian assault on Ukraine airport
20220228
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/28/worlds-largest-aircraft-feared-have-destroyed-russian-assault/
It was also longer than the distance travelled by the Wright Brothers in the worlds first powered flight in 1903.
Mriya  meaning dream in Ukrainian  became a symbol of the fledgling nation after the break-up of the Soviet Union.
The worlds largest aircraft - the Antonov An-225 Mriya  is feared to have been destroyed in an attack on Antonov Airport in Hostomel, Ukraine.
Dating back to the Soviet era, the aeronautical behemoth  was designed to transport parts of the space shuttle and other key components.
This was the worlds largest aircraft, AN-225 Mriya Dream in Ukrainian. Russia may have destroyed our Mriya. But they will never be able to destroy our dream of a strong, free and democratic European state. We shall prevail! pic.twitter.comTdnBFlj3N8
In 2020, the worlds largest transport aircraft AN-225 Mriya began to perform humanitarian flights and deliver medical supplies to combat the coronavirus in the EU.
With a cockpit sitting on top of a bulbous nose, the plane had a passing resemblance to the Airbus, the big difference being at the rear with body of the aircraft dropping much lower than the A380.
Having been mothballed for years the plane was put back into service by the Ukrainian cargo airline.
It was something of a celebrity, drawing 35,000 people when it visited Perth in Australia in 2016
The hangar, in which the plane was stored was in flames, although Antonov Airlines, which operated the aircraft has yet to confirm the aircrafts destruction.
A symbol of Ukrainian national pride, the Antonov An-225 Mriya was longer than the first powered flight by the Wright Brothers in 1903
With three engines on each wing, 42 tires it was a monster. At 275 feet seven inches in length, it was 37 feet longer than the Airbus A380.
A defiant Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba, added: Russia may have destroyed our Mriya,But they will never be able to destroy our dream of a strong, free and democratic European state.We shall prevail!
Currently, until the AN-225 has been inspected by experts, we cannot report on the technical condition of the aircraft, the company said in a tweet.
