Xi Jinping snaps up Vladimir Putins bargain coal
20220420
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/04/20/xi-jinping-snaps-vladimir-putins-bargain-coal/
As a whole, coal imports fell 31pc year-on-ear, driven by a collapse in demand for thermal coal, which is used for power generation. Coal is by far the most common energy source in China, representing more than half total consumption despite efforts over recent decades to reduce usage.
China has moved to step up domestic coal mining, but its mines produce an inferior quality of material that is unsuited for use in steel mills, forcing it to rely on foreign imports.
The EU purchased 5.2bn of Russian coal in 2021. Phasing out use of the highly-pollutant rock is the first major part of Brussels plan to wean Europe off Russian energy.
Beijings willingness to work with Moscow will feed frustration in the West, as it undermines the effectiveness of sanctions launched over the past two months. India has also taken advantage of the disruption to grab fuel at a discount.
Beijing has moved to take advantage of bargain prices after Russias invasion of Ukraine led buyers such as Japan and the European Union to curb or ban imports, leaving Russian companies scrambling for buyers.
Imports of the fuel, which is used in making steel, rose to 1.4m tonnes in March from 590,000 a year earlier.
Chinese authorities have also considered ramping up energy imports from Russia further despite opposition from the West.
Holger Schmieding, an economist at Berenberg, said that timing should allow EU members to find alternative sources. It will also give Russia time to redirect its exports.
It imported 321,380 tonnes of liquefied natural gas from Russia last month  roughly the same amount as in March last year despite an overall 17pc year-on-year decline in its gas imports, driven by soaring prices.
Brent crude oil was trading at around $108 a barrel on Wednesday afternoon. In mid-March, traders had been selling Urals blend  the most common Russian variety  at discounts of $25 to $30 a barrel.
China is taking advantage of the war in Ukraine to grab coking coal at a heavy discount, with imports more than doubling in March.
