Roanokes official relationship with Russian city to continue
20220206
https://dailyprogress.com/news/state-and-regional/roanokes-official-relationship-with-russian-city-to-continue/article_83634abc-14b5-5d35-b8ac-a603183aaa7a.html
Three more animal cruelty charges were filed Thursday in the case of Byrd Rareshide, a former Virginia horse show judge who stands accused of 
A representative of the Pskov government, reached by The Roanoke Times last week, also called for the relationship to continue.
Terry Michelhas been held in Western Virginia Regional Jail following his arrest Feb. 16 in connection to the death of his two black labs, Ca
After Russia invaded Ukraine late last month, Gov. Glenn Youngkin asked Roanoke to break it off with Pskov, a city of about 200,000 people in northwest Russia. The Roanoke Valley sister cities group, a nonprofit organization, disagreed. Mayor Sherman Lea sent Youngkin a letter describing continued ties as important, but stressed the position that he rejected the invasion as unacceptable and stood with the Ukrainian people.
Council members resolved to support the Roanoke Valley Sister Cities organization and endorsed the organization maintaining its partnerships with all seven sister cities.
Councilman Bill Bestpitch called on the council to adopt the pro-Ukraine resolution with additional language to include support for the local sister cities group maintaining ties with all of Roanokes sister cities. His suggestions carried the day.
"It felt like the bottom just dropped out from underneath. Everything was floating up. For a moment, you are weightless."
The Virginia Department of Education has come under fire under Balow's leadership for mistakes in its drafting of K-12 history standards and a
The Kremlin is tightly controlling the information Russians are receiving about the Ukraine war by cutting off access to foreign media, blocking certain websites and taking independent journalists off the air.
More than 100 rural hospitals have closed over the past decade, and another 600 rural hospitals  nearly 30 of all rural hospitals in the cou
In the meantime, council members received extensive feedback from the public and some heard calls for breaking ties.
That wrapped up a period of several days during which the citys nearly 30-year sister city relationship with Pskov appeared to hang in the balance.
Two draft resolutions were placed on the table. One condemned the invasion and declared support for Ukraine with the words, all people of Ukraine no matter their background deserve a chance to live in peace and freedom.
The Roanoke City Council voted Monday to continue the sister city relationship with Pskov, Russia, despite that nations brutal invasion of Ukraine.
Another resolution called on the local sister city organization to suspend the sister cities partnership with Pskov. Copies were not made available to those in the audience.
