Mexico President Denies US Is Asking for Oil Help Says Mexicans Should Not Worry About Gas Price Hike
20220311
https://www.latinpost.com/articles/154417/20220310/mexico-president-us-gas-price-mexico-gas-price.htm
"Oil prices play a leading role in pushing gas prices higher. Consumers can expect the current trend at the pump to continue as long as crude prices climb," the American Automobile Association AAA said on Monday.
READ NEXT: White House Warns of 'Severe Consequences' After Nancy Pelosi Announced the Removal of COVID Funding on Omnibus Bill  Here's What May Happen
"It's important that all Mexicans know that we are not going to have problems with price increases for fuels or electricity, despite the invasion and war in Ukraine," Lopez Obrador underscored.
Mexico President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador AMLO on Thursday denied that the United States is seeking oil from the country amid the Russian-Ukraine conflict that affected the U.S. gas prices,Reutersreported.
According toUSA Today, California continues to have the most expensive gas in the country. On average, the state offers gas prices ranging from $5.694 to $5.976. The outlet also pointed out that California is also the first state to sell diesel over $6.
The outlet pointed out that Pemex data for crude exports in January were down to 832,216 barrels per day bpd compared to the around 1 million bpd average in 2021.
According to the report from Profeco, the first week of March 2022 recorded the daily average cost of regular gasoline is 21.30 pesos per liter, 23.19 per liter for premium, and 22.42 per liter for diesel.
Lopez Obrador's comments about the U.S. seeking oil came as his administration plans to "sharply cut" the country's oil export this year and end them in 2023, according to Reuters.
Lopez Obrador, nor his spokesperson, did not further his comment, as the president quickly moved away from the topic, thanking the United States for approving Mexico's purchase of the Deer Park refinery in Texas.
WATCH:If the U.S. and EU Ban Russian Oil, it's Going to Have a Big Impact, Says Expert - From CNBC Television
Meanwhile, commercial gas stations like Pemex offers regular gas amounting to 21.73 pesos per liter, 23.28 pesos per liter for premium, per El Universal.
Litro de Gasolina Premium, a $30.49 en Shell de Ejercito Nacional  CDMX pic.twitter.com39DIL28OTC Salvador Prez YoSoyChavaPerez March 10, 2022
As of Thursday, only 12 states have an average gas price of under $4. USA Today noted that most of these states come from the Midwest region of the country, including Kansas, which has the cheapest price for gas at $3.82.
Natural Gas Intelalso noted that Lopez Obrador reiterated that gas prices would not escalate during his Tuesday and Wednesday news briefing.
Despite the president's assurance, several netizens reported a high increase in prices in several commercial gas stations, with the regular oil amounting to 25.19 pesos while the premium at 30.49 pesos.
These prices are different compared to the costs mentioned by a report from Mexico's Federal Consumer Attorney's Office Profeco, which was acquired byEl Universal.
Lopez Obrador also pointed out the Mexican public should not worry, as he pledged that gasoline costs will not experience a price hike, Reuters stressed.
The report also indicated that the cheapest gas station in Mexico as of Thursday is ORSAN "Mobil" as it offered 20.97 pesos per liter of regular gas, while 22.38 per liter of premium.
As Lopez Obrador promised that gas consumers in Mexico should not worry about the petrol prices amid the Russia-Ukraine war, consumers from the United States experienced a gas price hike on Thursday.
