Russian Fertilizers Seen to Arrive in Brazil Despite Sanctions on Russia Over Ukraine Invasion
20220419
https://www.latinpost.com/articles/154912/20220419/russian-fertilizers-arrive-brazil-despite-sanctions-russia-over-ukraine.htm
Russian fertilizer orders are being fulfilled, and vessels are heading for Brazil amid concerns that sanctions against Russia would cause a shortfall of fertilizers for the country's grain planting season, according to preliminary shipping data.
Agrinvest Commodities' compiled preliminary shipping data showed that at least 24 vessels carrying almost 678,000 tons of Russian fertilizers from ports in the country are expected to arrive in Brazil in the next few weeks, according toReuters.
Russia provides 22 percent of Brazil's imports. Brazilian officials were in Russia trying to negotiate a deal right before the invasion as smaller export supply led to higher prices. Brazil's buyers may need to look elsewhere with the war and sanctions imposed against Russia.
In a video address, Zelenskyy said they could already state that the Russian troops have started "the battle for Donbas," adding that the Russian forces have been preparing for it for a long time, according toThe Guardian.
Farmers in Brazil were already facing a fertilizer shortfall, which has put more pressure on them to find suppliers with Russia's invasion of Ukraine to avoid a shortage this year, according toQuartz. Brazil is considered the largest importer of fertilizer globally, with its top supplier being Russia.
Soybeans are the biggest money-maker for Brazil, with most of it going to China. China relies on Brazil for 63 percent of its soybean imports. In addition, China also relies on Brazil for 70 percent of its cane sugar imports.
Authorities in Kyiv noted that Russia had launched a major offensive into eastern Ukraine, which opened a new phase of its invasion after Russia's efforts were thwarted in their attempt to capture the capital.
UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths said humanitarian ceasefires between Ukrainian and Russian forces in Ukraine are not on the horizon right now. However, the humanitarian chief noted that it might be possible in a couple of weeks.
A 35-ton potassium chloride load was the latest to leave Russia on April 4 to travel to Vitoria port in Brazil's Southeast.
READ MORE:Russia-Ukraine Crisis: WHO Advises Ukraine to Destroy Health Lab Pathogens to Curb Spread of Disease
Brazilian farmers depend on potassium fertilizer to prevent diseases in their fields. It is also used to grow soybean and coffee, among other crops.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said a "significant part" of the Russian army was now focused on taking control of eastern Ukraine.
According toU.S. News, a fertilizer trader noted that deals were still possible as foreign units of Russian farms continue to fill orders while banks untouched by Western sanctions process the payments.
The data showed that 11 of the 24 vessels left ports, including Saint Petersburg and Murmansk, after February 24, when the war started. Most of the ships carry potassium chloride used in soy and corn fields.
Meanwhile, Russia is alleging Ukrainian forces attacked a village in the province of Belgorod near Russia's border with Ukraine. It was reported that the attack had wounded one resident.
