US Officials Buckle Up for Possible Chemical Attack Amid Ukraine Russia War  Pentagon
20220307
https://www.latinpost.com/articles/154452/20220313/us-chemical-attack-ukraine-russia-war.htm
U.S. officials are bracing for the possible chemical attack Russia can engage in amid its war with Ukraine,as confirmed by Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby on ABC's "This Week" on Sunday, per The Hill.
The news about the possible chemical attack from Russia came in the light of its war with Ukraine as the death toll continues to climb.
Stoltenberg highlighted that Russia's accusation of Ukraine about creating biological weapons may be a pretext for launching chemical weapons itself under a false operation.
Since March 9, at least 549 civilians in Ukraine have been killed while over 2.6 million refugees have fled the country, pr The Hill.
The president did not further on what the U.S. will do once Putin's forces made the move.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, claims that their country discovered evidence of a program backed by Pentagon to develop anthrax and other biological weapons.However, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki called Moscow's claims "false and preposterous."
Despite announcing that the U.S. officials are prepared for the possible chemical attack from Russia, the Pentagon press secretary did not disclose any specific measure they are undertaking.
According to Kirby, the U.S. officials have not yet detected any "imminent chemical-biological attack," as of the moment. However, the Pentagon press secretary pointed out that they are on the lookout for the attack.
On Friday, President Joe Biden said that Russia "would pay a severe price" if Vladimir Putin's country would use chemical weapons against Ukraine, per ABC News.
Aside from Ukraine, the U.S. was also accused by Moscow last week of housing biological weapons in the Ukrainian territory, The Hillnoted.
This week, Russia also expanded its offense, after their forces abducted two Ukrainian Mayors Yevhen Matveyev and Ivan Federov.
"I'm not going to speak about intelligence... but Russia would pay a severe price if they used chemical weapons," Biden said.
The White House Press Secretary furthered that Russia's accusations against the U.S. were done to "justify its further premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attack on Ukraine."
On Sunday, another 35 people reportedly died following a Russian missile hit the International Peacekeeping and Security Center located in Yavoriv. It was not clear if the recent deaths were already added to the over 500 civilians that died since March 9.
Numerous international figures, including North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, warned about Russia's possible chemical attack, according to The Hill.
READ NEXT: Kamala Harris Criticized by Volodymyr Zelensky's Ex-Press Secretary but Deleted Tweet Saying It Would Be 'Tragedy' if Harris Was President
READ NEXT: Tom Brady Retirement Ends: Buccaneers Star Announces Return to Tampa for 'Unfinished Business'
Psaki underscored that the information was the "kind of disinformation operation" they have seen from Russia over the years.
