Explosions Rock Ukraine Bodies Line Streets of Mariupol
20220418
https://chronicle.lu/category/international/40600-explosions-rock-ukraine-bodies-line-streets-of-mariupol
LVIVKYIV Reuters - On Monday 18 April 2022, Ukrainian authorities said missiles struck Lviv earlier in the day and explosions rocked other cities as Russian forces kept up their bombardments after claiming near full control of the strategic southern port of Mariupol.
On the streets of Mariupol, small groups of bodies were lined up under colourful blankets, surrounded by shredded trees and scorched buildings. Residents, some pushing bicycles, picked their way around destroyed tanks and civilian vehicles while Russian soldiers checked the documents of motorists.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said troops in the pulverised port of Mariupol were still fighting on Sunday, despite a Russian demand to surrender. "The city still has not fallen," he told ABC's "This Week" programme, adding that Ukrainian soldiers continued to control some parts of the south-eastern city.
One resident, Irina, was evacuating with a niece wounded in the shelling. "I have a daughter in DNR," she said, referring to the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic. "Maybe we will try to move there for the time being. I hope they will re-build Mariupol. The most important thing is utility systems. Summer will pass fast and in winter it will be hard."
On Twitter, Zelenskiy said he had discussed ensuring Ukraine's financial stability and preparations for post-war reconstruction with International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, quoting her as having said support was essential to lay the foundations for rebuilding.
Lviv mayor Andriy Sadoviy said five missile strikes had hit the western city early on Monday. It was unclear if there were any casualties there.
In Kyiv, a Reuters reporter heard a series of blasts near the Dnipro river. Local authorities were yet to provide any official information on their cause.
Serhiy Gaidai, the governor of the Luhansk region, reported street fighting between Ukrainian and Russian troops had begun and he repeated a plea for people to evacuate. "The next week will be difficult," he said in an earlier post on his Facebook page. "It may be the last time we have a chance to save you."
Driven back by Ukrainian resistance in the north, the Russian military has refocused its ground offensive on Donbas, while launching long-distance strikes at targets elsewhere, including the capital, Kyiv.
About four million Ukrainians have fled the country, cities have been shattered and thousands have died since the start of the invasion on 24 February. The economic damage is significant. Shmyhal said Ukraine's budget deficit was about $5 billion a month and urged Western governments for more financial aid.
On Saturday, Russia said it had control of urban areas, with some Ukrainian fighters remaining in the Azovstal steelworks overlooking the Sea of Azov. Capturing Mariupol would be a strategic prize for Russia, linking territory held by pro-Russian separatists in the east with the Crimea region Moscow annexed in 2014. On the eve of the war, it was the biggest city still held by Ukrainian authorities in the two eastern provinces known as the Donbas, which Moscow has demanded Ukraine cede to pro-Russian separatists. It would unite Russian forces on two of the main axes of the invasion, and free them up to join an expected new offensive against the main Ukrainian force in the east.
Ukraine pressed on with efforts to swiftly join the European Union, as officials completed a questionnaire that is a starting point for the EU to decide on its membership. On Easter Sunday, Pope Francis implicitly criticised Russia, pleading for an end to the bloodshed and lamenting the "Easter of war" in a speech in St Peter's Square after Mass. "May there be peace for war-torn Ukraine, so sorely tried by the violence and destruction of the cruel and senseless war into which it was dragged," he said.
According to media outlet Suspilne, two people were wounded in attacks in the southern region of Dnipropetrovsk.
Eighteen people have been killed and more than 100 wounded in shelling in the past four days in the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said. "This is nothing but deliberate terror: mortars, artillery against ordinary residential quarters, against ordinary civilians," he said late on Sunday.
Russia denies targeting civilians and has rejected what Ukraine says is evidence of atrocities as staged to undermine peace talks. It calls its action, launched almost two months ago, a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine and eradicate what it calls dangerous nationalists.
