Lifting Sanctions Against Russia Part of Peace Talks with Ukraine
20220430
https://chronicle.lu/category/international/40777-lifting-sanctions-against-russia-part-of-peace-talks-with-ukraine
Ukraine's Western allies have placed sweeping sanctions on Moscow. They have frozen around half of Russia's state gold and foreign currency reserves, hammering Russia's economy and putting it on the brink of sovereign default.
Reuters - Lifting sanctions imposed on Russia is part of peace negotiations between Moscow and Ukraine, which are "difficult" but continue daily, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in remarks published early on Saturday 30 April 2022.
"The talks' agenda also includes, among others, the issues of denazificiation, the recognition of new geopolitical realities, the lifting of sanctions, the status of the Russian language," Minister Lavrov said, without elaborating.
Ukraine and Russia have not held face-to-face peace talks since 29 March 2022, and the atmosphere has soured over Ukrainian allegations that Russian troops carried out atrocities as they withdrew from areas near Kyiv. Moscow has denied the claims.
Moscow calls its actions in Ukraine a "special operation" to demilitarise and "denazify" its neighbour. Ukraine and the West say Russia launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has insisted since the invasion began on 24 February 2022 that Western sanctions on Russia needed to be strengthened and could not be part of negotiations.
"At present, the Russian and Ukrainian delegations are actually discussing on a daily basis via video-conferencing a draft of a possible treaty," Minister Lavrov said in comments to China's official Xinhua news agency published on the Russian foreign ministry's website.
"We are in favour of continuing the negotiations, although they are difficult," Minister Lavrov said.
Kyiv warned on Friday that talks on ending Russia's invasion, now in its third month, were in danger of collapse.
