6 months of war Defiant Ukraine marks Independence Day
20220824
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/6-months-of-war-defiant-ukraine-marks-independence-day-1.90094293
Ukraine broke free of the Soviet Union in August 1991 after a failed putsch in Moscow, and an overwhelming majority of Ukrainians voted in a referendum to declare independence.
Russias war effort in Ukraine has made little progress in recent months, after its troops were pushed back from Kyiv in the early weeks of the war.
In the latest mysterious fire at a Russian military facility, Russian officials said ammunition stored in southern Russia near the border with Ukraine spontaneously combusted on Tuesday.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu told a meeting of defence ministers in Uzbekistan that Russia had deliberately slowed down what it refers to as its special military operation in Ukraine to avoid civilian casualties.
The United States, which has sent $10.6 billion in security assistance to Ukraine, will announce a new package of about $3 billion as early as Wednesday, a US official said.
Nobody who is at least conscious can imagine that Ukraine would target a nuclear power plant at tremendous risk of nuclear catastrophe and on its own territory, Kyslytsya told an emergency UN Security Council meeting in New York called by Russia.
The 44-year-old leader, speaking in front of Kyivs central monument to independence in his trademark combat fatigues, vowed to recapture occupied areas of eastern Ukraine as well as the Crimean peninsula, which was annexed by Russia in 2014.
Vyacheslav Gladkov, the governor of Belgorod region, blamed hot weather for the fire, drawing ridicule from Ukraine.
Russia accused Ukraine on Tuesday of attacking the plant with artillery, guided munitions and a drone, drawing a denial from Kyivs UN ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya.
KYIV: Ukraine was reborn when Russia launched attacks six months ago, President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Wednesday, marking 31 years of his countrys independence from the Moscow-controlled Soviet Union with a vow to drive Russian forces out completely.
In an emotional speech to his compatriots, Zelensky said the attack had revived the nations spirit.
Pro-Moscow forces took over the plant soon after the attacks started but Ukrainian technicians are still operating it.
Norway said it and Britain would jointly supply micro drones to help with reconnaissance and target identification.
Now we say: victory, he said, days after his government laid out the hulks of burnt-out Russian tanks and armoured vehicles in central Kyiv in a show of defiance.
In a few months we will find out whether Russian ammunition can explode because of the cold, Ukraines defence ministry said on Twitter.
The five main causes of sudden explosions in Russia are: winter, spring, summer, autumn and smoking.
A new nation appeared in the world on February 24 at 4 in the morning. It was not born, but reborn. A nation that did not cry, scream or take fright. One that did not flee. Did not give up. And did not forget, he said.
International Atomic Energy Agency chief Rafael Grossi said the UN nuclear watchdog hoped to gain access to the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine within days if negotiations succeed.
Both sides have accused the other of firing missiles and artillery dangerously close to the plant, Europes biggest, raising fears of a nuclear catastrophe.
The anniversary fell exactly six months after Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine.
After days of warnings that Moscow could use the anniversary of Ukraines Independence Day to launch more missile attacks on major cities, Kyiv was unusually quiet and the second biggest city Kharkiv was under curfew after months of bombardment.
Advanced US missile systems appear to have helped Ukraine strike deep behind the front lines in recent months, taking out ammunition dumps and command posts.
