Online media fuelling divisions global tensions report
20220503
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/online-media-fuelling-divisions-global-tensions-report-1.87599837
Russia 155th and ally Belarus 153rd were also on its red list of the most repressive.
The NGO commended Moldova 40th and Bulgaria 91st this year due to government changes and the hope it has brought for improvement in the situation for journalists.
London: Unregulated online content has spread disinformation and propaganda that have amplified political divisions worldwide, fanned international tensions and even contributed to Russias attacks on Ukraine, a media watchdog warned Tuesday.
He added the Fox News-isation of Western media also poses a fatal danger for democracies because it undermines the basis of civil harmony and tolerant public debate.
At the same time, despotic and autocratic regimes that tightly control information in their societies are using their asymmetric position to wage propaganda wars against democracies and fuel divisions within them, the watchdog said in the 2022 edition of its annual World Press Freedom Index.
Polarisation on these two levels is fuelling increased tension, Reporters Without Borders, widely known by its French acronym RSF, said in a five-page summary.
Media polarisation was feeding and reinforcing internal social divisions in democratic societies such as the United States 42nd.
That trend was even starker in illiberal democracies such as Poland 66th, a European Union country where suppression of independent media was also noted by RSF.
Nordic countries Norway, Denmark and Sweden again topped the index, serving as a democratic models where freedom of expression flourishes.
This years listing was developed with a new methodology redefining press freedom and using five new indicators - political context, legal framework, economic context, sociocultural context, and security - to reflect its complexity.
The NGO, launched in 1985 and which has published the yearly index since 2002, has become a thorn in the side of autocratic and despotic regimes around the world.
Reporters Without Borders said democratic societies are increasingly fractured by social media spreading disinformation and more opinion media pursuing a so-called Fox News model, referring to the controversial right-wing television network in the United States.
The lowest ranked were North Korea 180th, Eritrea 179th and Iran 178th, with Myanmar 176th and China 175th close behind.
The situation is very bad in a record 28 countries, according to this years ranking of 180 countries and regions based on the degree of freedom enjoyed by journalists.
The creation of media weaponry in authoritarian countries eliminates their citizens right to information but is also linked to the rise in international tension, which can lead to the worst kind of wars, RSF Secretary-General Christophe Deloire said.
