Pakistans Prime Minister holds phone talk with Ukraines President Zelensky
20220329
https://gulfnews.com/world/asia/pakistan/pakistans-prime-minister-holds-phone-talk-with-ukraines-president-zelensky-1.86820035
Recalling the recent Organisation of Islamic Cooperation OIC foreign ministers summit in Islamabad March 22-23, PM Khan informed Zelensky that the foreign ministers of Islamic countries are deeply concerned about the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation arising from the conflict in Ukraine and called for an immediate cessation of hostilities and expressed willingness of OIC member states to support and facilitate the dialogue process.
Discussing the latest situation, PM Khan expressed deep regret that the military conflict was continuing and reiterated Pakistans principled position in support of immediate cessation of hostilities and resolution of the conflict through dialogue and diplomacy, the official statement said.
The phone call was held a day before Pakistans Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi departed for China to attend a crucial regional summit on Afghanistan where he is expected to hold a bilateral meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov.
This was the first phone call between the two leaders since the Russia-Ukraine conflict began on February 24. President Volodymyr Zelensky in a Twitter post said: The people of Ukraine seek peace. This is our unconditional priority.
Islamabad: Pakistans Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed deep regret over the humanitarian situation in Ukraine and stressed immediate cessation of hostilities in a phone conversation with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky on Tuesday.
Pakistani prime minister emphasised the importance of humanitarian relief for the civilians. On March 15, Pakistan dispatched two C-130 aircraft loaded with tonnes of emergency relief supplies for the people of Ukraine to express solidarity with them. Khan also thanked Zelensky for the support extended by Ukrainian authorities to evacuate Pakistani students and nationals.
Khan said that non-partisan countries like Pakistan were in a position to play a helpful role in reinforcing efforts for cessation of hostilities and a diplomatic solution.
In recent weeks, Qureshi has held phone talks with his Russian and Ukrainian counterparts in which he underscored the importance of dialogue, diplomacy and de-escalation.
