Putin orders Russian troops to Ukraine after recognising breakaway regions
20220222
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/putin-orders-russian-troops-to-ukraine-after-recognising-breakaway-regions-1.1645493992569
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg accused Russia of trying to stage a pretext for a further invasion. Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014.
Putins move will narrow the diplomatic options to avoid war, since it is an explicit rejection of a seven-year-old ceasefire mediated by France and Germany, touted as the framework for future negotiations on the wider crisis.
Russia denies any plan to attack its neighbour, but it has threatened unspecified military-technical action unless it receives sweeping security guarantees, including a promise that Ukraine will never join NATO.
"We remain open to diplomacy for a diplomatic solution," he said during an emergency UN Security Council meeting. "However, allowing a new bloodbath in the Donbass is something we do not intend to do."
I deem it necessary to make a decision that should have been made a long time ago  to immediately recognise the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Lugansk Peoples Republic, Putin said.
Biden reaffirmed support for Ukraines sovereignty in a call with President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and also spoke to French President Emmanuel Macron and Germany Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the executive order is designed to prevent Russia from profiting off of this blatant violation of international law. The U.N. Security Council will meet publicly on Ukraine at 9pm EST Monday 6am UAE on Tuesday, a Russian diplomat said, following a request by the United States, Britain and France.
Separately, Moscow said Ukrainian military saboteurs had tried to enter Russian territory in armed vehicles leading to five deaths, an accusation dismissed as fake news by Kyiv.
Defying Western warnings against such a move, Putin had announced his decision in phone calls to the leaders of Germany and France earlier, both of whom voiced disappointment, the Kremlin said.
The moves drew US and European condemnation and vows of new sanctions. The area was already controlled by Russian-backed separatists and Moscow in practice.Ukraine's borders remain 'unchangeable' despite Russian action, the UN ambassador added.
European financial markets tumbled at the signs of increased confrontation, after having briefly edged higher on the glimmer of hope that a summit might offer a path out of Europes biggest military crisis in decades. The price of oil  Russias main export  rose, while Russian shares and the rouble plunged.
But recognition of the separatist-held areas paved the way for Putin to send military forces there, arguing that he was intervening as an ally to protect the separtists against Ukrainian forces.
In his address, Putin delved into history as far back as the Ottoman empire and as recent as the tensions over NATOs eastward expansion. His demands that Ukraine drop its long-term goal of joining the Atlantic military alliance have been repeatedly rebuffed by Kyiv and NATO states.
Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky on Tuesday demanded "clear support" from the West after Russia recognised two eastern separatist regions.
Hours earlier, Macron gave hope of a diplomatic solution, saying Putin and Biden had agreed in principle to meet.
There was no word on the size of the force Putin was dispatching, but the decree said Russia now had the right to build military bases in the breakaway regions and that the troops mission would a peacekeeping operation.
White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said the measures being rolled out in response to Putins decree were separate from sanctions the United States and its allies have been readying if Russia invades Ukraine.
But the Kremlin said there were no specific plans for a summit. The White House said Biden had accepted the meeting in principle but only if an invasion hasnt happened.
Moscows action may well torpedo a last-minute bid for a summit with US President Joe Biden to prevent Russia from invading Ukraine. The rouble extended its losses as Putin spoke, at one point sliding beyond 80 per dollar.
Russian envoy to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya on Monday said Moscow remains "open to diplomacy" but stressed the need to defend separatist areas from what he dubbed Ukrainian aggession.
A Reuters witness saw unusually large columns of military hardware moving through the breakaway city of Donetsk after Putin told Russias defence ministry to send forces into the two regions to keep the peace in a decree issued shortly after announcing recognition for Russian-backed separatists there.
The emergency session followed Putin's order to deploy to the breakaway regions, a move roundly decried during the meeting by the United States and allies.China at the UN urgedrestraint by all sides on Ukraine.
Biden responded by signing an executive order for a halt to all US economic activity in the breakaway regions and a ban on import of all goods from those areas as well as investment there.
He said earlier that if Ukraine was to join NATO it would serve as a direct threat to the security of Russia. Putin has for years worked to restore Russias influence over nations that emerged after the collapse of the Soviet Union, with Ukraine holding an important place in his ambitions.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said European Union countries have agreed to impose a limited set of sanctions targeting those who are responsible for Russias recognition of the rebel regions, and British Foreign Minister Liz Truss said the government would announce new sanctions on Tuesday.
Both developments fit a pattern repeatedly predicted by Western governments, who accuse Russia of preparing to fabricate a pretext to invade by blaming Kyiv for attacks and relying on pleas for help from separatist proxies.
In a lengthy televised address packed with grievances against the West, Putin, looking visibly angry, described Ukraine as an integral part of Russias history and said eastern Ukraine was ancient Russian lands and that he was confident the Russian people would support his decision.
Washington says Russia has massed a force numbering 169,000-190,000 troops in the region, including the separatists in the breakaway regions, and could invade within days.
Moscow: Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the deployment of troops to two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine after recognising them as independent on Monday, accelerating a crisis the West fears could unleash a major war.
Russian state television showed Putin, joined by Russia-backed separatist leaders, signing a decree recognising the independence of the two Ukrainian breakaway regions  the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Lugansk Peoples Republic  along with agreements on cooperation and friendship.
