Russia attacks Ukraine Russian convoy 64km long bears down on Kyiv
20220228
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/russia-attacks-ukraine-putin-orders-nuclear-alert-ukraine-fiercely-resists-battles-rage-1.1646020992174
Several border towns such as Zahony have set up public buildings as reception centres, with ordinary people donating food and clothes, the interior ministry said.
Brussels also announced it would provide 450 million euros $500 million for Ukraine to buy weapons and ban Russian central bank transactions, as well as restricting two Moscow-run media outlets.
Russia and Belarus were Tuesday suspended from all international rugby "until further notice", the world governing body said, as it announced "full and immediate" sanctions following the invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine has said its goal for the talks is an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukraine. The Kremlin declined to comment on Moscow's aim in negotiations.
"We know what does it mean for Belarus to be nuclear. It means that Russia will put nuclear weapons in Belarus and this is a very dangerous path," EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said.
Americans should not be worried about nuclear war, US President Joe Biden said on Monday, the day after Russian President Vladimir Putin put Russias nuclear deterrent on high alert amid Moscows ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
The conflict is "likely to boost energy prices significantly, resulting in immediate inflationary effects and a large drag on global growth," Silvia Dall'Angelo, senior economist at Federated Hermes, wrote in a note.
In a statement, the IOC said its executive board "recommends that International Sports Federations and sports event organisers not invite or allow the participation of Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials in international competitions".
Air raid sirens wailed across the largely empty streets of Kyiv on Monday warning of another possible missile attack by Russia as the city girds for worse battles to come as Russian forces approach.
"The delegations are returning to their capitals for consultations and have discussed the possibility of meeting for a second round of negotiations soon," Ukrainian negotiator Mikhailo Podolyak said.
The Russian army said Monday that Ukrainian civilians could "freely" leave the country's capital Kyiv and stressed it had air superiority over Ukraine as its invasion went into its fifth day.
"We will being in a full asset freeze on all Russian banks in days, looking to coordinate with our allies," Truss told parliament, saying it was designed to prevent the Kremlin funding its invasion of Ukraine.
The surge in prices is adding to worries about inflation, which is running at a 40-year high in the United States, with central banks already fighting an uphill battle to get it under control.
"Russian aviation has gained air superiority over the entire territory of Ukraine," he added, accusing Ukrainian troops of using civilians as human shields.
Gold and the yen, go-to assets in times of uncertainty, rose, while the dollar was up against all other currencies.
Ukraine forces, backed by Western arms, are stymieing the advance of Russian troops, according to the United States, which has led Western condemnation and a campaign of sanctions.
EU member states also closed their airspace to Russian planes and many pledged arms for Ukraine - but stressed they would not themselves intervene militarily.
Hungary said on Monday it would not allow weapons to be transported through its territory after the European Union pledged military aid to Kyiv. Prime Minister Viktor Orban has sought to foster close ties with Moscow but Hungary has closed ranks with the rest of the EU on tough sanctions against Russia.
Maxar Technologies also said additional ground forces deployments and ground attack helicopter units were seen in southern Belarus, less than 32 kilometres north of the Ukraine border.
The Russian team are due to play Poland in a World Cup qualifying play-off semi-final on March 24, and would go on to face Sweden or the Czech Republic on March 29 for a place at the finals in Qatar later this year.
FIFA is in "advanced discussions" to suspend the Russian national team from international competitions including the World Cup following the invasion of Ukraine, a source with knowledge of the talks told AFP on Monday.
Ukraine's army says it fought off several attempts by Russian forces to storm the outskirts of Kyiv overnight with the capital also hit by three missile strikes.
"In a few years we'll live like in North Korea. What's in it for us? For Putin to make the history books? It isn't our war, let's end it!", said a message in Russian posted on Forbes Russia's site.
Germany said Putin's nuclear order was because his offensive had "halted" and was not going to plan.
"The decision is effective immediately," UEFA said after ending the deal which was due to run until 2024 and was widely believed to be worth around 40 million euros $45 million a year.
Following the talks on Monday, it has been announced that the delegations will return for a second round of talks.
The group targeted the websites of state news agencies TASS and RIA Novosti, as well as taking over websites of newspapers Kommersant and Izvestiya and Forbes Russia magazine.
"We've looked at their posture. There isn't a significant change," Wallace said on LBC radio, accusing Putin of trying to "flex muscles" with his invasion of Ukraine bogged down.
The Baltic states and Poland on Monday urged global social media networks to curb "Russian disinformation" focused on the war in Ukraine, Lithuania's government said.
"We took these steps due to security and safety issues stemming from the unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces in Ukraine," Secretary of State Antony Blinken said.
"Our most important task is to guarantee the safety of the country and the Hungarian people, therefore we must not get involved in the war taking place next door." EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said the bloc would give 450 million euros $500 million for EU member states to buy arms for the beleaguered country.
"This message will be deleted and some of us will be sacked and even jailed. But we can't stand this any longer," said the writer, signing off as "concerned journalists of Russia".
Other commodities rallied, with wheat up eight percent, while aluminium and nickel were also sharply higher.
"We will not allow the transfer of deadly weapons across the Hungarian territory," Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto wrote on Facebook. He said the decision was taken to ensure the safety of Hungarians both in their country and across the border in Ukraine.
Disney is believed to be the first major Hollywood studio to pause theatrical releases in Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.
The move comes just days after Russias attack onits neighbour and prosecutor Karim Khan said on Friday he was following developments with concern.
The men's team had been due to play in qualifying play-offs in March for the World Cup in Qatar later this year, while its women's side had qualified for the European Championship in England, to be held in July.
"All civilians in the city can freely leave the Ukrainian capital along the Kyiv-Vasylkiv highway. This direction is open and safe," Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in televised remarks.
The UN General Assembly will hold a rare emergency session Monday to discuss the conflict, which has claimed dozens of lives and raised fears that it will displace millions of people. Ukraine has also said it had agreed to send a delegation to meet Russian representatives on the border with Belarus, which would be the two sides' first public contact since war erupted.
Hacker group Anonymous claimed responsibility on Monday for disrupting the work of websites of pro-Kremlin Russian media in protest of the invasion of Ukraine.
The group had agreed previously to increase production gradually each month, but the Ukraine crisis could throw those plans into disarray.
The importance and urgency of our mission is too serious to be held hostage to lack of means, he said.
Both are located close to the Crimean peninsula, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014,.
Putin ordered Sunday Russia's nuclear forces onto high alert in response to what he called "unfriendly" steps by the West. Russia has the world's largest arsenal of nuclear weapons and a huge cache of ballistic missiles.
Russia also banned all residents from transferring money abroad earlier today. The government added that Russian exporters must convert 80 per cent of revenue into rubles.
Ukrainian officials said they were fighting off Russian forces in several other areas, and claimed that 4,300 Russian troops had been killed.
All Russian banks will have their assets frozen within days, UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Monday, as part of plans to ramp up economic sanctions.
It posted messages appealing to Russians to try to stop the war and not participate as fighters.
Prosecutor Khan said his office would seek support and funding from the ICCs 123 member states for investigations.
Traders will be closely watching a meeting this week of OPEC and other major producers led by Russia, where they will discuss plans for further output.
Russia's central bank announced Monday it was raising its key interest rate to 20 percent from 9.5 percent as the West pummelled the country with sanctions over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
It called on them to ban accounts responsible for "warmongering and spreading false information". The bans should extend to the accounts of state leaders, institutions and state media, the statement added.
The decision overturns a Norwegian policy in place since the 1950s of not sending arms to non-NATO countries that are at war or at risk of armed conflict.
Russia's civil aviation authority said it was bringing in the restrictions "as a retaliatory measure for the ban by European states on flights by civil aviation operated by Russian airlines or registered in Russia."
Adding to the unease among investors was news that Putin had put his nuclear forces on a higher alert in reaction to the latest stiff measures.
The United States shuttered its embassy in Minsk and allowed non-emergency employees and family members to leave its embassy in Moscow on Monday as Russia pushed on with its invasion of Ukraine for a fifth day.
US President Joe Biden will hold a secure call with allies and partners on Monday to discuss "developments" in Russia's attack on Ukraine and "coordinate our united response," the White House said.
Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky said on Monday it was time to consider imposing a no-fly zone for Russian missiles, planes and helicopters in response to Russian shelling of the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv.
In a video address, Zelensky did not specify how and by whom a no-fly zone would be enforced. He said Russia had launched 56 rocket strikes and fired 113 cruise missiles against Ukraine in the past five days.
The Russian army tells residents of the Ukrainian capital they can "freely leave" on one highway as it hints of attacks on civilian areas.
"Canada will continue to deliver support for Ukraine's heroic defence against the Russian military," Trudeau told reporters in Ottawa.
The United States expects Russian forces to try to encircle Kyiv in the coming days and could become more aggressive out of frustration with their slow advance on the Ukrainian capital, a senior U.S. defense official said on Monday.
Ukraine's President Zelensky says the next 24 hours will be "crucial" in a call with the UK's Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
Russian President Vladimir Putin told his French counterpart on Monday that the demilitarisation of Ukraine and Western recognition of Russian sovereignty over the Crimean peninsula were prerequisites to ending fighting in Ukraine, the Kremlin said.
"We expect that they're going to want to continue to move forward and try to encircle the city in the coming days," the official said, adding that Russian troops were about 25 km 16 miles from Kyiv's city center.
"We will not capitulate, we will not give up a single inch of our territory," Kuleba said.
Satellite images taken on Monday show a Russian military convoy north of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv that stretches for about 64 kilometres, substantially longer than the 27 kilometres reported earlier in the day, a US private company said.
The Russian rouble tumbled to a record low against the dollar on Monday, after Western nations announced a harsh set of sanctions over the weekend to punish Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, including curbs on the country's currency reserves.
"We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation" Disney said in a statement. "In the meantime, given the scale of the emerging refugee crisis, we are working with our NGO partners to provide urgent aid and other humanitarian assistance."
UEFA on Monday ended its partnership with Russian state energy giant Gazprom, one of its main sponsors, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, European football's governing body said.
Negotiators from Ukraine and Russia will return to their capital cities for consultations and have plans for fresh talks, both sides announced Monday after meeting for their first talks since the outbreak of war last week.
Several reports of explosions in Kyiv were reported soon after the delegations from Russia and Ukraine announced possible second round of peace talks on the Poland Belarus border.
Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said on Monday that all sides should remain calm and avoid further escalation, after Russian President Vladimir Putin put his country's nuclear deterrent on high alert.
"Removing some Russian banks from SWIFT could result in a disruption of oil supplies as buyers and sellers try to figure out how to navigate the new rules," Andy Lipow, of Lipow Oil Associates in Houston, noted.
Meta Platforms, parent company of Facebook, will restrict access to Russian state media outlets RT and Sputnik across the European Union, the company's head of global affairs, Nick Clegg, said in a tweet on Monday.
Oil prices and safe havens surged Monday while equities mostly fell and the rouble plunged after world powers imposed fresh sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, fanning fears about a possible global energy crisis that could further stoke inflation.
"The Bank of Russia's board of directors has decided to raise the key rate to 20 percent," the central bank said in a statement carried by Russian news agencies.
FIFA announced on Sunday that Russian teams would be allowed to continue playing under the name of the Football Union of Russia, playing home games on neutral territory and behind closed doors, and with the Russian flag and anthem banned.
The International Olympic Committee on Monday urged sports federations and organisers to exclude Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials from international events following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The United States and its allies continued to try and build economic and military pressure.
The EU warned Monday that Belarus could start hosting Russian nuclear weapons after a "very dangerous" decision at a referendum to drop the country's non-nuclear status.
Canada will supply anti-tank weapons and upgraded ammunition to Ukraine to support its fight against a Russian invasion, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Monday, and it will ban imports of crude oil from Russia.
British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps on Monday ordered all UK seaports to turn away Russian vessels, in response to the country's invasion of Ukraine.
Clegg said the social media company had received requests from a number of governments and the EU to take further steps in relation to Russian state-controlled media on its platforms.
Wang, speaking at a regular daily media briefing, also reiterated China's view that all countries' legitimate security concerns should be taken seriously.
Belta: Russian delegation said 'we have identified certain points from which we can predict general positions'.
Russia announced Monday it was banning flights by airlines from 36 countries including Britain and Germany after many have barred Russian planes over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
"As always: I do not really believe in the outcome of this meeting, but let them try," he said.
Macron's office said that in a 90-minute phone call he had asked the Russian leader to stop attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure in Ukraine, and secure major roadways, in particular the road from the south of Kyiv.
"Russia and Ukraine are holding the first talks," Belta said. Ahead of the talks, the Ukrainian presidency had demanded an immediate Russian ceasefire and troop withdrawal.
On day four of an invasion that stunned the world, Ukrainian forces said Sunday they had defeated a Russian incursion into Ukraine's second city Kharkiv, 500 kilometres east of Kyiv.
Russian President Vladimir Putin's announcement that his nuclear forces were on alert sparked outcry in the West as the troops faced stiff resistance in Ukraine on Monday, day five of Russia-Ukraine crisis. Here are the latest updates:
Ahead of the planned talks with Russia and as Ukrainian forces defended key cities, Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba voiced defiance.
In Kyiv, many residents spent another night in shelters or cellars as Ukrainian forces said they were fighting off Russian "sabotage groups".
The UN has put the civilian toll at 64 while the EU said more than seven million people could be displaced by the conflict.
The Norwegian government will send weapons to Ukraine, it said in a statement on Monday, the latest European nation to do so following Russia's invasion.
The banning order applied to "any ship which they have reason to believe is owned, controlled or operated by any person connected with Russia" or on a sanctions list, "flying the Russian flag registered in Russia", he tweeted.
Russia has been expelled from the 2022 World Cup and its teams suspended from all international football competitions "until further notice" after its invasion of Ukraine, FIFA announced in a joint statement with UEFA on Monday.
The United States, the world's second largest nuclear power, slammed Putin's order as "totally unacceptable".
But Sunday was relatively calm compared to the first days of fighting and the city was under a blanket curfew until Monday morning.
The Kremlin has brushed off sanctions, including those targeting Putin personally, as a sign of Western impotence.
Crude surged, with WTI climbing more than six percent to close in on the $100 mark, while Brent bounced more than five percent to climb back above that level after slipping on Friday.
The source said Russia would be expelled from the World Cup "unless the situation improves".
Ukraine demands an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops as talks with the Kremlin start on Ukraine's border with Belarus, the launchpad for Russia's attack on Kiev.
On equity markets Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul, Singapore and Bangkok were in negative territory, though there were some gains in Sydney, Manila and Wellington.
The Walt Disney Co said Monday it is pausing the release of theatrical films in Russia, including the upcoming Pixar Animation Studios release, "Turning Red," citing the "unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the tragic humanitarian crisis."
Ukraine's President Volodymr Zelensky appeals to the EU to grant his country "immediate" membership, as Russia's assault against the pro-Western country enters its fifth day.
The office of the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court on Monday said it will seek court approval to open an investigation into alleged war crimes in Ukraine.
"We are announcing our intention to ban all imports of crude oil from Russia, an industry that has benefited President Putin and his oligarchs greatly."
Russian and Ukrainian delegations on Monday began their first talks since Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine last week, Belarusian state news agency Belta reported.
"It's fair to say that the crisis increases the room for central banks' policy mistakes."
Ukraine has reported 198 civilian deaths, including three children, since the invasion began and Russia has acknowledged for the first time that a number of its forces had been killed or injured.
The rouble fell as far as 119.50 per dollar in Asian trading, a record low for the currency and a steep drop of 30 from Friday's close. It subsequently recovered to around 110 per dollar.
The administration did not elaborate on who would participate in the call, which will take place at 11:15 am 1615 GMT.
NATO will deploy its rapid response force for the first time to bolster its eastern flank.
The UK government has seen no major change to Russia's nuclear posture despite President Vladimir Putin placing his strategic forces on high alert, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said on Monday.
The West said it would remove some Russian banks from the SWIFT bank messaging system, and freeze central bank assets.
Russia's membership of World Rugby was also suspended indefinitely, meaning the country's slim hopes of qualifying for next year's Rugby World Cup in France are over.
"Vladimir Putin stressed that a settlement is possible only if Russia's legitimate security interests are unconditionally taken into account, including the recognition of Russian sovereignty over Crimea, the demilitarisation and denazification of the Ukrainian state and ensuring its neutral status," according to a Kremlin readout of the call.
"The Russian enemy is bombing residential areas," Oleg Sinegubov, wrote on the Telegram messaging app, saying that: "As a result of the bombardments that are ongoing, we cannot call on the emergency services... currently there are 11 dead and dozens wounded".
A regional official, Oleg Sinegubov, said Kharkiv had been brought under Ukrainian control and the army was expelling Russian forces.
Moscow has made better progress in the south, however, and said it was besieging the cities of Kherson and Berdyansk.
At least 11 civilians have been killed in Russian shelling on Ukraine's second most populated city Kharkiv on Monday, the regional governor said, adding dozens more had been injured.
The IOC also withdrew the Olympic Order, its highest award, from all high-ranking Russian officials, including President Vladimir Putin.
If not possible for "organisational or legal reasons", the IOC called on sports officials to do "everything in their power" to prevent athletes from the two countries from taking part under the name of Russia or Belarus.
The US and Europe "need to really stand together... to both the aggressive actions of Russia against Ukraine but also the threatening rhetoric coming from Moscow," said NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg.
Ukraine has called on its own civilians to fight Russia, with a brewery in Lviv in the country's west switching its production line from beers to bombs, making Molotov cocktails for the volunteer fighters.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said he has signed an official request for Ukraine to join the EU to allowing the country to gain membership immediately under a special procedure as it defends itself from invasion by Russian forces
The open letter was addressed to the heads of Facebook parent company Meta, Twitter, Google and YouTube.
Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte, and counterparts in Latvia, Estonia, and Poland called on them to "prevent Russia's disinformation on the war in Ukraine from spreading across these platforms", it said in a statement.
"President Putin confirmed his willingness to make commitments on these three points," the statement said.
