RussiaUkraine conflict US says Polish offer of jets not tenable
20220308
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-conflict-ukraine-says-400-civilian-deaths-recorded-1.1646708033098
Ukraine did not initially respond to the offer, with President Volodymyr Zelensky instead accusing Moscow's troops of scuppering evacuation efforts - mining roads and destroying buses meant to carry people to safety.
It added that Russia proposes to agree the routes and start time of the humanitarian corridors with Ukraine "before 03:00 MSK on March 9".
PepsiCo, whose colas were one of the few Western products allowed in the Soviet Union prior to its collapse, said it would continue to sell daily essentials, such as milk and other dairy offerings, baby formula and baby food, in Russia.
Oil prices are rising sharply again Tuesday as the US prepares to ban crude oil imports from Russia in response to that country's unprovoked invasion of neighboring Ukraine.
Addressing the Security Council, the UN's top humanitarian official Martin Griffiths said civilians must be allowed to leave in the direction they wish, and safe passage be granted for vitally needed humanitarian and medical supplies.
Russian officials did not comment on Tuesday and have only acknowledged several hundred deaths among Russian forces.
The carnage continued on day 12 of the war, with 13 people killed in shelling on an industrial bakery in the town of Makariv and the mayor of the town of Gostomel killed while delivering bread to civilians.
The company said that Kuwait-based Alshaya Group, which operates at least 100 Starbucks cafes in Russia, will "provide support to the nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood."
On Friday, the BBC said it had paused its reporting in Russia after parliament passed a law there that could impose a jail term of up to 15 years for anyone found to be intentionally spreading "fake" news.
Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov has released new estimates of casualties and damage from the Russian conflict, saying Russian military actions have killed 38 children and wounded more than 70.
Overall at least 400 civilian deaths have been recorded and 800 wounded, though these data are definitely incomplete, he said in a video address.
Britain's BBC on Tuesday said it would resume English language reporting in Russia after it suspended its coverage to assess the implications of a new law.
The international scientific laboratory that is home to the worlds largest atom smasher says it is suspending Russias observer status and halting any new collaboration with Russia or its institutions until further notice.
"Over 7.5 million children are at risk with the escalating conflict in Ukraine," Murray, who is an ambassador for UNICEF UK, said on Twitter.
Kharkiv has come under intense Russian shelling and missile attacks in recent days, as Moscow tries to step up pressure on Ukraine to surrender.
Kirby said the prospect of the jets, placed at the disposal of the United States, departing from a US-NATO base to fly into airspace contested with Russia "raises serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance."
President Joe Biden announced a ban on US imports of Russian oil on Tuesday, in the administration's most far-reaching action yet to punish Moscow for attacking Ukraine.
Britain said Tuesday it would phase out Russian oil imports by the end of this year, in line with new sanctions announced by the United States following the attack of Ukraine.
Civilian evacuations took place on Tuesday morning, in particular from the town of Sumy, where two convoys left during the day.
He said Russian strikes have destroyed more than 200 Ukrainian schools, 34 hospitals and 1,500 residential buildings.
But attempted evacuations from the port town of Mariupol have failed on several occasions in recent days, with both Kyiv and Moscow blaming the other side for the failures.
The oil sanction does not apply to Russian natural gas, which accounts for some four percent of UK supply. But Kwarteng said he was "exploring options to end this altogether".
The Vienna-based UN body said Ukrainian authorities reported an attack took place on Sunday, adding that no increase in radiation levels had been reported at the site.
As the Russian attack on Ukraine reaches its 13th day, three rounds of talks have proven inconclusive.Russian troops besiege and bombard citiesin the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two. Follow the latest developments from the war front:
Russia said Monday it would open humanitarian corridors for civilians to flee pummelled Ukrainian cities, but Kyiv accused Moscow of making it impossible for innocent people to escape.
Kwarteng announced a new government taskforce on oil to help companies transition away from Russian oil.
The European Organization for Nuclear Research, known as CERN, said its 23 member states  all European, plus Israel  condemned Russias attack onUkraine. Ukraine is one of seven associate member states, and Russia, like the United States, Japan and the European Union, has had observer status.
The facility is part of the Kharkiv Institute of Physics and Technology, a research institute that produces radioactive material for medical and industrial applications.
Major global brands, including McDonald's and PepsiCo Inc, have been pressured to pause their operations in Russia by several bodies, including New York state's pension fund
At least nine people, including two children, have died in an air strike on the Ukrainian city of Sumy, some 350 kilometres east of Kyiv, the rescue services said Tuesday.
"We will continue to consult with Poland and our other NATO allies about this issue and the difficult logistical challenges it presents, but we do not believe Poland's proposal is a tenable one," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said in a statement.
The price of US crude jumped 5 to $125 a barrel, still not quite as high as it reached a day earlier. That sent energy company stocks higher on Wall Street, but most other sectors were lower as investors worry about the effects the war may have on global economies, especially on inflation.
"From 10:00 MSK 11am UAEon March 9, 2022, the Russian Federation is declaring a 'regime of silence' and is ready to provide humanitarian corridors," a cell of the Russian defence ministry charged with humanitarian operations in Ukraine said Tuesday.
Moscow has announced a humanitarian ceasefire in Ukraine for Wednesday morning to carry out the evacuation of the civilian population, Russian news agencies reported.
British dockers at a facility in northwest England on Saturday refused to unload Russian oil from a tanker, calling for the government to close a "loophole" in sanctions allowing deliveries from foreign-flagged ships.
The CERN council made the decisions about Russia at a special meeting on Tuesday and expressed its support to the many members of CERNs Russian scientific community who reject this attack.
Two million people - mostly women and children - have now fled Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian attck on Feb. 24, the UNrefugee agency UNHCR said on Tuesday.
McDonald's Corp said on Tuesday it would temporarily close its restaurants in Russia, becoming the latest Western company to pause all operations in the country following its attack on Ukraine.
The SP 500 was up 0.3 after bouncing between small gains and losses shortly after the opening bell.
Kyiv had rejected a previous proposal for evacuation corridors from the same four cities, as many of the routes led straight into Russia or its ally Belarus.
Former world number one Andy Murray said he would donate his prize money won from tennis tournaments in 2022 towards aid efforts for children affected by Russia's attack onUkraine.
The announcement came in coordination with an embargo on Russian oil announced by US President Joe Biden.
The latest offer brought a glimmer of hope for terrified civilians cowering under a hail of Russian shelling and mortar fire, with numerous women and children among the hundreds already killed.
The United States believes that a Polish offer to deliver Mig-29 fighter jets to a US air base in Germany with a view to sending them to Ukraine is not "tenable," the Pentagon said Tuesday.
"This transition will give the market, businesses and supply chains more than enough time to replace Russian imports - which make up 8.0 percent of UK demand," Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng tweeted.
"I'm going to be donating my earnings from my prize money for the rest of the year, but anyone in the UK can support UNICEF's humanitarian response by donating to our appeal."
He estimated some 10,000 foreign students, notably from India, China and Gulf are trapped by the fighting, and described attacks on British and Swiss journalists.
A temporary ceasefire mostly held around the Ukrainian city of Sumy on Tuesday, allowing civilians including around 1,000 foreign students to be evacuated through a humanitarian corridor, the regional governor said.
Coffee giant Starbuckssaid on Tuesday that it is suspending all business activity in Russia, including shipment of its products and cafes run by a licensee.
Convoys of 20-30 private cars were leaving in waves, Governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky said in televised comments.
Coca-Cola said its business in Russia and Ukraine contributed about 1 per centto 2 per centof the company's net operating revenue in 2021.
Because the site's "inventory of radioactive material is very low" and kept at a "subcritical" state, the IAEA said "the damage reported to it would not have had any radiological consequence."
Russian flighters fire on humanitarian corridors through which civilians are trying to escape, he said, without saying where.
The ban came with Democrats threatening legislation to force Biden's hand, despite the likely impact on already soaring gas prices.
Coca-Cola Co and PepsiCo Inc said on Tuesday they are suspending sales of their sodas in Russia, becoming the latest high-profile Western consumer brands to curtail operations in the region following Moscow's attack on Ukraine.
"We're banning all imports of Russian oil and gas and energy. That means Russian oil will no longer be acceptable at US ports and the American people will deal another powerful blow to President Vladimir Putin," Biden said in an address from the White House, adding that the decision was taken "in close consultation" with allies.
"Enemy planes insidiously attacked apartment buildings" on Monday night, the rescue services said on Telegram after arriving on the scene at 11 pm. Sumy, near the Russian border, has been the scene of heavy fighting for days.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said Monday it has received reports of artillery shells damaging a nuclear research facility in Ukraine's besieged second city Kharkiv, but there was no "radiological consequence".
The nuclear institute itself has been at the centre of online conspiracy theories and unsubstantiated claims in Russian media that Ukraine is attempting to develop a "dirty bomb" - a crude nuclear weapon capable of causing mass casualties.
It risks exacerbating a cost-of-living crisis in Britain, with prices of petrol and diesel already surging amid market turmoil following energy-rich Russia's aggression against Ukraine. But Kwarteng said most of Britain's crude oil imports come from "reliable partners" such as the United States, the Netherlands and Gulf states.
"We will tell this crucial part of the story independently and impartially, adhering to the BBCs strict editorial standards. The safety of our staff in Russia remains our number one priority."
Russia's defense ministry said it would open the corridors from 0700 GMT Tuesday, subject to Ukraine's approval, listing routes from Kyiv as well as the cities of Mariupol, Kharkiv and Sumy - all of which have been under heavy attack.
"It's vital education continues, so UNICEF is working to enable access to learning for displaced children, as well as supporting the rehabilitation of damaged schools, together with replacement equipment and furniture.
"The market has already begun to ostracise Russian oil, with nearly 70 percent of it currently unable to find a buyer," the business minister added.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy was given a standing ovation from lawmakers in the British House of Commons at the beginning and end of a speech delivered by video link.
"We have considered the implications of the new legislation alongside the urgent need to report from inside Russia. After careful deliberation we have decided to resume English language reporting from Russia this evening Tuesday 8 March," the BBC said in a statement.
