Ukraine matters to Joe Biden Here is why
20220224
https://gulfnews.com/opinion/op-eds/ukraine-matters-to-joe-biden-here-is-why-1.85943140
For analysis of whats at stake for Europe, Russia, the US and the world more generally in the crisis in Ukraine, Ill defer to experts for foreign policy analysis. Beyond that, Ill just advise everyone to be wary not only of partisan point-scoring, but also of any pundits who begin with the assumption that everything traces back to the actions of the United States.
What I can talk about is what is and isnt at stake for President Joe Biden. For that, Ill lean as I usually do on Richard Neustadts 1960 book, Presidential Power. What Neustadt emphasised, above all, is that presidential actions should do what they can to increase the presidents influence in the political system  necessary, he explained, because the Constitution doesnt automatically grant presidents very much influence what Neustadt called power at all.
But presidents cant just do whatever they think will help the US economy because they also do, and should, care about their professional reputations. This part of it is more complicated. Reputation isnt just good or bad. Its more complicated, including not only general assessments of the presidents bargaining skills and whether people think hell win or lose fights, but also general and specific expectations of how the president will act.
And presidential influence is needed to make the US political system run smoothly. Therefore, Biden shouldnt just be thinking about whats good for the nation he should also be thinking about how to use Russias actions to help himself. Presidents do that, Neustadt says, by maximising their popularity and by building impressive professional reputations.
Lets start with popularity. The truth is that, crass as it may be to say so, very, very few US citizens care about Ukraine. Indeed, voters very rarely care about foreign policy at all. It is possible that Russian actions in Ukraine could produce a short-term change in Bidens approval ratings whether rally around the flag effects happen depends mainly on whether the out-party praises or criticises the president during something that the media treats as a major crisis.
Jonathan Bernstein is a columnist covering politics and policy. He taught political science at the University of Texas at San Antonio and DePauw University
But such effects dissipate quickly, so they rarely matter much. In the longer run, dont expect many direct effects on public opinion, assuming that American troops do not get involved. But there certainly could be indirect effects if sanctions wind up raising the price of oil or otherwise affecting the US economy, which certainly can change presidential popularity.
Instead, what matters is what the people involved  such as diplomats, leaders of allied nations and foreign policy experts  think about how Biden is handling it. Neustadt argued that this all built up over time, with each episode adding to the presidents reputation. And a strong reputation, in turn, helps the president have more influence and get more done a poor reputation makes it that much harder.
The good news is that concern for their reputation gives presidents a strong reason to do well for the nation in these situations, even when electoral incentives dont really work  as is the case with most foreign policy episodes. Of course, that doesnt necessarily mean theyll make the best choices.
Biden probably began his presidency with unusually high assumptions about his national-security abilities, perhaps the best since George H.W. Bush, but after he was widely criticised for the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, he could probably use an event that reminds people why they thought he knew what he was doing. This doesnt necessarily require winning, whatever that would mean in this situation.
And, yes, its always possible that presidents will make good choices because they love their country, or because they are brilliant, or for some other noble and altruistic reason. But Im with James Madison Id rather put my trust in healthy incentives.
Expectations, that is, of people who the president deals with and the people they deal with: other politicians, bureaucrats, interest-group and party leaders, national journalists, and more. Because doing their jobs depends on understanding what presidents will do, all those folks try hard to figure them out.
