Ukraine and Russia fail to make progress in talks to end conflict
20220310
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/ukraine-and-russia-fail-to-make-progress-in-talks-to-end-conflict-1.86342754
Russia didnt plan to discuss a ceasefire at Thursdays talks because the main negotiations are the ones that have taken place in Belarus, said Lavrov, who gave no commitments on humanitarian corridors for Ukrainian cities. He insisted Russia hadnt invaded Ukraine but is carrying out what the Kremlin calls a special military operation there.
We want a Ukraine thats friendly and demilitarised, a Ukraine in which there isnt a risk of the creation of another Nazi state, a Ukraine where there wont be a ban on the Russian language, on Russian culture, Lavrov said.
At the same time. the intensity of the international response in sanctioning Russias economy appears to have caught the Kremlin by surprise, with the ruble sinking to record lows, dozens of foreign businesses pulling out of the country and markets pricing in a growing risk of a sovereign default.
Three earlier rounds of lower-level talks in Belarus between Russian and Ukrainian officials yielded few results beyond attempts to establish some humanitarian corridors for civilians caught in the fighting.
Russia is open to serious talks between the two presidents but those contacts must have added value, Lavrov told reporters after the meeting. He reiterated that Russia is seeking the demilitarisation of Ukraine.
Ukraine is insisting on security guarantees from neighbours and allies such as the US, the UK and Germany, and wont cede a single inch of its territory to Russia, Ihor Zhovkva, Zelenskiys deputy chief of staff, said in a Bloomberg Television interview Wednesday from Kyiv.
When he ordered the attacks, Putin set out goals for the demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine that included ousting Zelenskiys government and replacing it with one friendly to Moscow.
With more than 2 million Ukrainians fleeing into neighboring countries for safety and millions more displaced, the invasion has already triggered a humanitarian catastrophe on a scale unseen in Europe since World War II.
Russia indicated it will continue attacks until its goals are met, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said after the meeting lasting about 90 minutes with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov in Turkey on Thursday.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel Macron spoke to Putin by phone on Thursday and reiterated their demand for an immediate ceasefire. The three leaders agreed to stay in close touch in coming days, according to a statement from Scholzs office.
Hosted by Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu in the Mediterranean resort city of Antalya, this was the most senior in-person meeting between Ukraine and Russia since the Russian attacks began on February 24. It followed two weeks of fighting in which Russias plans for achieving a rapid military victory have hit increasing difficulties as Ukraine mounts a determined defence, backed by flows of weapons from the US and its allies.
Kuleba had set out Ukraines three key demands before the meeting with Lavrov - a ceasefire, an improvement of the humanitarian situation in besieged cities, and the withdrawal of Russian forces from the country.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said hes willing to consider some compromises on Russias demand that his country abandons ambitions to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and adopt a neutral position.
Zelensky has also said that only after the direct talks between the two presidents can we end this war, and that theres been no direct contact between him and Putin.
While Ukraine wants a diplomatic solution, our first and foremost pre-condition for having such kind of negotiations is immediate ceasefire and withdrawal of Russian troops, Zhovkva said.
With its forces still failing to gain control of Kyiv and most key Ukrainian cities, despite vastly superior firepower, Russia has modified its stance even as Putin has insisted all of his goals will still be accomplished. Its demanded Ukraine acknowledge Russian sovereignty over Crimea, which Putin annexed in 2014, and accept Moscows recognition of two separatist regions in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas.
The broad narrative he conveyed to me is that they will continue their attacks until Ukraine meets their demands, and the least of these demands is surrender, Kuleba said.
Ankara: Ukraine and Russia failed to make progress in halting the conflict and bridging the vast differences between them at the first high-level talks between their foreign ministers since the Russian invasion began.
