Ukraine vows to fight to the end in Mariupol as ultimatum expires
20220417
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/ukraine-vows-to-fight-to-the-end-in-mariupol-as-ultimatum-expires-1.87248119
Once again, we demand the opening of a humanitarian corridor for the evacuation of civilians, especially women and children, from Mariupol, Vereshchuk wrote.
Celebrating Easter Sunday in Rome, Pope Francis called for peace in Ukraine during this Easter of war.
May there be peace for war-torn Ukraine, so sorely tried by the violence and destruction of the cruel and senseless war into which it was dragged, the pontiff said in his traditional Urbi et Orbi address on St. Peters Square at the Vatican.
Ukrainian authorities have urged people in the eastern Donbas area to move west to escape a large-scale Russian offensive to capture its composite regions, Donetsk and Lugansk.
Moscow claims Kyiv has ordered fighters of the nationalist Azov battalion to shoot on the spot anyone wanting to surrender.
The UN World Food Programme says that over 100,000 civilians in Mariupol are on the verge of famine, and lacking water and heating.
Ukraines Minister of Digital Transformation Mykhailo Fedorov said the city was on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe and warned the country was compiling evidence of alleged Russian atrocities there.
While several cities are under siege, he said, not one - with the exception of Kherson in the south - had fallen. He said more than 900 towns and cities had been liberated.
As Russia scales up attacks on Ukraines eastern flank, at least five people were killed and 13 wounded in a series of strikes in second city Kharkiv, just 21 kilometres from the Russian border and an air strike hit an armaments factory in Kyiv.
Let there be a decision for peace. May there be an end to the flexing of muscles while people are suffering.
Zelensky said the situation in Mariupol is inhuman and called on the West to immediately provide heavy weapons.
Russias defence ministry said that there were up to 400 mercenaries inside the encircled Azovstal steel plant, calling on Ukrainian forces inside to lay down their arms and surrender in order to save their lives.
Theres still our military forces, our soldiers. So they will fight to the end, he told ABCs This Week, with Moscow shifting its military focus to gaining control of the eastern Donbas region and forging a land corridor to already-annexed Crimea.
We will hand everything over to The Hague. There will be no impunity, he said.
Mariupol has become a symbol of Ukraines unexpectedly fierce resistance since Russian troops entered the former Soviet state on February 24.
At one site, AFP saw a blood-stained coat next to a pool of fresh blood on the ground. A local reported hearing between six and eight missiles hit in the kind of strike that has become a daily occurrence.
On Friday, shelling of residential areas of the city killed 10 people. On Saturday, a strike claimed two more lives.
Shmyhal said that Ukraine wanted a diplomatic solution if possible, but added: If the Russians wouldnt like negotiations, well fight to the end, absolutely. We will not surrender.
Maksym Khaustov, the head of the Kharkiv regions health department, confirmed the deaths following a series of strikes that AFP journalists on the scene said had ignited fires throughout the city and torn roofs from buildings.
With fighting raging in the east, Deputy Prime Minister Vereshchuk said that humanitarian corridors allowing civilians to flee would not open on Sunday after failing to agree terms with Russian forces.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said that if Russian forces kill Kyivs troops remaining to defend the city, then a fledgling negotiation process to end nearly two months of fighting would be ended.
Kyiv: Ukraine on Sunday vowed to fight to the end in Mariupol after a Russian ultimatum expired for remaining forces to surrender in the southeastern port city where Moscow is pushing for a major strategic victory.
The city still has not fallen, Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said hours after Moscows deadline for fighters holed up and surrounded in a sprawling fortress-like steelworks to surrender passed.
