Ukraine People pour into Indian restaurant in Kyiv to seek shelter
20220302
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/ukraine-people-pour-into-indian-restaurant-in-kyiv-to-seek-shelter-1.86137361
I will continue to offer shelter and food for as long as I can, Dave, 52, said in a phone interview with The Washington Post.
Instead of financial offerings, Dave has asked people to purchase groceries, so that he can continue taking care of those in need for long as possible.
In the meantime, as the crisis continues to unfold, he will welcome anyone who comes to his door seeking help.
All are welcome, he emphasised in a phone interview: Any nationality, any person can come here and take shelter.
We are all safe at present in my restaurant basement, but outside, when we walk, we are feeling very insecure, he said, adding that many of his regular customers have fled to the Western portion of Ukraine, which is closer to European Union countries and NATO troops.
For the past several days, Daves basement eatery has doubled as a makeshift bunker, where dozens of children, pregnant women, students, homeless people and older locals have congregated, seeking safety from the deadly clashes. Since Russia waged war on Thursday, Dave has housed and fed more than 130 people.
Soon, strangers started pouring in, including Natali Antontseva, 32, who was born in eastern Ukraine and moved to Kyiv in 2012 to launch her career working for an industrial goods and services company.
On Thursday, at 4.30am, Antontseva received an urgent call from her husband, who is working abroad.
They have also cooked simple pastas and other European dishes that are inexpensive to prepare and easy to make in big batches. Given the influx of people, theyve had to ration their resources.
In that case, he intends to hand over his keys to let people continue sheltering in his restaurant for as long as is needed.
We are very grateful, she wrote in a text message, adding that Dave and his staff of 11 employees - all of whom are sheltering at the restaurant, are very hospitable, polite and attentive.
Dave has been feeding shelter-seekers for free. He and his staff prepare traditional Indian dishes, such as dal served with rice. In order to accommodate everyones palates, though, we are trying to make less spicy Indian food, said Dave, adding that the restaurant has been closed for business and will remain that way for the foreseeable future.
As a barrage of explosions erupted, and civilians desperately sought shelter, Dave had a realization: A basement is a safe place, he said. The place is so big, and I should help.
I cant express how happy we were when we entered a clean, warm room, with a pleasant smell of Indian spices, Antontseva said. Despite the fact that there was not much space, doors were opened for everyone. They offered us some hot tea and dinner. I was also happy for my pregnant friend who could sleep on a small couch instead of a cold floor of the basement we were in before.
Kyiv is laced with moribund bunkers from the Cold War-era, but most of them have fallen into disrepair or been repurposed. In the weeks leading up to the invasion, the city published a map of shelters but confused residents found them being used as cafes, storage rooms and, in one case, a strip club.
He found a vacant underground space about a three-minute walk from a hostel for international students who attend Bogomelets National Medical University, and opened Saathiya Restaurant in January. Before the business had a chance to become profitable, Dave said, disaster struck.
While Dave hopes his shelter and meals serve as a small source of comfort amid the chaos, we are very much panicked, he said.
There was fire, blasts, bombs, he continued. It has been very scary. People are scared.
He has refused to accept funds from those who have eaten or taken shelter at his restaurant, explaining that we are like one family. We all contribute things, not money.
First, he told his regular customers - who are mainly students - that they could stay in his basement restaurant. Then, he posted on the messaging app Telegram, inviting anyone who needed shelter and food to stop by.
As Russias attack on Ukraine was mounting, Kyiv residents were strongly urged to take shelter. Manish Dave - who owns an Indian restaurant in the countrys embattled capital - swiftly opened his doors.
Dave was worried about our security even after we left. We are still in touch with him, Antontseva said. The war has shown how important it is to stay a human being despite your race, country or religion.
After stopping at one shelter that was wet, dirty and without electricity or drinking water, they ended up at Daves restaurant, Antontseva told The Post via email.
Nataliya Hernandez Flor, 38, and her family sought shelter at Saathiya Restaurant, too. Since Thursday, Hernandez Flor has been there with her husband and four children, as well as her parents.
Dave, who is a widower, explained that his family in India - including his mother and daughter - are quite worried. Still, he hopes to stay in Ukraine for now. If the situation escalates further, he said, I need to go.
Get up, he shouted through the phone. Russia is bombing Kyiv. The war has begun.
People are donating rice, food and vegetables, Dave said. We are all contributing and sharing.
If you dont have any proper safe place to stay during this time, please go here, he posted, and included the address of his restaurant. We will try our best to arrange free food and stay according to our capacity. Stand united with Ukraine.
Dave moved from Vadodara, a city in the Indian state of Gujarat, to Kyiv in October 2021, with plans to open an Indian restaurant. He wanted to provide Indian students, of which there are thousands in the region, with a taste of home.
Antontseva stayed at Daves shelter for one night, before she and her family headed toward the Western part of the country, a harrowing journey which took two days.
In addition to ensuring those at the restaurant remain well-fed, he and his staff have also been delivering free food to another nearby bunker.
In a panic, Antontseva drove to meet her mother and brother, and they began searching for the nearest shelter. She was also joined by her friends, including a woman in her ninth month of pregnancy and her husband.
