West warns of dangerous moment as Russia holds drills in Belarus
20220210
https://gulfnews.com/world/europe/west-warns-of-dangerous-moment-as-russia-holds-drills-in-belarus-1.85599195
Stoltenberg said last week that Russia was expected to have 30,000 troops in Belarus as well as Spetsnaz special operations forces, SU-35 fighter jets, S-400 air defence systems and nuclear-capable Iskander missiles.
Im honestly disappointed that what we have is a conversation between a dumb and a deaf person...Our most detailed explanations fell on unprepared soil, the 71-year-old veteran diplomat told reporters.
The group includes Russia, Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a security watchdog.
I cant see any other reason for having 100,000 troops stationed on the border, apart from to threaten Ukraine. And if Russia is serious about diplomacy, they need to remove those troops and desist from the threats, she said.
Tensions remained high, with Ukraine also staging war games, but leaders on all sides signalled they hoped diplomacy could still prevail in what British Prime Minister Boris Johnson called Europes biggest security crisis for decades.
Thats highly inconsistent with agreements for transparency for large military exercises in Europe. Thats bad news, the official said.
Visiting Moscow, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss was upbraided by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov at a joint news conference in which he accused her of grandstanding and refusing to listen.
Ukraines Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov later urged the international community to take tough punitive measures on Russia, including port restrictions on its ships, to retaliate.
Now we expect unified reaction also: when RUS Russian ships cant enter worlds ports, theyll understand the price of their impudence, he wrote on Twitter.
After the initial phase of the joint drills was announced last month, Russia held a briefing for military attaches that lasted just eight minutes, and gave notice of an exercise that was already under way, a senior US state department official said.
Trusss talks in Moscow follow shuttle diplomacy from French President Emmanuel Macron, who visited Moscow and Kyiv earlier this week. In contrast to US and British leaders, Macron has played down the likelihood of a Russian invasion soon.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the talks would be important and that he hoped they could get a Trilateral Contact Group on the conflict in east Ukraine functioning again.
The Ukrainian forces, whose numbers have not been disclosed, are set to use Bayraktar drones and anti-tank Javelin and NLAW missiles provided by foreign partners. Kyiv was due to receive a further shipment of US military aid later on Thursday.
Russia, which has more than 100,000 troops near Ukraines borders, denies Western accusations that it may be planning to invade its former Soviet neighbour, though it says it could take unspecified military-technical action unless demands are met.
BrusselsMoscow: Britain said on Thursday the West could face the most dangerous moment in its standoff with Moscow in the next few days, as Russia held military exercises in Belarus and the Black Sea following its troop buildup near Ukraine.
Ukraine launched its own war games on Thursday which, like Russias joint drills with Minsk, will run until Feb. 20.
They say Russia is waiting until the ground freezes like a stone so its tanks can easily cross into Ukrainian territory. I think the ground was like that today with our British colleagues, from which numerous facts that we produced bounced off. Truss, who warned of tough Western sanctions if Ukraine was attacked, challenged Lavrov directly over his assertion that Russia is not threatening anyone with its build-up of troops and weaponry near Ukraines borders.
Despite the tension over the war games, the Kremlins point man on Ukraine, Dmitry Kozak, was set to meet officials from Ukraine, Germany and France in Berlin for the latest talks on the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
Russia has used the tensions to seek security concessions from the West that would include a promise never to admit Ukraine to NATO and halt the military alliances expansion.
The EU said on Thursday it had delivered a single letter in response to Russias proposals to member states on European security, on behalf of the 27 foreign ministers of the bloc.
In a new round of diplomacy, Britains foreign minister sparred publicly with Russias top diplomat at talks in Moscow, Johnson visited NATO headquarters in Brussels and officials from Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France were due to meet in Berlin to discuss the conflict in eastern Ukraine.
I honestly dont think a decision has yet been taken by Moscow on whether to attack, Johnson told a news conference with NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg in Brussels. But that doesnt mean that it is impossible that something absolutely disastrous could happen very soon indeed. This is probably the most dangerous moment, I would say, in the course of the next few days, in what is the biggest security crisis that Europe has faced for decades, and weve got to get it right. And I think that the combination of sanctions and military resolve, plus diplomacy is what is in order. Stoltenberg also said it was a dangerous moment for European security, adding: The number of Russian forces is going up. The warning time for a possible attack is going down. In a new point of friction, Ukraine criticised Russian naval exercises that it said made navigation in the Black Sea and Sea of Azov virtually impossible.
