Miss Ukraine armed with assault rifle joins fighters battling Russian invasion
20220228
https://www.ok.co.uk/celebrity-news/miss-ukraine-assault-rifle-russia-26346899
In a story posted on Saturday night, she also warned: "Everyone who crosses the Ukrainian border with the intent to invade will be killed!" It was accompanied with a photo of her comrades blocking a road.
Anastasiia swapped her tiara for an assault rifle and shared on her social media: "22.02.2022 standwithukraine handsofukraine".
The 31 year old, who represented Ukraine in the 2015 Miss Grand International beauty contest, took to her Instagram feed to post two photos of herself in brown cargo trousers, a black jacket, black gloves and protective glasses.
It was also posted by Ukraine's road sign agency, called Ukravtodor, on their Facebook page.
On Saturday 26 February, Ukrainians were told to remove road signs and land marker by government agencies in a bid to "confuse and disorient" Russian invaders.
Despite all of this, The Guardian has reported that talks between Ukraine and Russia got underway on the border with Belarus on Monday 28 February.
Meanwhile Reuters shared that the Ukrainian president's office said their goal for the talks was an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian forces.
Another photo posted on her feed simply showed the Ukraine flag, which she captioned with the hashtags: "prayforukraine stopwar staystrong handsoffukraine".
Former Miss Ukraine Anastasiia Lenna has revealed she's armed herself with an assault rifle and is ready to defend her country from Russian forces.
"The enemy has a miserable connection, they don't orientate in the area. Let's help them go straight to hell. Ukravtodor urges all road organizations, territorial communities, local government authorities to immediately start dismantling nearby road signs."
Anastasiia Lenna, who represented Ukraine in the 2015 Miss Grand International beauty contest, has been seen geared up with an assault rifle to defend her country from Russian invaders
The call was posted on the official Twitter account for the Ministry of Defence as fights between Russian and Ukrainian forces have intensified.
For all your updates on the Ukraine-Russia crisis, sign up to our daily OK! newsletter.
They wrote: "We dismantle road signs on all roads of the country. Priority 1 - indicative signs, names of settlements. Collected signs are handed over to the local authorities and the passengers.
Russian president Vladimir Putin, 69, authorised what he called a special military operation to demilitarise and denazify its neighbours on Thursday 24 February.
The attack was launched in the early hours of the morning, with Russian troops crossing the border into Ukraine and missiles being launched at airports and military bases.
In another post on her social media, Anastasiia praised the Ukrainian army and claimed they are fighting so well that "NATO should apply for entry into Ukraine".
Get exclusive celebrity stories and fabulous photoshoots straight to your inbox with OK!'s daily newsletter
