Queens fiery swipe at Russias Putin after presidents late arrival
20220301
https://www.ok.co.uk/royal/queen-instinct-swipe-putin-late-26356584
For all the latest on the Queen and the rest of the Royal Family, sign up to OK!'s brand new    Royal newsletter.
Sign up to our free email to get all the latest royal news and pictures
This special collector's edition edition of OK! looks at the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's new life in the States following their dramatic departure from the UK, their children Archie and Lilibet's life away from the spotlight and the family's plans for 2022 and beyond.
She made a scathing remark in 2003, when he was 14 minutes late for their meeting.
Their statement read: Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all of us at Archewell stand with the people of Ukraine against this breach of international and humanitarian law and encourage the global community and its leaders to do the same.
Her Majesty the Queen is bound by the crown to be a neutral party  but our 95-year-old monarch once broke royal protocol and made her thoughts on Russias President Putin very clear.
David Blunkett, who was Home Secretary at the time, was present and his guide dog gave a loud bark at the dictator.
The message, shared on Twitter, gained 14,000 likes within 30 minutes and nearly 2,000 retweets.
But the most spirited stand against the dictator has come from Prince Charles. During a visit to Southend-on-Sea on Tuesday, Charles commented: The values of democracy and freedom are under attack today in Ukraine in the most unconscionable way. We are in solidarity with all those who are resisting brutal aggression.
It read: The Queen has accepted the Foreign Secretarys advice that the diplomatic reception at Windsor on March 2 should be postponed.
On the advice of the Foreign Secretary, the monarch pressed pause on the meeting due to take place on Wednesday.
Her Majesty was set to host hundreds of diplomats at her Berkshire residence. Buckingham Palace released a message on the sensitive move.
In a heartfelt statement, Kate Middleton and Prince William wrote: Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraines people as they bravely fight for that future. W  C.
The British monarchy has shown their support for the people of Ukraine after the Russian President announced a 'specialised military operation' on Thursday 24 February.
He told the BBC: I did apologise to the Queen who was obviously hosting. I dont think I am giving anything away when I said, Sorry your Majesty about the dog barking.
Her Majesty has met Putin on many occasions during her 70 year reign, but his 2003 state visit is bound to be the most memorable.
Members of the Royal Family including Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle have spoken out about the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Plus, as the 25th anniversary of Diana, Princess of Wales' tragic death approaches, experts tell OK! what her thoughts might have been on Harry and Meghan's brave decision to step away from royal duties...
Returning to her neutral stance and in light of the invasion, the Queen postponed a diplomatic reception at Windsor Castle.
Putins army has invaded Ukraine causing over half a million of its citizens to flee their homes.
It explores their evolving relationship with the Royal Family and how there is hope for bridges to be built.
