William and Kate speak out and back Ukraines brave fight
20220226
https://www.ok.co.uk/royal/royal-news/breaking-kate-william-support-ukraine-26336570
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are the first working royals to publicly announce their support for Ukraine amid the war against Russia.
Sign up to our free email to get all the latest royal news and pictures
This special collector's edition edition of OK! looks at the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's new life in the States following their dramatic departure from the UK, their children Archie and Lilibet's life away from the spotlight and the family's plans for 2022 and beyond.
In November of last year, William also visited the Security Service MI5 at 12 Millbank.
Get exclusive celebrity stories and fabulous photoshoots straight to your inbox with OK!'s daily newsletter
Speaking of the opportunity at the time, William said: "Spending time inside our security and intelligence agencies, understanding more about the vital contribution they make to our national security, was a truly humbling experience.
"These agencies are full of people from everyday backgrounds doing the most extraordinary work to keep us safe. They work in secret, often not even able to tell their family and friends about the work they do or the stresses they face.
In 2019, the father-of-three spent three weeks working full-time alongside operatives and agents at MI5, the Secret Intelligence Service MI6 and GCHQ to learn more about the UK's security.
William was said to have made 'secret visit' to MI6 hours before Russia invaded Ukraine.
The message from the Duke and Duchess of Sussex said: "Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all of us at Archewell stand with the people of Ukraine against this breach of international and humanitarian law and encourage the global community and its leaders to do the same."
The royal couple wrote on Twitter: "In October 2020 we had the privilege to meet President Zelenskyy and the First Lady to learn of their hope and optimism for Ukraines future.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge Prince William and Kate Middleton have broken their silence on the Ukraine and back the country's "brave fight".
"Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraines people as they bravely fight for that future. W  C."
To stay up to date on all the latest news on The Royals and more of your favourite stars, sign up to OK!'s daily newsletter.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge William and Kate have broken their silence on the Ukraine and back the country's 'brave fight'
Plus, as the 25th anniversary of Diana, Princess of Wales' tragic death approaches, experts tell OK! what her thoughts might have been on Harry and Meghan's brave decision to step away from royal duties...
According to the PA, the 39 year old met with the department which deals with foreign intelligence in the capital on Wednesday morning.
Prince William's visit came just hours before Vladimir Putin's government launched a full invasion of Ukraine following months of tension.
Details of the trip were not publicised and were only made available through the Court Circular, an official record of past royal engagements.
He added: "They are driven by an unrivalled patriotism and dedication to upholding the values of this country.
The trip was said to be in the Duke of Cambridge's diary for several weeks, and it is not known who he met with during his time at the top-secret department.
It explores their evolving relationship with the Royal Family and how there is hope for bridges to be built.
