My job as foreign minister is to try to think ahead  Coveney rules out Filatov expulsion
20220228
https://www.leinsterleader.ie/news/national-news/754540/my-job-as-foreign-minister-is-to-try-to-think-ahead-coveney-rules-out-filatov-expulsion.html
Mr Coveney said that no country in the EU has so far moved to expel their Russian ambassador.
I think the European Union is right to intervene and support the Ukrainian military who are under enormous pressure at the moment.
Simon Coveney, speaking amid growing calls for the Russian ambassador to be expelled, said that he understood public and political anger directed at Russia and Yury Filatov as the countrys representative in Ireland.
Ireland may expel some Russian diplomats in the coming days, but will likely stop short of ejecting the ambassador, the Foreign Affairs Minister has said.
It comes after the EU announced yesterday Sunday February 27 an unprecedented set of measures to support Ukrainians, confirming that it will close its airspace to Russian airlines, fund supplies of weapons to Ukraine and ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets in response to Russias invasion.
But I dont think its wise for us to expel the Russian ambassador and have no Russian presence in Ireland to allow us to have a direct line of communication with Moscow for humanitarian reasons primarily, but also to ensure that we can let them know what the Irish view is very directly in terms of Russian actions.
Does that mean that we wont be expelling some Russian diplomats or some operatives that are in Ireland who may not be diplomats in the next few days? No, it doesnt. We may well do that.
Mr Coveney said the country will send around nine million euros-worth of non-lethal equipment to Ukraine as part of the EU fund.
Our money will be used for non-lethal weapons  things like helmets, protection vests, medical kits, fuel, Mr Coveney told RTE radio.
He indicated that Ireland might move to expel some Russian diplomats, but ruled out expelling the ambassador.
I think if the European Union cant take a stand, well, then I think we have to question the moral substance of the European Union.
I need to make sure that we have lines of communication open so that I can help those people and do my job. And even if you fundamentally disagree with somebody, as we do with Russia right now, and youre trying to hold them to account, as we are trying at the moment, you still have to keep lines of communication open, in my view.
I think its likely that something will happen in that space, but we do need to be targeted. We need to bear in mind the interests of Irish citizens, both in Russia and across Ukraine.
My job as a foreign minister is to try to think ahead here. We are going to have Irish citizens, hundreds of them, living and working in Russia. We do have today.
The expulsion of diplomats or Russian staff in embassies is quite a significant thing to do. It sends a very strong signal and Russia will respond in kind.
