Ukraine accuses Moscow of medieval tactics
20220308
https://www.stardem.com/news/world/ukraine-accuses-moscow-of-medieval-tactics/article_28d5009c-1e8e-52e1-b19b-496c7c8ff816.html
I dont know many Ukrainians who want to seek refuge in Russia. Thats hypocrisy, French President Emmanuel Macron said in an interview on French news broadcaster LCI.
Police moved through the city, advising people to remain in shelters until they heard official messages broadcast over loudspeakers to evacuate.
In the south, Russian forces also continued their offensive in Mykolaiv, opening fire on the Black Sea shipbuilding center of a half-million people, according to Ukraines military. Rescuers said they were putting out fires caused by rocket attacks in residential areas.
Russian President Vladimir Putins forces continued to pummel cities with rockets, and fierce fighting raged in places.
The city is short on water, food and power, and cellphone networks are down. Stores have been looted as residents search for essential goods.
LVIV, Ukraine AP  The humanitarian crisis in Ukraine deepened Monday as Russian forces intensified their shelling and food, water, heat and medicine grew increasingly scarce, in what the country condemned as a medieval-style siege by Moscow to batter it into submission.
Every house, every street, every checkpoint, we will fight to the death if necessary, said Mayor Vitali Klitschko.
Efforts to set up safe passage for civilians over the weekend fell apart amid continued Russian shelling. Before Mondays talks began, Russia announced a new plan, saying civilians would be allowed to leave Kyiv, Mariupol, Kharkiv and Sumy.
What are they doing? rescue worker Vasyl Oksak asked of the Russian attackers. There were two little kids and two elderly people living here. Come in and see what they have done.
Well into the second week of the invasion, with Russian troops making significant advances in southern Ukraine but stalled in some other regions, a top U.S. official said multiple countries were discussing whether to provide the warplanes that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has been pleading for.
In the capital, Kyiv, soldiers and volunteers have built hundreds of checkpoints to protect the city of nearly 4 million, often using sandbags, stacked tires and spiked cables. Some barricades looked significant, with heavy concrete slabs and sandbags piled more than two stories high, while others appeared more haphazard, with hundreds of books used to weigh down stacks of tires.
A third round of talks between the two sides ended with a top Ukrainian official saying there had been minor, unspecified progress toward establishing safe corridors that would allow civilians to escape the fighting. Russias chief negotiator said he expects those corridors to start operating Tuesday.
In one of the most desperate cities, the encircled southern port of Mariupol, an estimated 200,000 people  nearly half the population of 430,000  were hoping to flee, and Red Cross officials waited to hear when a corridor would be established.
Klitschko reported that fierce battles continued in the Kyiv region, notably around Bucha, Hostomel, Vorzel and Irpin.
Russia is resorting to tactics reminiscent of medieval siege warfare, encircling cities, cutting off escape routes and pounding the civilian population with heavy ordnance, said Jonathan Gimblett, a member of Ukraines legal team.
The lack of phone service left anxious citizens approaching strangers to ask if they knew relatives living in other parts of the city and whether they were safe.
I think it struck the fourth floor under us, Dmitry Sedorenko said from his Kharkiv hospital bed. Immediately, everything started burning and falling apart. When the floor collapsed beneath him, he crawled out through the third story, past the bodies of some of his neighbors.
The U.N. human rights office reported 406 confirmed civilian deaths but said the real number is much higher. The invasion has also sent 1.7 million people fleeing Ukraine.
At The Hague, Netherlands, Ukraine pleaded with the International Court of Justice to order a halt to Russias invasion, saying Moscow is committing widespread war crimes.
But that offer was quickly dismissed by Ukraine and others as an empty and cynical gesture, since most of the evacuation routes headed toward Russia or its ally Belarus, which has served as a launch pad for the invasion.
Hospitals in Mariupol are facing severe shortages of antibiotics and painkillers, and doctors performed some emergency procedures without them.
But that remained to be seen, given the failure of previous attempts to lead civilians to safety amid the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II.
Russia snubbed the court proceedings, leaving its seats in the Great Hall of Justice empty.
Ukraine instead proposed eight routes allowing civilians to travel to western regions of the country where there is no shelling.
A few miles away, in the small town of Horenka, where shelling reduced one area to ashes and shards of glass, rescuers and residents picked through the ruins as chickens pecked around them.
In the Irpin area, which has been cut off from electricity, water and heat for three days, witnesses saw at least three tanks and said Russian soldiers were seizing houses and cars.
The battle for Mariupol is crucial because its capture could allow Moscow to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.
In Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, with 1.4 million people, heavy shelling slammed into apartment buildings.
The fighting has sent energy prices surging worldwide and stocks plummeting, and threatens t he food supply and livelihoods of people around the globe who rely on crops farmed in the fertile Black Sea region.
