Ukraine retreats from key city in major Russian gain
20220703
https://www.kuwaittimes.com/ukraine-retreats-from-key-city-in-major-russian-gain/
In peacetime, Ukraine is a major agricultural exporter, but Russias invasion has damaged farmland and seen Ukraines ports seized, razed or blockaded  sparking concerns about food shortages, particularly in poor countries. Farmer Sergiy Lyubarsky, whose fields are close to the frontline, warned time was running out to harvest this years crop.
Lysychansk had been the last major city in the Lugansk area of the eastern Donbas region still in Ukrainian hands and frees up Moscows forces to advance on Kramatorsk and Sloviansk in neighboring Donetsk. President Volodymyr Zelensky had earlier denied Russian claims of Lysychansks fall before the Ukrainian army announced the retreat on Sunday evening.
SIVERSK, Ukraine: The Ukrainian army retreated from the strategic city of Lysychansk Sunday as Russia claimed a major victory by seizing control of the entire eastern Lugansk region. The Ukrainian withdrawal followed weeks of fierce fighting and marked a decisive breakthrough for Moscows forces more than four months after their invasion and after turning their focus away from the capital Kyiv.
Russian forces seized Lysychansks twin city of Severodonetsk last week following weeks of intense fighting. The latest blow to Ukrainian resistance came after Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese on Sunday pledged further military support including armored vehicles and drones during a meeting with Zelensky in Kyiv.
Fierce fighting continues along the entire frontline, in Donbas, Zelensky said in an address late Saturday, accusing enemy activity of intensifying in the wider region around Ukraines second city of Kharkiv. Two people were killed and three wounded  including two children  in a strike on the town of Dobropillya, local authorities in Donetsk said.
Russia has previously accused Kyiv of conducting strikes on Russian soil, particularly in the Belgorod region. On Saturday, Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko accused Kyiv of provocation and said his army intercepted missiles fired at his country by Ukrainian forces around three days ago.
Elsewhere, the mayor of Sloviansk, 75 km west of Lysychansk, reported the heaviest Russian shelling for a long time, saying a child had been among six people killed, with another 15 people wounded. The city of Siversk, 30 km west of Lysychansk, saw overnight shelling, residents and an official told AFP. It was intense, and it was shooting from all sides, said a woman sheltering in a cellar.
The continuation of the defense of the city would lead to fatal consequences in the face of Russias superiority in numbers and equipment, the army said in a statement. In order to preserve the lives of Ukrainian defenders, a decision was made to withdraw. Unfortunately, steel will and patriotism are not enough for success  material and technical resources are needed.
Belarus, a Russian ally, supported the Feb 24 invasion and has been accused by Kyiv of launching its own attacks on Ukrainian territory. Lukashenko denied any involvement in a recent cross-border incident. We do not intend to fight in Ukraine, he was quoted as saying by state news agency Belta on Saturday.
On Monday, leaders from dozens of countries and international organizations gather in the Swiss city of Lugano for a conference on Ukraines reconstruction. The aim is to provide a roadmap for the war-ravaged countrys recovery. Zelensky said colossal investments would be needed as 10 regions of Ukraine had been affected in the war, with many towns and villages needing to be rebuilt from scratch.
On Sunday, Russia accused Ukraine of firing three cluster missiles at the city of Belgorod near the Ukrainian border, which came after Belarus on Saturday said it had intercepted Ukrainian missiles. In what would represent an escalation of the conflict, Moscow said its anti-aircraft defenses shot down three Tochka-U cluster missiles launched by Ukrainian nationalists against Belgorod, close to the Ukrainian border. Belgorod governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said 11 residential buildings and 39 houses had been damaged.
We can wait until August 10 at the latest, but after that, the grains are going to dry out and fall to the ground, he said. Western powers have accused Putin of using the trapped harvest as a weapon to increase pressure on the international community, and Russia has been accused of stealing grain.  AFP
Ukraine will also face demands for broad reforms, especially in cracking down on corruption after Brussels recently granted Kyiv candidate status in its push to join the 27-member bloc. A Ukrainian official said Sunday that his countrys forces had put out of action a Russian military base in Melitopol, while the Ukrainian army said the air force had destroyed around 20 Russian units and two ammunition depots. The town of Melitopol is covered in smoke, said the citys exiled mayor Ivan Fedorov.
