EU to finance arms for Ukraine as leaders toughen sanctions on Russia
20220227
https://www.maltatoday.com.mt/news/europe/115241/eu_to_finance_arms_for_ukraine_as_leaders_toughen_sanctions_on_russia
Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered Russias nuclear deterrent forces on high alert on Sunday, citing aggressive statements by NATO powers and harsh financial sanctions.
The EUs decision to step up sanctions comes as Russian forces continued their push towards the capital Kyiv and other major Ukrainian cities.
The ban on Russian-registered planes includes private jets used by oligarchs. Malta had earlier on Sunday said it was closing its airspace to Russian aircraft, effectively denying access to the central Mediterranean region.
As well on Sunday, Ukraine said it would hold talks with Russia at its border with Belarus after a phone call between President Volodymyr Zelensky and Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko.
We agreed on financial sanctions against oligarchs, friends of President Putin and that certain Russian banks will be denied access to the Swift system, Bartolo said, adding discussions focussed on how to help Ukraine as it suffered the consequences of the ferocious war unleashed by the Russian military.
Thousands of Ukrainians have fled towards the western borders to cross into Poland and Moldova.
Ukrainian forces managed to recpature control of the second largest city, Kharkiv on Sunday, after street fighting with Russian troops.
Maltese Foreign Minister Evarist Bartolo said after the virtual meeting of EU foreign ministers that as a neutral country, Malta will not be involved in the supply of armaments but will supply Ukraine with medical supplies.
The decision forms part of a raft of new sanction that include the closure of all EU airspace to Russian planes and the banning of Russian state media outlets RT and Sputnik.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz announced at an extraordinary session of the Bundestag on Sunday that Germany would increase defence spending by 100 billion, fulfilling a 2006 pledge by NATO allies to dedicate 2 of GDP to the continents security. Germany also agreed to supply weapons to Ukraine.
In an unprecedented move, EU leaders have agreed to finance 450 million in arms to Ukraine as they imposed tough new sanctions on Russia on Sunday.
"The politicians agreed that the Ukrainian delegation would meet the Russian one without preconditions at the Ukraine-Belarus border near the Pripyat River," Zelensky's office said in a statement.
Speaking beside EU foreign policy chief Josep Borell, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Russia Today and Sputnik "will no longer be able to spread their lies to justify Putins war and to sow division in our union. Von der Leyen also said the bloc was taking the unprecedented step of financing 450 million in arms to Ukraine and introducing restrictions on exports from Russian ally Belarus.
