Updated  Russia orders troops into eastern Ukraine
20220222
https://www.maltatoday.com.mt/news/world/115108/war_looms_after_russia_recognises_ukraine_rebel_regions_as_independent
After recognising them as independent states, Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered troops into two rebel-held regions in eastern Ukraine.
Last night Volodymyr Zelensky said the country wanted peace but declared: "We are not afraid" and "will not give anything away to anyone". He said that Kyiv needed "clear and effective actions of support" from its international partners.
On Monday, Putin recognised the independence of two rebel regions in eastern Ukraine and ordered his troops to carry out peacekeeping operations there.
The decision sees Russia recognising the independence of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions in Ukraine.
She said that recognising Luhansk and Donetsk as independent was part of Russia's bid to create a reason to invade Ukraine further.
Russia said the troops would engage in "peacekeeping" in thetwo rebel-held regions however,the United States said calling them peacekeepers was "nonsense," and that Russia was creating a pretext for war.
At an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council, US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield dismissed Russia's claims that troops would be taking on a "peacekeeping" role, saying: "We know what they really are".
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russia's actions amounted to "a flagrant violation of the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine" that breaks international law.
Maltese Foreign Minister Evarist Bartolo wrote on Facebook that Russia's actions area directviolation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and against the principles of the United Nations.
The EU pledged to "react with unity, firmness and with determination in solidarity with Ukraine".
United States President Joe Biden has signed an executive order that prohibits new investment, trade and financing by Americans in the breakaway regions.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council chief Charles Michel, European foreign policy chief Josep Borrel and European Parliament president
The recognition of the two separatist territories in Ukraine is a blatant violation of international law, the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the Minsk agreements.The EU and its partners will react with unity, firmness and with determination in solidarity with Ukraine.
Russia has been amassing troops and artillery along Ukraines border amid fears it is planning a full-scale invasion.
We call for a peaceful resolution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine in accordance with the Minsk Agreement, Bartolo said.
Roberta Metsola wrote on Twitter: The recognition of the two separatist territories in Ukraine is a blatant violation of international law, the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the Minsk agreements. The EU and its partners will react with unity, firmness and determination in solidarity with Ukraine.
In a lengthy televised speech, Putin said modern Ukraine had been "created" by Soviet Russia, referring to the country as "ancient Russian lands".
The two regions are home to Russian-backed rebels who have been fighting Ukrainian forces since 2014.
