Readers Write Ukraine the freedom to read
20220301
https://www.startribune.com/readers-write-ukraine-the-freedom-to-read/600151529/
As I've watched the crisis in Ukraine unfold, I've been amazed and heartened by the way it has brought the peoples and nations of the world together to demand a stop to Russia's invasion. Strength isn't just found in tanks and missiles. When we are outraged by a terrible injustice and stand together against it, we have enormous power in our hands.
3 When President Joe Biden took office, Putin already knew the mettle of the man, but that was fortified with the disastrous exit from Afghanistan. Putin knew it was time to strike, and immediately began to build forces on the Ukrainian border. Biden's response? He waived sanctions on the company behind Russia's Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to Germany, after ending construction on our own Keystone pipeline. Crippling our own oil and gas industry while encouraging Russia's oil production helped convince Putin that he was dealing with a feckless idiot.
We see the power of unity: allies standing strong together and using every tool they have to stop Russia. We see the power of compassion, as countries open their borders to welcome the refugees and organizations mobilize to provide aid. We see, too, the power of protest, as all around the world people rise up in huge demonstrations.
Most of all, we see the inspiring power of ordinary Ukrainian citizens who love their freedom and love their country, taking a stand against overwhelming odds.
Throwing stones at Russian businesses in the U.S. or pulling Russian vodka off store shelves is not the way to show your opposition to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Instead, consider showing your support of the Russian people who are risking arrest, detention and possibly their lives by protesting Putin's war in Ukraine. The Russian government has impaled its own citizens upon its criminal code, falsely accusing political opponents of violating the law when they criticized Russia's territorial aggressions into Crimea. Even the posting of an article in Russia entitled "Crimea is Ukraine!" has been a punishable crime in Russia. Even now, the Russian government targets any citizen who demonstrates the smallest iota of disloyalty to the regime such as reposting an anti-Russian article on Facebook.
Ukrainians in Ukraine and throughout the world need our support and solidarity, as do Russians in Russia who have the courage to voice their horror and disgust at Putin's egregious acts in Ukraine.
It's too bad not all parents these days, or all schools, have such an expansive view of "education." Thank you, Mom!
Across one editorial and seven letters from readers, I counted no less than the following: three references to Trump, three references to Republicans or Republican administrations and two references to the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol. One of those latter references shows up in the context of a Freedom House report about the "The Global Expansion of Authoritative Rule," despite the news we learned on page A3 about how those criminals have been appropriately punished "Pelosi podium poser gets 75 days", as the judge noted that behavior "that undermines the fundamental fabric of this society" will not be tolerated.
The Star Tribune has published numerous analyses over the past year refuting the notion usually promoted by right-wing fanatics that somehow the 2020 presidential was stolen. Unless I missed something, isn't Biden our current president, and isn't the Democratic Party in control of both houses of Congress? The words "Biden" and "Democratic" showed up zero times in the analysis of how the U.S. should respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
It's amazing to me how easy it is for the New York Times to gaslight Democrats into thinking former President Donald Trump, and by association the Republican Party, is rooting for Putin. The New York Times quoted Trump as saying, "Putin is now saying, 'It's independent,' a large section of Ukraine. I said, 'How smart is that?' And he's going to go in and be a peacekeeper. ... Here's a guy who's very savvy." The article ended the quote, but continued to "explain" how complacent Trump had been with Putin. However, had the Times printed the full quote, Trump then said: "And you know what the response was from Biden? There was no response. ... It's very sad."
In 1964, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that Henry Miller's classic novel, "Tropic of Cancer," was not pornographic and could be sold in the U.S. I'd been intrigued by Miller's reputation as a rebel and brought a copy of the book to my high school and was reading it one afternoon during the 12th grade study hall period. A teacher noticed this and hauled me up to the principal's office. The principal phoned my home and reached my mother  telling her I was reading such a book and that he had confiscated it. My mother told him, "Give him back his book! He's allowed to read whatever he wants. If the school opposes that book, I'll ask him to read it at home and not bring it to school." Wow! That gave me permission to pursue all my varied reading interests, and it certainly allowed me to hear all sides of issues and make better-informed decisions about life.
"Any fool can start a war, and once he's done so, even the wisest of men are helpless to stop it  especially if it's a nuclear war." Those words of Nikita Khrushchev are as appropriate today as they were during the Cuban missile crisis. Russian President Vladimir Putin's threats of nuclear deterrent will leave no one a winner.
When trying to avert the territorial ambition of tyrants, strength and decisiveness deters, while weakness and placative responses only encourage. Up next? Taiwan. I pray for freedom-loving Ukrainians and freedom-loving Taiwanese, because that's all they will get from us with the current administration in charge.
1 President Barack Obama said in 2012 that his red line with the Assad regime in Syria backed by the Russians would be the use of chemical weapons. Later that year, Assad's forces killed nearly 1,500 people in a chemical-weapons attack, with no response from the ObamaBiden administration. At that point, Putin knew who he was dealing with. In February and March of 2014, Russia invaded and subsequently annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine. Although the Ukrainians begged the U.S. for weapons, the response from ObamaBiden was to offer blankets and other supplies.
While I appreciate the Star Tribune has plenty of reader letters to choose from, the selection published on Saturday "Where will Putin stop?" is illustrative.
2 In 2018, Trump issued his own red line to Assad and his Russian backers against the use of chemical weapons. The Syrians and Russians thumbed their noses at Trump. Trump responded by ordering airstrikes against Syrian facilities, while dining with Xi Jinping. Now Putin knew he was dealing with a very different American president, as Trump armed Ukraine with defensive weapons. There was no thought by Putin to take Ukraine during the Trump years.
Assuming that Russians eventually overtake Ukrainian forces, what happens next? Has an autocratic government ever tried to subjugate a democracy of this size before? Maybe China has had some success with Hong Kong, but Ukraine is larger by magnitudes. If average Ukrainian citizens are willing to stay and throw handmade weapons at encroaching tanks, will they stop fighting once Russia comes through the gates? Would we? The only way an autocratic government can ride herd on a large group of people is through manipulation of a few higher-ups and intimidation of the rest. I wonder if people who have had decades of life under self-determination can be intimidated into accepting less. Herding cats comes to mind.
