Confront the other destabilizing dictator
20220313
http://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/ny-oped-putin-iran-20220313-gk74xklb2naw7f5eyl7dqmevi4-story.html
In this photo released by the official website of the office of the Iranian supreme leader, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei speaks during a televised video conference with an audience in the city of Tabriz commemorating the 1979 Islamic Revolution, in Tehran, Iran, Thursday, Feb. 17, 2022.  AP
As America and its allies confront Russias aggression in Ukraine, how will we address the costs and threats of Tehrans mullahs? How will they pay a price for destabilizing the greater Middle East for decades? The question cannot be put off forever, particularly as Irans breakout capability to develop a nuclear weapon fast approaches and the Biden administration has made advances in getting Tehran back to the negotiating table.
Biden has indicated that his intention is to restart the JCPOA rather than scrap it and start anew as some even in his own party have called for. The deal certainly has enough carrots to induce Iran, including unfreezing Iranian assets and relieving sanctions. On the matter of sanctions relief, there is a further, timely incentive to Iran, brought about by recent events: Russias invasion of Ukraine has created an energy crisis for Europe that has spiked gas prices in the U.S. Removal of sanctions against Irans energy sector can help meet global supply needs and bolster the crippled Iranian economy.
Bidens remarks about how to deal with dictators should be welcomed by friends of peace and freedom everywhere. If doctrinaire, his position should extend to Iran. So should the example of how the world has dealt with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. There has been a painful lack of global solidarity on how to contain Iranian aggression. When the Trump administration snapped back UN sanctions on Iran, it was against the will of our European allies. Its time for our allies to put up or shut up. If they want a return to JCPOA, they must lock arms with the U.S. on the penalties should Iran not come to the table and agree to and abide by a strengthened agreement that thwarts Tehrans stated nuclear ambitions.
But does JCPOA have enough sticks if Iran reverts to past behavior, including supporting regional terrorist proxies, developing missile systems or again accelerating nuclear enrichment? Iran is more isolated than ever before, with the Abraham Accords effectively surrounding it with Gulf States aligned with Israel. Biden has said before that all options are on the table should Iran reject or violate the JCPOA. Israel surely has not ruled out military strikes should an existential threat emerge. The potential use of force, a deepening of sanctions, or the threat of increased U.S. support for Iranian opposition groups for any breach of the deal would certainly be construed as a stick to a rational actor. Only time will tell if regime survival is a strong enough motivator to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons and menacing the world.
Iran was first added to Americas list of State Sponsors of Terrorism back in 1984, a distinction that has been reaffirmed every year since. Iran continues to back terrorist groups such as the Houthis in Yemen, officially known as Ansar Allah, a group responsible for civilian deaths and destruction across the Middle East including against allies in the Arabian Gulf. Iran has provided its most powerful terrorist proxy group, Hezbollah, with hundreds of millions of dollars in annual financial support, according to the State Department. Iran has also helped Hezbollah amass an arsenal of some 120,000-140,000 rockets and missiles, including more than 100 long-range precision missiles, many of which have been used against Israel. Earlier this year, the Pentagon laid blame for a spate of attacks against bases housing U.S. troops in Iraq and Syria on Iran-backed militias.
President Biden was of course referring to Russia, and he was dead right. But he could well have been speaking of Iran, which has time and again defied the international community with its nuclear program, its sponsorship of terrorism including bloody attacks against U.S. forces in Iraq and Jews worldwide, its threats to wipe Israel off the earth, and its continued repression and human rights violations at home.
Iran has been under strict sanctions, relieved briefly under President Obama and the terms of the Joint Comprehensive Plan for Action JCPOA nuclear agreement, but tightened and expanded under President Trump after he abandoned the flawed nuclear pact. And while the Iranian economy has suffered mightily as a result, rather than change the regimes behavior, the pressure has led Irans leadership to dig in. The most recent Iranian elections  which were deemed not to be free or fair by international observers  elected a new, hardline president who has thus far rejected all previous diplomacy and terms. Irans supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has remained in power and the nuclear centrifuges keep spinning.
Throughout our history weve learned this lesson  when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos.
They keep moving, Biden continued in his State of the Union clarion call to confront dictators. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising.
