Pelosi to push blocking Russian oil imports to the US approving 10B aid to Ukraine
20220307
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/us-elections-government/ny-pelosi-russia-imports-oil-gas-ukraine-aid-20220307-5wf25auwzrashgdov4rfkmll7q-story.html
A Lukoil gas station sign is seen in Canarsie, Brooklyn, New York. Michael M SantiagoGetty Images
So far, the White House has not backed an oil ban, out of concerns that it would further exacerbate the massive spike in gasoline prices at the pump. But Pelosi insisted that the U.S. can take a stand against Russia without hurting American consumers.
Along with an oil ban, Pelosi said the proposed bill would call for Russia to be booted from the World Trade Organization and empower President Biden to hike tariffs on imports from Russia.
The House is currently exploring strong legislation to further isolate Russia because of its attack on Ukraine, Pelosi wrote in a letter released late Sunday. That could include a ban on imports of Russian oil and energy products, she said.
A ban on Russian oil will defund Putins war and move our country toward energy independence, Suozzi, who represents parts of Nassau, Suffolk and Queens, said.
The United States need not choose between our democratic values and our economic interests, she said.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says she will push to ban Russian oil imports into the U.S. and a spending bill to provide $10 billion in aid to embattled Ukraine.
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer D-N.Y. told fellow Democrats that leaders had worked through the weekend to negotiate over what he called a reasonable global offer to Republicans, whose support is needed to avoid a filibuster.
The Energy Department approved the release of an additional 2.7 million barrels of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to ExxonMobil as the government tries to do anything it can to keep a lid on soaring oil prices.
The powerful Democratic leader told lawmakers that the proposed bill to punish Russia will also seek to repeal normal trade relations with Russia and its close ally Belarus.
The U.S. imported 245 million barrels of oil from Russia last year  about 8 of all U.S. oil imports  up from 198 million barrels in 2020. Thats less than the U.S. gets from Canada or Mexico but more than it imported last year from Saudi Arabia.
On the domestic agenda, the House speaker also vowed to push forward with a must-pass omnibus spending bill to keep the U.S. government financially afloat after Friday. The bill is expected to include the White Houses request for $10 billion in humanitarian and military aid to Ukraine and aid to European allies lining up behind Ukraine.
