Pregnant Ukrainian woman who survived Russian attack on maternity ward gives birth to baby girl
20220312
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/ny-pregnant-ukraine-woman-attack-hospital-birth-20220312-x6ago47dvzbtdahhni4sx2u6fy-story.html
Mariana Vishegirskaya was spotted with blood on her face descending the steps of the bombed-out childrens hospital Wednesday after Russian missile strikes destroyed the building in Mariupol.
Mariana Vishegirskaya walks downstairs in a maternity hospital damaged by shelling in Mariupol on Wednesday. Evgeniy MaloletkaAP
Attempts to establish humanitarian corridors for residents to escape Mariupol have been thwarted by Russian forces who fired on the Ukrainian aid convoy.
Her husband, Yuri, was pictured holding their new daughter and staring lovingly into her eyes.
Vishegirskaya has chronicled her pregnancy for months on her popular Instagram page. The account even includes photos of her wearing the same pajamas she was wearing while escaping the hospital.
Mariana Vishegirskaya lies in a hospital bed after giving birth to her daughter Veronika on Friday. Evgeniy MaloletkaAP
A Ukrainian woman who became internationally famous after photos captured her escape from a Russian-bombed maternity ward while very pregnant gave birth Friday to a baby girl.
But Russia attempted to throw a wrench in the story, with the countrys U.K. embassy claiming on Twitter that Vishegirskaya was an actor and the photographs were staged. They were not Twitter removed the posts.
At least three people, including a child, were killed in the attack, and 17 were injured. Vishegirskaya became a symbol of Ukrainians suffering and determination in the face of the Russian onslaught.
Vishegirskaya and other expectant mothers were transported to another hospital in Mariupol. The second hospital was in an even more dangerous location, but she gave birth to baby Veronika on Friday.
In recent days, Russia has expanded its air attacks across Ukraine, striking deeper into the battered nation and further west.
Photographers with the Associated Press captured Vishegirskayas entire journey, providing firsthand evidence to rebut the Russian disinformation claims.
Mariupol sits in Ukraines southeast corner and has been surrounded by Russian forces. City leadership said more than 1,500 civilians have been killed in the city since Vladimir Putin ordered Russian forces to invade on Feb. 24.
Mariana Vishegirskaya lies in a hospital bed after giving birth to her daughter Veronika, held by her husband Yuri, in Mariupol on Friday. Evgeniy MaloletkaAP
