Putin hosts Erdogan for talks on trade Ukraine Syria
20220805
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/us-elections-government/ny-ukraine-russia-turkey-syria-20220805-4x6ue6vjmvhrdmc7mtbx2lq5h4-story.html
Speaking to Putin Friday, Erdogan voiced hope that their discussion on Syria would bring relief to the region.
In a statement issued after the talks that lasted four hours, Putin and Erdogan emphasized the necessity of a complete fulfillment of the package deal reached in Istanbul ... including unhindered export of Russian grain and fertilizers.
European partners should be grateful to Turkey for ensuring uninterrupted transit of our gas to European markets, Putin said.
Speaking at the start of the meeting at Putins Black Sea residence in Sochi, Erdogan said their negotiations would help put forward the role that Turkey and Russia play in the region. He cast the talks as pivotal, saying they were being watched closely by the rest of the world.
The Russian leader noted the agreements importance for many countries around the world that depend on Russian and Ukrainian exports to feed their people and to grow their own crops. Its an acute issue for many developing countries, which face major problems with food and fertilizers, he said.
Putin hailed the energy cooperation between Russia and Turkey, noting the importance of the TurkStream pipeline that delivers Russian gas to Turkey and southern Europe via the Black Sea.
In this handout photo provided by the Turkish Presidency, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, left, and Russian President Vladimir Putin speak their meeting at the Rus sanatorium in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russia, Friday, Aug. 5, 2022.  AP
Russia-Turkey relations hit a low point in 2015 when Turkey shot down a Russian warplane near the Syrian border and Moscow responded by halting tourism to Turkey and banning imports of fruit and vegetables and other items from Turkey.
Turkey has provided Ukraine with drones, which played a significant role in deterring a Russian advance during the early stage of the conflict, but it hasnt joined in imposing sanctions on Russia.
Today, of, course, the worlds eye is on Sochi, Erdogan said. They are following it, wondering what is being discussed and done in Sochi.
Erdogan emphasized the importance of the nuclear plant project, expressing hope that it will face no delays and noting that the nuclear power plant would supply 10 of the countrys energy needs.
Last month, Turkey and the United Nations helped broker agreements between Russia and Ukraine to clear the way for Ukraine to export 22 million tons of agricultural products stuck in its Black Sea ports since Moscow sent troops into the country more than five months ago. The deals also allow Russia to export grain and fertilizer.
MOSCOW AP  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited Russia Friday for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin focusing on a grain deal brokered by Turkey and the U.N., prospects for talks on ending hostilities in Ukraine, the situation in Syria and growing economic ties between Moscow and Ankara.
While Moscow and Ankara have backed the opposite sides in the Syrian conflict, with Russia shoring up President Bashar Assads government with Iranian assistance while Turkey supported the opposition, the two countries cooperated closely to negotiate a cease-fire deal in northwestern Syria.
Turkey would like Moscow to green-light a Turkish operation into northern Syria against Kurdish militants whom Turkey considers terrorists.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, greets Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan upon his arrival at the Rus sanatorium in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russia, Friday, Aug. 5, 2022.  Vyacheslav ProkofyevAP
NATO-member Turkey and Russia have a complex relationship. While the two countries support opposing sides in Syria and Libya, they cooperate closely on defense, energy and trade deals. Their relationship has frustrated Turkeys Western allies, who were particularly annoyed by Ankaras purchase of a sophisticated Russian air defense system.
They also noted the key importance of sincere, frank and trusting ties between Russia and Turkey for regional and global stability.
Ukrainian servicemen kneel as soldiers transport a coffin during the funeral of officers Andriy Zhovanyk and Yuri Kovalenko, killed in a battle against the Russian troops, in central Independence square in Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Aug. 5, 2022.  Efrem LukatskyAP
Putin thanked Erdogan for helping to negotiate the grain deal, which is overseen from Istanbul by officials from Ukraine, Russia, Turkey and the U.N. Cargo vessels are accompanied by Ukrainian pilot ships for safe passage because of explosive mines strewn in the Black Sea.
In this handout photo provided by the Turkish Presidency, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, left, and Russian President Vladimir Putin shake hands prior to their meeting at the Rus sanatorium in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russia, Friday, Aug. 5, 2022.  AP
Three more ships carrying thousands of tons of corn left Ukrainian ports Friday. The first vessel to depart under the terms of the deal left Ukraine earlier in the week.
