Russia hits Ukraines Black Sea port despite grain deal
20220723
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/ny-ukraine-russia-war-20220723-whgkmvcf5vgevlpcvvcvdgg7a4-story.html
Along with the strike on Odesa, Russia fired a barrage of missiles Saturday at an airfield and a railway facility in central Ukraine, killing at least three people, while Ukrainian forces launched rocket strikes on river crossings in a Russian-occupied southern region.
In this photo provided by the Odesa City Hall Press Office, firefighters put out a fire in the port after a Russian missiles attack in Odesa, Ukraine, on Saturday. Odesa City Hall Press Office via AP Efrem LukatskyAP
The head of Zelenskyys office, Andriy Yermak, said on Twitter that the Odesa strike coming so soon after the endorsement of the Black Sea deal illustrated the Russian diplomatic dichotomy.
The attacks on key infrastructure marked new attempts by the warring parties to tip the scales of the grinding conflict in their favor.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address that the agreements offered a chance to prevent a global catastrophe  a famine that could lead to political chaos in many countries of the world, in particular in the countries that help us.
It was not clear how Saturdays Russian airstrikes would affect the plan to resume shipping Ukrainian grain by sea in safe corridors out of three Ukrainian Black Sea ports: Odesa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny. Ukraine and Russia signed identical deals Friday with the U.N. and Turkey in Istanbul backing the plan, which Guterres hailed as a beacon of hope for a world in which food prices are rising rapidly.
Documents obtained by The Associated Press showed the deals called for the creation of a U.N.-led joint coordination center in Istanbul where officials from Ukraine, Russia, Turkey would oversee the scheduling and searches of cargo ships.
Russian missiles hit Ukraines Black Sea port of Odesa just hours after Moscow and Kyiv signed deals to allow grain exports to resume from there. Ukraines Foreign Ministry denounced Saturdays airstrikes as a spit in the face to Turkey and the United Nations, which brokered the agreements.
In the Zaporizhzhia region, Russian forces at a checkpoint are blocking 1,200 vehicles carrying people fleeing the area and four people have died after being stranded there for days amid high heat, said Ivan Fedorov, mayor of the city of Melitopol that is now under Russian control.
Two Russian Kalibr cruise missiles hit the ports infrastructure and Ukrainian air defenses brought down two others, the Ukrainian militarys Southern Command said. Odesa regional governor Maksym Marchenko said an unspecified number of people were injured in the attack.
Command spokeswoman Nataliya Humenyuk said no grain storage facilities were hit in Odesa. Turkeys defense minister, however, said he had spoken with Ukrainian authorities and one missile struck a grain silo and another landed nearby but neither affected loading at Odesas docks.
Fighting also raged unabated in eastern Ukraines industrial heartland of the Donbas, where Russian forces tried to make new gains in the face of stiff Ukrainian resistance.
Nikolenko described the missile strike on the 150th day of Russias war in Ukraine as Russian President Vladimir Putins spit in the face of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who made great efforts to reach agreement.
In the southern Kherson region, which Russian troops seized early in the invasion, Ukrainian forces preparing for a potential counteroffensive fired rockets at Dnieper River crossings to try to disrupt Russian supply lines. Still, Russian troops have largely held their ground in the Kherson region just north of the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014.
The agreements sought to clear the way for the shipment of millions of tons of Ukrainian grain and some Russian exports of grain and fertilizer that have been blocked by the war. Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russias invasion and naval blockade of its ports halted shipments.
It took less than 24 hours for Russia to launch a missile attack on Odesas port, breaking its promises and undermining its commitments before the UN and Turkey under the Istanbul agreement, Ukrainian Foreign Ministry spokesman Oleg Nikolenko said. In case of non-fulfillment, Russia will bear full responsibility for a global food crisis.
In Ukraines central Kirovohradska region, 13 Russian missiles struck an airfield and a railway facility. Gov. Andriy Raikovych said at least one serviceman and two guards were killed and another 16 people were wounded in the strikes near the city of Kirovohrad.
Yesterday, all parties made clear commitments on the global stage to ensure the safe movement of Ukrainian grain and related products to global markets, the Guterres statement said. These products are desperately needed to address the global food crisis and ease the suffering of millions of people.
The U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine, Bridget Brink, denounced the Russian strike on Odesas port as outrageous.
