Russia bombs theater sheltering hundreds in Ukraine casualties unclear
20220317
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/ny-ukraine-russia-war-theater-bombing-mariupol-20220316-mdq4ogt6uvf5parshqw3widl2y-story.html
In his address to Congress, Zelenskyy compared Russias daily attacks to Pearl Harbor and 911.
On Monday, images of the theater by the Maxar satellite firm showed the word children was written in large white letters in Russian in front of and behind the building. Reports said nearly 1,000 people driven from their homes were sheltered in the theater.
The theater attack was the latest vicious assault on civilians in the besieged city of Mariupol. Last week, a maternity ward and childrens hospital in the city was bombed. A mosque, also with children inside, was attacked earlier this week.
They bombed the opera just a few minutes ago. They couldnt do it without controlling the sky. Thats crucial, said Kovalenko.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed U.S. Congress on Wednesday and pleaded specifically for a no-fly zone above Ukraine to prevent Russias ongoing aerial assault.
A Ukrainian news report said the building was destroyed. The exact number of deaths and injuries from the theater attack was not clear as of Wednesday night.
U.S. and European leaders have been extremely hesitant about a NATO-enforced no-fly zone, recognizing that such a move would pit U.S. and Russian forces directly against each other and risk World War III.
While Russias aerial bombardment of Kyiv, eastern and southern Ukraine has hardly ceased, the invaders ground forces continue making slow to no progress, according to U.S. defense officials.
A view of a bomb crater after Russian shelling in the central of Kharkiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 16, 2022. Pavel DorogoyAP
The two countries continued peace talks Wednesday, with Russia dropping a demand for Ukrainian surrender and Ukraine admitting it wont be joining NATO.
Remember September 11, a terrible day in 2001, when evil tried to turn your cities  independent territories  into battlefields, he said. Our country experiences the same every day, right now, at this moment.
In New York, Dmytro Kovalenko, 41, was working at Streecha, a Ukranian restaurant on East 7th St. on Wednesday when he learned of the theater bombing. Ukrainian news played on a television in a corner of the eatery.
Mariupol city leaders have said more than 2,000 of Mariupols 430,000 people have been killed in just 21 days.
The Russian military bombed a theater in southeast Ukraine where hundreds of civilians had taken shelter Wednesday, according to Ukrainian officials.
The Russian defense ministry denied bombing the theater, or anywhere else in Mariupol on Wednesday.
Ukrainian Emergency Service workers take a body out of debris at the City Hall building in the central square following the Russian shelling in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on Wednesday. Pavel DorogoyAP
This photo released by Donetsk Regional Civil-Military Administration Council on Wednesday shows the Drama Theatre, damaged after shelling, in Mariupol, Ukraine. AP
