Steven Seagal turns 70 with proPutin family and friends in Russia
20220414
http://www.nydailynews.com/snyde/ny-steven-seagal-birthday-70-russia-20220413-g2xdroxfdzfefaif4aoaf66m7i-story.html
Video of Seagal addressing his comrades was posted to Twitter by Russian Propaganda Myth Dismantler Michael Sender.
Martial arts actor Steven Seagal turned 70 years old in Moscow, reportedly surrounded by pro-Putin propagandists he referred to as family and friends.
I have all of you here with me because each and everyone one of you, you are my family and my friends, Seagal said in English, which an interpreter translated to Russian. I love all of you and we stand together, through thick and through thin.
Seagal was banned from Ukraine in 2017 after becoming a Russian citizen. He was born in Lansing, Mich., and raised largely in Fullerton, Calif. He is a nine-time Golden Raspberry Award nominee who won the ignominious worst director award in 1995 for On Deadly Ground. That picture also made him a candidate for worst actor and worst picture.
The On Deadly Ground star celebrated becoming a septuagenarian in a Russian restaurant, where RT editor-in-chief Margarita Simonyan and Russia-1 host Vladimir Solovye were in attendance, The Times reported. Both outlets are state-sponsored.
Seagal, who has referred to Russian President Vladimir Putin as a brother, has also praised the former KGB agent as one of the greatest world leaders, according to The Guardian. In 2014, he called Putins annexation of Crimea very reasonable.
Actor Steven Seagal  attends qualifying ahead of the Russian Formula One Grand Prix at Sochi Autodrom on October 11, 2014 in Sochi, Russia.   Clive MasonGetty Images
He has also stood by Putin since Russian forces invaded Ukraine on March 24, kicking off a bloody war that has been condemned by the free world. In March, Seagal told Fox News that he sees Russia and Ukraine, an independent republic, as one family.
Steven Seagal giving a moving speech to Kremlins top propagandists and warmongers against Ukraine Tigran Keisayan and Vladimir Soloviev. Lukashenkos carrots are doing their job. stevenseagal pic.twitter.comOpSxg4UDU7
