Ukrainian rescuers search theater rubble as Russian attacks continue
20220317
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/ny-russia-ukraine-war-latest-20220317-zfwxi6fkwzdi3l4lvc3m4ephpa-story.html
This photo released by Donetsk Regional Civil-Military Administration Council on Wednesday, March 16, 2022 shows the Drama Theatre, damaged after shelling, in Mariupol, Ukraine. AP
The strike against the theater was part of a furious bombardment of civilian sites in multiple cities over the past few days.
Ukraines emergency services said a mother, father and three of their children, including 3-year-old twins, were killed when a Chernihiv hostel was shelled.
In eastern Ukraine, a municipal pool complex where pregnant women and women with children were taking shelter was also hit Wednesday, according to Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional administration. There was no word on casualties in that strike.
Medical staff sit in a hospital basement, used as a bomb shelter, during an air raid alarm in Brovary, north of Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 17, 2022. Felipe DanaAP
Zelenskyys office said Russian air strikes hit the Kalynivka and Brovary suburbs of the capital, Kyiv. Emergency authorities in Kyiv said a fire broke out in a 16-story apartment building hit by remnants of a downed Russian rocket, and one person was killed.
KYIV, Ukraine  Rescue workers searched for survivors Thursday in the ruins of a theater blown apart by a Russian air strike in the besieged city of Mariupol, while scores of Ukrainians across the country were killed in ferocious urban attacks on a school, a hostel and other sites.
We hope and we think that some people who stayed in the shelter under the theater could survive, Petro Andrushchenko, an official with the mayors office, told The Associated Press. He said the building had a relatively modern basement bomb shelter designed to withstand air strikes.
She had been trying to call her mother, who was in a town 50 miles away. I cant tell her I am alive, you understand. There is no connection, just nothing, she said.
Russians will always be able to distinguish true patriots from scum and traitors and will simply spit them out like a gnat that accidentally flew into their mouths, said Putin, using language reminiscent of the Stalinist era. I am convinced that such a natural and necessary self-purification of society will only strengthen our country.
Russian President Vladimir Putin went on television Wednesday to excoriate Russians who dont back him.
More than a day after the air strike, there were no reports of deaths. With communications disrupted across the city and movement difficult because of shelling and other fighting, there were conflicting reports on whether anyone had emerged from the rubble.
Hundreds of civilians had been taking shelter in the grand, columned theater in central Mariupol after their homes were destroyed in three weeks of fighting in the southern port city of 430,000.
Other officials had said earlier that some people had gotten out. Ukraines ombudswoman, Ludmyla Denisova, said on the Telegram messaging app that the shelter had held up.
The speech appeared to be a warning that his authoritarian rule, which had already grown tighter since the invasion began on Feb. 24, could become even more repressive.
Russia has demanded that NATO pledge never to admit Ukraine to the alliance or station forces there.
Satellite imagery on Monday from Maxar technology showed huge white letters on the pavement in front of and behind the theater spelling out CHILDREN in Russian  DETI  to alert war planes as to who was inside the building.
We are trying to survive somehow, said one Mariupol resident, who gave only her first name, Elena. My child is hungry. I dont know what to give him to eat.
In the northern city of Chernihiv, at least 53 people had been brought to morgues over the past 24 hours, killed amid heavy Russian air attacks and ground fire, the local governor, Viacheslav Chaus, told Ukrainian TV on Thursday.
Both Ukraine and Russia this week reported some progress in negotiations. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday that some negotiators were breaking into working groups, but there should be contacts today.
Ukrainian firefighters extinguish a blaze at a warehouse after a bombing in Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 17, 2022. VADIM GHIRDAAP
He said the West is using a fifth column of traitorous Russians to create civil unrest. And there is only one goal, I have already spoken about it  the destruction of Russia, he said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for more help for his country in a video address to German lawmakers, saying thousands of people have been killed, including 108 children. He also referred to the dire situation in Mariupol, saying: Everything is a target for them.
Talks were held by video Wednesday. An official in Zelenskyys office told the AP that the main subject under discussion was whether Russian troops would remain in separatist regions in eastern Ukraine after the war and where the borders would be.
Across the city, snow flurries fell around the skeletons of burned, windowless and shrapnel-scarred apartment buildings as smoke rose above the skyline.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive talks, said Ukraine was insisting on the inclusion of one or more Western nuclear powers in the negotiations and on legally binding security guarantees for Ukraine.
In a joint statement, the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven leading economies accused Putin of conducting an unprovoked and shameful war, and called on Russia to comply with the International Court of Justices order to stop its attack and withdraw its forces.
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office on Thursday, March 17, 2022, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, shakes hands with a wounded Kateryna Vlasenko, 16, a refugee from Vorzel who covered her junior brother with her body during Russian shelling as they ran from their home town in a hospital in Kyiv, Ukraine. AP
At least 21 people were killed when Russian artillery destroyed a school and a community center before dawn in Merefa, near the northeast city of Kharkiv, according to Mayor Veniamin Sitov. The region has seen heavy bombardment in a bid by stalled Russian forces to advance.
Cars, some with the Z symbol of the Russian invasion force in their windows, drove past stacks of ammunition boxes and artillery shells in a neighborhood controlled by Russian-backed separatists.
