Ukraine braces for expected Russian offensives in east
20220411
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/us-elections-government/ny-ukraine-russia-kyiv-jen-psaki-volodymyr-zelenskyy-20220410-4zwckki4fjffhahcqjif5cjud4-story.html
But we dont want to lose opportunities, if we have them, for a diplomatic solution, he said.
Russian forces withdrew from towns around Kyiv earlier this month after failing to capture the Ukrainian capital during the invasion they launched on Feb. 24.
Images of brutality from liberated towns have horrified the world. The bodies of 1,222 people have been found in the Kyiv region, Ukraines Prosecutor General Iryna Veneditktova said Sunday.
Russia also appointed a general to take control of the invasion, according to a top U.S. official. Gen. Alexander Dvornikov will be the first central war commander for the offensive.
What we see in all regions of Ukraine is war crimes, crimes against humanity, and we do everything to fix it, she told Sky News.
Resolution of the brutal war seemed remote, however, as Russia was expected to launch an offensive to gain control of Ukraines east.
No one wants to negotiate with a person or people who tortured this nation. Its all understandable. And as a man, as a father, I understand this very well, Zelenskyy told the Associated Press.
Dozens of bodies were found on a highway out of Kyiv, fresh evidence of war crimes, The New York Times reported.
A cemetery worker guides a crane that lifts the corpse of a man from a mass grave to be taken to a morgue for identification, in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, April 10, 2022. AP PhotoRodrigo Abd Rodrigo AbdAP Photo
What we have learned in the first several weeks of this war is that Ukraine will never be subjected to Russia, he said on CNNs State of the Union. It doesnt matter which general President Putin tries to appoint.
Still, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said over the weekend he is committed to finding a peaceful end to the war.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki Photo by Chip SomodevillaGetty Images  Chip SomodevillaGetty Images
The Ukrainians have essentially won the battle of Kyiv, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Fox News Sunday.
One thing is clear for me: After this war, when Ukraine will be rebuilt, when we support Ukraine in reconstructing this country, this will be accompanied by reforms, she told CNN. So, it is an extraordinary way to shape the country and to go down the path toward the European Union.
Ukrainians won the battle for Kyiv, the White House declared Sunday, but the besieged country was braced for a Russian offensive in the east.
The process usually takes years but can come to fruition in just a few weeks, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Sunday.
I now call it the road of death, a local mayor said of the route filled with burnt and mangled corpses.
Theyve protected their city, and that is because of their bravery, their courage, she said, but it is also because of the supplies, the military equipment, everything weve expedited, $1.7 billion worth, from the United States and the commitment and dedication of the American people to this war.
