Ukraine gets possible path to EU aid pledges from Britain
20220617
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/us-elections-government/ny-ukraine-russia-war-latest-eu-membership-20220617-zxhubstbd5gvnbu6aom7ahr3xe-story.html
Russia has pressed its offensive in the east, leaving desperate residents worried about their future.
Ukrainian soldiers ride a self-propelled artillery vehicle Gvozdika in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, Friday, June 17, 2022. Efrem LukatskyAP
I completely understand why you and your people can make no compromise with Putin because if Ukraine is suffering, if the Ukrainian troops are suffering, then I have to tell you that all the evidence is that Putins troops are under acute pressure themselves and they are taking heavy casualties, he said. Their expenditure of munitions, of shells and other weaponry, is colossal.
In another show of Western support, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson met with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv to offer continued aid and military training.
In St. Petersburg, Putin decried the sanctions imposed on Russia by the U.S. and its allies as insane and, I would say, reckless.
Search and rescue workers and local residents take a dead body from under the debris of a building after the Russian air raid in Lysychansk, Luhansk region, Ukraine, Thursday, June 16, 2022. Efrem LukatskyAP
We have a common view of the movement toward Ukraines victory. Im grateful for the powerful support! Zelenskyy said on Telegram.
Since his April visit, the Ukrainian grit, determination and resilience is stronger than ever, and I know that unbreakable resolve will long outlive the vain ambitions of President Putin, he said.
Political and military support from Western countries has been key to Ukraines surprising success against larger and better-equipped Russian forces. Zelenskyy has also clamored for additional immediate support in the form of more and better weapons to turn the tide in the industrial east, known as the Donbas region.
Zelenskyy gave Johnson a tour of a monastery where they lit candles and the British leader received an icon. They placed flowers at an outdoor memorial wall displaying photos of soldiers who fell in fighting in 2014, viewed an exhibit of damaged, rusting Russian weapons, and greeted cheering crowds.
At Russias showpiece economic forum in St. Petersburg on Friday, Putin said Moscow has nothing against Ukraine joining the EU, because it isnt a military organization, a political organization like NATO. He also reprised his usual defense of the war, alleging it was necessary to protect people in parts of eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed rebels and to ensure Russias own security.
The possibility of membership in the EU, created to safeguard peace on the continent and serve as a model for the rule of law and prosperity, fulfills a wish of Zelenskyy and his Western-looking citizens.
Donetsk People Republic Emergency Situations Ministry employees work at the scene of a burning house after the shelling in Donetsk, on the territory which is under the Government of the Donetsk People's Republic control, eastern Ukraine, Friday, June 17, 2022. Alexei AlexandrovAP
We are old people, we do not have a place to go. Where will I go? asked Vira Miedientseva, an elderly resident grappling with the aftermath of an attack Thursday in Lysychansk, just across the river from Sievierodonetsk, where a key battle is raging.
Johnsons trip to Kyiv followed Thursdays meeting by the leaders of Germany, France, Italy and Romania, who pledged to support Ukraine without asking it to make any territorial concessions to Russia.
The European Commissions recommendation that Ukraine becomes a candidate for membership will be discussed by leaders of the 27-nation bloc next week in Brussels. The war has increased pressure on EU governments to fast-track Ukraines candidacy, but the process is expected to take years, and EU members remain divided over how quickly and fully to welcome new members.
The European allies latest embrace of Ukraine marked another setback for Russian President Vladimir Putin, who launched his war nearly four months ago, hoping to pull his ex-Soviet neighbor away from the West and back into Russias sphere of influence.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  The European Unions executive arm recommended putting Ukraine on a path to membership Friday, a symbolic boost for a country fending off a Russian onslaught that is killing civilians, flattening cities and threatening its very survival.
Search and rescue workers and local residents remove a body from under the rubble of a building after a Russian air raid in Lysychansk, Luhansk region, Ukraine, Thursday, June 16, 2022. Efrem LukatskyAP
The training program could change the equation of this war, he said. Ukraine has been taking heavy casualties in fighting in the east.
The calculation was understandable: to impudently, with a swoop, crush the Russian economy by destroying business chains, forcing the withdrawal of Western companies from the Russian market, freezing domestic assets, hitting the industry, finance, and the peoples standard of living. It didnt work, he said.
Johnson said the U.K. will work to intensify the sanctions on Russia. He praised the resilience of Ukrainians and how life is coming back to the streets of Kyiv, but noted that only a couple of hours away, a barbaric assault continues. Towns and villages are being reduced to rubble.
We are with you to give you the strategic endurance that you will need, Johnson said on his second visit to the country since the Feb. 24 start of the war. Although he did not detail the aid, he said Britain would lead a program that could train up to 10,000 Ukrainian soldiers every 120 days in an unspecified location outside the country.
