Ukraines leader warns war will cost Russia for generations
20220319
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/ny-ukraine-russia-war-zelenskyy-20220319-lk35gpplqbguper5tb4sjbwqom-story.html
In a call with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Friday, Putin said Ukraine was trying to drag the negotiations by making a series of new, unrealistic proposals, according to the Kremlin.
Rescuers carry a Ukrainian soldier saved after 30 hours from debris of the military school hit by Russian rockets, in Mykolaiv, Ukraine, on Saturday.  BULENT KILICAFP via Getty Images
In a separate development, Norway said four U.S. service members died in a plane crash during NATO drills in that countrys north. The annual exercise is unrelated to the war in Ukraine.
Taking to the stage where a sign read For a world without Nazism, he railed against his foes in Ukraine with a baseless claim that they are neo-Nazis and insisted his actions were necessary to prevent genocide  an idea flatly rejected by leaders around the globe.
Putin lavished praise on his countrys military forces during Fridays flag-waving rally, which took place on the anniversary of Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. The event included patriotic songs such as Made in the U.S.S.R., with the opening lines Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
A refugee girl hugs her toy giraffe after fleeing the war from neighbouring Ukraine, at the border crossing in Palanca, Moldova, on Saturday. Sergei GritsAP
Russian President Vladimir Putin delivers his speech at the concert marking the eighth anniversary of the referendum on the state status of Crimea and Sevastopol and its reunification with Russia, in Moscow on Friday. Ramil SitdikovAP
The British Department of Defense said in its latest intelligence assessment that the Kremlin has been surprised by the scale and ferocity of Ukrainian resistance and is now pursuing a strategy of attrition that is likely to involve indiscriminate attacks.
She also announced plans to deliver humanitarian aid to the southern city of Kherson, which was seized by Russian forces.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused the Kremlin in an overnight video address of deliberately creating a humanitarian catastrophe " and appealed again for Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet with him to prevent more bloodshed.
In this image from video provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks from Kyiv on Saturday. AP
In the besieged port city of Mariupol, the site of some of the wars greatest suffering, Ukrainian and Russian forces battled over the Azovstal steel plant, one of the biggest in Europe, Vadym Denysenko, adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said Saturday.
A Ukrainian military official confirmed a Friday missile strike on a military warehouse in the region but told a newspaper that authorities have not yet verified the type of missile used.
The Russian military said Saturday that it has used its latest hypersonic missile for the first time in combat. Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, said Kinzhal missiles destroyed an underground warehouse storing Ukrainian missiles and aviation ammunition in the western Ivano-Frankivsk region of Ukraine.
A man helps Ukrainian soldiers searching for bodies in the debris at the military school hit by Russian rockets the day before, in Mykolaiv, southern Ukraine, on March 19, 2022.  BULENT KILIC  AFP via Getty Images
Fighting raged on multiple fronts in Ukraine more than three weeks after Russias Feb. 24 invasion. United Nations groups have confirmed more than 800 civilian deaths since the war began but say the real toll is considerably higher. The UN says more than 3.3 million people have fled Ukraine as refugees.
Ukrainian and Russian officials agreed to establish 10 humanitarian corridors for bringing aid in and residents out  one from Mariupol and several around Kyiv and in the eastern Luhansk region, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Saturday.
The two sides have held several rounds of negotiations but remain divided over Ukraines future status, with Russia pressing for its neighbors demilitarization and Kyiv demanding security guarantees.
Britains foreign minister, meanwhile, accused Putin of using the talks as a smokescreen while his forces regroup. We dont see any serious withdrawal of Russian troops or any serious proposals on the table, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss told the Times of London newspaper.
The northwest Kyiv suburbs of Bucha, Hostomel, Irpin and Moshchun were under fire on Saturday, the Kyiv regional administration reported. The city of Slavutich, located 103 miles north of the capital was completely isolated, the administration said.
Ukraines president said Russia is trying to starve his countrys cities into submission but warned Saturday that continuing the invasion would exact a toll on Russia for generations.
Picture for yourself that in that stadium in Moscow there are 14,000 dead bodies and tens of thousands more injured and maimed, the Ukrainian leader said, standing outside the presidential office in the capital, Kyiv. Those are the Russian costs throughout the invasion.
Ukranian soldiers and rescue officers search for bodies in the debris at the military school hit by Russian rockets the day before, in Mykolaiv, southern Ukraine, on March 19, 2022.  BULENT KILIC  AFP via Getty Images
In his nightly video address, Zelenskyy said Russian forces were blockading the largest cities with the goal of creating such miserable conditions that Ukrainians will surrender. But he warned that Russia would pay the ultimate price.
The rally took place as Russia has faced heavier-than-expected losses on the battlefield and increasingly authoritarian rule at home. Russian police have detained thousands of antiwar protesters.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, during a Saturday visit to NATO ally Bulgaria, said the Russian invasion had stalled on a number of fronts but the U.S. had not yet seen signs that Putin was deploying additional forces.
There is currently no military solution to Mariupol, he said late Friday. That is not only my opinion, that is the opinion of the military.
Noting that the 200,000 people reported to have attended the rally was similar to the number of Russian forces deployed to Ukraine, Zelenskyy said Fridays event in Moscow illustrated the stakes of the largest ground conflict in Europe since World War II.
One of the largest metallurgical plants in Europe is actually being destroyed, Denysenko said in televised remarks.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Zelenskyy, said the nearest forces that could assist Mariupols defenders were already engaged in battle against the overwhelming force of the enemy or at least 60 miles away  or both.
We have not had unity like this for a long time, Putin told the cheering crowd.
Russia has said the Kinzhal, carried by MiG-31 fighter jets, has a range of up to about 1,250 miles and flies at 10 times the speed of sound.
The time has come to restore territorial integrity and justice for Ukraine. Otherwise, Russias costs will be so high that you will not be able to rise again for several generations, he said.
The remarks came after Moscow held a mass rally in support of its bogged-down forces.
