US and Germany agree to supply advanced weapons to Ukraine
20220602
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/us-elections-government/ny-ukraine-russia-war-latest-20220601-okh2ozzc25bqthxx2fyov56j3a-story.html
KYIV, Ukraine AP  The U.S. and Germany pledged on Wednesday to equip Ukraine with some of the advanced weapons it has long desired for shooting down aircraft and knocking out artillery, as Russian forces closed in on capturing a key city in the east.
The U.S. is trying to help Ukraine fend off the Russians without triggering a wider war in Europe. The Pentagon said it received assurances that Ukraine will not fire the new rockets into Russian territory.
People clean an area of a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine, Wednesday, June 1, 2022. Andriy AndriyenkoAP
With this, we will enable Ukraine to defend an entire city from Russian air attacks, he said. The radar systems will also help Ukraine locate enemy artillery.
Germany has come under particular criticism, both at home and from allies abroad, that it isnt doing enough. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz told lawmakers that the IRIS-Ts surface-to-air missiles are the most modern air defense system the country has.
But as Russia bombards towns in its inching advance in the east, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has repeatedly pleaded for more and better weapons and accused the West of moving too slowly.
Zelenskyy, meanwhile, said the country is losing between 60 and 100 soldiers a day in the fighting.
The only other city in Luhansk that the Russians have not yet captured, Lysychansk, is still fully under Ukrainian control, he said but is likely to be next.
If the Russians manage to take full control over Sievierodonetsk within two to three days, they will start installing artillery and mortars and will shell Lysychansk more intensively, Haidai said.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Russian troops were advancing in the city amid fierce street battles with Ukrainian forces, though he noted that in some districts the Ukrainian troops managed to push the Russians back.
They are afraid of a counterattack by the Ukrainian army, Vitaliy Kim, governor of the Mykolayiv region, said on the Telegram messaging app.
In southern Ukraine, a regional governor sounded a more positive note, saying Russian troops are retreating and blowing up bridges behind them.
An elderly woman walks next to a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine, Wednesday, June 1, 2022. Andriy AndriyenkoAP
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Ukraines push for more weapons is a direct provocation intended to draw the West into the fighting. He warned that the multiple rocket launchers would raise the risk of an expanded conflict.
Germanys promise of IRIS-T air defense systems would mark the first delivery of long-range air defense weapons to Ukraine since the start of the war. Earlier deliveries of portable, shoulder-fired air defense missiles have bolstered the Ukrainian militarys ability to take down helicopters and other low-flying aircraft but didnt give it enough range to challenge Russias air superiority.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Moscow does not trust assurances that Ukraine will not fire on Russian territory. We believe that the U.S. is deliberately and diligently pouring fuel on the fire, he said.
The weapons announcements came as a regional governor said Russian forces now control 80 of Sievierodonetsk, a city that is key to Moscows efforts to complete its capture of the Donbas, where Ukrainian forces and Russian-backed separatists have fought for years and where the separatists held swaths of territory even before the invasion.
Im sure that if we receive all the necessary weapons and strengthen the efficient sanctions regime we will win, he said.
Germany said it will supply Ukraine with up-to-date anti-aircraft missiles and radar systems, while the U.S. announced it will provide four sophisticated, medium-range rocket systems and ammunition.
Nila Zelinska holds a doll belonging to her granddaughter, she was able to find in her destroyed house in Potashnya outskirts Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 31, 2022. Natacha PisarenkoAP
Residents carry water in front of an apartment building damaged in an overnight missile strike, in Sloviansk, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 31, 2022. Francisco SecoAP
Military analysts say Russia is hoping to overrun the Donbas before any weapons that might turn the tide arrive. It will take at least three weeks to get the precision U.S. weapons and trained troops onto the battlefield, the Pentagon said. But Defense Undersecretary Colin Kahl said he believes they will arrive in time to make a difference in the fight.
Western arms have been critical to Ukraines success in stymieing Russias much larger and better-equipped military, thwarting its effort to storm the capital and forcing Moscow to shift its focus to the industrial Donbas region in the east.
The rocket systems are part of a new $700 million package of security assistance for Ukraine from the U.S. that also includes helicopters, Javelin anti-tank weapon systems, radars, tactical vehicles, spare parts and more.
The new arms could help Ukraine set up and hold new lines of defense in the east by hitting back at Russian artillery pieces that have been battering towns and cities and by limiting Russian airstrikes, said retired French Gen. Dominique Trinquand, a former head of Frances military mission at the United Nations.
The NATO countries  the European nations and the Americans  have progressively escalated the means that they are putting at Ukraines disposal, and this escalation, in my opinion, has had the aim of testing Russian limits, he said. Each time, they measure the Russian reaction, and since there is no reaction, they keep supplying increasingly effective and sophisticated weaponry.
Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintzev later went even further, directly accusing Ukraine of planning to fire U.S.-provided missiles from the northeastern Sumy region at border areas in Russia. The claim, based on alleged radio intercepts, couldnt be independently confirmed.
View of an apartment building damaged in an overnight missile strike, in Sloviansk, Ukraine, Tuesday, May 31, 2022. Francisco SecoAP
The rockets have a range of about 50 miles  and are highly mobile. Ukraine had pushed unsuccessfully for rockets with a range of up to 186 miles.
