Sudbury letter Get rid of nuclear weapons before they kill billions
20220501
https://www.northernnews.ca:443/opinion/letters/sudbury-letter-get-rid-of-nuclear-weapons-before-they-kill-billions
With Russian President Putin threatening to use nuclear weapons in Ukraine, it is more urgent than ever to get rid of these weapons of mass destruction.
AND WHEREAS today there are roughly 13,100 nuclear warheads in the world, and the International Committee of the Red Cross recognizes that nuclear weapons are an intolerable threat to humanity, be it resolved that the City of Greater Sudbury supports the United Nations Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons by joining the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons ICAN Cities Appeal and urging the Canadian federal government to sign and ratify this Treaty.
Deterrence doesnt work for accidents, miscalculations, terrorists or cyber-attacks, or actual use. Non-nuclear countries like North Korea and Argentina attacked South Korea under the umbrellas of a nuclear United States and a nuclear Great Britain, respectively, and were not deterred.
Nuclear weapons are not just bigger, better bombs. They put dust into the stratosphere that will last around the world for about 10 years, partially blocking the sun, decreasing the worlds temperatures, leading to massive crop failures and starvation, killing billions of people.
If we dont eliminate nuclear weapons, they will eliminate us. It is not a question of if but when.
Now, nuclear Russia has attacked Ukraine, which gave up its nuclear weapons on the condition that it wouldnt be attacked.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
This week, Greater Sudbury council passed unanimously a motion, Support for the United Nations Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. It read, in part:
