Double payments to Ukrainian refugee hosts amid costofliving crisis  minister
20220822
https://www.aol.co.uk/reasonable-raise-payments-hosting-ukrainian-212331963.html
Lord Harrington said his priority is to stop people becoming homeless, and he is hoping to achieve that by encouraging hosts to continue for longer with existing placements, recruiting new sponsors, and enabling refugees to move into the private rented sector.
In particular, the Government wants to recruit extra hosts in areas close to where refugees are currently being sponsored.
A spokeswoman said: We have already acted to make sure these payments are exempt from tax, and continue to monitor and review the support provided under the scheme.
Six months on from the start of the Russian invasion, the Government is asking existing hosts to extend their generosity and appealing for new sponsors to step forward.
He said: War has spread across the country over the past six months and lives have been torn apart.
The Sanctuary Foundation, a charity which is helping support Ukrainian refugees and sponsors, is launching a campaign  Not Too Late To Host  with the matching service Opora to encourage more people to become sponsors.
The Treasury said the monthly thank you payments for hosts are to recognise their generosity, and do not affect benefit entitlement nor council tax status.
Im not worried about the shortage of offers Im more concerned that theyre in the right area, he added.
He added that some councils have said they will act as guarantors for those wanting to rent homes, which he is trying to expand.
Sanctuary Foundation director Dr Krish Kandiah said the need for hosts is even more desperate now.
Lisa Nandy, Labours shadow levelling up secretary, said the Conservatives inaction on the cost-of-living crisis means thousands of hosts could be left out of pocket for opening up their home.
Monthly payments to sponsors of Ukrainian refugees should double to help them carry on hosting for longer than six months while the cost of living spirals, the minister responsible has said.
He told the PA news agency: The costs theyre paying maybe a big chunk of rent themselves, the mortgage payments have gone up and everything, and I think its perfectly reasonable, in my view, to increase the amount that were paying them.
He said the Government has emailed everyone who initially expressed an interest in the sponsorship scheme, to see if they are still interested in taking part if they are not already hosting.
It comes amid a deepening cost-of-living crisis, with energy bills expected to soar by 80 going into winter, rocketing inflation and rising interest rates.
This would mean refugees are matched with new hosts nearby so they do not need to leave communities where they have started putting down roots.
So far, more than 1,300 Ukrainian single households and families have been assessed as homeless or threatened with homelessness as of July 29.
Lord Harrington said: I suspect some of them will need an extra budget to do it, but again, I can argue to the Treasury  its my job to say: Well, you actually save money, because people then are not becoming homeless.
He expects roughly 50,000 of the 200,000-plus people who registered their interest initially will go on to be hosts.
The minister is also asking for extra funding money for English language lessons, which he said are the key to employment.
He said he has met with groups representing landlords to ask if they will waive reference requirements for Ukrainian refugees.
Councils have also warned that homelessness could rise if initial six-month placements with hosts end without other options in place.
The amount being requested is in the low tens of millions, he said, adding: Its critical. We will get that money back because people get into employment.
She added: If the Government do not act now, they will risk a huge number of Ukrainian refugees becoming homeless this winter.
Lord Harrington said he has been lobbying the Treasury very hard to double the 350-a-month thank you payment for sponsors who house refugees for longer than half a year  the minimum period expected of hosts.
More than 115,000 Ukrainians have arrived in the UK under its visa schemes, according to latest Government figures, including around 81,700 refugees under the sponsorship scheme.
Neighbouring countries are struggling to cope. This is why we are urging more British people to welcome Ukrainians into their homes.
Around 25,000 offers of accommodation from hosts under the Homes for Ukraine scheme have been taken up so far, with an average of three Ukrainians living in each home, Lord Richard Harrington said.
