Belize condemns Russias unjustified attack on Ukraine
20220224
https://caribbean.loopnews.com/content/belize-condemns-illegal-russian-invasion-ukraine
Belize is resolute that all states must respect and adhere to norms and principles of international law which are fundamental to the maintenance of the international system and peace and security, including respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity within internationally recognised borders, non-interference in the internal affairs of another state, and the prohibition on the threat or use of force and peaceful resolution of disputes.
Belize is calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities, withdrawal of all Russian troops and military hardware from Ukraine and urges all sides to exercise restraint.
Belize says it regards Russias recognition of Luhansk and Donetsk as a violation of international law. Belize does not recognise the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic or the so-called Luhansk Peoples Republic.
We stand in solidarity with Ukraine and its people who are enduring the horrors of war.
The government says it also constitutes an unacceptable violation of Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity. Russias actions are an assault on the international system itself and cannot be countenanced by any peace-loving state.
Belize is calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities, withdrawal of all Russian troops and military hardware from Ukraine and urges all sides to exercise restraint. Belize says it regards Russias recognition of Luhansk and Donetsk as a violation of international law. Belize does not recognise the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic or the so-called Luhansk Peoples Republic. We stand in solidarity with Ukraine and its people who are enduring the horrors of war.Belize is resolute that all states must respect and adhere to norms and principles of international law which are fundamental to the maintenance of the international system and peace and security, including respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity within internationally recognised borders, non-interference in the internal affairs of another state, and the prohibition on the threat or use of force and peaceful resolution of disputes.Meanwhile,Leader of the Opposition in Belize Shyne Barrow says the Opposition also vehemently condemns the Russian invasion of Ukraine. He states: We pray for the Ukrainian people who now face war, bloodshed, death and destruction. We call on NATO and the United Nations to immediately take whatever actions necessary to protect the Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine.We stand with the people of Ukraine as Belize herself has faced unfounded threats to her Territorial Integrity.Belizes opposition leader says as the darkness of war covers Ukraine the super military powers of the world must intervene immediately to protect the Ukrainian women, men and children against Russias egregious breach of human rights, international law and the UN Charter.
We call on NATO and the United Nations to immediately take whatever actions necessary to protect the Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine.
We stand with the people of Ukraine as Belize herself has faced unfounded threats to her Territorial Integrity.
Meanwhile,Leader of the Opposition in Belize Shyne Barrow says the Opposition also vehemently condemns the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Belizes opposition leader says as the darkness of war covers Ukraine the super military powers of the world must intervene immediately to protect the Ukrainian women, men and children against Russias egregious breach of human rights, international law and the UN Charter.
A statement from the Governmentsays Russias invasion of Ukraine is a blatant breach of international law and of its obligations under the United Nations Charter.
The Government of Belize has issued a statement this morning on the illegal Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Belize has made it clear that it roundly condemns Russias unjustified and unprovoked attack on Ukraine.
He states: We pray for the Ukrainian people who now face war, bloodshed, death and destruction.
