Jamaicas energy needs secure despite RussiaUkraine war says Vaz
20220304
https://jamaica.loopnews.com/content/jamaicas-energy-needs-secure-despite-russia-ukraine-war-says-vaz
In the case of Barbados, the minister said we do about 60,000 barrels every two months.
He told the committee that Jamaica currently sources both crude oil and finished products from Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil and Barbados.
This situation is being actively monitored and our supply chain is not in jeopardy, added Vaz.
Vaz, who was appearing Thursday before Parliaments Standing Finance Committee SFC which is examining the $912 billion Estimates of Expenditure for the 20222023 fiscal year, was explaining that the future of the state-owned oil refinery, Petrojam, is under active consideration when he moved to address the countrys energy security concerns.
However, obviously, with the current situation in Eastern Europe, our attention has been shifted somewhat from Petrojam to oil prices and our energy security, specifically fuel and crude oil to maintain our economy, said Vaz.
Vaz said whereas there is great concern about the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the fact that there may be some dislocation to the supply from Russia is an opportunity for other persons to ramp up and be able to meet that shortfall.
In continuing, he said: So I want to categorically state to the people of Jamaica today Thursday that we have storage capacity, both in Jamaica and outside of Jamaica, which is more than adequate for the island. We have both storage locally and we have storage offshore. With those two sources, for an island as we are, we are well secure in terms of our fuel arrangements.
Russia is one of the worlds leading suppliers of oil and gas, and there are worries that the conflict which started last week Thursday, could lead to supply shortages. Already, crude oil is trading at a 10-year high of US$120 per barrel. This is significantly higher than the US$67 per barrel on which the Governments $912 billion budgeted was cast.
Energy Minister Daryl Vaz has sought to assure that Jamaica has and will continue to have adequate supplies of fuel and other finished petroleum products over the coming weeks, despite the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, two former Soviet Union member states.
Im to report, not only to members here at the SFC, but to the wider public and Jamaica at large, that Jamaica has three to four weeks of reserve supply of finished products and six weeks of crude.
