Mariupol teeters as Ukrainians defy surrenderordie Russian demand
20220411
https://barbados.loopnews.com/content/mariupol-teeters-ukrainians-defy-surrender-or-die-russian-demand-1
Tunnels at the sprawling Azovstal steel mill, which covers an area of more than 11 square kilometers over 4.2 square miles, have allowed the defenders to hide and resist.
The relentless bombardment and street fighting in Mariupol have left much of the city pulverized and killed at least 21,000 people, by the Ukrainians estimate. A maternity hospital was hit by a lethal Russian airstrike in the opening weeks of the war, and about 300 people were reported killed in the bombing of a theatre where civilians were taking shelter.
Like Mariupol, the northeastern city of Kharkiv has been a target of attacks since the early days of the invasion and has seen conditions deteriorate ahead of the eastern offensive.
In his nightly address to the nation, Zelenskyy called on the West to send more heavy weapons immediately if there is any chance of saving the city, adding Russia is deliberately trying to destroy everyone who is there.
It would allow Russia to secure a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014, and deprive Ukraine of a major port and its prized industrial assets.
Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer, who met with Putin in Moscow this week  the first European leader to do so since the invasion Feb. 24  said the Russian president is in his own war logic on Ukraine.
May there be peace for war-torn Ukraine, so sorely tried by the violence and destruction of this cruel and senseless war into which it was dragged, Francis said, without mentioning Putins decision to invade.
A regional official in eastern Ukraine said at least two people were killed when Russian forces fired at residential buildings in the town of Zolote, near the front line in the Donbas.
He said intercepted communications indicated there were about 400 foreign mercenaries along with the Ukrainian troops at the Azovstal steel mill, a claim that could not be independently verified.
At least five people were killed and 13 wounded in Russian shelling of Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, on Sunday, regional officials said.
All those who will continue resistance will be destroyed, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, the Russian Defence Ministrys spokesman, said in announcing the latest ultimatum.
The barrage slammed into apartment buildings and left the streets scattered with broken glass and other debris, including part of at least one rocket. Firefighters and residents scrambled to douse flames in several apartments.
After the humiliating loss of the flagship of its Black Sea Fleet last week to what the Ukrainians boasted was a missile attack, Russias military vowed Friday to step up strikes on the capital. The Kremlin said Sunday that it had attacked an ammunition plant near Kyiv overnight with precision-guided missiles, the third such strike in as many days.
The Russian military estimated that 2,500 Ukrainian fighters were holding out at a hulking steel plant with a warren of underground passageways in the last pocket of resistance in Mariupol.
In a reminder that no part of Ukraine is safe, Russian forces carried out missile strikes Sunday near Kyiv and elsewhere in an apparent effort to weaken Ukraines military capacity before the anticipated assault.
Capturing the city would be Russias biggest victory after two months of costly fighting and could help reassure the Russian public amid the worsening economic situation from Western sanctions.
Russia also claimed to have destroyed Ukrainian air defense radar equipment in the east, near Sievierodonetsk, as well as several ammunition depots elsewhere.
Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar described Mariupol as a shield defending kraine as Russian troops prepare for the battle in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists already control some territory.
Mariupols seizure also would make more troops available for the offensive in the east, which, if successful, would give Russian President Vladimir Putin a vital piece of the country and a badly needed victory that he could sell to the Russian people.
Moscow set a midday deadline for their surrender, saying those who laid down their arms were guaranteed to keep their lives. But the defenders did not submit, just as they rejected previous ultimatums.
An estimated 100,000 remained in the city out of a pre-war population of 450,000, trapped without food, water, heat or electricity in a siege that has made Mariupol the scene of some of the worst suffering of the war.
In an interview on NBCs Meet the Press, Nehammer said he thinks Putin believes he is winning the war, and we have to look in his eyes and we have to confront him with that, what we see in Ukraine.
Explosions were reported overnight in Kramatorsk, the eastern city where rockets earlier this month killed at least 57 people at a train station crowded with civilians trying to evacuate ahead of the Russian offensive.
Pope Francis made an anguished Easter Sunday plea for peace in the senseless war in Ukraine.
Malyar, the deputy defense minister, said the Russians continued to hit Mariupol with airstrikes and could be getting ready for an amphibious landing to beef up their ground forces.
We will fight absolutely to the end, to the win, in this war, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal vowed on ABCs This Week. He said Ukraine is prepared to end the war through diplomacy if possible, but we do not have intention to surrender.
Chernov reported from Kharkiv. Yesica Fisch in Kramatorsk, Ukraine, and Associated Press journalists around the world contributed to this report.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  The shattered port city of Mariupol appeared on the brink of falling to the Russians on Sunday after seven weeks under siege, in what would give Moscow a crucial success following its failure to storm the Ukrainian capital and the sinking of its Black Sea flagship.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the fall of Mariupol could scuttle any attempt at a negotiated peace.
The destruction of all our guys in Mariupol  what they are doing now  can put an end to any format of negotiations, Zelenskyy said in an interview with Ukrainian journalists.
The capture of Mariupol would free up Russian forces to join an expected all-out offensive in the coming days for control of the Donbas, the industrial region in the countrys east where the Kremlin has focused its war aims after abandoning, for now at least, any attempt to take Kyiv, the capital.
Amid the fighting, Zelenskyy spoke in his nightly address about Ukraines plans for a memorial to remind all generations of our people of the brutal and senseless invasion Ukraine has been able to fend off.
