Ukraine leader says he seeks peace without delay in talks
20220328
https://jamaica.loopnews.com/content/ukraine-leader-says-he-seeks-peace-without-delay-talks-2
"But, here it's not like in Crimea. We are not happy to see them. Here they suffer and get killed."
A fiercer than expected Ukrainian resistance  bolstered by weapons from the US and other Western allies  has been credited with bogging Russian forces down.
"We must come to an agreement with the president of the Russian Federation, and in order to reach an agreement, he needs to get out of there on his own feet...and come to meet me," he also said in an interview that Russia barred its media from publishing.
Earlier talks, both by video and in person, have failed to make progress on ending a more than the month-old war that has killed thousands and driven more than 10 million Ukrainians from their homes  including almost 4 million from their country.
Russia has long demanded that Ukraine drop any hope of joining the western NATO alliance, which Moscow sees as a threat. Zelenskyy said that the question of neutrality, which would keep Ukraine out of NATO or other military alliances, should be put to Ukrainian voters in a referendum after Russian troops withdraw.
Zelenskyy has also long stressed that Ukraine needs security guarantees of its own as part of any deal.
The restrictions come after Ukrainian authorities criticized social media users who posted photos or videos of troop movements. In a widely publicized case, a Kyiv resident was accused by the security services of posting images on TikTok showing Ukrainian military vehicles near a shopping mall that was later destroyed by a Russian missile strike. Russia alleged Ukraine used the site to resupply rocket artillery.
Germany's energy minister said Monday that the Group of Seven major economies rejected that demand. Robert Habeck told reporters that "all G-7 ministers agreed completely that this would be a one-sided and clear breach of the existing contracts."
In an overnight video address to his nation, Zelenskyy said Ukraine sought peace "without delay" in talks due to get underway in Istanbul. That location was agreed upon after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke to Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday, the Turkish leader's office said. Negotiators are expected to arrive Monday.
Moscow now says its focus is on securing the entire eastern Donbas region, which has been partially controlled by Russia-backed separatists since 2014.
In Stoyanka village near Kyiv, Ukrainian soldier Serhiy Udod said Russian troops had taken up defensive positions and suffered heavy losses.
Ukraine could declare neutrality and offer security guarantees to Russia to secure peace "without delay," President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said ahead of another planned round of talks  though he said only a face-to-face meeting with Russia's leader could end the war.
The Ukrainian leader has suggested as much before, but rarely so forcefully, and the latest remarks come as the two sides said talks would resume Tuesday.
The war has led Western countries to impose punishing sanctions on Russia, squeezing its economy. Putin said recently that Russia would demand "unfriendly" countries pay for its natural gas exports only in rubles  a move economists said appeared designed to try to support the Russian currency, which has collapsed.
"The meeting is necessary once we have clarity regarding solutions on all key issues," Lavrov said in an interview with Serbian media. He accused Ukraine of only wanting to "imitate talks," but said Russia needed concrete results.
Meanwhile, Ukraine has banned reporting on troop and equipment movements not announced or approved by the military. Journalists who violate the law could face three to eight years in prison.
While hinting at possible concessions in an interview with independent Russian media outlets, Zelenskyy stressed that Ukraine's priority is ensuring its sovereignty and its "territorial integrity"  preventing Russia from carving up the country, something Ukraine and the West say could now be Moscow's goal.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Monday that the two presidents could meet, but only after the key elements of a potential deal are negotiated.
With Russia's offensive stalled in many areas, its troops have resorted to pummeling Ukrainian towns and cities with rockets and artillery in a grinding war. Fierce fighting has raged on the outskirts of Kyiv, but Russian troops remain miles from the city centre, their aim of quickly encircling the capital faltering
He said "probably they thought it would be like Crimea," which Russia annexed in 2014.
But Zelenskyy has made increasingly exasperated pleas for Western countries to do more, including sending fighter jets, accusing political leaders on Sunday of lacking courage. Countries from the NATO alliance have been hesitant to give Zelenskyy some of the more powerful equipment he's begged for, for fear of triggering a much wider war.
But, Zelenskyy added: "Security guarantees and neutrality, the non-nuclear status of our state  we are ready to go for it."
In fact, Russia's invasion has most Americans at least somewhat worried that the US will be drawn directly into the conflict and could be targeted with nuclear weapons, according to a new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.
Kyrylo Budanov, the head of Ukrainian military intelligence, accused Russia of seeking to split Ukraine in two, making the comparison to North and South Korea. He predicted that guerrilla warfare by Ukrainians would derail such plans.
