Biden warns threat over Russian chemical attack in Ukraine is real
20220323
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/mar/23/biden-warns-threat-over-russian-chemical-attack-uk/
Russia has been linked to the use of chemical weapons in the past. In 2018, former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, were poisoned in the United Kingdom with Novichok, a nerve agent.
It is the second time this week that Mr. Biden has suggested that Russian President Vladimir Putin may use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine as the Russian military struggles in the face of Ukrainian resistance.
Russia has denied possessing chemical weapons, claiming it destroyed the last of such weapons in 2017.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine nearly a month ago, the Biden administration has expressed concern that Mr. Putin is searching for a pretext to use chemical and biological weapons in the war.
I think its a real threat, Mr. Biden said of Russia using chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine.
His back is against the wall, Mr. Biden said at an event Monday. Thats a clear sign hes considering using both of those.
When Russian troops fought alongside Bashar Assads government forces in Syria, the nerve agent sarin was used against civilians, killing more than 1,400 people. Russia was accused of helping Syria cover up the use of chemical weapons, which both nations denied.
What were saying right now is they have the capacity and capability. Im also not going to get into intelligence. But the presidents intention of sending the U.S. military into Ukraine against Russia has not changed, Ms. Psaki said.
President Biden on Wednesday raised alarms about the possibility that Russia will escalate its war on Ukraine with chemical weapons.
When asked this month if the U.S. would deploy troops to Ukraine if Russia uses chemical weapons, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said she wouldnt discuss hypotheticals.
Hes already used chemical weapons in the past, and we should be careful of whats about to come, Mr. Biden said of Mr. Putin.
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, an international watchdog, found undeclared toxins and munitions during a visit to Syria in 2020.
Mr. Biden has vowed that Moscow will pay a severe price if it deploys chemical weapons against Ukraine. However, the White House has been vague about what that response would be, including whether it would result in U.S. military intervention.
This is something  very much a part of Russias playbook. Theyve used those weapons against their own citizens, theyve at least encouraged the use in Syria and elsewhere. So its something we take very seriously, Mr. Burns said.
Mr. Bidens remarks to reporters came as he departed the White House for a four-day trip to Europe. His schedule includes a summit with NATO allies and a meeting with Polands president in Warsaw.
Russian officials last week alleged that the U.S. is developing bioweapons in Ukraine, a charge American officials have dismissed as false and laughable. CIA Director William Burns told Congress earlier this month that the claims are a way for Russia to justify the use of chemical weapons in Ukraine.
