Cyberattack hits Ukrainian government sites major banks
20220215
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/feb/15/cyberattack-hits-ukrainian-government-sites-major-/
The United States has accused Moscow publicly of preparing to invade Ukraine and underscored that cybersecurity remains a pivotal concern.
The attack, the latest of several hacking operations targeting Ukraine, came after weeks of escalating fears that Russia might invade its neighboring country. Russia sent signals Tuesday that it might be pulling back from the brink of an invasion, but Western powers demanded proof.
In mid-January, Ukraine accused Russia of being behind a cyberattack that temporarily disabled about 70 Ukrainian government websites simultaneously. During last months attack, an announcement posted stated that Ukrainians should be afraid and expect the worst.
At least 10 Ukrainian websites stopped working due to DDOS attacks, including those of the Defense Ministry, Foreign Ministry, Culture Ministry and Ukraines two largest state banks.
Customers at Ukraines largest state-owned bank, Privatbank, and the state-owned Sberbank reported problems with online payments and the banks apps.
Russia launched one of the most devastating cyberattacks ever on Ukraine in 2017 with the NotPetya virus, causing over $10 billion in damage worldwide. The virus, also disguised as ransomware, was a so-called wiper that scrubbed entire networks.
There is no threat to depositors funds, the Ukrainian Information Ministrys Center for Strategic Communications and Information Security said in a statement. The deputy minister, Victor Zhora, confirmed a cyberattack.
KYIV, Ukraine  A cyberattack hit the websites of Ukrainian government agencies and major banks Tuesday, Ukrainian authorities said.
The ministry suggested Russia could be behind Tuesdays incident without providing details. It is possible that the aggressor resorted to tactics of petty mischief, because his aggressive plans arent working overall, the statement said.
