Decades of churchmilitary symbiosis behind Russian Orthodox Churchs prowar stance scholar
20220415
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/apr/15/decades-church-military-symbiosis-behind-pro-ukrai/
Russian Orthodoxy, she said, has made a very strong push  to become a key actor on a lot of different issues, such as countering LGBT rights, trying to restrict abortion, and to take control over the discussion on domestic violence and juvenile violence in Russian society.
The support of Kirill for Russias side in the Ukraine war has caused tensions within the worldwide Orthodox Christian movement, Ms. Laruelle said. At the beginning of the war, Greek Orthodox priests talked about severing fraternal ties with Moscow, and there have since been calls for a church trial of Kirill from within the Ukrainian Orthodox Church  Moscow Patriarchate, a body aligned with Kirill.
There was a long tradition of a kind of sympathy of power to this idea that the spiritual and the temporal power should walk together in Russia, she said.
Correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the affiliation of George Washington University professor Marlene Laruelle.
Noting that Soviet-era security forces exerted control over the Russian Orthodox Church, Ms. Laruelle said the church really emerged as a kind of a pillar of the new Russian statehood, an important element of cultural identity and national tradition, but its much more of a structural element that matters.
But the churchs push for such conservative values, Ms. Laruelle said, has alienated many Russians. While 70 identify as Russian Orthodox, she noted, a smaller number of 40 only consider themselves to be practicing the faith, with what she called the urban middle class leading the backlash.
So they have to function in an environment where people are symbolically attached to the orthodoxy or the cultural identification elements of the faith, she said.
On Monday, it was revealed that more than 290 UOC-MP clerics signed a letter demanding an International Ecclesiastical Tribunal to investigate what they called heresy by Kirill in preaching the doctrine of the Russian world.
A decadeslong symbiosis between church and military has planted the Russian Orthodox Churchs leadership on the side of Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine, a leading George Washington University scholar said Friday.
At the same time, the rightward stance of Patriarch Kirill  who described the invasion of Ukraine as a consequence of gay pride parades around the world  has alienated Russians and diminished the churchs influence in society, Marlene Laruelle, director of the GWU Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies, told an assembly at George Washington Universitys Global Affairs and Religion Network.
One of the big difficulties for the Russian Orthodox Church is that they cannot really motivate Russian citizens to become very religious anymore, she said.
