Diplomatic shuttle Macron in Kyiv after Putin talks
20220208
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/feb/8/diplomatic-shuttle-macron-in-kyiv-after-putin-talk/
Biden vowed that the Nord Stream 2 Russia-to-Germany gas pipeline, which has been completed but is not yet operating, will be blocked if Russia invades, that means tanks and troops crossing the border of Ukraine again. The move would hurt Russia economically but also cause supply problems for Germany.
Biden has said that any prospect of Ukraine entering NATO in the near term is not very likely, but he and other NATO member nations and NATO itself refuse to rule out Ukraines entry into the alliance at a future date.
Were open to dialogue, were in a constructive mood, were looking for a diplomatic solution, but we will not cross our red lines, Kuleba told reporters.
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Tuesday that Kyiv was with interest anticipating the signals Macron brought from Moscow.
Writing in The Times of London, Johnson urged allies to finalize plans for heavy economic sanctions that would come into effect if Russia crosses the border into Ukraine.
He said he did not expect Putin to make any offers. He said his objective was to prevent an escalation and open new perspectives that objective is met.
Litvinova reported from Moscow. Jill Lawless in London, Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv and Ellen Knickmeyer in Washington contributed.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter tug-of-war since 2014, when, following the ouster of Ukraines Kremlin-friendly president, Moscow annexed Crimea and threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in the east of the country. The fighting between Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the east has since killed over 14,000 people.
Macron met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as fears of a possible Russian invasion mount. Moscow has massed over 100,000 troops near Ukraines borders but insists it has no plans to attack Ukraine.
Scholz warned Moscow that a lot more could happen than theyve perhaps calculated with themselves in case of an invasion.
Putin after the meeting noted that the U.S. and NATO have ignored Moscows demands, but signaled his readiness to continue the negotiations.
France and Germany in 2015 helped broker a peace deal, known as the Minsk agreements, that ended large-scale hostilities in the region but failed to bring about a political settlement of the conflict. The Kremlin has repeatedly accused Kyiv of sabotaging the implementation of the agreements, and Ukrainian officials in recent weeks said that implementing them would be detrimental for the country.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Diplomatic efforts to defuse the tensions around Ukraine continued on Tuesday with French President Emmanuel Macron arriving in Kyiv the day after hours of talks with the Russian leader in Moscow yielded no apparent breakthroughs.
The Kremlin has demanded guarantees from the West that NATO will not accept Ukraine and other former Soviet nations as members, halt weapon deployments there and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe - demands the U.S. and NATO reject as nonstarters.
He also warned that Ukraines accession to NATO could trigger a war between Russia and the alliance, should Kyiv move to retake the annexed peninsula of Crimea - in that case, European countries will automatically be drawn into a military conflict with Russia. Putin added that there will be no winners.
We tried to build converging elements, he said. The upcoming days will be crucial and deep discussions together will be needed.
NATO, U.S. and European leaders flatly reject the demands that they say challenge NATOs core principles, like shutting the door to Ukraine or other countries that might seek membership but they have offered to talk about other Russian security concerns in Europe.
Macron described his discussion with Putin as substantial and deep, with a focus on conditions that could help de-escalation.
On Tuesday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Russia that invading Ukraine will only make NATO stronger, but said he still believes principled and determined diplomacy could defuse the crisis.
Macron told reporters on Tuesday that the talks with Putin allowed him to ensure that theres no degradation and no further escalation.
After his meeting with Macron on Monday, Putin said without elaboration that some of the French presidents proposals could serve as a basis for a settlement of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, adding that they agreed to have a call after Macrons visit to Kyiv Tuesday.
Western leaders in recent weeks have engaged in multiple rounds of diplomacy in the hope of de-escalating the tensions and preventing an attack. High-level talks have taken place against the backdrop of military drills underway in Russia and about to start in Belarus. On Tuesday, Russias Defense Ministry said six large landing ships were moving from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea, where they will take part in the exercises.
U.S. officials have painted the threat of an offensive on Ukraine as imminent - warnings Moscow has scoffed at, accusing Washington of fueling the tensions around Ukraine.
Macron sat down with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday for talks that lasted more than five hours.
Johnson said he was considering dispatching RAF Typhoon fighters and Royal Navy warships to southeastern Europe. Britain said on Monday it is sending 350 troops to Poland as part of efforts to bolster NATO forces in eastern Europe. It has already sent anti-tank weapons to Ukraine.
He said the U.K. is ready to bolster NATO forces in Latvia and Estonia as he prepared to meet the Lithuanian prime minister in London on Tuesday to show support for the Baltic nations.
In Washington, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz met with U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday. Scholz will also travel to Kyiv and Moscow on Feb. 14-15.
