Live updates Zelenskyy Russian attack is genocide
20220403
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/apr/3/live-updates-russian-missiles-strike-oil-plant-in-/
BERLIN - The mayor of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, has expressed shock at what he called cruel war crimes committed by Russian soldiers in the town of Bucha northwest of the capital.
German news agency dpa reported that Steinmeier said the images from Bucha shake me, they shake us deeply.
The Russian military says it has struck an oil processing plant and fuel depots around the strategic Black Sea port of Odesa.
The whole of Europe is trying to stop the war, to restore peace. Then why is official Budapest opposed to the whole of Europe, to all civilized countries? Zelenskyy asked.
What is the goal of the Russian troops? They want to seize the Donbas and the south of Ukraine, he said. What is our goal? To defend ourselves, our freedom, our land and our people.
The Ukrainian military said its airborne forces have taken full control of the town of Pripyat just outside the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the section of the border with Belarus. It posted a picture of the Ukrainian soldier putting up the countrys flag with a shelter containing the Chernobyl reactor that exploded in 1986 seen in the background.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said Sunday scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of Kyiv suburbs of Irpin, Bucha and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. He compared the scene to a horror movie.
Medinsky emphasized that Russias stand on Crimea and rebel regions in Ukraines east remained unchanged. The Kremlin demands that Ukraine acknowledge Russias sovereignty over Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014, and recognize the independence of Russia-backed separatist regions in Donbas, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland.
BERLIN - German authorities have registered more than 300,000 refugees from Ukraine since the outbreak of the war there last month.
Synyyehubov said four people were wounded in a Russian missile strike on Lozova in the south of the Kharkiv region.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in televised remarks Sunday that the sanctions against Putin were going beyond the edge of reason, adding that they showed that the West is capable of any stupidities.
Vladimir Medinsky, who led the Russian delegation in Tuesdays talks in Istanbul, Turkey, said there is still a lot of work to do to finalize a draft agreement before Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy could meet.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz expressed shock Sunday about the terrible and horrifying footage that has reached us this weekend from Ukraine.
Zelenskyy, in his Saturday night video address to the nation, said Ukraine knows Russia has the forces to put even more pressure on the east and south of Ukraine.
Arestovych said some victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound, and some of the bodies had signs of torture. He accused Russian troops of raping women and trying to burn their bodies.
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of Polands ruling conservative party, Law and Justice, said Sunday in an interview with German weekly Welt am Sonntag that in principle, it makes sense to extend nuclear participation to the eastern flank.
He is virtually the only one in Europe to openly support Mr. Putin, Zelenskyy said.
VILNIUS, Lithuania - Lithuania says it has cut itself off entirely of gas imports from Russia and that its the first of the European Unions 27 nations using Russian gas to break its energy dependence upon Moscow.
He said a significant portion of the Russian forces are tied up around Mariupol, where the citys defenders continue to fight.
Up to 10,000 arrived at Berlins train station on some days. Recently the flow of refugees has slowed down from up to 15,000 new arrivals nationwide to around 5,000 to 7,000 new refugees per day.
What we can see is a dense screen of dark smoke, and one explosion after the other, Orlandi said.
VALLETTA, Malta - Pope Francis is praying for an end to the sacrilegious war in Ukraine and for the world to show kindness and compassion to refugees.
Kharkiv regional Gov. Oleh Synyehubov said Sunday that Russian artillery and tanks carried out over 20 strikes on Kharkiv and its outskirts over the past 24 hours.
He urged the West to impose an oil, gas and coal embargo, and close all ports to Russian vessels and goods. He also called for all Russian banks to be disconnected from the SWIFT international payment system.
We will not allow Russia to cover up their involvement in these atrocities through cynical disinformation and will ensure that the reality of Russias actions are brought to light, she said.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock pledged to tighten sanctions against Russia but did not give details.
An AP crew on Sunday saw the bodies of at least nine people who appear to have been executed. At least two of them had their hands tied behind their backs. They were all in civilian clothes and at least three were naked from the waist up. One appeared shot in the chest from close range.
PARIS - French and German leaders have joined in growing international condemnation of alleged war crimes and civilian killings committed by Russian forces in Ukrainian towns including Bucha near Kyiv.
BERLIN - Polands most powerful politician says he is open to the permanent stationing of U.S. nuclear weapons in Eastern Europe.
Overall, more than 4.17 million Ukrainians have fled their country since Russia attacked Ukraine on Feb. 24. Most sought refuge in neighboring Poland.
The numbers of Ukrainian refugees in the country are thought to be much higher as Ukrainians can enter Germany without visas and there are no thorough controls along the Polish-German border.
Wrapping up a final Mass in Malta on Sunday, Francis urged the faithful to think of the humanitarian tragedy unfolding in the martyred Ukraine, which continues to be bombarded in this sacrilegious war.
Speaking Sunday in remarks carried by the Interfax news agency, Medinsky reaffirmed that the parties reached a tentative agreement on the need for Ukraine to adopt a neutral status and refrain from holding foreign military bases in exchange for international security guarantees.
MOSCOW - Russias top negotiator in talks with Ukraine says its too early to talk about a meeting between the two countries president.
The reports drew international condemnation. In Britain, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said there is increasing evidence of indiscriminate attacks against innocent civilians and said they must be investigated as war crimes.
He said that Poland would welcome an increase in the American presence in Europe in the future from the current 100,000 soldiers to 150,000 soldiers because of Russias increasing aggressiveness.
Klitschko said Russian President Vladimir Putin was responsible for the cruel war crimes, adding that civilians had been shot with tied hands.
We are the first EU country among Gazproms supply countries to gain independence from Russian gas supplies, and this is the result of a multi-year coherent energy policy and timely infrastructure decisions, Minister of Energy Dainius Kreivys said.
At school we were studying a lot about the Second World War, about bomb shelters and about this disaster, and we thought it was impossible in present time, she said. We thought it had ended in 1945 and that was it. But now, its really shocking for all of us.
In an excerpt of the interview released by CBS before it aired, he says, This is the reason we are being destroyed and exterminated. And this is happening in the Europe of the 21st century. So this is the torture of the whole nation.
KYIV, Ukraine - The Ukrainian military says Russian troops have completed their pullback from the countrys north.
The Polish leader also called for a much stronger presence of U.S. soldiers in Europe in the future, especially on NATOs eastern flank.
Zelenskyy depicted the Hungarian leader as out of touch with the rest of Europe, which has united to condemn Putin, support sanctions against Russia and send aid including weapons to Ukraine.
He described a column of dark smoke rising from the targets, and flames from the buildings.
He called for the world to be tireless in praying and in offering assistance to those who suffer.
MOSCOW - The Kremlin says that by imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin the West has demonstrated it has abandoned its sense of reason.
Referring to reports of executed civilians, Klitschko told German daily Bild on Sunday that what happened in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv can only be described as genocide.
KYIV, Ukraine - The regional governor in Kharkiv said Russian troops have continued shelling the city in northeast Ukraine.
Zelenskyy told CBS Face the Nation Sunday that there are more than 100 nationalities in Ukraine and this is about the destruction and extermination of all these nationalities. We are citizens of Ukraine and we dont want to be subdued to the policy of Russian Federation.
Zelenskyy noted the Hungarian people support the Ukrainian people, and distinguished between Hungarians and what he called official Budapest.
Kaczynski added that if the Americans asked us to store U.S. nuclear weapons in Poland, we would be open to it. It would significantly strengthen deterrence against Moscow.
Zelenskyy appealed again to the West for more modern weaponry, such as anti-missile systems and aircraft.
Peskov added that Putins meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is hypothetically possible once negotiators from the two countries prepared a draft agreement to be discussed.
Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, says in a U.S. television interview that Russian attacks in Ukraine amount to genocide.
Lithuania reduced imports of Russian gas to zero on Saturday, a move seen a milestone in achieving energy independence in the former Soviet republic of 2.8 million, the ministry said.
LVIV, Ukraine  President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukrainian troops retaking areas around Kyiv and Chernihiv are not allowing Russians to retreat without a fight, but are shelling them. They are destroying everyone they can.
Seeking full energy independence from Russian gas, in response to Russias energy blackmail in Europe and the war in Ukraine, Lithuania has completely abandoned Russian gas, Lithuanias energy ministry said in a statement late Saturday, adding that the measure took effect in the beginning of April.
KYIV, Ukraine - Ukraines top diplomat has called for tougher sanctions on Russia over growing evidence of what he called a massacre of civilians in the suburbs of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
Ukrainian officials said earlier Sunday that scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of Kyiv suburbs of Bucha, Irpin and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. They said that some of the victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound.
Kaczynski acknowledged that at the moment, this question does not arise, but that may change soon.
Lithuaniaa president posted an upbeat tweet on his account and urged other European nations to do the same.
In a message posted by Italian news agency ANSA, Italian photographer Carlo Orlandi said Odessa woke to military sirens at 5:45 a.m. Sunday, followed immediately by the sounds of bombs falling on the port city from two aircraft.
Among those at the Mass was Alina Shcherbyna, a 25-year-old Ukrainian who arrived in Malta just over a week ago after fleeing her bombed-out home in Dnipro. She left behind her parents, who are both doctors and had to remain.
He said that especially for Germany, there can only be one consequence: Not a penny should go to Russia anymore, thats bloody money used to slaughter people. The gas and oil embargo must come immediately.
Dozens of shot civilians have been discovered in Bucha  Streets littered with bodies. Bodies buried in makeshift conditions. There is talk of women, children and the elderly among the victims, he said. He added that international organizations should be given access to the areas to independently document the atrocities.
In Germany President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin that the war crimes committed by Russia are visible before the eyes of the world.
Carrying Ukrainian and Vatican flags, Shcherbyna said she wanted to ask the pope and the world for prayers for Ukraine.
Arestovych said Ukrainian authorities will investigate the alleged war crimes and track down the perpetrators.
French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian condemned in the strongest terms the alleged massive abuses. He said France will work with Ukrainian authorities and the International Criminal Court to ensure these acts dont go unpunished and that those responsible are being sent to trial and convicted.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy devoted a good part of his late-night address to his nation to call out Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban for his support of Russian President Vladimir Putin, as Hungarians prepared to vote in an election Sunday.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj.-Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian ships and aircraft fired missiles on Sunday to strike the facilities, which he said were used to provide fuel to Ukrainian troops near Mykolaiv.
The militarys General Staff said in Sundays statement that Russian units have withdrawn from areas in the countrys north to neighboring Belarus, which served as a staging ground for the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted Sunday that the killings were deliberate, adding that Russians aim to eliminate as many Ukrainians as they can.
Thanks to this resistance, thanks to the courage and resilience of our other cities, Ukraine has gained invaluable time, time that is allowing us to foil the enemys tactics and weaken its capabilities, Zelenskyy said.
He said that in the town of Balakliia Russian tanks hit a local hospital, damaging the building and prompting the authorities to evacuate patients.
Asked about Ukrainian negotiator Davyd Arakhamias claim that Moscows negotiators had informally agreed to most proposals by Ukraine during the talks in Istanbul this week and the two presidents could discuss the draft deal, Medinsky said he doesnt share Arakhamias optimism. He said the talks will continue online Monday.
He called on the the whole world and especially Germany to immediately end gas imports from Russia.
KYIV, Ukraine - A Ukrainian presidential adviser says authorities have found evidence of serious war crimes by Russian troops on the outskirts of Kyiv.
The interior ministry tweeted Sunday that to date, federal police has registered 303,474 refugees from Ukraine in Germany. Most of them are women, children and old people.
