Reason logic and critical thought have all been canceled
20220330
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/mar/30/reason-logic-and-critical-thought-have-all-been-ca/
The wise comedian Rob Schneider tweeted this week, There was the Age of Enlightenment, The Age of Reason  we are all now living in The Age of Emotion.
I wasnt then, nor am I now, articulating a policy change, the president insisted. I was expressing the moral outrage that I feel, and I make no apologies for it.
Love will make you do crazy things, Mr. Smith explained to the Academy, after being awarded the best actor trophy  and not a night in jail  later in the ceremony. Mr. Smith would proceed to party late into the night, dancing to his own songs, celebrating his victory.
Mr. Biden emphatically, unequivocally, called for regime change in Russia, giving Mr. Putin the propaganda talking point he needs to go for broke in Ukraine. Why come to the negotiating table if the American president just reinforced Mr. Putins worst fears  that the West wants to control countries around the world and determine their leaders? Undoubtedly, Mr. Putin will use Mr. Bidens words to persuade the Russian people his war is just.
Ill literally fight you, b, was the reception Kristen Waggoner, the general counsel at the conservative organization the Alliance Defending Freedom, received from a Yale law student this month when she was invited on campus to talk about a free-speech case.
They use the fragility of their moods as an excuse for erratic, irresponsible or reprehensible behavior, and  more important  as a tool to silence anyone who may criticize that behavior.
None of the students were punished  they actually doubled down on their deplorable behavior in an open letter to the university, whining about how their so-called protest was dismissed as childish and how the police response had put Yales queer student body at risk of harm.
In 2020, after George Floyds death, many Black Lives Matter protests turned ugly  emotions were running high, leading to rioting, looting and arson. Instead of condemning and arresting the protesters, progressive leaders bailed out the criminals and refused to prosecute them. Many cities defunded or dismantled their police departments in a knee-jerk response.
The fact of the matter is I was expressing the moral outrage I felt toward the way Putin is dealing, and the actions of this man  just  just the brutality of it, Mr. Biden later explained of what he called his personal feelings.
On Monday, Yales law school dean conceded the students behavior was unacceptable, but insisted it didnt violate the colleges rules.
This is where heightened emotions lead us  chaos and ruin. Is this the future the left wants?
President Biden was also overcome with emotion last week. Distraught at the plight of Ukrainian refugees he saw in Poland, he ad-libbed during a globally televised address that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
For years now, conservatives have been warned not to use trigger words that might offend the lefts brittle sensibilities. Woke college campuses have implemented safe spaces as a haven for like-minded individuals to have their viewpoints affirmed and validated.
About 120 students shouted down Mrs. Waggoner, pounded on the classroom walls, and chanted over her speech in an attempt to drown her out. Members of the Federalist Society, which organized the event, were harassed and physically threatened by their fellow law students. Police officers were called to escort Mrs. Waggoner from the campus.
That same year, murders in the U.S. spiked more than 27, the largest percentage increase in at least six decades. Fatal shootings have increased by about 80 in the nations largest cities since then.
How far weve come from the Age of Reason or Enlightenment  emotion now rules the day.
Actor Will Smith was so overcome with emotion when comedian Chris Rock made a joke about his wife at Sundays Oscars that he stormed the stage and slapped Mr. Rock in the face.
