Russians scoff at Western fears of Ukraine invasion
20220215
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/feb/15/russians-scoff-at-western-fears-of-ukraine-invasio/
She denounced U.S. intelligence claims about an alleged false flag operation mounted by Russia to create a pretext for invading Ukraine, comparing them to then U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powells 2003 speech before the U.N. Security Council, in which he made the case for war against Iraq, citing faulty intelligence information claiming Saddam Hussein had secretly stashed weapons of mass destruction.
While the Kremlin appears bent on pulling Ukraine back into Moscows orbit, a massive offensive will inevitably involve huge casualties, undermining Russias global standing, leading to its international isolation and shattering Putins posture as a leader who cares about ordinary Ukrainians and sees the two people as one.
Russian officials have angrily denied any plans to attack Ukraine and dismissed Western concerns about the buildup near the country, arguing that Moscow is free to deploy its troops and conduct drills wherever it likes on its territory.
Russia will never do it, she said. We are brotherly people, and we have lived together for so many years.
In 2014, Russia annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula following the ouster of the countrys Moscow-friendly president and threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in Ukraines eastern industrial heartland, Donbas, where more than 14,000 people have been killed in fighting.
The Kremlin has cast the U.S. warnings of an imminent attack as hysteria and madness, and many Russians believe that Washington is deliberately stoking panic and fomenting tensions to trigger a conflict for domestic reasons.
Sergei Karaganov, a Russian foreign policy analyst with close ties to Kremlin thinking, said in recently published comments that while its necessary to stop NATOs further expansion and militarization of Ukraine  we definitely dont have plans to conquer Ukraine.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova has taken a more combative tone, denouncing Washingtons warnings of an imminent Russian attack on Ukraine as war propaganda by the U.S. and some of its allies.
Speaking to reporters after President Joe Bidens call with Putin on Saturday, Kremlin foreign affairs adviser Yuri Ushakov bemoaned what he described as U.S. hysteria about an allegedly imminent invasion, saying that the situation has reached the point of absurdity.
For Moscow, risks of an invasion of Ukraine outweigh any possible gains, Moscow-based security analyst Sergei Poletayev said in a commentary.
The U.S. says that Russia has concentrated over 130,000 troops east, north and south of Ukraine and has the necessary firepower to launch an attack at any moment.
Russian political analysts are broadly dismissive of U.S. war warnings, pointing out that Russias invasion of Ukraine would carry a massive price without offering Putin any clear wins.
Such rhetoric has been amplified by state television, where hosts have alleged nefarious U.S. designs, accusing Washington and its allies of planning phony operations of their own to encourage hawkish forces in Ukraine to launch an offensive to reclaim areas controlled by Russia-backed separatists in the countrys east.
Asked if she fears a war, Moscow resident Anaida Gevorgyan dismissed it as Western propaganda.
An attack on Ukraine would be certain to trigger draconian Western sanctions that would further cripple Russias stagnant economy, dent peoples incomes and erode Putins support. And while the Russian military could be expected to rout the much weaker Ukrainian army, it will inevitably face massive resistance later, resulting in a protracted conflict that would drain Moscows scarce resources.
On Tuesday, the Russian Defense Ministry announced a partial withdrawal of troops involved in war games in an apparent move to ease tensions, but didnt mention any details of their numbers and location. The pullback came a day after Russias Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov advised Putin to have more talks with the West - a signal of the Kremlins intention to pursue the diplomatic path.
Many Russian observers predict that instead of launching an invasion, Putin could try to keep pressure on the West with more troop deployments and drills to keep Ukraine out of NATO.
MOSCOW  While the U.S. warns that Russia could invade Ukraine any day, the drumbeat of war is all but unheard in Moscow, where pundits and ordinary people alike dont expect President Vladimir Putin to launch an attack on its ex-Soviet neighbor.
The West will say: We pressured them, Biden gave a shout and they immediately got scared and fulfilled our demands! he said. Its selling hot air, and our partners really excel in that. We are yet to learn the tricks they play.
Unlike Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014 without firing a shot, and the conflict in Donbas, where Moscow has denied playing a military role despite Ukrainian and Western claims to the contrary, a full-fledged invasion is certain to become a political and economic disaster for Russia.
More than half of respondents in recent polls conducted by the Levada Center, the top independent opinion firm, consider the U.S. responsible for the current standoff over Ukraine, about 15 blame it on Ukraine and only 3-4 believe its Russias fault, while others were undecided, its director Denis Volkov said in comments broadcast earlier this month. Levadas nationwide polls of about 1,600 people have a margin of error not exceeding 3.4 percentage points.
Having failed to score a full diplomatic result or dare to use force, Russia could turn its army presence near Ukraine into a constant or regularly renewed source of threat that will incur a damage to Ukraine that Western assistance wouldnt be able to compensate, Alexander Baunov of the Carnegie Moscow Center said in an analysis. It will also keep the West under strain, and in the end Ukraine and the West could show a greater flexibility.
Putins angry rhetoric about NATOs plans to expand to Russias doorstep and its refusal to hear Moscows concerns has struck a chord with the public, tapping into a sense of betrayal by the West after the end of the Cold War and widespread suspicion about Western designs.
Lavrov mocked what he described as paranoid Western concerns about a possible Russian invasion and gave a sardonic forecast that the West will trumpet the troop pullback as its victory.
Its impossible to imagine a war with Ukraine, Moscow resident Vitaly Ladygin said. We all have relatives there, we have always lived together. I love Ukraine and dream about going there once it all all ends.
Most people see the conflict as a Russia-U.S. conflict, Volkov said, adding that respondents in focus group interviews said that the U.S. could push Ukraine into attacking the rebels in the east to draw Russia into the fighting.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the invasion warnings as madness and taunted the move by the U.S. and some of its allies to withdraw most of their diplomatic staff from Ukraine as demonstrative hysteria.
Zakharova alleged that the U.S. needs a war at any price, charging that provocations, disinformation and threats represent its favorite methods of solving its own problems.
