Russians press assault on eastern Ukrainian city
20220702
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/jul/2/russians-press-assault-on-eastern-ukrainian-city/
Pro-Russia separatists have held portions of both provinces since 2014, and Moscow recognizes all of Luhansk and Donetsk as sovereign republics. Syrias government said Wednesday that it would also recognize the independence and sovereignty of the two areas and work to establish diplomatic relations with the separatists.
The Kremlin has repeatedly claimed that the Russian military is targeting fuel storage sites and military facilities, not residential areas, although missiles also recently hit an apartment building in Kyiv and a shopping mall in the central city of Kremenchuk.
Ukrainian authorities interpreted the missile attack in Odesa as payback for the withdrawal of Russian troops from a nearby Black Sea island with both symbolic and strategic significance in the war that started with Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
The British Defense Ministry said Saturday that air-launched anti-ship missiles generally do not have precision accuracy against ground targets. It said Russia likely was using such missiles because of a shortage of more accurate weapons.
In Slovyansk, a major Donetsk city still under Ukrainian control, four people died when Russian forces fired cluster munitions late Friday, Mayor Vadym Lyakh said on Facebook. He said the neighborhoods that were hit did not contain any potential military targets.
Ukrainian Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova said the investigators were recovering fragments from missiles that struck an apartment building in the small coastal town of Serhiivka. They also were taking measurements to determine the trajectory of the weapons, she said.
On Saturday, Kremenchuk Mayor Vitaliy Maletskyy said the death toll in the mall attack had risen to 21, and one person was still missing.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said three anti-ship missiles struck an ordinary residential building, a nine-story building housing about 160 people. The victims of Fridays attack also included four members of a family staying at a typical seaside campsite, he said.
Elsewhere, investigators combed through the wreckage from a Russian airstrike early Friday on residential areas near the Ukrainian port of Odesa that killed 21 people.
Ukrainian fighters have spent weeks trying to defend the city and to keep it from falling to Russia, as neighboring Sievierodonetsk did a week ago. The Russian Defense Ministry said its forces took control of an oil refinery on Lysychansks edge in recent days, but Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai reported Friday that fighting for the facility continued.
Over the last day, the occupiers opened fire from all available kinds of weapons, Haidai said Saturday on the Telegram messaging app.
I emphasize: this is a deliberate direct Russian terror, and not some mistake or an accidental missile strike, Zelenskyy said.
Luhansk and neighboring Donetsk are the two provinces that make up the Donbas region, where Russia has focused its offensive since pulling back from northern Ukraine and the capital, Kyiv, in the spring.
Moscow portrayed their departure from Snake Island as a goodwill gesture to help unblock exports of grain.
KYIV, Ukarine AP  Russian forces are pounding the city of Lysychansk and its surroundings in an all-out attempt to seize the last stronghold of resistance in eastern Ukraines Luhansk province, the governor said Saturday.
We are taking all the necessary investigative measures to determine the specific people guilty of this terrible war crime, Venediktova said.
