Russia says some forces pulling back amid Ukraine crisis
20220215
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/feb/15/russia-says-some-forces-pulling-back-amid-ukraine-/
Moscow wants guarantees that NATO will not allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members. It also wants the alliance to halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe.
Karmanau reported from Kyiv, Ukraine. Angela Charlton in Paris, Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow, Geir Moulson in Berlin, Jill Lawless in London, Jan M. Olsen in Copenhagen, Denmark, and Robert Burns in Washington contributed to this report.
While the U.S. warns that Russia could invade Ukraine any day, and Kyiv is alerting residents to locate their nearest bomb shelters, the drumbeat of war is all but unheard in Russia itself.
U.S. officials have said the Russian military continued apparent attack preparations along Ukraines borders. A U.S. defense official said small numbers of Russian ground units have been moving out of larger assembly areas for several days, taking up positions closer to the Ukrainian border at what would be departure points if Putin launched an invasion.
The Kremlin has cast the U.S. warnings of an imminent attack as hysteria and absurdity, and many Russians believe that Washington is deliberately stoking panic and fomenting tensions to trigger a conflict for domestic reasons.
Asked about the announcement, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov stressed that Russia holds military drills on its own territory and according to its own plans, they start, go on and end as planned. The minister said such drills always adhered to a schedule  regardless of who thinks what and who gets hysterical about it, who is deploying real informational terrorism.
Maxar Technologies, a commercial satellite imagery company that has been monitoring the Russian buildup, reported increased Russian military activity in Belarus, Crimea and western Russia, including the arrival of helicopters, ground-attack aircraft and fighter-bomber jets at forward locations. The photos taken over a 48-hour period also show ground forces leaving their garrisons and combat units moving into convoy formation.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the issue of recognizing the self-proclaimed republics is very, very relevant to the public. But it was unclear how he would respond or how this could influence Russias actions in Ukraine.
MOSCOW AP  Russia said Tuesday that some units participating in military exercises would begin returning to their bases, adding to glimmers of hope that the Kremlin may not be planning to invade Ukraine imminently. But it gave no details on where the troops were pulling back from, or how many.
That muddied efforts to determine the significance of the announcement, which buoyed world financial markets and the long-suffering ruble after weeks of escalation in Europes worst East-West standoff in decades. It came a day after Russias foreign minister indicated the country was ready to keep talking about the security grievances that led to the Ukraine crisis  a gesture that changed the tenor after weeks of tensions.
Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau of Poland, one of Russias most strident European critics, met in Moscow on Tuesday with Lavrov, and they discussed ways to use the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe for more talks aimed at easing tensions around Ukraine.
The path for diplomacy remains available if Russia chooses to engage constructively, White House principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said. However, we are clear-eyed about the prospects of that, given the steps Russia is taking on the ground in plain sight.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss reiterated Tuesday that the danger of an invasion still exists, telling Sky News that it could be imminent. Norwegian Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt issued a similar warning.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz met Tuesday with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, a day after sitting down with Ukraines leader in Kyiv. In his opening remarks in the Kremlin, Scholz addressed the Ukraine tensions but also noted Germanys economic ties with Russia  which complicate Western efforts to agree on how to punish Russia in case of an invasion.
As if to show defiance, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declared Wednesday would be a day of national unity, calling on the country to display the blue-and-yellow flag and sing the national anthem.
Meanwhile, Russian lawmakers called on Putin on Tuesday to recognize rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine as independent states. The State Duma, Russias lower house of parliament, voted to submit an appeal to Putin to that effect.
We managed with our partners to restrain the Russian Federation from any further escalation. Today is already the middle of February and you can see that diplomacy continues to work, Kuleba said.
Yet hours before the Russian Defense Ministry statement about the troops, a U.S. defense official said Russian units were moving closer to the Ukrainian border  not away from it. And Western officials continued to warn Tuesday that the Russian military could attack at any time, with some floating Wednesday as a possible invasion day.
In announcing the pullback, the Russian Defense Ministry did not indicate where the troops had been deployed or how many were leaving.
European leaders have been scrambling to try to head off a new war on their continent, after several tense weeks that have left Europeans feeling caught between Russia and the U.S., and further pushed up household energy prices because of Europes dependence on Russian gas.
Russia constantly makes various statements, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said. Thats why we have the rule: We wont believe when we hear, well believe when we see. When we see troops pulling out, well believe in de-escalation.
The day before, Lavrov suggested more efforts at diplomacy in a made-for-TV meeting with Putin that seemed designed to send a message to the world about the Russian leaders position. The foreign minister argued that Moscow should hold more talks, despite the Wests refusal to consider Russias main demands.
We are friends with Ukraine. And we are not sure that Ukraine wants war with us.  We are really on the border, we really have relatives here and there, everyone has somebody there on the Ukrainian side, she said. No one wants war.
Ukraines foreign minister, meanwhile, claimed credit for keeping the diplomatic path open at least for now.
The fears of an invasion grew from the fact that Russia has massed more than 130,000 troops near Ukraine. Russia denies it has any such plans, despite placing troops on Ukraines borders to the north, south and east and launching massive military drills nearby. U.S. and other NATO allies, meanwhile, have moved troops and military supplies toward Ukraines western flank, and promised more financial aid to the ex-Soviet nation.
In Russias Belgorod region about 30 kilometers 18 miles from Ukraines border, residents carry on with life as usual, even as more military personnel have been passing through village streets.
