Shelling mars humanitarian corridor effort as 15 million Ukrainian refugees spill to nearby nations
20220306
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/mar/6/un-more-15-million-refugees-have-fled-ukraine-neig/
Sen. Marco Rubio, Florida Republican and vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, cautioned Sunday about the risk of escalation associated with a no-fly zone.
Mr. Blinken crossed briefly over the Polish border into western Ukraine on Saturday in a show of solidarity with Kyiv. He was in Moldova on Sunday to pledge support for that Western-leaning former Soviet republic, which is coping with an influx of refugees and warily watching Russias moves in Ukraine.
As Russian forces surrounded several Ukrainian cities and maintained a convoy outside Kyiv, Mr. Zelenskyy appeared on television Saturday night wearing what has become a habitual military green T-shirt and rallied his people to remain defiant.
The world is strong enough to close our skies, Mr. Zelenskyy said Sunday in a video address.
Russian supply lines reportedly continue to be targeted, slowing the rate of advance of their ground forces, it said. There is a realistic possibility that Russia is now attempting to conceal fuel trucks as regular support trucks to minimize losses.
More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have fled into neighboring countries, the United Nations said Sunday, as Russias military invasion pushed violently through its 11th day and attempts to establish humanitarian cease-fires failed around several besieged Ukrainian cities.
Rep. Michael T. McCaul of Texas, the lead Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said during a visit to Poland with other House members that the humanitarian crisis is likely to grow more severe in the coming days.
More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have crossed into neighbouring countries in 10 days  the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said on his official Twitter account.
This is likely to represent an effort to break Ukrainian morale. Russia has previously used similar tactics in Chechnya in 1999 and Syria in 2016, employing both air and ground-based munitions, the British Defense Ministry statement said, although it added that Ukrainian forces were succeeding in attacks that slowed the Russian advance.
Talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations last week resulted in an agreement to create tentative cessations of fighting along green humanitarian corridors to facilitate civilian evacuations.
I think if Putin has done anything, hes taken a NATO that was on life support and really unified it against him, Mr. McCaul said. Mr. Putin is trying to put the noose around the neck of Ukraine, but I think the noose is going around his neck. He sees the world is against him this is his greatest fear.
The British Defense Ministry circulated an intelligence update Sunday that said the scale and strength of Ukrainian resistance to the invasion continues to surprise Russia, which has responded by targeting populated areas in multiple locations, including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken spent the weekend visiting NATO member nations in Eastern Europe, which have taken in more than 1 million refugees over the past 11 days.
Ukrainian officials said attempts to evacuate civilians from the southern port city of Mariupol were failing because of continued Russian shelling. Russias advance continued in other parts of Ukraine, including around the capital city of Kyiv.
I think people need to understand what a no-fly zone means  its not some rule you pass that everybody has to oblige by, he told ABCs This Week program. Its the willingness to shoot down the aircraft of the Russian Federation, which is basically the beginning of World War III.
Mr. Blinken told the CBS program Face the Nation in an interview from Moldova on Sunday that the U.S., the European Union and the Group of Seven leading industrial countries were working together to increase pressure on Russia through additional sanctions, all of which are very actively under discussion and will be implemented in the coming days.
The World Health Organization on Sunday condemned attacks on health care workers in Ukraine that killed six people and injured 11 others. Attacking health care workers is a violation of international humanitarian law, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Twitter.
Like Ukraine for the past several years, Moldova has been dealing with a breakaway Russian separatist region.
He continued to pin the blame for Russias invasion squarely on the Ukrainian leaders and condemned their resistance. If they continue to do what they are doing, they are calling into question the future of Ukrainian statehood, he said. If this happens, it will be entirely on their conscience.
The U.S. and allies last week imposed a widening slate of economic sanctions on Russian companies and the oligarchs surrounding Mr. Putin. The German government halted the certification of Nord Stream 2, a pipeline recently built to carry Russian natural gas to Germany.
From Poland, Mr. McCaul told CNNs State of the Union program that Russias invasion unified a NATO alliance that was struggling to find momentum and focus in recent years.
Ukrainians in all of our cities that the enemy has entered  go on the offensive, the Ukrainian president said. You should take to the streets. You should fight.  It is necessary to go out and drive this evil out of our cities, from our land.
The White House said the conversation also covered talks between Russia and Ukraine, but it did not give details.
Others warned that Russian forces were deliberately targeting populated areas of Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin has denied the claim.
Throughout the weekend, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for Ukrainians to fight the Russian invasion. He also pleaded with the United States and other NATO member countries to put more pressure on Moscow to halt its invasion and to provide military assistance to Ukraine.
Ukrainian Interior Ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko said Sunday that the Russian side was not honoring the agreement.
Mr. Zelenskyy separately reiterated a request for foreign protectors to impose a no-fly zone over the country. Mr. Putin warned Saturday that Moscow would consider a third-party declaration to close Ukrainian airspace to become a party to the war.
There can be no green corridors because only the sick brain of the Russians decides when to start shooting and at whom, Mr. Gerashchenko wrote on the Telegram social media platform, according to The Associated Press.
The news agency reported that tentative cease-fires in Mariupol and nearby Volnovakha had failed. Civilians in those and other cities in southern, central and eastern Ukraine remained trapped under steady shelling and aerial bombardments by Russian forces, though more than 1 million had made it to safety.
President Biden called Mr. Zelenskyy on Sunday to discuss the U.S. strategy, which has involved harsh economic sanctions on Russia and rapid U.S. assistance to Ukraine.
The Western sanctions have crippled the Russian economy and sent the value of the ruble tumbling. Russias financial system sustained yet another blow over the weekend as Mastercard, Visa and American Express announced they were suspending operations in the country.
Reports surfaced throughout the weekend of indiscriminate Russian shelling of populated areas that killed civilians, including women and children.
Its very emotional. A lot of the members were actually in tears. To see these mothers and their children, Mr. McCaul said. I have to say, historically, Im reminded of when Hitler invaded Poland.  This seems eerily similar, and watching these refugees coming out of Ukraine, over 100,000 yesterday, over 100,000 today, 1.5 million over the last week and a half, and they say its only going to get worse as the noose is tightening around the neck of Ukraine.
