Ukraine seeks to join EU as first round of talks with Russia ends with no agreements
20220228
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/feb/28/ukraine-russia-envoys-talk-under-shadow-nuclear-th/
In other fighting, strategic ports in the countrys south came under assault from Russian forces. Mariupol, on the Sea of Azov, is hanging on, said Zelenskyy adviser Oleksiy Arestovich. An oil depot was reported bombed in the eastern city of Sumy. Ukrainian protesters demonstrated against encroaching Russian troops in the port of Berdyansk.
It wasnt immediately clear what Putin is seeking in the talks, or from the war itself, though Western officials believe he wants to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
Also, the 193-nation U.N. General Assembly opened its first emergency session in decades in order to deal with the Ukraine invasion, with Assembly President Abdulla Shahid calling for an immediate cease-fire, maximum restraint by all parties and a full return to diplomacy and dialogue.
Russian soldier  Stop! Remember your family. Go home with a clean conscience, one read.
But while Ukraine sent its defense minister and other top officials, the Russian delegation was led by Putins adviser on culture  an unlikely envoy for ending the war and perhaps a sign of how seriously Moscow views the talks.
In a war being waged both on the ground and online, cyberattacks hit Ukrainian embassies around the world, and Russian media.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted photos of himself signing the EU application, a largely symbolic move that could take years to become reality and is unlikely to sit well with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has long accused the West of trying to pull Ukraine into its orbit.
The negotiations Monday were the first face-to-face talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials since the war began. The delegations met at a long table with the blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flag on one side and the Russian tricolor on the other.
Western nations ramped up the pressure with a freeze on Russias hard currency reserves, threatening to bring Russias economy to its knees. The U.S., European Union and Britain also agreed to block selected Russian banks from the SWIFT system, which facilitates the moving of money around thousands of banks and other financial institutions worldwide.
U.S. and British officials have played down Putins nuclear threat as posturing. But for many, the move stirred up memories of the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis and fears that the West could be drawn into direct conflict with Russia.
With the Ukrainian capital of nearly 3 million besieged, the Russian military offered to allow residents to leave Kyiv via a safe corridor.
But that did little to calm Russian fears. In Moscow, people lined up to withdraw cash as the sanctions threatened their livelihoods and savings.
Western officials say they believe the invasion has been slower, at least so far, than the Kremlin envisioned. British authorities said the bulk of Putins forces were about 30 kilometers 20 miles north of Kyiv.
They wanted to have a blitzkrieg, but it failed, so they act this way, said 83-year-old Valentin Petrovich, using just his first name and his Russian-style middle name because of fear for his safety. He described watching the shelling from his downtown apartment.
More than a half-million people have fled the country since the invasion, another U.N. official said, with many of them going to Poland, Romania and Hungary. And millions have left their homes.
At this stage, Ukraine is many years away from reaching the standards for achieving EU membership, and the 27-nation bloc is expansion-weary and unlikely to take on new members any time soon.
Overall, the consensus has been that Ukraines deep-seated corruption could make it hard for the country to win EU acceptance. Still, in an interview with Euronews on Sunday, EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said, We want them in the European Union.
Mykhailo Podolyak gave few details except to say that the talks, held near the Ukraine-Belarus border, were focused on a possible cease-fire and that a second round could take place in the near future.
Also, any addition to the EU must be approved unanimously, and some member states have complicated approval procedures.
Moscows Defense Ministry said that extra personnel were deployed to Russian nuclear forces and that the high alert applies to nuclear-capable intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarines and long-range bombers.
Early Monday night, a top adviser to Ukraines president said that the first round of talks with Russia had ended and that both delegations had returned home for consultations in their capitals.
A senior U.S. defense official, speaking Monday on condition of anonymity, said the United States had yet to see any appreciable change in Russias nuclear posture.
A tense calm reigned in Kyiv, where people lined up to buy food, water and pet food after two nights trapped inside by a strict curfew, but social media video from Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, showed residential areas being shelled, with apartment buildings shaken by repeated, powerful blasts. Authorities in Kharkiv said at least seven people had been killed and dozens injured. They warned that casualties could be far higher.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  An embattled Ukraine moved to solidify its bond with the West on Monday by signing an application to join the European Union, while the first round of Ukraine-Russia talks aimed at ending the fighting concluded with no immediate agreements.
Stepping up his rhetoric, Putin denounced the U.S. and its allies as an empire of lies.
The Russian military has denied targeting residential areas despite abundant evidence of shelling of homes, schools and hospitals.
The Russian leader made a clear link between ever-tightening sanctions and his decision Sunday to raise Russias nuclear posture. He also cited aggressive statements from NATO.
EU defense ministers were to meet Monday to discuss how to get the weaponry into Ukraine. A trainload of Czech equipment arrived Sunday and another was en route Monday, though blocking such shipments will clearly be a key Russian priority.
Isachenkov and Litvinova reported from Moscow. Ellen Knickmeyer, Eric Tucker, Robert Burns and Hope Yen in Washington James LaPorta in Miami Francesca Ebel, Josef Federman and Andrew Drake in Kyiv Mstyslav Chernov and Nic Dumitrache in Mariupol, Ukraine Lorne Cook in Brussels and other AP journalists from around the world contributed to this report.
Messages aimed at those soldiers popped up Monday on billboards, bus stops and electronic traffic signs across Kyiv. Some used profanity to encourage Russians to leave. Others appealed to their humanity.
Meanwhile, outgunned Ukrainian forces managed to slow the Russian advance, and Western sanctions began to squeeze the Russian economy, but the Kremlin again raised the specter of nuclear war, reporting that its land, air and sea nuclear forces were on high alert following Putins weekend order.
Meanwhile, as Russias Central Bank scrambled to shore up the tanking ruble, Putin signed a decree governing foreign currency, in a bid to stabilize the ruble.
In another potential escalation, neighboring Belarus could send troops to help Russia as soon as Monday, according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of U.S. intelligence assessments. The official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
In addition to sanctions, the U.S. and Germany announced they will send Stinger missiles and other military supplies to Ukraine. The European Union  founded to ensure peace on the continent after World War II  is supplying lethal aid for the first time, including anti-tank weapons.
Russian and Ukrainian officials held their meeting on Day Five of the war under the shadow of Putins nuclear threats, and with Moscows invasion of Ukraine running into unexpectedly fierce resistance.
The U.N. human rights chief said at least 102 civilians have been killed and hundreds wounded in more than four days of fighting  warning that figure is probably a vast undercount  and Ukraines president said at least 16 children were among the dead.
I sit and pray for these negotiations to end successfully, so that they reach an agreement to end the slaughter, and so there is no more war, said Alexandra Mikhailova, weeping as she clutched her cat in a makeshift shelter in the strategic southeastern port city of Mariupol. Around her, parents sought to console children and keep them warm.
