Ukraines military is winning with agile defenses measured weapons use and fierce will
20220218
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/mar/20/ukraines-military-winning-agile-defenses-measured-/
Ukrainian military forces moved most of their air defense missiles shortly before the start of hostilities last month, blunting the impact of the first wave of Russian missile strikes.
Despite the disparities, the Ukrainian military has prevented the Russian force of more than 100,000 troops from taking any major cities.
According to a Wall Street Journal report, Russian artillery fired on the city for weeks until the Ukrainian military launched an effective counteroffensive that drove them out.
Another key battle for the Ukrainians took place in the early days of the operation when the Russians failed to take control of the military airfield at Hostomel, about 20 miles from Kyiv.
Hes taking these kinds of steps because  his campaign has stalled, Mr. Austin said on CBS News Face the Nation.
Placed on the defensive outside the city, the Russians are preoccupied with defending their positions and are using fire against the Ukrainian military rather than firing at targets in Mykolaiv.
Some of the Russian infantry vehicles and tanks are just lost, wandering around. They dont have communications, they dont know where they are, Mr. Kim said. Sometimes they appear in our rear and start firing at any civilian car they see because they are afraid someone will jump out of that car with a rocket-propelled grenade and blast them.
Moscow also has largely failed in its efforts to use disinformation todisrupt Ukrainianresistance. A video supposedly showing Mr. Zelenskyy ordering troops to surrender was quickly exposed as a deep-fake attemptat disinformation.
Russian forces continue to target the capital of Kyiv and have been trying unsuccessfully to advance into positions from the north and northwest, and from the east.
As you have seen, they are facing heavy resistance from the Ukrainians, the official said.
Theyre hitting the Russians very effectively and not trying to defend everything at once, the official told The Washington Times.
The Ukrainians are doing a really nice job of staying mobile and agile, said a senior military officer familiar with Ukrainian tactics, with surviving mobile air defense missiles inflicting heavy losses on Russian jets and helicopters.
Russias missteps in Ukraine extend well beyond the conflict on the ground. Moscows failure to disrupt communications infrastructure in its neighboring target provided a major boost to Mr. Zelenskyy, who emerged as a powerful, inspirational figure, bolstering military morale and fueling the hopes of an embattled country.
Mr. Barrick said the initial advance largely failed because the Russians deviated from established military doctrine that calls for using overwhelming force.
The Ukrainians recognized the urgency of preventing the airfield from falling. The military launched a multipronged attack that was able to defeat hundreds of Russian paratroopers dropped in the area and prevent further aerial drops, according to Ukrainian government reports of the battle.
Nate Barrick, a former military officer and specialist on the Russian military, said the extremely effective resistance by Ukrainians contributed to the successes to date.
Because of weather and ground conditions, Russian armor units in some areas have been forced to stick to roads rather than venture cross-country. On unfrozen terrain, tank formations have been seen stuck in mud, and reports reaching the Pentagon indicate that Russians abandoned significant numbers of immobilized tanks and armored vehicles in fields with soft ground.
The Russian military also has nearly 16,000 tanks and armored vehicles to Ukraines 3,300. Russian artillery includes more than 4,800 pieces compared with 1,800 Ukrainian artillery pieces.
Even with those losses, though, the invasion force is substantial. We assess that the Russians still have approximately 90 of their assembled combat power still available to them, a senior Pentagon official said Friday.
Geography and weather, along with the anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles supplied to Ukraine, combined early to blunt much of the Russian military advantage, said Adm. Stavridis, now with the Carlyle Group.
Mariupol, a crucial port city on the Azov Sea, has been encircled by Russian troops for weeks. City leaders said on social media that a local art school where about 400 residents  mostly women, children and the elderly  had taken shelter was bombed Saturday.
After the strikes, the Ukrainians retreat and allow the reformed tank columns to drive forward before hitting them again with more attack-and-retreat strikes.
Several bridges leading from the northern part of the country toward the capital, Kyiv, were destroyed to make it more difficult for tanks and artillery to reach firing areas.
With the initial assaults bogged down, the Russians now seem to be digging in for siege warfare.
Success on the battlefield is surprising because Ukraines armed forces are significantly smaller than those of the Russian military.
It was like Russian tanks were driving into a pencil sharpener, the military officer said. It was a total miscalculation on their ability to maneuver on the battlefield.
The building was destroyed, and peaceful people are still under the rubble, city leaders said Sunday.
Mykolaiv Gov. Vitaliy Kim told The Journal that the Russians expected an easy victory and would be welcomed, but instead were driven back.
It should be obvious by now that the Kremlins Active Measuresdisinformation machine, which supposedly took control of U.S. and maybe Western politics, 2016-20, isnt quite as awe-inspiring as Twitter told you it was, since theyre getting bested in Ukraine by kids with TikTok, former intelligence official John Schindler said in a tweet.
Instead, the battle plan appears to have involved relative restraint. In a bid to correct the early errors, Moscow has switched to escalating the conflict with heavier air and artillery strikes that target more civilians.
British military intelligence officials said Russia has increased indiscriminate shelling of urban areas across Ukraine.
Russia has more than 150 surface-to-surface missile launchers Ukraine has 90. Similarly, Moscows air defenses include more than 714 systems, compared with 142 for Ukraine.
Poor tactics by Russian tank columns also have slowed theattack. Ukrainian forces armed with precision-guided Javelin anti-tank missiles immobilized many columns by blowing up the first and last tanks in a procession, making it difficult for the others to advance.
The Ukrainian military is beating the Russian army through the use of what the U.S. military calls mobile defense-in-depth.
Putin wants Ukraines government to cave he doesnt want to own it or occupy it, and he might end up with an unplanned occupation due to Ukrainian resistance, said Mr. Barrick, a former strategist with U.S. Special Operations Command. His plan is being frustrated by Ukrainian resistance.
About 130 Russian troops from the 20th Guards Motor Rifle Division surrendered, according to the statements.
SEE ALSO: Russian forces try to encircle Kyiv, shell shopping mall Ukraine refuses to surrender Mariupol
The Ukrainian general staff, in a Facebook post on Friday, called the militarys efforts the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people to the Russian military invasion.
Russia fired a hypersonic ballistic missile for the first time during the conflict last week. The ultra-high-speed weapon can be used for both conventional and tactical nuclear strikes.
The action prevented the Russians from taking key air bases inside Ukraine, and the invasion force wasted bombs on empty spaces where Moscows intelligence mistakenly believed air defense batteries were located.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the siege would go down in history because of the war crimes being committed.
Ukrainian ground force units armed with anti-tank weapons succeeded in attacking Russian columns deep into their advancing lines.
The statement said Russian military leaders plan to transfer more forces from a military base in Armenia and that some Russian troops are refusing to fight after clashing with the Ukrainian forces.
The Ukrainian military also has leveraged its familiarity with home territory to stymie the invaders.
In particular, the anti-tank missiles supplied to Ukraine in advance of the month-old war played a major role in thwarting the advances of Russian tanks and armored vehicles, and the anti-aircraft systems denied Moscow control of the skies.
The key to the Ukrainian resistance is clearly their fighting spirit, Adm. Stavridis said. It is without question the center of gravity in the conflict, personified by the extraordinary leadership of President Zelenskyy.
While Russian advances were frequently stalled because of vulnerable supply lines stretched thin across the country, Ukraines internal supply system has shown an ability to rapidly obtain and employ internationally supplied weapons and ammunition to its forces. As soon as the weapons arrive in Ukraine from outside the country, mainly through Poland, the arms are moved rapidly to front-line units battling the Russians.
The Ukrainians expertly marshaled limited domestic and international military resources  fuel and ordnance  better than the Russians. Ukraines stock of missiles, arms and equipment have been carefully expended on key targets at optimum times, a senior Pentagon official said.
The Russian military failed to launch a shock-and-awe-style military operation when the invasion began. Instead, it relied on lesser-equipped and poorly trained national guard troops to be the lead forces in some locations.
Russian military doctrine and the apparent battle plan for taking Ukraine were said to call for accepting large numbers of killed and wounded troops. Estimates of the number of Russians killed in fighting is about 7,000.
The remarks indicate that the Russian leader is continuing a military campaign of gradual escalation and pressure and does not regard the setbacks as a sign of failure.
The Defense Forces of Ukraine continue step by step to liberate the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine in all directions, the statement said.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and others on Sunday accused Russian President Vladimir Putins forces of committing war crimes by deliberately targeting civilians.
Had the Russians controlled the airfield, it would have permitted large numbers of additional forces to be flown into the country for an assault on the capital.
Mr. Zelenskyy appears regularly on Ukrainian and international media as a voice of opposition to the Russian invasion.
The Ukrainians also are using drones to deadly effect to pinpoint artillery and guide multiple rocket attacks, according to reports and videos.
Outgunned Ukrainian forces are winning the war so far against the invading Russians with unique tactics, effective use of weapons and fighters who have exhibited a fierce commitment to defending their nation, military analysts say.
Fierce resistance from the Ukrainian military and local defense teams prevented the city from being taken, although not without heavy casualties on both sides.
The battle over the southern Ukrainian port of Mykolaiv is one example of a surprisinglydecisive Ukrainian victory.
The city, a strategic gateway to the main Black Sea port of Odesa, was bombarded since the earliest days of the conflict.
Mr. Putin, in remarks reported on state television Wednesday, defended the invasion. The operation is being carried out successfully, in strict conformity with the approved plan, he said.
The Russian army, he said, is struggling because its forces, as with most other militaries, are better at fighting in defensive operations than offensive attacks.
Retired Adm. James G. Stavridis, a former NATO commander, said Mr. Zelenskyy has been a major factor in the Ukrainian successes.
