Ukrainian foreign minister disappointed with Germanys decision not to provide weapons
20220122
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/jan/22/ukrainian-foreign-minister-disappointed-germanys-d/
Mr. Schnbach also said that Russia will likely never cede the Crimean Peninsula to the Ukrainians after the Kremlin annexed the region in 2014.
German partners must stop such words and actions to undermine unity and encourage Vladimir Putin to a new attack on Ukraine, he said.
And, my God, giving someone respect is low cost, even no cost.  It is easy to give him the respect he really demands  and probably also deserves, he said.
German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht told Welt am Sonntag in an interview published Saturday that Germany is committed to de-escalating the conflict but that arms deliveries would not be helpful in this respect.
Today, the unity of the West with Russia is more important than ever, Mr. Kuleba wrote on Twitter. To achieve it and deter the Russian Federation, we are all working together.
Ukraine summoned Germanys ambassador to Kyiv Saturday to protest the remarks, and Mr. Schnbach apologized on Twitter saying the remarks do not correspond in any way to the official position of the German ministry of defense.
On Saturday, the U.S. delivered its first shipment of a $200 million security assistance package to Kyiv approved in December. The shipment included close to 200,000 pounds of lethal security assistance including ammunition for front line defenders of Ukraine, according to the U.S. Embassy.
Fissures between Ukrainian and German officials emerged Saturday over Berlins refusal to arm Ukrainian defense forces amid fears of an imminent Russian invasion.
I can understand the wish to support Ukraine, and thats exactly what we are doing already, she said.
Relations between the two nations were already on pins and needles following remarks from Germanys top officer, Vice Admiral Kay-Achim Schnbach, from earlier in the week when he said Russian President Vladimir Putin probably deserves respect.
Several countries, including the U.S. and U.K., have committed to providing security assistance to Ukraine amid the heightened tensions.
Mr. Kubela expressed gratitude for the non-lethal support Berlin has committed, but said Germanys statements about the impossibility of transferring defense weapons to Ukraine, were contrary to the level of our relations and the current security situation.
Ms. Lambrecht said Germany will supply with a field hospital in February, but said there is no plan for Germany to supply Ukraine with arms at the current time.
