Ukrainian rebels evacuate civilians to Russia amid crisis
20220218
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/feb/18/ukrainian-rebels-evacuate-civilians-to-russia-amid/
Ukraine denied planning any offensive, with Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba saying that Ukraine does not conduct or plan any such actions in the Donbas.
The Kremlin declared massive nuclear drills to flex its military muscle, and President Vladimir Putin pledged to protect Russias national interests against what it sees as encroaching Western threats. U.S. and European leaders, meanwhile, grasped for ways to keep the peace and Europes post-Cold War security order.
U.S. and European officials were on high alert for any Russian attempts at a so-called false-flag operation, according to a Western official familiar with intelligence findings. Ukrainian government officials shared intelligence with allies that suggested the Russians might try to shell the areas in the Luhansk region controlled by separatists as part of an effort to create a false reason to take military action, according to the official who was not authorized to comment publicly.
NATO allies are also flexing their might, bolstering military forces around Eastern Europe, but insist the actions are purely defensive and to show unity in the face of Russian threats.
We remain, of course, open to and desirous of diplomacy  but we are also committed, if Russia takes aggressive action, to ensure there will be severe consequence, Harris said at the annual Munich Security Conference.
While Russia snubbed this years conference, lines of communication remain open: The U.S. and Russian defense chiefs spoke Friday, and U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin called for de-escalation, the return of Russian forces surrounding Ukraine to their home bases, and a diplomatic resolution, according to the Pentagon. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov agreed to meet next week.
A strong explosion was reported Friday in the center of the city of Donetsk, according to the rebel news agency DAN and an Associated Press stringer there. There were no immediate details on casualties or where it took place.
World leaders meeting in Munich warned that Europes security balance is under threat. German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said the situation is calling into question the basic principles of the European peace order.
The U.S. announced the $6 billion sale of 250 tanks to Poland, a NATO member that has been occupied or attacked by Russia in the past. Announcing the deal, Austin said Russias military buildup had only reinvigorated NATO instead of cowing it, as Moscow had hoped.
Putin reaffirmed that Russia was open for dialogue on confidence-building measures with the West on condition that they will be discussed in conjunction with Moscows main security demands.
Separatists in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions that form Ukraines industrial heartland called the Donbas announced they are evacuating civilians to Russia starting Friday afternoon. The announcement appeared to be part of Moscows efforts to counter Western warnings of a Russian invasion, and paint Ukraine as the aggressor instead.
Isachenkov reported from Moscow and Madhani from Munich. Jim Heintz in Moscow, Matthew Lee and Karl Ritter in Munich, Jill Lawless in London, Raf Casert in Brussels, Frank Jordans in Berlin, Ellen Knickmeyer and Lolita Baldor in Washington, Vanessa Gera in Warsaw and Angela Charlton in Paris contributed.
Denis Pushilin, head of the Donetsk rebel government, said women, children and the elderly will be evacuated first, and that Russia has prepared facilities for them. Pushilin alleged in a video statement that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was going to order an imminent offensive in the area.
Blinken revealed some conclusions of U.S. intelligence in Thursdays speech at the U.N. Security Council, warning that Russia could create a false pretext for an invasion with a trumped-up terrorist bombing inside Russia, a staged drone strike, or a fake or real chemical attack.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the threat to global security is more complex and probably higher than during the Cold War. He told the Munich conference that a small mistake or miscommunication between major powers could have catastrophic consequences.
Vice President Kamala Harris said the U.S. still hopes Russia will de-escalate but is ready to hit it with tough sanctions in case of an attack. U.S. leaders this week issued their most dire warnings yet that Moscow could order an invasion of Ukraine any day.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Spiking tensions in eastern Ukraine on Friday aggravated Western fears of a Russian invasion and a new war in Europe, with a humanitarian convoy hit by shelling and pro-Russian rebels evacuating civilians from the conflict zone. A strong explosion hit the eastern city of Donetsk.
He also urged Ukrainian authorities to implement a 2015 peace deal for eastern Ukraine that was brokered by France and Germany, adding that regrettably, we are now seeing the exacerbation of the situation in Donbas.
While the Kremlin insists it has no plans to invade, it has urged the West to keep Ukraine out of NATO and roll back alliance forces from Eastern Europe  demands roundly rejected by Western allies.
While Putin held out the possibility of diplomacy, a cascade of developments this week have have further exacerbated East-West tensions and fueled war worries. This weeks actions have fed those concerns: U.S. and European officials, focused on an estimated 150,000 Russian troops posted around Ukraines borders, warn the long-simmering separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine could provide the spark for a broader attack.
Around the volatile line of contact, a UNCHR convoy came under rebel shelling in the Luhansk region, Ukraines military chief said. No casualties were reported. Rebels denied involvement and accused Ukraine of staging a provocation.
The Kremlin sent a reminder to the world of its nuclear might, announcing drills of its nuclear forces for the weekend. Putin will monitor the sweeping exercise Saturday that will involve multiple practice missile launches.
Separatist authorities reported more shelling by Ukrainian forces along the line. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the situation is potentially very dangerous. A surge of shelling Thursday tore through the walls of a kindergarten, injuring two, and basic communications were disrupted. Both sides accused each other of opening fire.
Shortly after his statement, authorities began moving children from an orphanage in Donetsk, and other residents boarded buses for Russia. Long lines formed at gas stations as more people prepared to leave on their own.
Immediate worries focused on eastern Ukraine, where Ukrainian forces have been fighting pro-Russia rebels since 2014 in a conflict that has killed some 14,000 people.
We are doing what we consider necessary and will keep doing so, he said. We have clear and precise goals conforming to national interests.
Asked about Western warnings of a possible Russian invasion on Wednesday that didnt materialize, Putin said, Frankly, Im not paying attention to that. There are so many false claims, and constantly reacting to them is more trouble than its worth.
While Russia announced this week it is pulling back forces from vast military exercises that had sparked fears of an invasion, U.S. officials have said they see no sign of a pullback  and instead saw more troops moving toward the border with Ukraine.
Putin ordered his emergencies minister to fly to the Rostov region bordering Ukraine to help organize the exodus and ordered the government to offer a payment of 10,000 rubles about $130 to each evacuee, equivalent to about half of an average monthly salary in the war-ravaged Donbas.
Biden planned to speak by phone Friday with trans-Atlantic leaders about the crisis and continued efforts at deterrence and diplomacy, and to give a speech about the situation.
