UN demands end to military activity at Ukraine nuke plant
20220804
https://www.washingtontimes.com:443/news/2022/aug/11/un-demands-end-to-military-activity-at-ukraine-nuk/
Kyslytsya blamed Russias unjustified conditions for the delay in getting IAEA experts to Zaporizhzhia, and said Ukraine stands ready to provide all necessary assistance to facilitate the nuclear teams travels through Ukrainian-controlled territory, which is just five miles from the plant across the Dnieper River.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told defense leaders at a conference in Copenhagen on Thursday that the consequences of a radiation accident at Zaporizhzhia could be even more catastrophic than Chernobyl, and essentially the same as the use of nuclear weapons by Russia, but without a nuclear strike.
While the plant is controlled by Russia, its Ukrainian staff continues to run the nuclear operations. It is in Enerhodar, a city seized by Russian troops in early March soon after they invaded Ukraine.
Rafael Grossi urged Russia and Ukraine, who blame each other for the attacks at the plant, to immediately allow nuclear experts to assess damage and evaluate safety at the Zaporizhzhia facility.
Ukraines U.N. ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya, accused Russia of using elaborate plans of deceit, sabotage and cover-ups to stage the shelling at Zaporizhzhia, including on Thursday, which poses an unprecedented threat to nuclear security for Ukraine, to Europe and the world as a whole.
Grossi said in an Associated Press interview last week that the situation at Zaporizhzhia is completely out of control.
Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia told the council that Kyivs criminal attacks on nuclear infrastructure are pushing the world to the brink of nuclear catastrophe.
The Russian capture of Zaporizhzhia renewed fears that the largest of Ukraines 15 nuclear reactors could be damaged, setting off another emergency like the 1986 Chernobyl accident, the worlds worst nuclear disaster, which happened about 110 kilometers 65 miles north of the capital Kyiv.
He accused Ukrainian armed forces in recent days of repeatedly using heavy artillery and multiple-launch rocket systems to shell the Zaporizhzhia plant, including on Thursday.
SEE ALSO: U.S. says Bolton murder plot not enough to call off talks for new nuclear deal with Iran
Grossi said in a statement Wednesday that he would personally lead an expert mission to inspect the nuclear plant in the very near future, without elaborating on the timeline.
Nebenzia said Russia supported an IAEA visit in June to Zaporizhzhia, which was given a red light at the last minute by U.N. security experts. Moscow is ready to provide all possible assistance to resolve any issues for a visit even before the end of August, he said.
Yevhen Balytskyy, the Kremlin-installed temporary head of the Zaporizhzhia region, said Thursday that the Russia-backed administration there stood ready to ensure the safety and security of any IAEA delegation sent to investigate conditions. He said in an interview on Russian state TV that the Kremlin-backed authorities had prepared armored vehicles for the international envoys.
Five hits were recorded near the plant managements office - right next to the welding site and the storage facility for radiation sources, Enerhoatom said in a post on its official Telegram channel. The grass caught fire over a small area, but fortunately, no one was hurt.
The background radiation at the nuclear power plant at the moment is within limits, but if the strikes continue it is only a question of time, Nebenzia warned. We call on states that support the Kyiv regime to bring their proxies into check to compel them to immediately and once and for all stop attacks.
Grossi said statements received from Russia and Ukraine are frequently contradicted and the IAEA cant corroborate important facts unless its experts visit Zaporizhzhia.
The Ukrainian state company operating the plant, Enerhoatom, said there was renewed Russian shelling of the Zaporizhzhia facility and nearby buildings Thursday.
Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, gave a virtual briefing to the U.N. Security Council at a meeting called by Russia to discuss what Moscow claims were Ukrainian attacks on the plant.
Grossi demanded a halt to military actions that have even the smallest potential to jeopardize nuclear safety at such an important installation.
UNITED NATIONS  The U.N. nuclear chief warned Thursday that very alarming military activity at Europes largest nuclear plant in southeastern Ukraine could lead to dangerous consequences for the region and called for an end to combat actions there.
If the Soviet authorities tried to hide the Chernobyl disaster and its full consequences, Russian authorities are much more cynical and dangerous, he said. They are doing everything themselves to maximize the risk of a nuclear disaster, and lie to the whole world that someone else is allegedly to blame.
His appeal echoed U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres call earlier Thursday for an end to all military activity around the Zaporizhzhia plant, warning that any damage could lead to catastrophic consequences in the vicinity, the region and beyond.
Ukraines ambassador told the council the only way to remove the nuclear threats is by withdrawing Russian troops and returning the plant to Ukraines control.
Guterres appealed in a statement for common sense and reason to avoid any actions that might endanger the physical integrity, safety or security of the nuclear plant, and for the withdrawal of all military personnel and equipment.
