West rushes more aid as Mariupol teeters and fighting rages
20220520
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/may/20/west-rushes-more-aid-as-mariupol-teeters-and-fight/
In Mariupol, the strategic port in the southern corner of the Donbas, Russian troops worn down by their nearly three-month siege of the city may not get the time they need to regroup, Britains Defense Ministry said.
Russian forces now control 90 percent of Luhansk, but the attack on Severodonetsk failed - the Russians suffered personnel losses and retreated, Haidai said. His account could not be independently verified.
Denis Prokopenko, commander of the Azov Regiment, which led the defense of the plant, called them fallen heroes.
Moscows troops have been trying for weeks to seize Severodonetsk, a key city in the Donbas. One of Fridays attacks was on a school in Severodonetsk that was sheltering more than 200 people, many of them children, Haidai said. Three adults were killed, he said on Telegram.
She said that two days ago, her husband reported that of the 32 soldiers with whom he had served, only eight survived, most of them seriously wounded.
I hope soon relatives and the whole of Ukraine will be able to bury the fighters with honors, he said.
- Russia will cut off natural gas to Finland on Saturday, the Finnish state energy company said, just days after Finland applied to join NATO. Finland had refused Moscows demand that it pay for gas in rubles. The cutoff is not expected to have any major immediate effect. Natural gas accounted for just 6 of Finlands total energy consumption in 2020, Finnish broadcaster YLE said.
Natalia Zaritskaya, wife of another fighter at Azovstal, said that based on the messages she had seen over the past two days, Now they are on the path from hell to hell. Every inch of this path is deadly.
- The Group of Seven major economies and global financial institutions agreed to provide more money to bolster Ukraines finances, bringing the total to $19.8 billion. In the U.S., President Joe Biden was expected to sign a $40 billion package of military and economic aid to Ukraine and its allies.
Russian forces shelled the road constantly from multiple directions, but Ukrainian armored transports were still able to get through, Haidai added.
That means that Russia will probably redistribute their forces swiftly without adequate preparation, which risks further force attrition, the ministry said.
Another city, Rubizhne, has been completely destroyed, Haidai said. Its fate can be compared to that of Mariupol.
Russian forces elsewhere in Ukraine continued to blast away at targets, some of them civilian.
POKROVSK, Ukraine AP The West moved to pour billions more in aid into Ukraine on Friday, as Russia shifted troops freed up by the imminent fall of the pulverized city of Mariupol and fighting raged in the countrys industrial heartland in the east.
Russian forces shelled a vital highway and kept up attacks on a key city in the Luhansk region, hitting a school among other sites, Ukrainian authorities said. Luhansk is part of the Donbas, the mostly Russian-speaking eastern expanse of coal mines and factories that Russian President Vladimir Putin is bent on capturing.
The liberation of the Luhansk Peoples Republic is nearing completion, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu declared, referring to the breakaway state proclaimed by pro-Moscow separatists in 2014 and recognized by the Kremlin.
Pro-Moscow separatists have fought Ukrainian forces in the Donbas for the past eight years and held a considerable swath of it before Russias Feb. 24 invasion. But the effort by Putins troops to take more territory there has been slow-going.
In a sign of Russias frustration with the war, some senior commanders have been fired in recent weeks, Britains Defense Ministry said.
In the village of Velyka Kostromka, west of the Donbas, explosions in the middle of the night Thursday shook Iryna Martsyniuks house to its foundations. Roof timbers splintered and windows shattered, sending shards of glass into a wall near three sleeping children.
The road is extremely important because its the only connection to other regions of the country, he said via email. The Russians are trying to cut us off from it, to encircle the Luhansk region.
Serhiy Haidai, the governor of Luhansk, said Russian forces were especially focused on the Lysychansk-Bakhmut highway, the only road for evacuating people and delivering humanitarian supplies.
An undisclosed number of Ukrainian soldiers remained at the Azovstal steel plant. Russia said more than 1,900 had surrendered in recent days. Also remaining at the plant were the bodies of soldiers who defended it while tying down Russian forces.
They ran down the road to a neighbors home, where they hid in the basement.
- A captured Russian soldier accused of killing a civilian awaited his fate in Ukraines first war crimes trial. Sgt. Vadim Shishimarin, 21, could get life in prison.
Wives of fighters who held out at the steelworks spoke emotionally about what may have been their last contact with their husbands.
Around 20 other houses were damaged and two people were lightly wounded, said Olha Shaytanova, head of the village.
With the battle winding down for the Azovstal steel plant that represented the last bastion of Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol, Russia is continuing to pull back forces there, and their commanders are under pressure to quickly send them elsewhere in the Donbas, according to the British.
Twelve people were killed in Severodonetsk, Haidai said. It was not immediately clear if that included the three at the school. In addition, more than 60 houses were destroyed across the region, he added.
Olga Boiko, wife of a marine, wiped away tears as she said that her husband had written her on Thursday: Hello. We surrender, I dont know when I will get in touch with you and if I will at all. Love you. Kiss you. Bye.
There were flashes everywhere, she said. There was smoke everywhere. She grabbed the children and ran toward the homes entrance, but the corridor wasnt there anymore. Instead, we saw the starry night.
