Yes we need hands Kitchen pops up in Ukraines capital
20220308
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2022/mar/8/yes-we-need-hands-kitchen-pops-up-in-ukraines-capi/
Food, water, heat and medicine grew increasingly scarce, in what Ukraine condemned as a medieval-style siege by Moscow to batter it into submission.
Blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flags flew above some of the field kitchens tents. Stacks of wood crates and piles of firewood made for walls within the camp. Boiling vegetable soup sent steam into the cold air wood fire crackled.
Men in camouflage uniforms inspected canned food with messages scrawled on them in black marker.
Volunteers chopped red peppers and boiled potatoes at the kitchens various stations as the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine deepened, and as Russian forces intensified their shelling.
A woman identified only as Oksana, whose husband is fighting in the Ukrainian army, said the kitchen duty gives her a way to avoid the latest developments.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  The field kitchen at a makeshift camp in Ukraines capital was a hive of activity Monday, giving volunteers a way to contribute to the war effort  and providing a much-needed distraction from the harrowing news about Russias escalating invasion.
I got information that people need help in the kitchen, she said from the tent village that had sprung up between a multi-story building and a barrier made of stacked tires and sandbags. I came and asked, and they said: Yes, we need hands. Thats it, and we are not sitting and reading terrifying messages on news channels.
A third round of talks between the two sides ended with a top Ukrainian official saying there had been minor, unspecified progress toward establishing safe corridors that would allow civilians to escape the fighting. Russias chief negotiator said he expects those corridors to start operating Tuesday.
Another volunteer at the kitchen, Oleksiy Shevchenko, said: We are cooking soups, porridge for our military, for civilians and for everyone who needs our help, including hospitals.
