Campaign calls on Aldi Lidl Tesco and others to change name of Chicken Kiev
20220307
https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/chicken-kiev-rename-kyiv-supermarkets-6753396
Social media users have been calling on shops to follow suit and change the name of the dish.
"You might also notice we've changed the name of our Chicken Kiev to Chicken Kyiv. The 'Kiev' is thought to have been created by a Ukrainian chef in the 19th century. He was from Kyiv but the dish is thought to be a Russian delicacy of old. Regardless of the origins, we find it only right to rename in honour of its Ukrainian creator. Join us and many others and cookforukraine at home."
Other theories claim it was made in a French restaurant and brought over to Russia in the 1840s, while some say it was the work of English food journalist and writer Isabella Beeton, known more commonly just as Mrs Beeton.
The Mirror has contacted the Big Four - Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons - as well as Aldi and Lidl to see if they are considering the name change.
cdnguy2022 tweeted: "It's only a very small change but words matter.  ChickenKyiv  Let's show solidarity with Ukraine and not use Russian spelling of Kyiv"
Get the stories that matter to our community straight to your inbox with our Daily Newsletter
The exact origins of the name "chicken kiev" are often disputed - with some people saying it was invented in the Continental Hotel in central Kyiv in the early 20th century.
"Kyiv" is derived from the Ukrainian language name, with many media organisations now using this pronunciation ever since the Ukraine war broke out last week.
David Plunkett messaged Lidl, Aldi and others with the message: "Time for a name change"
James Chiavarini, owner of the oldest family-run restaurant in London, Il Portico, said the chicken kyiv was back on his menu for the first time in 40 years - with the new name.
Several food brands and restaurants have already made the name change of the popular breaded chicken dish - prompting calls for Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys and Morrisons to do the same.
They wrote: "We have been deeply distressed by the recent crisis unfolding in Ukraine and to help show our solidarity we will be donating 2 from every order of our Chicken Kyiv this week to the UNICEF campaign supporting the children and families displaced by the ongoing devastation happening in Ukraine right now.
Waitrose and Marks and Spencer have responded to reports to say they have no plans to alter their chicken kievs.
There have been calls for the chicken kiev to be renamed as chicken kyiv as "Kiev" is the Soviet-era name given to the capital city.
UK food manufacturer Finnebrogue Artisan tweeted this week that they were renaming their plant-based chicken kiev, reports The Mirror.
Supermarket shoppers are calling on the major UK grocers to rename their chicken kievs to Kyiv in solidarity with Ukraine.
Farmison  Co is donating 2 from every order of its Chicken Kyiv to Unicef's Cook For Ukraine campaign.
