Former British special forces feared dead in Russian airstrike
20220314
https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/former-british-special-forces-feared-6802011
Roads leading to the facility were blocked with checkpoints and authorities were conducting search-and-rescue operations.
Sources have confirmed the three men were not part of the foreign fighters unit that was being trained at the now destroyed Yavoriv base, which is just six miles from the Polish border.
It is believed that three former British special forces troops have been killed near the Polish border in a Russian airstrike.
The British MoD confirmed there were no serving personnel killed or injured in the explosions.
This is extremely sensitive as there are believed to be no serving British military personnel inside Ukraine as politically that would be extremely controversial.
The Mirror reported that when asked in the aftermath of the devastating blasts on Sunday if British casualties were among the dead UK Foreign Office sources said they were unaware of any.
"I do not believe the three British ex-military personnel would have known anything about it, fortunately.
At this moment it is unclear which branch of special forces they had served in.
Reports suggest the three individuals died instantly in the cruise missile blasts, along with more than a hundred others.
Get the best stories about the things you love most curated by us and delivered to your inbox every day. Choose what you love   here
Sources claim the missiles were fired by six Russian bombers from within Russia, although a number of them were shot down by Ukrainian ground defence systems.
A source told the Daily Mirror : There were many more killed within the site than has been claimed and bodies are still being found.
As many as 30 cruise missiles are believed to have been fired at the base, 35 miles from the western Ukrainian city of Lviv where thousands of refugees have flocked to.
The three British ex-special forces are believed to have died instantly in the Russian cruise missile blasts, near the Polish border
