Kyiv under attack hours after Russian vows to scale back attacks in west of Ukraine
20220329
https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/kyiv-under-attack-hours-after-6879069
Ukraine said it would also be willing to hold talks over a 15-year period on the future of the Crimean Peninsula, seized by Russia in 2014. Vladimir Medinsky, head of the Russian delegation, said on Russian TV that the Ukrainian proposals are a step to meet us halfway, a clearly positive fact.
Even as negotiators gathered, Russian President Vladimir Putins forces blasted a gaping hole in a nine-story government administration building in a strike on the southern port city of Mykolaiv, killing at least 12 people, emergency authorities said. The search for more bodies in the rubble continued.
It does not mean the threat to Kyiv is over, Mr Kirby said. They can still inflict massive brutality on the country, including on Kyiv. He said Russian airstrikes against Kyiv continued.
Ukraines delegation at the conference, held in Istanbul, laid out a framework under which the country would declare itself neutral and its security would be guaranteed by an array of other nations. Moscows public reaction was positive, and the negotiations are expected to resume on Wednesday, five weeks into what has devolved into a bloody war of attrition, with thousands dead and almost four million Ukrainians fleeing the country.
US President Joe Biden, asked whether the Russian announcement was a sign of progress in the talks or an attempt by Moscow to buy time to continue its assault, said: Well see. I dont read anything into it until I see what their actions are. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken suggested Russian indications of a pullback could be an attempt by Moscow to deceive people and deflect attention.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said the US has detected small numbers of Russian ground forces moving away from the Kyiv area, but it appeared to be a repositioning of forces, not a real withdrawal. He said it was too soon to say how extensive the Russian movements may be or where the troops will be repositioned.
War reporter Nolan Preston tweeted: "Loud night in Kyiv so far  multiple window-rattling explosions." And, earlier on Tuesday Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko tweeted: "Sirens across West Ukraine sound simultaneously. This is Putin retreating to the East for you. In Rivine now and the sound of war is loud and clear."
Ukraines delegation offered a detailed framework for a peace deal under which a neutral Ukraines security would be guaranteed by a group of third countries, including the US, Britain, France, Turkey, China and Poland, in an arrangement similar to Natos an attack on one is an attack on all principle.
Deputy Defence Minister said Moscow has decided to 'fundamentally cut back military activity in the direction of Kyiv and Chernihiv'
And "heavy shelling" and multiple explosions were reported across Kyiv, on Tuesday night and early on Wednesday morning. Paul Ronzheimerm, reporting from Kyiv for German news website Bild, tweeted: "A lot of shelling in Kyiv tonight just hours after Russian side announced they would focus more on Donbas."
President Zelensky had earlier sad that Ukraine will continue negotiations - but officials do not trust the word of the country that continues fighting to destroy us.
Get the stories that matter to our community straight to your inbox with our Daily Newsletter
Western officials say Moscow is reinforcing troops in the Donbas in a bid to encircle Ukraines forces. And Russias deadly siege in the south continues, with civilians trapped in the ruins of Mariupol and other bombarded cities. There is what Russia says and there is what Russia does, and were focused on the latter, Mr Blinken said in Morocco. And what Russia is doing is the continued brutalization of Ukraine.
However, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia cannot be trusted. Although the signals from the talks are positive, they cant silence explosions of Russian shells, he said. Mr Zelensky said it was Ukrainian troops who forced Russias hand, adding that we shouldnt ease our guard because the invading army still has a great potential to continue attacks against our country.
He cautioned that the parties are still far from reaching an agreement, but said: We know now how to move further toward compromise. We arent just marking time in talks.
While Moscow portrayed it as a goodwill gesture, its ground troops have become bogged down and taken heavy losses in their bid to seize Kyiv and other cities. Last week and again on Tuesday, the Kremlin seemed to lower its war aims, saying its main goal now is gaining control of the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas region in eastern Ukraine.
He did not immediately spell out what that would mean in practical terms. The announcement was met with scepticism from the US and other nations.
Amid the talks, Russian Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin said Moscow has decided to fundamentally cut back military activity in the direction of Kyiv and Chernihiv to increase mutual trust and create conditions for further negotiations.
Its terrible. They waited for people to go to work before striking the building, said regional governor Vitaliy Kim. I overslept. Im lucky.
The meeting in Istanbul was the first time negotiators from Russia and Ukraine talked face-to-face in two weeks. Earlier talks were held in person in Belarus or by video. Among other things, the Kremlin has demanded all along that Ukraine drop any hope of joining Nato.
Multiple explosions were reported in Ukraine's capital Kyiv on in the early hours of Wednesday morning. It comes just hours after Russia announced it will significantly scale back military operations near Ukraines capital and a northern city, as the outlines of a possible deal to end the grinding war came into view at the latest round of talks.
