Marks and Spencer giving away free eye tests in Plymouth
20220225
https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/marks-spencer-giving-away-free-6718100
In addition to the physical experience in-store, customers can book appointments online at mandsopticians.comstoresplymouth as well as view, purchase and try on glasses via the innovative virtual try on tool: https:mandsopticians.comglasses
Customers can book an appointment for an eye test or a hearing test here: mandsopticians.comstoresplymouth
MS Plymouth is in 1 Cornwall Street, Plymouth, PL1 1DH. MS Opticians can be found on the first floor next to the Bureau de Change.
Get the best stories about the things you love most curated by us and delivered to your inbox every day. Choose what you love here
Expert advice on contact lens fitting and wearing is also on hand, alongside a contact lens home delivery option. The store will also be home to a hearing aid audiologist who will be offering free hearing health checks along with latest hearing aid technology, including rechargeable models and mobile connectivity.
MS Plymouth has become one of the first stores in the country to launch this new, expert opticians service
Free eye tests are available as an opening offer, as well as 15 per cent off glasses and sunglasses for Sparks customers. Theres a wide range of designer brands to choose from including Mulberry, Prada, Joules, Kate Spade, Oakley, Police, Maui Jim along with leading lens manufacturers - Zeiss and Nikon.
The opening of the MS Plymouth opticians service follows a successful trial across ten UK cities, during which the service received a customer satisfaction rate of 96 and a customer recommendation rate of 96 per cent.
MS Plymouth has become one of the first stores in the country to launch this new, expert opticians service, which includes a full eye health examination OCT scan for every eye test booked at no additional fee.
MS Plymouth Store Manager, David Lynch, said: Were always looking for ways to make shopping at MS even more rewarding and feedback from our trial showed that customers loved the convenience of having an Opticians service in our store. Were really excited to be opening our MS Opticians in Plymouth and hearing what our customers think. The choice of different brands were offering is second to none and we have brilliant opening offers to suit all budgets.
Located in the retailers popular Plymouth store, MS Plymouths opticians service is the second of its kind in the South West of England, following the Exeter branch opening earlier this month.
Read More - Russia vs Ukraine: Should the UK send British troops to help Ukraine?
