Rest of Europe must open borders to Ukrainian refugees says Polish president
20220313
https://www.impartialreporter.com/news/19989787.rest-europe-must-open-borders-ukrainian-refugees-says-polish-president/
Polands president has called on the rest of Europe to open its borders in response to the Ukrainian refugee crisis.
According to experts, in an extreme situation it could be up to five million people, he said.
Sponsored Ukrainians will be granted three years leave to remain in the UK, with entitlement to work and access public services.
So far more than 3,000 visas have been issued to Ukrainians seeking refuge in the UK
It came as Levelling Up Secretary Michael Gove announced the new Homes for Ukraine programme, which will allow individuals, charities, community groups and businesses to bring people escaping the war to safety  even if they have no ties to the UK.
Of course we are not the only country who is receiving them because Romania, which shares a border with Ukraine, is also getting refugees. Hungary has a border with Ukraine.
More than half of all refugees who have left Ukraine are in Poland. So, if there are five million, just imagine that we get 2.5 million.
I am really deeply grateful to my compatriots because what they have shown so far, Im talking about ordinary people, they come to our borders with transport saying Ill take four people, I will take a whole family to my home, he said.
Britons offering accommodation to people fleeing Ukraine through the new route will receive a thank you payment of 350 per month.
About 1.5 million people are thought to have fled to Poland since Russias invasion began.
Just imagine that 1.5 million refugees have crossed the Polish border and we have not built even a single refugee camp because all of them have been accepted in private houses, in hotels, in guest houses, in motels, and in resorts.
President Duda requested that other European countries open their borders to what he called the worst refugee crisis on the continent since the Second World War.
Andrzej Duda told BBCs Sunday Morning programme that his country could end up taking in up to 2.5 million Ukrainians.
