UK will host Eurovision Song Contest 2023 on behalf of Ukraine
20220725
https://www.impartialreporter.com/news/national/20514957.uk-will-host-eurovision-song-contest-2023-behalf-ukraine/
Announcing Londons bid, mayor Sadiq Khan said the city was ready and willing to step in with a contest that celebrates the people of Ukraine and shows off the very best of Britain.
I am confident that together we will be able to add Ukrainian spirit to this event and once again unite the whole of Europe around our common values of peace, support, celebrating diversity and talent.
In a statement, BBC director-general Tim Davie said: It is a matter of great regret that our colleagues and friends in Ukraine are not able to host the 2023 Eurovision Song Contest.
This years contest in May saw Ryder top the jury vote before Kalush Orchestra went on to win overall following a symbolic show of public support which saw them soar to first place with 631 points.
The winner would require a large events space, suitable accommodation and international transport links for the competing countries and their delegations.
Im just sorry that, due to Russias continued acts of bloodshed, it has not been possible to host the event in Ukraine, where it should be.
Ukrainian state broadcaster UA:PBC also expressed its disappointment at the time and called on all parties to hold further negotiations.
Organisers the European Broadcasting Union EBU previously decided the event could not be held in the war-torn country following the Russian invasion.
Sheffield City Council was among the first to announce a bid, saying on Twitter: Weve told Eurovision wed love to host watch this space.
They had been the frontrunners since Russias invasion of Ukraine in February  which prompted organisers to ban the Russian entrant from competing.
This was despite Ukrainian entry Kalush Orchestra triumphing at this years competition in Turin, Italy, with the UKs Sam Ryder coming runner-up.
Being asked to host the largest and most complex music competition in the world is a great privilege.
Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said: The Eurovision Song Contest unites people through the power of music and creativity.
As hosts, the UK will honour the competitions spirit and diversity, and, most importantly, ensure it reflects Ukraines recent Eurovision victory and Ukrainian creativity.
The EBUs decision in June to rule out Ukraine as the 2023 host prompted its culture minister Oleksandr Tkachenko to issue a statement demanding to change the decision.
Following a request from the European Broadcasting Union and the Ukrainian authorities, Im delighted that the BBC has agreed to step in and host next years contest.
Ukraine will automatically qualify for the grand final alongside the so-called big five nations  the UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain, who each get a free pass because of their financial contributions to the event.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the UK would put on a fantastic contest on behalf of our Ukrainian friends.
He said that in talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky last week they agreed that wherever Eurovision 2023 is held, it must celebrate the country and people of Ukraine.
Martin Osterdahl, Eurovisions executive supervisor, said: Were exceptionally grateful that the BBC has accepted to stage the Eurovision Song Contest in the UK in 2023.
The United Kingdom will host the Eurovision Song Contest in 2023 on behalf of Ukraine, it has been announced.
Manchester City Council confirmed it was also putting in a bid with its leader Bev Craig tweeting: A world class music city, brilliant venues, experience in hosting major events, and of course one of the UKs largest Ukrainian populations  we are confident we will make it a eurovision to remember.
Mykola Chernotytskyi, head of the managing board of UA:PBC, said next years contest will not be in Ukraine but in support of Ukraine.
The BBC has taken on hosting duties for other winning countries on four previous occasions.
Continuing in this tradition of solidarity, we know that next years contest will showcase the creativity and skill of one of Europes most experienced public broadcasters whilst ensuring this years winners, Ukraine, are celebrated and represented throughout the event.
As we are now hosts, the UK will honour that pledge directly  and put on a fantastic contest on behalf of our Ukrainian friends, Mr Johnson said.
This is Ukraines Eurovision and its an absolute privilege and honour for the UK to be supporting our friends  pic.twitter.comxi3rXu8E2g
The BBC is committed to making the event a true reflection of Ukrainian culture alongside showcasing the diversity of British music and creativity.
It will be the ninth time Eurovision has taken place in the UK  more than any other country.
The bidding process to select the host city will begin this week and will be jointly managed by the BBC and EBU.
