Ukrainian compares Kyiv shelling to the Blitz but says citizens stand united
20220228
https://www.impartialreporter.com/news/19958022.ukrainian-compares-kyiv-shelling-blitz-says-citizens-stand-united/
People in Ukraine are united to overcome this dreadful time and hopefully we will see a peaceful sky again.
We dont panic, we are quiet, and our men are making territory protection on the streets of our neighbourhood.
She said the experience has been terrible and she has barely slept but added she is getting used to the sound of explosions and gunfire.
Russian President Vladimir Putin launched an invasion on Ukraine during a night-time attack last Thursday.
He said civilians in Kyiv are living through uncertainty and danger but added there is no fear and people are united.
These guns are for animals hunting but also we can use them to protect ourselves.
People are willing to do the job protecting this city and if Mr Putin wanted to scare Ukraine and divide it, well I think that he has done the opposite.
He also urged European partners to close the sky above Ukraine in a bid to stop the Russian missiles and warplanes from flying over.
We dont need anything except for medication, food and that kind of thing and Im helping to provide that for now, he said.
We are hoping for the best still because we can see that the world is supporting us.
Mr Rulyov attempted to enlist in the regional defence, but was turned as they already had enough people and weapons.
A Ukrainian enduring shelling in Kyiv has urged Britons to close your eyes and imagine how it feels to experience bombs falling outside your home.
Mr Rulyov said since the first attack it has been impossible to distinguish what day of the week it is and instead counts the number of days of war.
When you read about it in a book, it seems so easy to understand but really its impossible to express what you feel because you never know where a shell or missile will hit.
Ms Vinnychenko has been sheltering at her friends house for four days along with six other families, including children.
Remember how your grandparents felt when they were bombed during the war with Hitler, because the British people suffered a lot.
He told the PA news agency: To the people of Britain, I ask you that when you come home from work today, hug your family, hug your kids, close your eyes and for a second just imagine there are explosions outside your house.
But here in Ukraine, we are feeling this right now and were living through it.
She told the PA news agency: They killed a lot of people, a lot of children. And its not the military operation as they are saying in their television its war. Theyre bombing us. Theyre killing us. And we cant forgive this.
Russian occupants are now on our territory so they can shoot, but we have guns to protect our families, she said.
Try to imagine that feeling for a second and I hope you never have to feel that feeling again.
He described President Putin as sick and warned that the war is not about Ukraine and that people all over the world are in danger if the Russians are successful.
Honestly we are in very good conditions now in comparison with the people in the centre of the city in the multi-storey buildings.
Olena Vinnychenko, 43, who lives 2km outside Kyiv, said she will never be able to forgive Russia for the war.
Vitaliy Rulyov, 36, from Trojeshchina, Desnyanskiy district of Kyiv, has compared air raids in the capital to Britain during the Blitz but said his city is surviving and supporting one another.
I was in line for bread and it took me two hours to get to the store but people were exchanging good things about how we are surviving and supporting each other.
