Ukraine now knows the price of freedom on Independence Day says aid worker
20220824
https://www.impartialreporter.com/news/national/20733643.ukraine-now-knows-price-freedom-independence-day-says-aid-worker/
To be able to be here and sit in my car peacefully without the risk of being killed by a shell.
I can tell you one thing for sure that I have learned in this war.
Through Twitter, Dimko Zhluktenko has raised more than 250,000 US dollars around 213,000 worth of military equipment for the Ukrainian army and organised the delivery of thousands of toys to refugee children arriving in Lviv, western Ukraine.
Its f up to know that your friends, your classmates, are fighting on the front lines and theyre at a deadly risk of being killed by artillery rounds or whatever else, he said.
I know they are doing the right thing, and I absolutely support them doing so.
While he said it was great to reunite with friends, Mr Zhluktenko admitted it was hard to see them put their lives at risk.
Like Kramatorsk, which used to have a population of 150,000 I went there a week and a half ago and its literally empty.
A Ukrainian aid worker said his people now know the price of freedom after visiting Ukraines worst-hit ghost cities and reflecting on six months of war with Russia.
Its so lovely here, people are drinking their coffee and iced matcha lattes  real civilised life, he said.
Its being highlighted every day  people see with their own eyes that independence or freedom isnt something you take for granted, its something that Ukrainians are fighting for.
Its hard to go alone, get yourself some mates going through life path with you.
Mr Zhluktenko, 23, has not yet been drafted into the military but recently visited Kharkiv and the contested Donbas region in eastern Ukraine to see friends fighting on the front line ahead of his countrys Independence Day on Wednesday.
Its devastating seeing all of the places either destroyed, bombed, or just empty, he told the PA news agency.
He also described the usual parades, singing, and concerts that take place in major Ukrainian cities for their Independence Day on August 24.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has killed 9,000 Ukrainian soldiers and 5,587 civilians, according to a Ukrainian military chief and statistics from the UN.
Mr Zhluktenko contrasted life on the front lines with the every day in Lviv, where he is currently based.
Though there might not be the same mass celebration on Wednesday, Mr Zhluktenko said Ukrainians now understand the price of that freedom.
Its great to see because that is exactly what Ukraine is fighting for, for a peaceful life.
Our life depends on it What is at stake right now in this war is our nation, our existence, our independence.
