Meta says its metaverse biz lost another 3B but the 2030s will be exciting
20220427
https://techcrunch.com/2022/04/27/meta-facebook-q1-2022-earnings/
Horizon Worlds, Metas social VR app, started rolling out creator monetization features late in the quarter, but those in-app purchases wont move the needle much if the platform doesnt significantly woo more users. Soon, Meta will roll out a web version of Horizon Worlds, welcoming people who dont have $300 to drop on a VR headset. Zuckerberg said that Horizon is the centerpiece of the companys strategy to develop the metaverse.
Like its competitors at Snapchat and YouTube, Meta also cited a downward trend in ad revenue due to the Russian war on Ukraine Facebook is now banned in Russia. Overall, Metas quarterly revenue rose by 7, missing analysts 7.8 expectation. The combination of increased DAUs and lower-than-expected ad revenue can be explained by the fact that Metas apps are growing in regions like the Asia-Pacific region, where ads cost less, rather than the U.S. and Europe.
Metas most promising money-maker from Reality Labs are the headsets themselves. The Meta Quest 2 had a big bump in sales during the holiday season, and the company is already looking toward releasing its newest headset later this year, codenamed Project Cambria.
Zuckerberg said that the new, premium headset will be focused on work use cases and eventually replacing your laptop or work setup. Meta is also building eye-tracking and face-tracking so that when youre socializing in VR, people will be able to perceive your real-life facial expressions. He added that we can expect more news on the headset in the months ahead.
Back on its family of apps, Meta faces competition from TikTok as it aims to overtake the platform as the leader in short-form video. But Zuckerberg reported that his companys investment in its TikTok clone Reels is working, noting Reels makes up 20 of the time that users spend on Instagram. Plus, video accounts for 50 of the time that users spend on Facebook.
Im just trying to lead the company in a way where were positioning ourselves as the premier company for building the future of social interactionand the metaverse, Zuckerberg said. If you care about those things, I think were getting the best people to come work here.
For the second time since its rebrand from Facebook, Meta has reported its quarterly earnings. Last time, the Facebook platform reported its first decline in DAUs in its 18-year history, but now, Facebook boasts 1.96 billion DAUs, up from 1.92 billion last quarter.
I recognize its expensive to build this. Its something thats never been built before, Zuckerberg said. He conceded that because of these investments, Metas overall profitability wont grow in 2022, especially since ad revenue hasnt grown as fast as expected.
Of course, Metas family of apps  Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger  isnt the star of the show. As CEO Mark Zuckerberg explained, the revenue from these apps is helping to fund Metas projects in virtual reality, which he is betting will become the companys crown jewel in the future.
Its not going to be until those products really hit the market and scale in a meaningful way, and this market ends up being big, that this will be a big revenue or profit contributor to the business, said Zuckerberg. This is laying the groundwork for what I expect to be a very exciting 2030.
Was this worth renaming the companyfor? In Q1 alone, Metas Reality Labs operated at a loss of $2.96 billion, and last year, Reality Labs lost over $10 billion.
Do you hear that? Its the sound of every Meta executive breathing a deep sigh of relief, because unlike last quarter, Facebooks daily active users DAUs are up a little.
