Twitter to show Birdwatch community factchecks to more users following criticism
20220303
https://techcrunch.com/2022/03/03/twitter-to-show-birdwatch-community-fact-checks-to-more-users-following-criticism/
In a survey, Twitter found that people were 20 to 40 less likely to agree with the substance of a potentially misleading tweet after they viewed a note about it, compared with those who didnt see the note.
Twitter declined to say how many U.S. users will now see the Birdwatch notes and be able to rate them, or even what percentage of Twitters U.S. userbase that represents.
The original idea behind Birdwatch was to create a system for fighting misinformation on the platform at a much faster pace than whats possible today by reporting tweets to Twitter for review.
As Twitter explained when the service officially launched into pilot testing in January 2021, misleading information can quickly spread online, and the Birdwatch notes could provide added context in a more immediate fashion. Plus, the notes could help address concerns with problematic tweets that users would otherwise report to Twitter for takedown but didnt actually break the rules. And they could enhance tweets that are perhaps factually true but lacking context that could provide a clearer picture of the matter.
The timing of Twitters announcement comes only days after a report by The Washington Post criticized the company for having failed to launch the Birdwatch service more publicly over a year after it first debuted.
During its earlier pilot phases, Twitter made improvements to Birdwatch, including offering contributors auto-generated aliases to keep them protected from abuse and notifications that let them know when their notes were rated helpful or elevated. To be shown on a tweet, notes must first be rated by enough Birdwatch contributors from different perspectives, the company said. Twitter also added in-app prompt reminders to encourage contributors to include their sources and make their explanations clear and introduced a Needs Your Help tab for Birdwatch participants to rate notes in need of more feedback.
Twitter said its expanding access to Birdwatch, its community-based fact-checking initiative first revealedin October 2020. The service so far has been tested by a small group of 10,000 contributors who have invested time in writing and rating notes to add more context to tweets that could be potentially misleading. The company, however, isnt opening up Birdwatch to more contributors, but rather will make those notes viewable and ratable by more U.S. users.
Although Birdwatch notes may become visible to a small number of users starting today, its far from being a public launch. The program is still considered a pilot.
But as the Russia-Ukraine war rages, better or at least faster fact-checking is in greater demand than ever due to the spread of misinformation and propaganda across social media. In a comment to The Washington Post, Twitter said it would expand the Birdwatch pilot very soon. In other words, the timing of todays announcement is not a coincidence.
In the time since the pilot began, Twitter has frittered around with all sorts of other projects designed to grow revenue, including a set of creator tools Super Follows, e-commerce features, a subscription product for power users Twitter Blue, newsletters Revue, NFT avatars, in-app tipping, live audio Twitter Spaces, and more.
Then theres the issue with how critical some fact-checks are compared to others, and whether tucked-away notes are the right way to bring the truth to light. For instance, while its good to know that the person identified as Mark Hamill in a GIF posted by a meme account is probably just a talented cosplayer, its quite another thing when a verified former prime minister of Sweden and diplomat tweets a misleading photo from the Ukraine-Russia war.
Last summer, Twitter announced it would work with AP and Reuters to help it fight misinformation on its platform, which also included helping to assess the Birdwatch contributions.
Starting today, the company said a small and randomized group of U.S. Twitter users will see the Birdwatch notes directly on tweets, and will be able to provide input by rating the note as Helpful, Somewhat, or No and indicate why theyve answered as they did. These signals will help Birdwatch to improve.
There also continues to be the question as to whether community fact-checks are even the right approach to handling misinformation, given that Birdwatch contributors arent necessarily trained fact-checkers, journalists or subject matter experts of some sort. Plus, even those who are subject matter experts in one field cant necessarily be counted on to properly assess misinformation in another. Instead, requirements state they must simply have a verified phone number, a trusted U.S.-based phone carrier and no recent Twitter violations.
