A long way from Collins Street life is cheaper than a MacBook
20220421
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/a-long-way-from-collins-street-life-is-cheaper-than-a-macbook-20220414-p5adhj.html
There are many other ways to tell his story. We can see the soldier as Russia, invader and thief, justly gunned down. For the Russian High Command it will be a morality tale about letting ravenousness interfere with a noble cause, a special peacekeeping operation. His sister would have a different take, and would wonder how her gigglepot brother came to be a looter, lying forever in foreign soil.
This Russian soldiers act of avarice epitomises much of what was going on around him when he was shot. He perfectly represents his countrys adventurism and miscalculation, its brazen thievery, its military indomitability, quickly found to be an illusion. And the thing he was trying to steal was an invention of the United States. As almost every covetable object is.
Its a grand act of optimism, amid the gutter-strewn civilians and burning Skodas, to be imagining a future where computers are crucial and armor isnt  a time when the world has beaten its swords into ploughshares, as we are called to do by the Book of Isaiah. It is also dangerous. That age of ploughshares had not yet dawned. This soldier was still at war.
Then, the story goes, it occurred to him that a MacBook was the same size and shape as a plate of body armor in his bulletproof vest. So, unstitching his vest, he removed a plate of armor and replaced it with the MacBook and restitched the garment. It would not be discovered there.
This morning I sat drinking coffee in Collins Street and watched young men walking past carrying laptops and I tried to make each of them him, home from the war with his Mac. But they resisted my accusation, fixed firmly in the present by their smiling conversations and snappy dress. Its almost impossible to make a villain out of a hipster. For that you need a war.
But how will I get my prize home? My comrades are thieves. If I put it in my duffle bag they will steal it while I sleep. Or some officer will denounce me and confiscate it and give it to his own children. Loot wends its way to the colonels as surely as The Volga to The Caspian.
What were his motives for the theft? Was he stealing the computer to ogle porn when he got back to his flat in St Petersburg? Or was he going to use it to study architecture in order to rebuild a world hed been a reluctant accessory in destroying? A looter, or a remorseful kid with stars in his eyes? A propagandised invader? Or a boy caught in a trap, unable to flee, like every Ukrainian male of 18 or over? All of these, I guess, if each of us contains Whitmans multitudes. But his fate is so resonant of the stupid own-goal kicked by Putin he becomes a substitute in whose death I cant help but see some kind of justice.
I didnt want to be here, he might have thought. Its not my war. But now that I am here, risking my life, dont I deserve some reward? Yes. I should take it. Its previous owner is dead so the world it contains is now irrelevant and can be replaced by mine with a few touches of a few buttons and no moral qualms.
Recently in Ukraine, in the Hero City of Irpin, a Russian soldier a gleeful warrior or a weak-kneed conscript? I dont know reportedly got his hands on a MacBook that had belonged to a Ukrainian. Should he take it for himself? Was it a spoil of war? Soon this war will end, he must have thought to himself, and then I will go home to St Petersburg, and if I go home with this MacBook Ill be empowered. Its a rare prize. In the country of the blind the one-eyed man is king and MacBooks are so hard to get in St Petersburg itll be like having sight in a blind country.
Not long after he modified his vest some modern-day William Tell put a bullet right through his Apple logo and he was killed. Such neat comeuppance as this usually plays out in the final minute of a Hollywood B movie, with a cut-rate Hemsworth pulling the trigger. I imagine the Ukrainian who shot him must have had his prejudice against Russian technology confirmed. Christ, those Russian vests are trash. I wont be stripping a corpse for one of those.
