Another awkward moment Kamala Harris highstakes Ukraine war diplomatic mission
20220310
https://www.theage.com.au/world/north-america/kamala-harris-tested-over-polish-fighter-jet-row-as-ukraine-war-rages-20220310-p5a3ck.html
Harris  whose mission to Europe was largely designed to highlight NATOs unity in the face of Putins relentless attack  was suddenly thrust into a rare moment of disharmony between the Western allies.
She also embraced calls for an investigation over whether Russias invasion of Ukraine constituted a war crime and announced an extra $US53 million in humanitarian assistance.
Vice-President Kamala Harris arrives to board Air Force Two for a trip to Poland and RomaniaCredit:AP
How she performs on the world stage will go some way to persuading voters that she has what it takes to step into the top job.
The prospect of fighter jets at the disposal of the government of the United States of America departing from a USNATO base in Germany to fly into airspace that is contested with Russia over Ukraine raises serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance, said Pentagon press secretary John Kirby.
But Harris was ridiculed by her adversaries after she gave a clumsy and defensive response to questions over why she had not visited the US-Mexico border, given immigration was something Biden had been asked her to oversee.
But Harris also struggled on a number of fronts, including describing the eastern flank as the northern flank and giggling nervously at a serious question about how the US could further assist with the influx of Ukrainian refugees. She seemed unprepared, and turned to Duda to provide the answer first, laughing at her own joke that a friend in need is a friend indeed.
While the trip was mostly well-received, Republicans and other critics accused the VP of being typically lacklustre during a press conference where she didnt have the comfort of a teleprompter or a well-rehearsed script.
Take her first trip to Mexico and Guatemala in June. The goal was to come up with a strategy to deal with the tide of migrants coming from the region known as the Northern Triangle, which consists of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
This particular foreign trip was much less controversial than Harris first, partly because it was so tightly choreographed to avoid the same kind of stumbles that overshadowed her time in Central America.
After a difficult year as Joe Bidens second-in-charge, Harris mission was meant to be simple. Rally NATO against Russian President Vladimir Putins aggression. Meet with some of the Ukrainian refugees who had escaped to Poland. Attend bilateral talks with Polish leaders and then fly to Romania to do the same.
At least, that was Polands plan - which happened to catch the US completely off guard.
Tensions began to simmer on Wednesday AEDT, when the Polish government announced it would help boost Zelenskys air forces by deploying 28 Russian-made MiG-29 jets to Ukraine via an American air base in Germany.
Then came her visit to Paris in November after the AUKUS submarine deal between the US, Britain and Australia sparked a diplomatic rift thanks in part to Australia breaking a $90 billion contract with the French government.
But before she even stepped on the tarmac in Warsaw, the visit was overshadowed by a delicate dance around the transfer of fighter jets that Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky desperately needs to counter Russias bloody invasion.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Polands offer was designed to avoid the appearance of Poland directly arming Ukraine. However, the Pentagon rejected the idea, warning that it would be too risky to get the jets into Ukraine without triggering a dangerous escalation by Russia.
Republican Texas Senator Ted Cruz even tweeted a Washington Post piece that quoted an unnamed American official suggesting that the trip was more about pumping up Harris profile than finding solutions.
This weeks three-day trip was another test of her mettle. So far, the jury is out.
The jets would be deployed immediately and free of charge, Polands Foreign Ministry declared in a statement, and the US could take possession of them and get them into Ukraine. In turn, the US would supply Poland with American jets with similar capabilities.
Washington: US Vice-President Kamala Harris landed in Eastern Europe overnight to strengthen ties with Western allies, and to try to tamp down on a row over fighter planes between Poland and America.
Speaking at a joint news conference with Polish President Andrzej Duda on Friday AEDT, Harris refused to address the issue, seeking instead to reinforce cooperative ties between the two countries, without making any additional military commitments beyond what the US is already providing.
We will continue to consult with Poland and our other NATO allies about this issue and the difficult logistical challenges it presents, but we do not believe Polands proposal is a tenable one.
All this matters because as Vice-President, Harris has a clear stepping stone to the Democratic nomination for president if Biden, now 79, chooses not to run again in 2024.
I want to be very clear. The United States and Poland are united in what we have done and are prepared to help Ukraine and the people of Ukraine, full stop, she said.
Two Polish Air Force MiG-29 jets fly above and below two Polish Air Force F-16 jets at an airshow in 2011. The Pentagon says flying Polish warplanes from US bases to help Ukraine is untenable. Credit:AP
How seriously does the Biden admin take our national security? Cruz wrote. On the brink of a potential war in Europe, they used a security conference as a photo op for Kamala, and then leaked to the press that she was totally unqualified to be there.
Her last overseas visit was to the Munich Security Council last month, as the geopolitical crisis on the Ukraine border intensified.
It was another awkward moment for Harris, whose term as Vice-President has been hindered by staff turnovers, lingering doubts about her performance, and mixed reviews when it comes to her work on the global stage.
