As civilians escape from Mariupols bunkers Russia hammers other cities in the east
20220501
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/civilians-evacuated-from-ukraine-s-mariupol-us-speaker-pelosi-visits-kyiv-20220502-p5ahmu.html
This will only build up the toxic attitude to the Russian state and increase the numbers of those working to isolate Russia, Zelensky said.
Negotiations to evacuate the civilians had repeatedly broken down in recent weeks, with Russia and Ukraine blaming each other.
The Ukrainian media reported on Saturday that their forces had killed Maj Gen Andrei Simonov, in an air strike at Russias eastern command centre. Ukraine has claimed that nine other Russian generals have died in the war.
KyivBezimenne: Around 100 Ukrainian civilians have been evacuated from the ruined Azovstal steelworks in the city of Mariupol, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said, after the United Nations confirmed a safe passage operation was in progress there.
On Saturday Hollywood actress Angelina Jolie visited the Ukrainian city of Lviv, going to the station to meet people displaced by the war with Russia before later leaving after air-raid sirens sounded. Jolie, 46, is a special envoy for the United Nations refugee agency, which says more than 12.7 million people have fled their homes in the past two months, which represents around 30 per cent of Ukraines pre-war population.
The briefing note said that some of Putins elite units had suffered high attrition rates, adding: It will probably take years for Russia to reconstitute these forces.
Moscow calls its actions a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of anti-Russian nationalism fomented by the West. Ukraine and the West say Russia launched an unprovoked war of aggression.
Zelensky praised as substantive four hours of talks with Pelosi focused on US weapons deliveries, adding he was grateful to all of Ukraines partners who visit the capital at such a difficult time.
Get a note direct from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
With fighting stretching along a broad front in southern and eastern Ukraine, US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi pledged continued US support for Ukraine when she met Zelensky in an unannounced visit to Kyiv.
Evacuees accompanied by Red Cross personnel walk in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Bezimenne, about 20 kilometres east of Mariupol.Credit:AP
But on Sunday, more than 50 civilians arrived at a temporary accommodation centre after escaping from Mariupol, a Reuters photographer said.
The civilians arrived on buses in a convoy with UN and Russian military vehicles at the Russian-held village of Bezimenne, around 30 kilometres east of Mariupol, where a row of light blue tents had been set up.
Denys Shleha, commander of Ukraines 12th National guard brigade, speaking to television on Sunday from the Azovstal plant, said several hundred civilians remained in bunkers there, including about 20 children, and that one or two additional evacuation efforts of similar scale would be needed.
More than a quarter of the units dedicated to Russias invasion of Ukraine are probably now combat ineffective, according to the UKs Ministry of Defences latest update.
On Sunday, Swedens Foreign Minister Ann Linde told Swedish television that Finland will almost certainly apply for NATO membership.
Russias military has turned its focus to Ukraines south and east after failing to capture Kyiv in the early weeks of a war that has flattened cities, killed thousands of civilians and forced more than 5 million to flee the country.
The first evacuees would arrive in the Ukrainian-controlled city of Zaporizhzhia on Monday morning, he said, adding that he hoped conditions would continue that allowed for more people to be evacuated.
In Mariupol, Moscow declared victory on April 21 even as hundreds of holdout Ukrainian troops and civilians took shelter in the Azovstal steelworks, a vast Soviet-era complex with a network of bunkers and tunnels, where they have been trapped with little food, water or medicine.
Ukraines military said Russian forces were fighting to push north from Kherson to the cities of Mykolayiv and Kryvyi Rih, and Zelensky said Russian troops continued to launch strikes on residential areas and had destroyed grain storage depots.
We know more or less that they Finland will apply for NATO membership. And that changes the whole balance... If one of our countries join, we know that tensions would increase, Linde told public broadcaster SVT.
Russias defence ministry said it had carried out a missile strike on a military airfield near the port city of Odesa, destroying a runway and a hangar containing weapons and ammunition supplied to Ukraine by the United States and European countries.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky awards the Order of Princess Olga, the third grade, to US Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.Credit:
The strategic port city on the Azov Sea has endured the most destructive siege of the war with Russia  now in its third month  with Pope Francis, in an implicit criticism of Moscow, telling thousands of people in St Peters Square on Sunday it had been barbarously bombarded.
A spokesperson for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said a safe passage operation had started on Saturday and was being coordinated with the International Committee of the Red Cross, Russia and Ukraine.
Western nations have imposed broad economic sanctions on Russia and have been shipping increasing quantities of weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.
On Sunday, Kharkiv region governor Oleh Synehubov warned residents in the north and east of the city of Kharkiv to remain in their shelters due to heavy Russian shelling.
Finlands Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto said on Friday that he hoped Finland and Sweden would make similar decisions at the same time.
For the first time, we had two days of a ceasefire on this territory, and we managed to take out more than 100 civilians  women, children, Zelensky said in a nightly video address.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has forced both Sweden and its eastern neighbour Finland to review beliefs that military neutrality is the best means of ensuring national security.
In the east, Moscow is pushing for complete control of the Donbas region, where Russian-backed separatists already controlled parts of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces before the invasion.
Ukraine said a day earlier that Russian missiles had knocked out a runway opened at Odesas main airport last July to facilitate tourism, though Reuters could not verify if the incidents were related.
Both Sweden and Finland are expected to make a decision on whether to join the military alliance in the coming weeks.
One of the evacuees, Natalia Usmanova, 37, said she had been so terrified as Russian bombs rained down on the plant sprinkling her with concrete dust that she felt her heart would stop.
When the bunker started to shake, I was hysterical. My husband can vouch for that. I was so worried the bunker would cave in, she told Reuters in Bezimenne.
Serhiy Gaidai, governor of the Luhansk region, in a social media post, urged people to evacuate while it was still possible.
Footage posted by Zelensky on Twitter on Sunday showed him, flanked by an armed escort and dressed in military fatigues, greeting a US congressional delegation led by Pelosi outside his presidential office the previous day.
US Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in New York he would add provisions to a $US33 billion Ukraine aid package to allow the United States to seize Russian oligarchs assets and send money from their sale directly to Ukraine.
Our delegation travelled to Kyiv to send an unmistakable and resounding message to the entire world: America stands firmly with Ukraine, Pelosi, the highest ranking US official to visit Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24, said in a statement.
A plan to evacuate civilians from areas of the devastated city outside the steelworks had been postponed to Monday morning, Mariupols city council said.
