Ashamed Russian diplomat resigns as soldier sentenced to life in prison
20220523
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/russian-soldier-sentenced-to-life-in-prison-in-ukraine-s-first-war-crimes-trial-20220523-p5anvy.html
Russias main investigative body said it intends to interrogate the Mariupol defenders to identify the nationalists and determine whether they were involved in crimes against civilians. Russian authorities have seized upon the far-right origins of one of the regiments there, calling the Azov Regiments fighters Nazis and accusing their commander of numerous atrocities  without evidence.
Kyiv: A veteran Russian diplomat to the UN Office at Geneva has resigned over the aggressive war unleashed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in Ukraine in a rare public rebuke.
Difficult cases may need to go to the International Criminal Court at The Hague, in the Netherlands, Abraham said.
Family members of the fighters have pleaded for them to be given rights as prisoners of war and eventually returned to Ukraine. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said he is open to any possibility that doesnt contradict common sense.
Shishimarin had told the court that he at first disobeyed his immediate commanding officers order to shoot the unarmed civilian but had no choice but to follow the order when it was repeated forcefully by another officer. Abraham, however, noted that following a order is not a defence under the law.
On the battlefield, Russian forces increased bombardments in the Donbas, the eastern industrial heartland of coal mines and factories that Russia is bent on capturing.
For 20 years of my diplomatic career I have seen different turns of our foreign policy, but never have I been so ashamed of my country as on February 24 of this year, he wrote, alluding to the date of Russias invasion.
This is what sanctions should be: They should be maximum, so that Russia and every other potential aggressor that wants to wage a brutal war against its neighbour would clearly know the immediate consequences of their actions, said Zelensky, who received a standing ovation.
His Ukraine-appointed defence attorney, Victor Ovsyanikov, argued his client had been unprepared for the violent military confrontation and mass casualties that Russian troops encountered when they invaded. He said he would appeal.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
At the Davos forum, Zelensky said sanctions against the Kremlin need to go further. He urged an embargo on Russian oil, a complete cutoff of trade with Russia and a withdrawal of foreign companies from the country.
Reached by phone, Bondarev  a diplomatic counsellor who has focused on Russias role in the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva after postings in places like Cambodia and Mongolia  confirmed he handed in his resignation in a letter addressed to Ambassador Gennady Gatilov.
Ukrainian civil liberties advocate Volodymyr Yavorskyy said it was an extremely harsh sentence for one murder during the war. But Aarif Abraham, a British-based human rights lawyer, said the trial was conducted with what appears to be full and fair due process, including access to an attorney.
In his letter, Russian diplomat Boris Bondarev, 41, said those who conceived the war want only one thing  to remain in power forever, live in pompous tasteless palaces, sail on yachts comparable in tonnage and cost to the entire Russian Navy, enjoying unlimited power and complete impunity.
Russian diplomat Boris Bondarev said he was ashamed of his countrys war in Ukraine.Credit:Boris Bondarev via AP
It is intolerable what my government is doing now, he told AP. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not about diplomacy. It is all about warmongering, lies and hatred.
In the first of what could be a multitude of war crimes trials inside Ukraine, Russian sergeant Vadim Shishimarin, 21, was sentenced for the killing of a 62-year-old man who was shot in the head in a village in the northeastern Sumy region in the early days of the war. Shishimarin, a captured member of a tank unit, apologised to the mans widow in court.
Russian authorities have threatened to hold trials of captured Ukrainians  namely, fighters who held out at Mariupols shattered steelworks, the last stronghold of resistance in the strategic southern port city. They surrendered and were taken prisoner last week, at which point Moscow claimed the capture of Mariupol was complete.
Ukrainian prosecutors are investigating thousands of potential war crimes. Russian forces in Mariupol bombed a theatre where civilians were sheltering and struck a maternity hospital. In the wake of Moscows withdrawal from around Kyiv weeks ago, mass graves were discovered and streets were strewn with bodies in towns such as Bucha.
Meanwhile, a Russian soldier who pleaded guilty to killing a civilian has been sentenced by a Ukrainian court to life in prison.
Russias top prosecutor has asked the countrys Supreme Court to designate the Azov Regiment a terrorist organisation.
Before the sentencing, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Moscow was unable to defend the soldier on the ground but will consider trying to do so through other channels.
