Australian cyber spies to aid Ukraine as country prepares for Russian attack
20220220
https://www.theage.com.au/politics/federal/australian-cyber-spies-to-aid-ukraine-as-country-prepares-for-russian-attack-20220220-p59y1k.html
The Morning Edition newsletter is our guide to the days most important and interesting stories, analysis and insights. Sign up here.
Australia will offer help with cyber-security training so Ukraine can better defend against Russian hacks.
Ukraine is also not conducting or planning any sabotage acts in Donbass, the embassy said. We categorically reject the attempts of Russia to aggravate the already tense security situation.
Australia will continue providing cyber security assistance to the Ukrainian government, including through a new bilateral cyber policy dialogue and further cyber-security training for Ukrainian officials.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday ruled out Australia deploying troops in Ukraine, but confirmed it would be offering help whether it be in the cyberspace area or things of that nature.
The international community must not tolerate Russias misuse of cyberspace to undermine Ukraines national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity by seeking to disrupt essential services, businesses and community confidence.
The Defence Minister said Mr Putin needed to resist the urge because it would result in the bloody scenes that we would expect out of a war zone to be filling our TV screens, and the human tragedy of that on the ground is something that the world just doesnt want to see.
I think, frankly, we would expect that there will be an incursion into the Ukraine. Were seeing the opening days really all of that  cyber attacks, the false flag activity and other reporting that ... is there at the moment, Mr Dutton told Sky News. Its regrettable. But I think thats the action that Putin is intent on taking. And taking troops back, moving troops back, is just not a reality.
The Ukrainian embassy in Australia rejected accusations its government was preparing to attack areas in the Donbass region controlled by Russian-backed separatists, hitting out at the attempts of Russia to aggravate the already tense security situation.
Russia is making these moves to increase psychological pressure on both the Ukrainian government and the residents of the temporarily occupied territories, and to form information background to conceal escalation of the security situation.
Defence Minister Peter Dutton said on Sunday it was hard to see Russia pulling back troops, warning President Vladimir Putin was intent on invading.
He said Australia would impose additional sanctions on Russia if it went ahead with an invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine is a country that wants to make its own decisions, who wants to join NATO  thats up to them. Its not up to other countries to seek to bully them out of the decisions that they want to make as sovereign countries, and they cannot use threats of violence to intimidate countries in this way. Its not just about their territorial sovereignty.
He said the Kremlins actions were unwarranted and unprovoked in terms of the threats of terrible violence that Russia is imposing on Ukraine.
Australian cyber spies will help train Ukraine to defend against hack attacks from Russia amid warnings Moscow could move to invade the country within days.
Mr Dutton said he hoped for an 11th-hour miracle but its very hard to see how thats the case.
Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne will meet remotely with Mr Kuleba on Sunday night to discuss the worsening situation, including how Australia could help Ukraine fend off a Russian attack.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, facing an escalation in violence in and around territory held by Russia-backed rebels, has called for Mr Putin to meet him and seek a resolution to the crisis.
The Australian government on Sunday night joined with other countries in publicly attributing cyber attacks against the Ukrainian banking sector last week to a Russian spy agency.
This is not any legitimate action. There is no just grievance which is being pursued by Russia in relation to Ukraine, Mr Morrison said.
Were in the year 2022. And, frankly, leaders should be behaving in a different way, in a more responsible way. And the Alliance now between China and Russia is deeply concerning. And thats the world in which we live and we need to respond accordingly, and that will include sanctions and it will include a co-ordinated act of implementing those sanctions and, obviously, we will work closely with our allies because Russia does ... need to understand, as does China, that there is a price to pay for those acts of aggression.
Russia on Saturday said at least two shells fired from a government-held part of eastern Ukraine landed across the border, but Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba dismissed this as a fake statement.
Labor leader said Anthony Albanese said there was no place for the intimidation and threats that weve seen from Russia against a sovereign government, which should be respected.
The Ukrainian embassy in Australia said allegations its government intended to launch an offensive operation in the uncontrolled Donetsk and Luhansk regions were divorced from reality.
I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers, Mr Pushilin said.
The two Russia-backed, self-proclaimed republics in Ukraines Donetsk and Luhansk regions were hit by more than 1400 explosions on Friday, and almost 2000 ceasefire violations were registered in the area by the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe on Saturday, a diplomatic source told Reuters.
Earlier, Denis Pushilin, head of the pro-Russia separatist government in the Donetsk region, cited an immediate threat of aggression from Ukrainian forces.
A Ukrainian serviceman points in the direction of incoming shelling in the village of Krymske, Luhansk region, in eastern Ukraine on Saturday.Credit:AP
The Australian government stands in solidarity with Ukraine and our allies and partners to hold Russia to account for its ongoing unacceptable and disruptive pattern of malicious cyber activity, the ministers said.
In a joint statement Senator Payne, Mr Dutton and Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews said on Sunday night that Australia was joining with the US and Britain in publicly attributing last weeks cyber attacks to the Russian Main Intelligence Directorate.
United States President Joe Bidens administration has repeatedly warned of false flag attacks by Russia to create the pretext for an invasion.
