Biden calls invasion a dangerous moment for freedom around the world
20220224
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/biden-calls-invasion-a-dangerous-moment-for-freedom-around-the-world-20220225-p59zk0.html
Putins actions were the chilling fulfillment of predictions US national security officials had been making for weeks, even in the face of scepticism that an all-out incursion was imminent.
Washington: Russias biggest banks will be excluded from global financial systems, export controls will be used to damage key Moscow industries, and additional troops will be deployed to help Ukraine defend itself in the largest conflict Europe has faced since World War II.
Theres no doubt that weakness leads to war, Congressman Brian Mast, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, tweeted as Russian tanks rolled through Ukraine.
One key measure that has been considered by the White House - to cut Russia off from the SWIFT global banking system - did not form part of the latest sanctions, despite calls from officials such as Ukraines foreign affairs minister Dmytro Kuleba to ban them from the system.
Cities, towns and villages across Ukraine have been bombarded by Russias military, forcing the nations President Volodymyr Zelensky to introduce martial law across as he urged his citizens to remain calm.
It remains to be seen if the latest measures will put the brakes on Putins attack, which US officials view as a deliberate attempt to topple Ukraines western-leaning, democratically elected government.
US president Joe Biden delivers his first remarks since Russias full scale invasion of UkraineCredit:AP
The Presidents announcement came after he spent over an hour discussing the unfolding crisis in Ukraine with G7 leaders, including German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, French President Emmanuel Macron of France, Japans Prime Minister Kishida Fumio and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Another summit with NATO will be convened tomorrow.
Moments after the first explosions were heard in Ukraine, Zelensky had phoned Joe Biden, urging his US counterpart to call on world leaders to speak out against Russias flagrant aggression and to stand with the people of Ukraine.
As early as November, America was privately warned its allies in Europe that Putin had plans to invade Ukraine, sharing intel on how Russia was planning to double troop numbers and where was planning to position artillery as well as air, ground and sea forces.
Asked why it wasnt included, Biden said the financial sanctions outlined exceed SWIFT and that cutting off Russia from the global system is always an option - but that is not a position that the rest of Europe wishes to take.
Putin once said the collapse of the Soviet empire was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the past century for Russia. For America, President Biden may be the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of this century.
Additional troops would be deployed to Germany to bolster NATOs defences - although none would be sent into Ukraine, which is not a member of the alliance.
Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. And now he and his country will bear the consequences, he said.
This is a guy at 69 years old whos got an obsession with recreating a greater Russia and weve been concerned for quite some time that the normal rules of the road would not constrain him, Warner told CNN. I dont believe preemptive sanctions would have changed anything. In fact preemptive sanctions might have split apart the NATO alliance.
Others, like Democrat Senator Mark Warner, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, argued that pre-emptive sanctions may have been of little benefit.
US President Joe Biden ordered  Army troops of the 82nd Airborne Division into eastern Europe as Vladimir Putin has amassed some 100,000 troops on the Ukraine border. Credit:AP
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Putins aggression against Ukraine will end up costing Russia dearly, economically and strategically, Biden said in an address from the White House. We will make sure that Putin will be a pariah on the international stage.
Warning that this was a dangerous moment for all of Europe and for freedom around the world, the President announced a new raft of measures that he said would devastate Russias economy and maximise the long-term impact on the country and its people.
More Russian elites and their family members would also be targeted, he said, and the prospect that Putin himself could also be directly sanctioned has not been ruled out.
And Russia-wide restrictions would be imposed on sensitive US technologies such as telecommunications, encryption security, and maritime technologies - a move that Biden said would strike a blow to Putins long-term ambitions and Russias ability to modernise its military or aerospace capabilities.
Biden has already come under fire for his response, particularly from Republicans whe blamed him for not doing enough to deter Putin sooner.
SWIFT is used by over 11,000 financial institutions around the world to send secure messages and payment orders. As there is no globally accepted alternative, removing Russia from the system would make it nearly impossible for financial institutions to send money in or out of the country, thereby hurting Russian companies and their foreign customers.
Hours after Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a multi-pronged assault that killed more than 150 people and injures hundreds and forced many others to take shelter as missiles struck their cities, US President Joe Biden condemned the move as a premeditated invasion and vowed that the world would hold Putin accountable.
Among them are sanctions on four Russian banks that hold more than $1 trillion in assets, including Russias two largest lenders, Sberbank and VTB.
