Black hole Putin has made a serious economic blunder
20220228
https://www.theage.com.au/business/the-economy/black-hole-putin-has-made-a-serious-economic-blunder-20220307-p5a29s.html
In the short term, European leaders are thinking about how to keep the lights on next winter if supplies from Russia are disrupted. But in the long-term, a huge price will be paid by Putin as countries wake up and take action over their overreliance on Russian goods.
As the worlds third-biggest oil producer and second-largest in gas, Russia has become a particularly vital source in Europe.
Despite a political career fighting coal and nuclear, even the new economy minister now concedes pragmatism must trump every political commitment.
This becomes a question of the energy transition and there we come up against the challenges of how we consume gas.
Russia is also a major supplier of oil and coal to Europe - around 27 per cent and 47 per cent of imports, respectively.
A hint of the possible damage was modelled by Oxford Economics, which estimates that Russian GDP would take a 7 per cent hit in a scenario where its gas supplies are restricted and the war continues into 2023. The eurozone faces a 3 per cent knock to GDP.
Leaders across Europe will likely be thinking along Habecks lines: Russia is no longer a dependable supplier of energy. In just days, Putin has inadvertently engineered a tectonic shift in European energy policy, moving at a faster pace than expected. It risks decimating his oil and gas industry, which accounts for 15 per cent of Russias economic output, over a third of government revenue and around half of exports.
Sharples says the vast majority of Russian gas exports are made by a pipeline to Europe with links to China not connected to the rest of the Russian pipeline network. That means that in the immediate short term there is no alternative market for them, not for gas.
When German Green Robert Habeck entered power, he probably didnt expect to be drawing up plans to fire up coal stations and extend nuclear plants lifespan within months.
Vladimir Putin will Alexey Miller, the chief of Russian natural gas giant Gazprom. Forcing Europe to pivot away from Russian gas will put a big hole in Russias economy.Credit:AP
Meanwhile Putin has shown little interest in diversifying its economy even as peak oil and gas demand looms on the horizon as countries move to clean energy.
While Russia could find new buyers for oil and gas, particularly in Asia, it again faces a race against time.
The plan, revealed by Bloomberg, seeks to find new LNG sources from the likes of Japan, India and China accelerate the rollout of solar energy introduce minimum gas reserves and push for greater energy efficiency.
Last week China and Russian state giant Gazprom signed a 30-year deal for Moscow to supply it with up to 50bn cubic metres of gas per year. However, Beijing, considered an ally of Russia, has refused to support - or condemn - events in Ukraine and many stress a shift to new buyers will not happen quickly.
Around 40 per cent of EU imports of natural gas come from Russia with many countries such as Germany, Poland and the Netherlands becoming far more reliant on energy brought in in recent decades.
Just over a week into warfare, however, and companies are already shunning the supply, attempting to find alternative sources that wont be caught in the crossfire. Russian oil is trading at a discount of up to $US20 per barrel compared to crude from elsewhere.
Meanwhile, despite such dependence and the threat of renewables, the Kremlin has made little effort to diversify its economy.
He warns: Theres now going to be this concerted effort to move away from Russia thats going to hit quite hard. Although things were looking like they would hit in 10-15 years, it could be sooner than that now.
The screeching U-turn just three months since the coalition government took charge reveals the long-term economic blunder made by Putin, even if sanctions are eventually lifted.
Putin already had little answer to the economic challenges Russia was facing. By forcing Europes hand, those problems will hit sooner and harder than many feared.
Moscow will face very little income growth, Peach adds, a shift towards a very slow growing economy and a big black hole in Russias public finances at some point in a decades time.
The regions vulnerability to Moscows iron grip on supply has only grown as many countries, such as the Netherlands, have wound down their own gas production.
He adds: If the flow of Russian oil and gas to Europe were halted, it would be devastating for the Russian government in terms of their tax revenues and GDP. But it would also be devastating for the European economy.
Leaked documents this week suggested the EU is readying a blue-print for massively shifting the balance of its energy supply. The International Energy Agency believes Europe can feasibly cut imports of Russian gas by a third within a year.Credit:AP
Liam Peach, an economist at Capital Economics, says the long-term problems already facing the Russian economy from the shift away from fossil fuels, as well as an ageing population, will now hit sooner.
Leaked documents this week suggested the EU is readying a blue-print for massively shifting the balance of its energy supply. The International Energy Agency believes Europe can feasibly cut imports of Russian gas by a third within a year.
A warmonger is not a reliable partner, Habeck said following Russias invasion of Ukraine, admitting there now are no taboos in Germanys energy debate.
What were seeing is a rapid structural realignment away from a dependency on Russian hydrocarbons, says Benjamin Schmitt, a research fellow at Harvard University and the US governments former European energy security adviser.
The Business Briefing newsletter delivers major stories, exclusive coverage and expert opinion. Sign up to get it every weekday morning.
Putins illegal aggression against Ukraine is rapidly moving Russia into pariah state territory - not a regime that European nations want to rely on for energy imports any longer.
Hastening Europes shift away from Russian gas risks creating a black hole in Moscows budget, consigning Russia to another decade of stagnated growth.
Whether the taps are suddenly turned off or Europes Russian gas addiction is slowly ended, a huge blow is facing Moscows economy and its coffers.
Richard Connolly, a Russian economy expert at the Royal United Services Institute, says Russia would find it difficult to substitute all of the gas it sells to Europe as it would take Moscow a long time to find alternative markets in the same way that it will take us a long time to get off it, he says.
In a single week, Germany has rolled out what amounts to a massive, and long overdue pivot in its energy policy.
Jack Sharples, a research fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, says: What we have seen right now is a step change in attitudes towards commerce with Russia more broadly.
In a bid to loosen Moscows grip on supply, Germany is building new liquefied natural gas LNG terminals, blocking the $US11 billion $14.9 billion Nord Stream 2 pipeline and planning to speed up wind and solar projects. Habeck says coal plants will be ready to step in if energy supply is hit - particularly next winter - while the lifespan of nuclear, due to be phased out alongside coal, could be extended.
But he adds: Given the relatively limited alternative supply options, the only thing that could have been done to reduce European dependence on Russian gas is to reduce consumption of gas more broadly.
