Classified British defence papers found at bus stop
20210627
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/classified-british-defence-papers-found-at-bus-stop-20210628-p584rs.html
The HMS Defender upset Russias military on Wednesday when it sailed south of the Crimean Peninsula in a Black Sea area that Moscow claims as its territorial waters. Many nations, including the UK, do not accept Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine and consider that area to be Ukrainian waters.
British destroyer HMS Defender, which was included in sensitive defence documents reportedly found at a bus stop in Kent, England. Credit:AP
Ministers must be able to confirm to the public that national security has not been undermined, that no military or security operations have been affected and that the appropriate procedures are in place to ensure nothing like this happens again, he said.
The department takes the security of information extremely seriously and an investigation has been launched, it said in a statement. It would be inappropriate to comment further.
The documents showed officials conducted high-level discussions before Wednesdays clash about how Russia may react if HMS Defender sailed close to Crimea, the BBC said.
The Ministry of Defence was informed last week of an incident in which sensitive defence papers were recovered by a member of the public, it said in a statement. The department takes the security of information extremely seriously and an investigation has been launched.
Meanwhile, The London Telegraph reported that the Defence Secretary and the countrys six most senior military commanders were all self-isolating after the head of the Armed Forces tested positive for COVID.
And now a riddle-like question for the British Parliament, why do we need Russian hackers if there are British bus stops?
General Sir Nick Carter, the Chief of the Defence Staff, entered a 10-day period of isolation late last week after a testing positive, the ministry confirmed to the Telegraph on Monday AEST.
Russia said one of its warships fired warning shots in response to the destroyers intrusion, but Britain denied that account and said the warship was not in Russian waters. The British Ministry of Defence said the ship was conducting innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law.
Russia later summoned the British ambassador in Moscow for a formal diplomatic scolding over what it described as a provocation.
The BBC said the documents suggested the ships mission was conducted in the expectation that Russia might respond aggressively.
The broadcaster said a member of the public who wanted to remain unnamed contacted it when they found the pile of documents  about 50 pages in all  in a soggy heap on Tuesday behind a bus stop in Kent, south-east of London.
The papers included plans for a possible UK military presence in Afghanistan, as well as discussion about the potential Russian reaction to the British warship HMS Defenders travel through waters off the Crimean coast last week, the BBC said.
British Defence said an employee had reported the loss of the documents last week. It did not provide details about the incident or confirm the documents were found at a bus stop.
All those affected were expected to conduct their business remotely while isolating, although one insider warned that military discussions of sensitive material would have to wait, The Telegraph reported.
John Healey, the defence spokesman for the opposition Labour party, said the incident was both embarrassing and worrying.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova mocked the British government on social media channel Telegram, saying: London has used a number of lies to cover up the latest provocation. 007 James Bond is no longer the same.
London: Sensitive defence documents containing details about the British military have been found at a bus stop in England, the BBC has reported.
Britains contact-tracing officials have since ordered Defence Secretary Ben Wallace and the heads of the Royal Navy, RAF and Strategic Command to stay at home for the same duration after they came into close contact with the general at a meeting, according to defence sources.
