Died a heroic death audio of Ukrainian soldiers defending island emerges
20220225
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/died-a-heroic-death-audio-of-ukrainian-soldiers-defending-island-emerges-20220225-p59zr8.html
According to a translation, the Russians told the Ukrainians on Snake Island to surrender, or they would be bombed.Credit:location4film.com.ua
An audio clip has emerged of a purported exchange between Ukrainian guards on Zmiinyi Island, also known as Snake Island, and the Russian Navy.
The Morning Edition newsletter is our guide to the days most important and interesting stories, analysis and insights. Sign up here.
This is a Russian military warship. I suggest you surrender your weapons and capitulate. Otherwise, I will open fire, according to the clip.
Mr Zelensky said the 13 border guards were among 137 Ukrainians to have been killed since Russia launched its attack on Thursday, with a further 316 wounded. Of the deaths, 10 were officers.
The service said infrastructure on the island had been destroyed by shelling from a Russian ship and communication with the guards had been lost.
But they have not surrendered. They will all be awarded posthumously the title of the Hero of Ukraine.
Zmiinyi Island is about 32 kilometres from the Ukrainian coast and is located in the Danube Delta. It plays a key role in determining the boundaries of the countrys territorial waters.
Defending the Zmiinyi Island, all our border guards died a heroic death, he said late on Thursday Ukraine time.
On Friday, Mr Zelensky vowed to stay in Kyiv, despite the threats to himself and the capital.
The enemy has marked me down as the number one target, Mr Zelenskiy warned in a video message. My family is the number two target. They want
Ukrainian soldiers have been battling Russian invaders who have mounted an assault by land, sea and air in the biggest European conflict since World War II.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says every border guard defending a strategically important island in the Black Sea was killed in a Russian attack on Thursday.
The State Border Guard Service of Ukraine announced on Facebook on Thursday that the island had been captured.
According to a translation, the Russians told the Ukrainians to surrender, or they would be bombed.
