Explosions heard in Kyiv after Russian flagship Moskva sunk
20220414
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/flagship-missile-cruiser-moskva-has-sunk-russia-confirms-20220415-p5adnr.html
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky, then said the ship sank, calling it an event of colossal significance. But Yuriy Sak, an adviser to Ukraines defence minister, later said he was unable to confirm that the ship was sunk or even hit by Ukrainian forces. He said he was aware of the comments by other Ukrainian officials but could neither confirm nor deny what happened.
Listing the ways Ukraine has defended against the onslaught, Zelensky noted those who showed that Russian warships can sail away, even if its to the bottom of the sea.
Kyiv: Powerful explosions were heard in Kyiv on Friday and fighting raged in the east after Ukraine claimed responsibility for the sinking of the Russian navys Black Sea flagship in what would be one of the heaviest blows of the war.
In his nightly address, Zelensky told Ukrainians they should be proud of having survived 50 days under Russian attack when the invaders gave us a maximum of five.
Zelensky has made a direct appeal to President Joe Biden for the US to designate Russia a state sponsor of terrorism, one of the most powerful and far-reaching sanctions in the US arsenal.
The situation in Mariupol is difficult and hard. Fighting is happening right now. The Russian army is constantly calling on additional units to storm the city, Defence Ministry spokesman Oleksandr Motuzyanyk said.
In addition to the cruise missiles, the warship also had air-defence missiles and other guns.
The Neptune is an anti-ship missile that was recently developed by Ukraine and based on an earlier Soviet design. The launchers are mounted on trucks stationed near the coast, and, according to the Washington-based Centre for Strategic and International Studies, the missiles can hit targets up to 280 kilometres away. That would have put the Moskva within range, based on where the fire began.
The news of the loss of the flagship overshadowed Russian claims of advances in the southern port city of Mariupol, where they have been battling the Ukrainians since the early days of the invasion in some of the heaviest fighting of the war  at a horrific cost to civilians.
Ukrainian officials said that the warship was hit by Ukrainian missiles late on Wednesday off the Black Sea port of Odessa.
Maksym Marchenko, the governor of the Odesa region, across the Black Sea to the north-west of Sevastopol, said the Ukrainians struck the ship with two Neptune missiles and caused serious damage.
Mariupol, on the Sea of Azov, has seen the worst fighting of the war. Home to 400,000 people before Russias invasion, it has been reduced to rubble in seven weeks of siege and bombardment, with tens of thousands still trapped inside. Thousands of civilians have died there.
Satellite photos from Planet Labs show the Moskva steaming out of the port of Sevastopol on the Crimean Peninsula on Sunday. But cloud cover on Thursday made it impossible to use satellite images to locate the ship or determine its condition.
Now entering its eighth week, Russias invasion has stalled because of resistance from Ukrainian fighters bolstered by weapons and other aid sent by Western nations.
The explosions appeared to be among the most significant in Ukraines capital region since Russian troops pulled back from the area earlier this month in preparation for battles in the south and east.
A senior US defence official says the US believes the Russian guided-missile cruiser was struck by at least one Ukrainian anti-ship missile, as claimed by the Kyiv government.
If or when this is confirmed, if it is confirmed, we can only have a sigh of relief because this means that fewer missiles will reach Ukrainian cities, he told The Associated Press.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
The ship, which was made in Ukraine during the time of the Soviet Union, could typically carry 16 long-range cruise missiles. Its removal from combat greatly reduces Russias firepower in the Black Sea.
A Russian sailor salutes on the bow of missile cruiser Moskva, left, as crew of Russian patrol ship Pitliviy, right, prepare to moor the vessel, in Sevastopol, Crimea. Credit:AP
Ukraine said it hit the Moskva missile cruiser with a Neptune anti-ship missile. The Soviet-era ship sank on Thursday as it was being towed to port following a fire and explosions, Russias Defence Ministry said on Friday.
The warship named for the Russian capital was 60 to 65 nautical miles 110 to 120 kilometres south of the Ukrainian port when the fire ignited, and the vessel was still battling flames hours later while heading east, according to a Pentagon official.
But as of now the Russians havent managed to completely capture it, he told a televised briefing.
Russia has sent a series of warnings to the Biden administration, including a formal diplomatic protest this week, demanding that it halt shipment of advanced weapons to Ukraine that could strike into Russian territory, or risk unspecified unpredictable consequences, The New York Times has reported.
During the first days of the war, The Moskva was reportedly the warship that called on Ukrainian soldiers stationed on Snake Island in the Black Sea to surrender in a stand-off. In a widely circulated recording, the soldier responds: Russian warship, go expletive yourself.
The loss of the ship is a major military setback and a devastating symbolic defeat for Moscow as its troops regroup for a renewed offensive in eastern Ukraine after retreating from much of the north, including the capital.
More than 500 crew members were evacuated, the ministry said, without acknowledging an attack. The ministry previously said ammunition on board detonated as a result of a fire, without saying what caused the blaze.
