Hes not crazy at all Stalins biographer says Putin is channelling tsars and dictators
20220319
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/he-s-not-crazy-at-all-stalin-s-biographer-says-putin-is-channelling-tsars-and-dictators-20220318-p5a61q.html
Putin has delivered several ranting speeches to justify his illegal invasion of Ukraine that have sparked suggestions that he has become irrational. Most notably, he appeared before a flag-waving stadium crowd in Moscow on Saturday AEDT to quote an 18th-century military commander and celebrate war sacrifices.
He said Russian leaders usually became more isolated as they gained more power because of the violent nature of their rise. The nations leaders have to maintain a constant state of vigilance against the enemies they had created. However, he said this was not the same as paranoia.
Montefiore says that its his only work that he knows Putin has read because he discussed it with George W. Bush when the US president visited St Petersburg. It charts Potemkins annexation of Crimea and conquering of some of southern Ukraine, creating the cities of Kherson, Mikolaev and Odesa  territory they called New Russia and which Putin wanted back.
And I do think he just felt now is his time to take his place in history, to join Peter the Great and Stalin and based on poor intelligence he gambled for it and I think he didnt think it was as a big a gamble.
But speaking to The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age in London, Montefiore, the author of several bestsellers on Russian leaders including The Romanovs, Catherine the Great  Potemkin and Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar and Young Stalin, said that while Putin was more isolated than before, he was not crazy and that his invasion was not a surprise but the latest phase in a rising momentum of power imposed by violence starting from Chechnya to Syria and now Ukraine.
I dont think hes a madman at all and everyone always says that about leaders whose motivations and culture they dont understand, Montefiore said.
Its not quite a tsar, its not quite Stalin, its something 21st century. Hes of our time, but hes also very old-fashioned, he said. A man of empire.
Get a note direct from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Montefiore said Putins Ukraine invasion was inspired by the subjects of one of his books that documents Russias longest-reigning empress Catherine the Great and her lover Potemkin.
Montefiore, who wrote two biographies of Stalin, said that Putins raving speeches had betrayed the level of the Russian leaders isolation.
Hes literally putting the fear, an ancestral, terrifying fear into these people. People who would have heard of these stories from their old parents, and grandparents and great-grandparents about the time when people didnt sleep at night, they kept a bag packed in case they were deported. People were never seen again.
He used all these keywords: traitors, enemy of the people, scum, bastards, all of which were from the 30s, which a Russian would know hes threatening massive repression in Russia.
Hes not crazy at all, hes projecting a vision of Russia that he was brought up with that many people in Russia still adhere to  a vision of the Russian state as an empire that has to expand, and expansion is how you judge leaders, he said.
London: One of the worlds leading Russia historians, Simon Sebag Montefiore, says Vladimir Putin is no madman. Instead, his invasion of Ukraine is a miscalculated gamble motivated by a desire to restore Russian glory harking back to the 18th century.
Vladimir Putin in 2022 is as isolated as Stalin was in 1952 and thats despite the fact that hes got access to the internet and WhatsApp, he said, adding that this isolation had caused both Putin and his cronies to miss the surge in Ukrainian national pride that was contributing to their heroic resistance.
Russian President Vladimir Putin appears at a pro-war rally in Moscow.Credit:Ramil SitdikovSputnik Pool Photo via AP
On Thursday, Putin appeared to threaten his people with a revival of Stalins Great Terror that began in 1937 and in which 1 million people were executed over 2 years.
Montefiore said that while Putins autocratic ways fit with the pattern of Russian rulers, the former KGB agent was not quite a tsar but instead a populist, fusing the grandeur of Romanov autocrats, the mystery of communist dictators with hi-technology and the gaudy nationalistic showmanship of a Hunger Games rally.
And how will it end? The war could last a long time despite Ukrainian courage and Zelenskys charisma, Russian force will advance.
Montefiore predicts that Putins idiotic gamble, driven out of his desire to carve his name alongside the Russian greats, would spell his downfall.
At the age of 69, Stalin had conquered the whole of eastern Europe, conquered Berlin, made Russia a nuclear superpower and industrialised Russia and Putin had just taken the Donbas  a few Godforsaken rust-belt towns in eastern Ukraine.
He said Putin had probably planned to take back the southern coast as far as Odesa as part of Russia, and keep northern Ukraine and the capital Kyiv as a republic but governed by a puppet leader like Alexander Lukashenko in Belarus.
It was a terrifying speech in only a way the Russians would know, Montefiore said.
Hes dog-whistling 1937, so thats pretty scary, and the reason hes doing it is because he realises theres opposition in the elite and among the populace.
