Karma is a cruel thing Blasts reported at Russian defence sites
20220427
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/russia-reports-blasts-on-its-soil-as-it-cuts-off-gas-to-poland-bulgaria-20220428-p5agpi.html
Concern has increased in recent days over the prospect of the conflict widening to neighbouring Moldova, where pro-Russian separatists have blamed Ukraine for reported attacks this week in their region, occupied since the 1990s by Russian troops.
Russias state-run Tass news agency reported that the Defence Ministrys Second Central Research Institute caught fire on Thursday, killing at least 17 people and injuring at least two dozen more, the Washington Post reported.
Gazprom, Russias gas export monopoly, said it had completely suspended gas supplies to the Polish and Bulgarian gas companies due to absence of payments in roubles, as stipulated in a decree from President Vladimir Putin that aims to soften the impact of sanctions on the Russian economy.
The facility, in the town of Tver, north-west of Moscow, is known as a centre for research on Russias missile and stealth system, The Washington Post reported.
Polish President Andrzej Duda said the move violated basic legal principles. Bulgarian Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov said gas was being used as a political and economic weapon.
The Canadian House of Commons motion said war crimes by Russia include mass atrocities, systematic instances of willful killing of Ukrainian civilians, the desecration of corpses, forcible transfer of Ukrainian children, torture, physical harm, mental harm, and rape.
Poland and Bulgaria are both former Soviet-era satellites of Moscow that have since joined the EU and NATO. Poland has been one of the Kremlins most vocal opponents over the war.
But Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak, without directly admitting any Ukrainian involvement, said in a Telegram post: Sooner or later the debts will have to be repaid. And therefore the disarmament of the murderers Belgorod-Voronezh warehouses is an absolutely matter-of-course, natural process. Karma is a cruel thing.
An aide to the mayor of the ruined port city of Mariupol said Russian forces had renewed their attacks on the Azovstal steel plant, where fighters and some civilians remain holed up. No agreement was reached on evacuating civilians from Mariupol on Wednesday.
Addressing lawmakers in St Petersburg, Putin said the West wanted to cut Russia up into different pieces and accused it of pushing Ukraine into conflict with Russia.
Bulgaria has long had warmer relations with Russia, but Prime Minister Kirill Petkov, an anti-graft campaigner who took office last year, has denounced the invasion of Ukraine. He was due in Kyiv on Wednesday to meet President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Russias decision to halt gas supplies, denounced by European leaders as blackmail, comes as its economy wilts under sweeping international sanctions and as Western countries ramp up arms shipments to help Ukraine fend off a new Russian assault in the east.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called the cut-off yet another attempt by Russia to use gas as an instrument of blackmail.
Earlier this month, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said it was absolutely right for more and more people to describe Russias actions in Ukraine as genocide, supporting an accusation made by US President Joe Biden a day earlier.
Authorities in Transnistria said there had been firing across the border from Ukraine on Wednesday.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Ukraine has accused Russia of trying to mastermind false flag attacks in the region, and Moldovas pro-Western government accuses the separatists of trying to stir conflict.
Germanys main importer, Uniper, said it could pay without violations. Austria and Hungary, among others, have also indicated they will take this route.
WarsawSofiaKyiv: A Ukrainian official has hinted his country might be involved in a series of fires in border regions of Russia, while Russia has halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for rejecting its demand for payment in roubles.
Since the Russian invasion force was driven back at the outskirts of Kyiv last month, Moscow has refocused its operation on eastern Ukraine, starting a new offensive from several directions to fully capture two provinces known as the Donbas.
Putin on Wednesday warned that any countries attempting to interfere in Ukraine would be faced with a swift response from Russia and said all decisions on how Moscow would react in that situation have already been taken.
Ukraine hasnt officially taken responsibility for those and other incidents, and Russian officials havent publicly ascribed them to Ukrainian attacks.
However, ambassadors from the EU member states asked the commission for clearer guidance on whether sending euros to Gazprombank would amount to a breach of sanctions.
The invasion of Ukraine has left thousands dead or injured, reduced towns and cities to rubble, and forced more than 5 million people to flee abroad. Moscow calls it a special operation to disarm Ukraine Kyiv and its allies call the war an unprovoked act of aggression.
Ukraines prosecutor-general said Russian forces had used tear gas and stun grenades to disperse a pro-Ukraine rally in the southern city of Kherson, the first big urban centre seized by Moscow after the February 24 invasion.
On Wednesday AEST, the governor of the Belgorod region said an ammunition depot was burning after several explosions were heard. Earlier this week, there was a blaze at an oil storage facility in Bryansk.
Russia has already gathered strength for a large-scale offensive in eastern Ukraine ... in the coming days we will need all our resilience and extraordinary unity, Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said on his Facebook page.
A truck drives past the Mariupol theatre damaged during fighting in Mariupol in territory under the government of the Donetsk Peoples Republic.Credit:AP PhotoAlexei Alexandrov
Ukrainian serviceman install a machine gun on the tank during the repair works after fighting against Russian forces in Donetsk region.Credit:AP PhotoEvgeniy Maloletka
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Russia remained a reliable energy supplier and denied it was engaging in blackmail. He declined to say how many countries had agreed to switch to paying for gas in roubles but other European customers said gas supplies were flowing normally.
Bulgaria and Poland are the only two European countries with Gazprom contracts due to expire at the end of this year, which meant their search for alternative supplies was well under way.
But the commission has also said the EUs gas buyers can engage with Russias payment scheme provided certain conditions are met.
Canadian lawmakers voted unanimously on Wednesday Ottawa-time to call Russias attacks in Ukraine a genocide, with members of parliament saying there was ample evidence of systemic and massive war crimes against humanity being committed by Moscow.
