NATO rejects Putins troop pullback claims sees more soldiers deployed
20220216
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/massive-invasion-force-ready-to-attack-nato-rejects-putin-s-troop-pullback-claims-20220217-p59x5t.html
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin had taken note of a request from Russias parliament on Tuesday to recognise the independence of two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine where Russian-backed separatists have been fighting Ukrainian government forces since 2014.
However, both US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Russian units were moving towards the border, not away from it.
Russia has massed more than 150,000 troops east, north and south of Ukraine, according to Western estimates.
Blinken said Russian recognition for the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk republics would undermine Ukraines sovereignty, violate international law and call into question Russias commitment to continue to engage in diplomacy.
He said it would necessitate a swift and firm response from the United States in full co-ordination with our allies and partners.
As a result of recent Russian activity in the region, Stoltenberg said NATO defence ministers had tasked commanders to consider forming new battle groups in central and south-eastern Europe.
The Ukraine defence ministry said hackers were still bombarding its website and had succeeded in finding vulnerabilities in the programming code. Traffic was being rerouted to servers in the United States while the issue was being fixed, it said.
He said NATO nevertheless stood ready to support any members or allies that came under attack.
Russia has accused the United States and Britain of hysterical war propaganda after their repeated warnings of a possible attack, including reports that any offensive would take place on Wednesday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky also said he did not see any sign of a Russian troop withdrawal.
When the troops do withdraw, everyone will see that, but for now its just a statement, the BBC quoted him as saying during a visit to western Ukraine.
Peskov said any recognition would not be in line with the 2014-15 Minsk agreements aimed at ending the conflict, in which Ukraine says some 15,000 people have been killed.
No one can love our home as we can. And only we, together, can protect our home, he said.
We have not seen any withdrawal of Russian forces. And of course, that contradicts the message of diplomatic efforts, Stoltenberg said in Brussels at a meeting of NATO defence ministers.
The comment appeared to indicate that Putin would not rush into recognising the separatist areas but might keep such an option in reserve.
A senior Ukrainian security official said the only country interested in such cyber attacks was Russia. The Kremlin denied involvement.
A senior Western intelligence official said Russian military exercises were at their peak and the risk of Russian aggression against Ukraine would remain high.
The United States and NATO have rejected Russian claims that it had pulled troops back from the Ukraine border, with fresh doubts raised about President Vladimir Putins desire to negotiate a political solution to the crisis.
In Ukraine, where people raised flags and played the national anthem to show unity against fears of an invasion, the government said a cyber attack that hit the defence ministry was the worst of its kind that the country had seen. It pointed the finger at Russia, which denied involvement.
He said all indications were that Russia was maintaining a massive invasion force ready to attack.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says Russias invasion force on the Ukraine border is as strong as ever.Credit:Bloomberg
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Stoltenberg said a pullout would be welcome, but that moving troops and tanks back and forth did not amount to proof it was really happening.
The additional formations in Romania and the Black Sea region would be led by France and designed to prepare for a new normal  namely, Russia using military coercion to contest sovereignty in the region.
The Russian defence ministry said its forces were pulling back after exercises in southern and western military districts near Ukraine. It published video footage and photos that it said showed tanks, infantry fighting vehicles and self-propelled artillery units leaving the Crimean peninsula, which Moscow seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Military analysts say a key indicator of a significant pullback will be whether field hospitals and fuel stores are dismantled and units from Russias far east, which are taking part in huge exercises in Belarus, return to their bases thousands of miles away.
A senior US administration official said the West detected that Russia had increased its force near Ukraine by 7000 troops, with some arriving as recently as Wednesday, and that there had been a marked increase in false claims by Russians that the Kremlin might use as pretext for an invasion.
Russia says it never planned to attack Ukraine but wants to lay down red lines to prevent its neighbour from joining NATO, which it sees as a threat to its own security.
Zelensky designated Wednesday a patriotic holiday in response to Western media reports that Russia could invade on that day.
The Kremlin said Putin was keen to negotiate with the United States, which has offered discussions on arms control and confidence-building measures while ruling out a veto on future NATO membership for Ukraine.
Moscows ambassador to Ireland said forces in western Russia would be back to their normal positions within three to four weeks.
China, which has cultivated closer ties with Russia as both countries have come under increasing criticism from the West, accused the United States of playing up the threat of warfare and creating tension.
What we see is that they have increased the number of troops and more troops are on their way. So, so far, no de-escalation.
Western officials continued to maintain that there was nothing normal about field hospitals being deployed for routine military exercises.
We continue to see critical units moving toward the border, not away from the border. We need to see these forces moving away.
Truth or lies? The Russian Defence Ministry Press Service released images and a video showing what it said were army tanks being loaded up for transportation back to their base after drills. Credit:Russian Defence Ministry Press Service via AP
We are ready for dialogue, he said. We have no plans to deploy offensive systems in Ukraine.
