Nothing is quite as it seems The illusion of Russias Potemkin markets
20220329
https://www.theage.com.au/business/markets/nothing-is-quite-as-it-seems-the-illusion-of-russia-s-potemkin-markets-20220329-p5a8sh.html
A better guide to the value of Russias companies might be gleaned from the performance of its biggest companies on foreign exchanges  before that trading was suspended early this month.
When the prices of bonds and shares and the value of the national currency arent set by markets but by governments they arent real prices or markets.
If there was its value would be far lower than its current exchange rate of less than one US cent.
The exchange has banned short-selling but permitted short-covering, which also would have added some buy-side support for the market.
Singh was right. Its not a market but the faade of one and that highlights how much damage the Wests financial sanctions have done to Russias financial system.
That was a reference to Grigory Potemkin, a newly-appointed 18th Century governor of Crimea who, to impress Catherine the Great, built and populated a mobile village which he assembled, disassembled and then reassembled along her route as she inspected the recently-annexed region to impress her with his progress in resettling Crimea with Russian villagers.
The fact that the overwhelming majority of investors in the market cant sell and there is a state buyer with explicit instructions to prop up the market means it isnt a real market but an illusion of one.
While the withholding of Russian gas could create an energy crisis in Europe, it would also cut off Russias most significant source of external income and add substantially to the considerable damage the Wests sanctions are doing to the Russian economy.
On Monday the G7s energy ministers unanimously rejected Putins demand, saying that an insistence of payment in roubles would be a clear and unilateral violation of existing contracts.
If Putin maintains his stance and the buyers continue to resist, the prospect of Russia halting gas supplies breaching contracts in the process would strengthen, a prospect the Europeans say they are prepared for.
With the Bank of Russia preventing foreigners from selling securities, restricting selling of roubles and effectively forcing buying  banks arent allowed to exchange roubles for foreign currency for six months, those with foreign currency accounts have had their withdrawals capped and Russian companies have been ordered to use 80 per cent of their foreign currency holdings to buy roubles -- there is no real market price for the currency.
Thats what caused the US deputy security adviser, Daleep Singh, to describe the past few days trading as a Potemkin market opening.
Most European importers of Russian gas have contracts that dont envisage payment in roubles, instead using US dollars or euros as the payment currency.
The reopening of sharemarkets may help create a feeling of normalcy for Russians but they will be shunned by foreign investors for a very long time and will shrink dramatically.Credit:Bloomberg photo by Andrey Rudakov.
A week ago trading in Russias domestic bonds recommenced with heavy Bank of Russia interventions, with foreign investors effectively locked out of the market.
Vladimir Putin has been trying to create structural support for the currency by unilaterally demanding that customers for Russian gas from unfriendly countries should pay in roubles, which would force them to buy the currency and prop up its value. The Bank of Russia and Gazprom are supposed to be working out the detail of how that might be done.
At face value the market, which was shut down more than a month ago after losing about a third of its value when Russia launched the invasion, has been relatively calm and the trading quite orderly.
The market, closed since the start of the invasion of Ukraine, actually re-started trading last week but the trading sessions on Thursday and Friday were limited to a few hours and only 33 stocks. On Monday trading in all the companies listed on the Moscow Stock Exchange was allowed.
The Europeans see Putins demand as an indication of the stresses within Russias financial system and economy and of the extent to which Russia has been shut out of the global system and economy.
The Russian stockmarket has reopened for equities trading but its not trading that resembles anything an investor in London, New York, Sydney or Melbourne would recognise.
From Friday, when foreigners will be able to sell, it might become more meaningful, although the sellers wont be able to shift any proceeds out of the country. Most foreign institutional investors have already written down their Russian holdings to zero.
The value of Russias rouble crashed after the invasion and the impositions of the Wests financial sanctions  including the freezing of more than half Russias foreign exchange reserves -- but has stabilised, with the currency trading around 20 per cent lower than its pre-invasion levels.
Maybe they might fool some domestic investors and create the illusion of normalcy. Russian markets are, however, going to be shunned by foreign investors for a very long time and its financial markets will shrink dramatically and be near-useless in attracting capital or providing the price signals central to a modern financial system and economy.
The exchanges benchmark MOEX index was up 4.4 per cent on Thursday, down 3.7 per cent on Friday and then slipped another 2.15 per cent on Monday in thin trading. The volumes of shares traded since the exchanges reopening have been a fraction of those before the invasion.
Using their London prices as a guide, more than $US320 billion of value in those four companies alone evaporated, almost overnight, as the implications of the Wests sanctions in response to the invasion were digested by investors.
The Market Recap newsletter is a wrap of the days trading. Get it each weekday afternoon.
Its not just stocks where the trading is artificial and propped up by the state and the restrictions on foreign investors.
Shares in Russias big energy companies like Gazprom, Rosneft and Lukoil were down more than 90 per cent and Russias biggest lender, Sberbank saw about 99 per cent of its value wiped out in trading in London before trading was halted.
In Russia at present, of course, nothing is quite as it seems. With the foreign investors who hold about 80 per cent of the free float in the market not allowed to sell and Russias National Wellbeing Fund its sovereign wealth fund having pledged $US10 billion $13.4 billion to support the market, the trading was meaningless.
