Putin edges closer to line of no return
20220223
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/putin-edges-closer-to-line-of-no-return-20220223-p59ywf.html
Since then, much of the country has been more inclined to look to the West than the East when considering its future. That is this countrys right, and it should be one Western nations are willing to fully support. The future of Ukraine is now very much in the hands of Mr Putin. We can only hope that, in considering his next move, the possible ramifications of an invasion force him to step back and blink.
For those old enough to remember, the Ukraine crisis is a stark reminder of the Cold War era. While some European leaders are playing bit parts in the frenzy of diplomacy unfolding, this is really about America and Russia, once again standing toe to toe, daring each other to blink.
The stakes are not as high as they once were  no one is talking nuclear Armageddon, and Russias global standing is diminished as are its ambitions  but they are serious enough to consume much of the worlds attention, and the outcome will have consequences far beyond the immediate zone of dispute.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison rightly joined others in declaring it an invasion and enforcing an initial round of sanctions. Such a collective response from Western nations may give Mr Putin some pause for thought, but it is hardly decisive. If Mr Putin does move deeper into Ukraine, it should be met with unequivocal international condemnation and the strongest possible response. At that point, its likely that a diplomatic crisis then turns into a full-scale war.
As justification, Mr Putin has for some years shown his disdain of NATO creeping closer to its border. Some have argued that the American and European alliance did overplay its hand when the Soviet Union collapsed, pushing to expand NATO further to the east. But for Putin to use Ukraine as a stalking horse to resist the West reflects a perverse willingness to sacrifice one nations independence in a broader geopolitical game of chess that could reset the power dynamics of Europe.
Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin. The US decided to target key banks and oligarchs in a first set of sanctions against Russia. Credit:AP
There is no modern European nation that has not had, at one time, its borders reshaped by the ever-shifting political and economic powers at play. But that should never be vindication for breaching another nations sovereignty. The UN Charter calls on all members to respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of other States.
When Ukraine broke away from the Soviet Union in 1991, more than 90 per cent of its population backed the push for independence in a public referendum.
Mr Putin is well known for his mastery of moving what diplomatic and military forces he has at hand for maximum impact, but this crisis has reached a point where every action is amplified by its possible future consequences. The Russian leaders decision to move his military forces into the disputed parts of Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraines east, and declare the two regions independent, is a serious provocation masquerading as a rescue mission for Russian passport holders.
At the heart of this crisis is a nations right to sovereignty. Its rarely as clear-cut as a line on a map. Russian President Vladimir Putin made sure of that when, in a recent speech, he declared that the nation of Ukraine was an invention of the Bolshevik revolutionary leader, Vladimir Lenin. In the historically warped world of Putin, if Russia giveth, it can also take away.
Even with Western weaponry in hand, Ukraines forces would find it difficult to resist Russias military. It is only about 100 kilometres from the border of Belarus, where Russian forces are carrying out military exercises, to Ukraines capital city of Kyiv.
Gay Alcorn sends an exclusive newsletter to subscribers each week. Sign up to receive her Note from the Editor.
