Russia threatens to retaliate as Finland seeks NATO membership without delay
20220512
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/russia-threatens-to-retaliate-as-finland-seeks-nato-membership-without-delay-20220513-p5akyc.html
Sweden is expected to follow Finland in joining NATO as Russias invasion of Ukraine looked set to bring about the very expansion of the Western military alliance that Russian President Vladimir Putin aimed to prevent.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the Finns would be warmly welcomed and promised a smooth and swift accession process. French President Emmanuel Macron said he fully supported Finlands choice to join the alliance.
Russias retreat has begun to make it possible for some residents to return to recaptured villages around Kharkiv. But areas remain littered with mines and booby traps. The invasion has displaced more than 8 million people within Ukraine and the number of refugees to flee the country now exceeds 6 million, UN data showed.
Moscow regards that as a threat to its security. But Putins decision to invade Ukraine has changed Nordic public opinion, with political parties that had long backed neutrality now embracing the view that Russia is a menace.
The withdrawal of Russian forces from the Kharkiv Oblast region is a tacit recognition of Russias inability to capture key Ukrainian cities where they expected limited resistance from the population, Britains defence ministry said.
People look at a Russian military vehicle destroyed by the Ukrainian troops in a battle against the Russian invaders and taken to the capital as a reminder of war in Kyiv.Credit:AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Asked whether Finlands announcement that it would like to join NATO as soon as possible posed a direct threat to Russia, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: Definitely. NATO expansion does not make our continent more stable and secure.
This cannot fail to arouse our regret, and is a reason for corresponding symmetrical responses on our side, Peskov added.
Five diplomats and officials told Reuters that NATO allies expect both countries to be granted membership quickly, paving the way for an increased troop presence in the Nordic region to defend them during a one-year ratification period.
The scale of unlawful killings, including indicia of summary executions in areas to the north of Kyiv, is shocking, she said.
On the front lines, Ukraine has mounted a counter-offensive in recent days, ousting Russian forces from villages north and east of Kharkiv they had held since the start of the invasion.
In Geneva, the UN Human Rights Council decided to launch an investigation into possible war crimes by Russian troops during their occupation of the area near Kyiv, before they were driven out at the end of March.
HelsinkiKharkhiv: Moscow has threatened to take retaliatory steps, both of a military-technical and other nature after Finland announced it would apply to join NATO without delay.
Moscow said it would halt gas flows to Germany through the main pipeline over Poland, while Kyiv said it would not reopen a pipeline route it shut this week unless it regains control of areas from pro-Russian fighters. Prices for gas in Europe surged.
Putin cited NATOs potential expansion as one of the main reasons he launched a special military operation in Ukraine in February.
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said there were many examples of possible war crimes, including unlawful killings and summary executions, with 1000 bodies recovered so far near Kyiv.
Thursday also saw an intensification of disputes over Russian supplies of energy to Europe - still Moscows biggest source of funds and Europes biggest source of heat and power.
Moscow denies deliberately attacking civilians. Its ambassador to the UN in Geneva said the West was organising another political rout to demonise Russia.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Finland in particular has centuries of uneasy history in Russias shadow. Ruled by the Russian empire from 1809-1917, it fought off Soviet invasions on the eve of World War II, and accepted some Soviet influence as the price of avoiding taking sides in the Cold War. Since it and Sweden joined the EU in 1995, they have aligned more firmly with the West.
The decision by the two Nordic countries to abandon the neutrality they maintained throughout the Cold War would be one of the biggest shifts in European security in decades.
Ukraines general staff said the Russians were regrouping to prevent further Ukrainian advances near Kharkiv.
Finland must apply for NATO membership without delay, President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin said in a joint statement, hoping steps to take the decision would be taken rapidly within the next few days.
NATO describes itself as a defensive alliance, built around a treaty declaring that an attack on one member is an attack on all, granting US allies the protection of Washingtons superpower might including its nuclear arsenal.
A view of an apartment building damaged by Russian shelling in Bakhmut, Donetsk region.Credit:AP PhotoAndriy Andriyenko
Finlands 1300 kilometre border will more than double the length of the frontier between the US-led alliance and Russia, putting NATO guards a few hours drive from the northern outskirts of St Petersburg.
Finlands announcement came even as Russias war in Ukraine was suffering another big setback, with Ukrainian forces driving Russian troops out of the region around the second largest city Kharkiv, the fastest Ukrainian advance since forcing Russia to withdraw from the capital and north-east more than a month ago.
Reuters journalists have confirmed that Ukraine is now in control of territory stretching to the banks of the Siverskiy Donets River, around 40 kilometres east of Kharkiv. To the north, the Ukrainians have been pushing towards the Russian border. In the latest advance, they announced on Wednesday the recapture of the village of Pytomnyk, halfway to the frontier.
