Russiaappointed mayor of occupied town hit by explosion as Polish leader visits Kyiv
20220522
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/russia-presses-donbas-offensive-as-polish-leader-visits-kyiv-to-support-ukraine-s-eu-aspirations-20220523-p5anl5.html
A man inspects the damage of a destroyed boiler room in Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine.Credit:Bernat Armangue
The complete seizure of the Azovstal steel plant, a symbol of Ukrainian tenacity. gave Putin a badly wanted victory in the war he began nearly three months ago, on Feb. 24.
Unfortunately, in Europe there have also been disturbing voices in recent times demanding that Ukraine yield to Putins demands, he said. I want to say clearly: Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future. Only Ukraine has the right to decide for itself.
Frances European Affairs minister Clement Beaune on Sunday told Radio J it would be a long time before Ukraine gains EU membership, estimating it could take up to two decades.
Ukraine last week said it had attacked an armoured train carrying Russian troops in Melitopol.
Ukraines government has not commented on Russias claim of capturing Azovstal. Ukraines military had told the fighters their mission was complete and they could come out. It described their extraction as an evacuation, not a mass surrender.
With Russia claiming to have taken nearly 2500 Ukrainian fighters from the Mariupol steel plant, concerns grew about their fate and the future facing the remaining residents of the city, now in ruins with more than 20,000 feared dead.
Denis Pushilin, the pro-Kremlin head of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic, vowed that the Ukrainian fighters from the plant would face tribunals. He said foreign nationals were among them, although he didnt provide details.
We have accurate confirmation that during the explosion the self-proclaimed head of the peoples administration Shevchik and his bodyguards were injured, Dmytro Orlov, who Ukraine still recognises as the legitimate mayor of the town said in a post on the Telegram messaging app.
Polands President Andrzej Duda received a standing ovation from MPs on Sunday after he thanked them for the honour of speaking where the heart of a free, independent and democratic Ukraine beats.
On the battlefield, Russia appeared to have made slow grinding moves forward in the Donbas in recent days. It intensified efforts to capture Sievierodonetsk, the main city under Ukrainian control in Luhansk province, which together with Donetsk province makes up the Donbas. The Ukrainian military said on Sunday that Russian forces had mounted an unsuccessful attack on Oleksandrivka, a village outside of Sievierodonetsk.
Kyiv: The Russian-appointed head of the occupied Ukrainian town next to Europes largest nuclear power plant has been injured in an explosion, as Polands president became the first foreign leader to address the Ukrainian parliament since the start of the war.
Armed Russian servicemen stand atop their military vehicles near the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Station, the largest nuclear power plant in Europe.Credit:AP
This is really a historic opportunity not to lose such strong relations, built through blood, through Russian aggression, Zelensky said. All this not to lose our state, not to lose our people.
With Russia controlling the city, Ukrainian authorities will likely face delays in documenting any alleged Russian atrocities there, including the bombings of a maternity hospital and a theater where hundreds of civilians had taken cover.
Andrei Shevchik, who was named mayor of Enerhodar by Russia following its occupation of the town, was in intensive care following the blast, Russias RIA news agency said, citing a source in the emergency services.
Meanwhile, a Ukrainian court was expected to reach a verdict on Monday for a Russian soldier who was the first to go on trial for an alleged war crime. The 21-year-old sergeant, who has admitted to shooting a Ukrainian man in the head in a village in the northeastern Sumy region, could get life in prison if convicted.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Polish President Andrzej Duda shake hands during a news conference after their meeting in Kyiv, Ukraine.Credit:
Mariupol Mayor Vadim Boychenko warned that the city faced a health and sanitation catastrophe from mass burials in shallow pits as well as the breakdown of sewage systems. An estimated 100,000 of the 450,000 people who lived in Mariupol before the war remain.
Orlov wrote on Telegram on Sunday evening that Shevchik had been taken to the Russian-occupied city of Melitopol to recover from his injuries, and that he would be temporarily replaced as leader of the town.
It is unclear what caused the explosion at the Russian-held city, which had a pre-war population of over 50,000 and is 281 kilometres north-west of Mariupol. Many residents work at the two power plants located next to the town, one of which is the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, the largest nuclear power station in Europe.
Relatives of the fighters have pleaded for them to be given rights as prisoners of war and eventually returned to Ukraine. Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Saturday that Ukraine will fight for the return of every one of them.
Dudas visit, his second to Kyiv since April, came as Russian and Ukrainian forces battled along a 551-kilometre wedge of the countrys eastern industrial heartland.
But Poland is ramping up efforts to win over other EU members who are more hesitant about accepting the war-ravaged country into the bloc. Zelensky said Dudas visit represented a historic union between Ukraine, which declared independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, and Poland, which ended communist rule two years earlier.
People fleeing from heavy shelling board an evacuation train at Pokrovsk train station, in Pokrovsk, eastern Ukraine, on Sunday.Credit:
Duda, who had travelled to Kyiv support the countrys European Union aspirations, received more applause when he said that to end the conflict, Ukraine did not need to submit to conditions given by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
After declaring full control of a sprawling seaside steel plant that was the last defensive holdout in the port city of Mariupol, Russia launched artillery and missile attacks in the region, known as the Donbas, seeking to expand the territory that Moscow-backed separatists have held since 2014.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has stressed that the 27-member EU should expedite his countrys request to join the bloc as soon as possible due to the invasion. Ukraines potential candidacy is set to be discussed at a Brussels summit in late June.
To bolster its defences, Ukraines parliament voted on Sunday to extend martial law and the mobilisation of armed forces for a third time, until August 23.
Poland has welcomed millions of Ukrainian refugees and become a gateway for Western humanitarian aid and weapons going into Ukraine. It is also a transit point into Ukraine for some foreign fighters, including from Belarus, who have volunteered to fight the Russian forces.
We have to be honest, he said. If you say Ukraine is going to join the EU in six months, or a year or two, youre lying.
