Street fighting under way in Kyiv officials warn residents
20220225
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/thousands-of-ukrainians-flee-as-russian-missiles-hit-kyiv-20220226-p59zvi.html
Responding to claims from the Kremlin that Ukraine had stopped engaging in the discussions, President Volodymyr Zelenskys spokesman Sergii Nykyforov said the country remained ready to talk about a ceasefire and peace.
No one should be fooled by the Russian governments barrage of lies, the 30 leaders said in a joint statement after a virtual summit chaired by Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
NATO will deploy thousands of land, air and sea troops from its rapid-response force for the first time in defence of alliance members, Stoltenberg said.
It is only women and children coming through because for men it is forbidden. We leave all our fathers, men, husbands at home and it feels like shit, said Ludmila, 30. When asked if she was worried about her husband, Ludmila broke down in tears.
Ukrainian citizens Yaryna and Sviatovslav Fursin, who got married just hours after Russia launched its invasion of their country. They spent their first day as a married couple collecting their rifles and getting ready to defend Ukraine.
At Medyka in the south of Poland, some 85 kilometres from Lviv in western Ukraine, roads were packed with cars, police directing traffic, and people hugging loved ones after they arrived on the Polish side. An internet map site showed a third of the way congested with heavy traffic.
The Polish government, which opened its borders to all Ukrainians, said it was preparing to receive between one and four million refugees over the coming days. It said no ID or COVID certificates would be needed for entry and that pets would also be welcome.
In Poland, which has the regions largest Ukrainian community of about 1 million people, authorities said wait times to cross the border ranged from six to 12 hours in some places.
Ukraines presidential adviser said the country had kept control of territory attacked by Russian forces.
Top European Union finance officials said the conflict would slow European economic growth this year through higher energy prices and lower business confidence to some extent trade, but the EU was ready for it.
Ukrainian authorities had earlier called on its citizens to defend their city, armed with Molotov cocktails and government-issued AK-47 assault rifles. The Mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, warned the city to prepare for a tough night. The next night, closer to the morning, will be very difficult, he said on Friday night Saturday AEDT.
Get a note direct from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Many waited for hours in freezing conditions to leave Ukraine after Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion, with lines of cars snaking for several kilometres towards some border crossings.
Russia had attempted to engage in a pretence of diplomacy even as it prepared to invade Ukraine this week, Price said.
Russian missiles pounded Kyiv on Friday, families cowered in shelters and authorities told residents to prepare Molotov cocktails to defend Ukraines capital from an assault that the mayor said had already begun with saboteurs in the city.
Some of the 40,000-strong force, which has previously only been used for humanitarian missions, will be sent to NATOs eastern members to protect all allies and every inch of NATO territory, he said.
Russias central bank said it was increasing the amount of cash given to banks to replenish ATMs, the regulators latest measure to try to maintain financial stability since the invasion.
At least 100,000 people were already uprooted in Ukraine since Russia launched its attacks, the UN refugee agency said.
Russian troops stormed toward Ukraines capital as explosions reverberated through the city and the president, Volodymyr Zelensky, urged the country to stand firm against the siege that could determine its future.
We are now making significant additional defensive deployments of forces to the eastern part of the alliance.
Kyiv officials are warning residents that street fighting is under way against Russian forces, and they are urging people to seek shelter.
He refused American help to evacuate, saying: The fight is here. Hundreds of casualties were reported in the fighting, which included shelling that sliced through a Kyiv apartment building and pummeled bridges and schools.
The warning issued on Saturday advised residents to remain in shelters, to avoid going near windows or on balconies, and to take precautions against being hit by debris or bullets.
Russias idea is to create chaos and form a temporary administration, Mykhailo Podolyak said. The most severe situation was in the cities of Kharkiv, Sumy and Yug, he added.
However, Interfax news agency reported Russian forces cut off two cities - Sumy and Konotop - in north-eastern Ukraine, quoting Russias Defence Ministry. The forces have taken out 211 Ukrainian military targets, Interfax reported, citing the ministry. Some media reports say Russia also suffered losses.
Separately, Germany announced it would be deploying a company of troops to Slovakia, where the soldiers would build part of a new NATO battle group.
UN aid agencies say the war could drive up to 5 million people to flee abroad. They said fuel, cash and medical supplies were running low in parts of Ukraine.
Members of the Ukrainian territorial defence battalion set up a machine gun in Kyiv on Friday. Credit:Getty Images
We know there will be economic costs. These costs will emerge over the coming weeks and months, the chairman of euro zone finance ministers Paschal Donohoe said, adding that finance ministers will review fiscal plans in coming weeks to make sure they can support the economy if necessary.
A boy plays on a swing in front of a damaged residential block hit by an early morning missile strike on February 25, 2022.Credit:Getty
Tens of thousands of Ukrainians, mostly women and children, have crossed into Poland, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia in the past 24 hours as Russian missiles pounded the capital Kyiv and men of fighting age were told to remain.
NATO leaders said they were deploying more troops to Eastern Europe to reinforce borders and support allies.
Junior Defence Minister Hanna Malyar said Ukraine has successfully attacked invading Russian forces, saying Russia has sustained casualties of 2800.
Earlier Moscow offered to hold talks with Ukraine in Minsk, the Belarusian capital, which US State Department spokesperson Ned Price said was an attempt to conduct diplomacy at the barrel of a gun. He said Russia must stop its bombing if it is serious about diplomacy.
People rest in the Kyiv subway, using it as a bomb shelter in Kyiv.Credit:Emilio MorenattiAP
Despite disagreements about where talks could take place, Ukraine authorities said they were still open to negotiating with Russia. Both sides of the conflict were in ongoing discussions, according to a spokesperson for the Ukrainian presidents office.
Demand for cash in Russia on Thursday stood at 111.3 billion roubles $1.86 billion and was the highest since March 2020, central bank data showed.
Ukrainian rules now restrict men aged 18 to 60, who could be conscripted, from leaving.
Stoltenberg also said the alliance would provide more military suppor, including for air defence systems to Ukraine, but that its hard to predict what are our possibilities in the future.
