This is a different time Angela Merkel breaks her silence on Ukraine defends record on Putin
20220607
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/this-is-a-different-time-angela-merkel-breaks-her-silence-on-ukraine-defends-her-record-on-vladimir-putin-20220608-p5arxi.html
It is a matter of great sorrow that it didnt succeed, but I dont blame myself now for trying, Merkel said.
She said that sanctions against Russia over its annexation of Crimea in 2014 could have been stronger, as far as Im concerned, but added that there was no majority sentiment for doing so at the time.
I was very certain that Putin wouldnt just let it happen, she said. For him, from his perspective, that was a declaration of war ... I dont share any of this, but I knew how he thought.
That is no longer on the agenda today  this is a different time, she said.
I tried to work toward calamity being averted, and diplomacy was not wrong if it doesnt succeed, she said in an on-stage live broadcast interview at a Berlin theatre .
Merkel said she had opposed doing that when she was chancellor because Germany and France were trying to lead diplomacy.
Merkel, who dealt with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her chancellorship, rejected a suggestion that she and others engaged in appeasement that ultimately enabled the invasion.
NATO pledged in 2008 that Ukraine and Georgia would one day become members. But French and German concern over Russias reactions dashed their hopes of being granted a membership action plan that would bring them into the alliance within five to 10 years.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, presents flowers to German Chancellor Angela Merkel during their meeting in the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia.Credit:AP
Members of the audience wait to witness former German Chancellor Angela Merkel in conversation with journalist Alexander Osang on stage at the Berliner Ensemble theatre. Credit:Getty
I dont see that I should say now that it was wrong, and so I wont apologise.
Berlin: Angela Merkel defended her approach to diplomacy during her 16 years as Germanys leader, saying that a much criticised 2015 peace deal for eastern Ukraine bought Kyiv precious time and she wont apologise for her diplomatic efforts.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
In her first substantial comments since leaving office six months ago, Merkel on Tuesday, Berlin time, said there was no excuse for Russias brutal attack on Ukraine and it was a big mistake on Russias part.
She defended the 2015 peace agreement that she and then-French president Francois Hollande brokered in Minsk, Belarus, aimed at easing fighting between government forces and Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
She suggested a stronger NATO green light for Ukraine in 2008 would have led to faster Russian aggression, with Ukraine less able to resist.
Merkel conceded that it didnt fulfil all of Ukraines interests and that few people stand by the accord now, with some saying it was badly negotiated.
But at the time it brought calm and, for example, it gave Ukraine a great deal of time  seven years namely  to develop into what it is today, she said. If there had been no intervention at the time, she added, Putin could have wrought gigantic damage in Ukraine.
We didnt do nothing, either, she said, noting that Russia was thrown out of the Group of Eight and that NATO set a target for countries to work toward spending 2 per cent of their gross domestic product on defence.
Merkel said that Ukraine was not the one we know today, adding it was very divided and dominated by oligarchs. It wasnt an internally democratically stable country.
Merkel also strongly defended a decision in 2008 not to put Ukraine directly on track to join NATO, which Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky blasted as a miscalculation in early April.
Turning to the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, which she long defended against criticism from the US, Ukraine and eastern European allies, Merkel said Putin invaded Ukraine without waiting for it to enter service.
