Trump calls Putin smart warns of potential world war
20220227
https://www.theage.com.au/world/north-america/trump-calls-putin-smart-warns-of-potential-world-war-20220227-p59zzv.html
Russias attack on Ukraine is appalling. Its an outrage, and an atrocity that should never have been allowed to occur. We are praying for the proud people of Ukraine. God bless them all.
Trump fans Diane Lewis and Brenda Alvarez from Long Island at the Conservative Political Action ConferenceCredit:Farrah Tomazin
As Ukraine resisted Russias military advances for a third day, Trump appeared on stage at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Florida, where he revved up his base ahead of Novembers midterm elections, hinted again at another presidential run and blamed Joe Biden for the Ukraine crisis.
Donald Trump says Russian President Vladimir Putin is smart, and the two understood each other. Credit:AP
Manuel became a Trump fan years ago  a move he said got him cancelled by many friends and shunned by the LGBTQI community.
Billed as the largest and most influential gathering of conservatives in the world, the annual CPAC gathering has traditionally been a good insight into the state of conservatism within the Republican party.
Asked about Ukraine, Manuel said: None of this would have happened if Trump was still in power. They see that the country is weak. Under Donald Trump, we were powerful.
The problem is not that hes smart  which of course hes smart  but the real problem is that our leaders are dumb. Putin is playing Biden like a drum Its not a pretty thing to watch, Trump said.
And Senator Marco Rubio, who is also vice-chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence said that no matter where you stand on this Ukraine-Russia situation - what we should have done beforehand, what we should do now - the one thing I think everyone can agree upon, is that the people of Ukraine are inspiring to the world.
It would have been so easy for me to stop this travesty from happening. He understood me, and he understood that I dont play games.
More than 12 months after leaving office, Trump is still the most dominant force among the Republican Partys base.
The former president praised Putin as smart in contrast to NATO and its allies, which had issued weak sanctions that would do little to deter his aggression. Describing the attack on Ukraine as appalling, he added that the world would not be on the cusp of another lengthy war if he had not lost the US election in 2020.
Diane Lewis had travelled from Long Island to see Trump with her friend Brenda Alvarez. Dressed in a cap that said, Trump was Right, she blamed Biden for cancelling the Keystone XL after coming to office, an oil pipeline system running from Canada to the US. Republicans often argue that this contentious decision had made it harder for oil and gas companies to get into America and also advantaged Russian gas and oil producers.
Were losing our freedom. The country is not energy independent anymore, so were now dependent on foreign oil. she said. Its dangerous.
Hours before the former president was due on stage, countless fans began lining up at the Rosen Shingle Creek Resort to see their favourite president.
Orlando: About 20 minutes into his highly anticipated speech at Americas largest annual conservative gathering, Donald Trump praised Russian President Vladimir Putin while denouncing his attack on Ukraine as a catastrophic disaster.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
Other speakers on the list included Florida governor Ron DeSantis and Texas Senator Ted Cruz, both of whom are seen as presidential nomination contenders former Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage and Donald Trump jnr, who will speak tomorrow on the closing day of the conference.
In a press conference with right-wing cable shortly before his address, Trump went even further, saying: thousand of people, hundreds of thousands of people could die... and this could spread to other countries, and it could spread throughout the world. This could be a world war. Something has to be done.
Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also blamed Biden for the crisis, telling the crowd: Weve seen a Russia dictator now terrorise the Ukrainian people because America didnt demonstrate the resolve that we did for the four years prior.
Trumps speech set the scene for a fiery contest ahead of this years midterm elections. In an address lasting almost 90 minutes, he once again revived false claims that the election was rigged, declared the COVID emergency was over and told the crowd that losing the 2022 midterms and the 2024 presidential election was not an option.
I think absent leadership is certainly a good way to define whats happening right now. Russia is certainly emboldened by Americas lack of presence on the main stage, and lack of strength, he said.
Among them was small business owner Michael Manuel, who had travelled from Texas with a group of friends. Collectively, they were hard to miss: dressed in matching yellow T-shirts emblazoned with large red letters spelling out Trumps name, as well red, white and blue cowboy hats.
Stephen Rowe, a digital training director from Virginia, agreed, noting that Crimea was annexed by Russia in 2014 under Barack Obama, whereas no wars began under the Trump administration.
