Ukraines nuclear power fleet the prize in Russias escalating energy war
20220305
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/ukraine-s-nuclear-power-fleet-the-prize-in-russia-s-escalating-energy-war-20220304-p5a1vh.html
Authorities said Russian troops had taken control of the overall site but plant staff continued to run it. Four reactors were immediately switched off.
The IEAs key recommendations include not signing any new gas contracts with Russia maximising gas supplies from other sources accelerating the deployment of solar and wind making the most of existing low emissions energy sources, such as nuclear and renewables and ramping up energy efficiency measures in homes and businesses.
In the US Pentagon, spokesman John Kirby said the episode underscores the recklessness with which the Russians have been perpetrating this unprovoked invasion. At the UN, Ukraines UN ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya, said the fire broke out as a result of Russian shelling of the plant and accused Moscow of committing an act of nuclear terrorism.
Nobody is under any illusions anymore, said IEA executive director Fatih Birol. Russias use of its natural gas resources as an economic and political weapon show Europe needs to act quickly to be ready to face considerable uncertainty over Russian gas supplies next winter.
These plants are now in a situation that few people ever seriously contemplated when they were originally built, said Edwin Lyman of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington. No nuclear plant has been designed to withstand a potential threat of a full-scale military attack.
In the wake of the attack, the US Ambassador to the UN, Linda Thomas-Greenfield warned an emergency meeting of the Security Council that the world had narrowly avoided a nuclear catastrophe but even now Russian forces are now 20 miles 32 km, and closing, from Ukraines second-largest nuclear facility.
While she did not name the plant, the South Ukraine station is close to active fighting.
In the attack on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant in the southeastern city of Enerhodar, the chief of the UNs International Atomic Energy Agency, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said a Russian projectile hit a training centre, though not any of the six reactors.
Without producing evidence, Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov claimed that a Ukrainian sabotage group had set the fire at Zaporizhzhia.
On Friday, AEDT, Russian troops seized the biggest nuclear power plant in Europe after a middle-of-the-night attack that set it on fire. Firefighters extinguished the blaze, and no radiation was released, UN and Ukrainian officials said.
Russias strategy of seizing control of Ukraines power generation by attacking its fleet of nuclear reactors has prompted global fears of a Chernobyl-style nuclear catastrophe.
Barbara Pompili, Minister for Ecological Transition of France, which currently holds the EU Presidency, said abandoning Russian fossil fuels and fossil in general was necessary both to fight climate change and for the short-term energy security of the European continent.
The crisis unfolded after Grossi earlier in the week expressed grave concern that the fighting could cause accidental damage to Ukraines 15 nuclear reactors at four plants around the country.
Energy supply has been central to the Ukraine conflict since long before the Russian invasion. Since the Soviet era, Ukraine has been connected to the Russian grid and as tensions increased, European and Ukrainian officials worked towards decoupling and further integrating the nation with Europe.
On Friday AEDT, the International Energy Agency released an ambitious ten-point plan outlining how Europe could drastically reduce its dependence on Russian gas within a year and before next winter begins.
The attack triggered global alarm and fear of a catastrophe that could dwarf the worlds worst nuclear disaster, at Ukraines Chernobyl in 1986. In an emotional nighttime speech, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he feared an explosion that would be the end for everyone. The end for Europe. The evacuation of Europe.
Two people were injured in the fire, Grossi said. Ukraines state nuclear plant operator Enerhoatom said three Ukrainian soldiers were killed and two wounded.
Germany has already suspended the completed but as-yet uncommissioned Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project with Russia.
Similarly, Europes dependence on Russian gas and oil has caused consternation as the income it generates helps fund Russias war effort and leaves Europe open to possible coercion. At present, Russia supplies 40 per cent of the gas Europe uses for heating and industry.
Russia cannot have any interest in contaminating its own territory, he said. He said the danger comes not just from the reactors but from the risk of enemy fire hitting storage facilities that hold spent fuel rods.
The European Union commission is expected to announce a range of policies this week to cut Russian gas dependence, including by mandating an increasing gas storage facilities, renewable energy and energy efficiency measures in member nations.
Dr Alex Rosen of International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War said the incident was probably the result of military units overestimating the precision of their weapons, given that the prevailing winds would carry any radioactive fallout straight toward Russia.
