US banked on Putin blinking He didnt
20220224
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/us-banked-on-putin-blinking-he-didn-t-20220224-p59zfx.html
Knowing the US President is unlikely to walk back on his statement that no American troops will set foot on Ukrainian soil to help defend it, the way was clear.
The statement is chilling. It was opaque enough to allow the worst of interpretations, which are unfolding by the hour. The United Nations Security Council was already meeting on the crisis when the news came through. The statement of the Russian Ambassador, Vasily Nebenzya, who is also the President of the Security Council, was confusing, to make matters worse. He implied this was a special military operation confined to the Donbas region where the two breakaway republics are located.
Ambassador Nebenzya said the West had shown no compassion for the 4 million people in these regions whod been subjected to what Russia calls, without credible independent evidence, a genocide. He blamed Ukraine for what he said was the sabotaging of the Minsk II agreement that called for dialogue with the two Donbas republics and for them to be given special autonomous status, which has not happened.
How much of this could have been avoided if, after Russia recognised the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples republics, the American Secretary of State had met the Russian Foreign Minister, as planned? How much could have been avoided had the US taken Russias reasonable request for a security agreement seriously?
Its goal will be to defend people who for eight years are suffering persecution and genocide by the Kyiv regime. For this we will aim for demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine, as well as taking to court those who carried out multiple bloody crimes against civilians, including citizens of the Russian Federation. Our plans do not include occupying Ukrainian territory.
For Putin, recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk began as a tool of negotiation to demand NATOs promise that it would never invite Ukraine into its orbit. That NATO doesnt invite nations into its organisation, but those nations ask for accession, was clearly not something that anyone in Putins circle argued strongly enough to sway their leader. That Ukraine would likely never be permitted accession to NATO because its borders are anything but secure was clearly no longer enough security for the Russian President. In any event, Putins negotiating tool, recognition of the Luhansk and Donetsk, quickly turned to real steps.
US President Joe Biden has vowed not to send American troops into Ukraine. Vladimir Putin, meanwhile, doesnt blink.Credit:AP
For him, the logic is simple. The US promised back in 1991, as the USSR was dissolving, no NATO eastward expansion. On this, Russia was duped. In 2014, a Moscow-friendly Ukrainian president was ousted by a revolution that Russia claimed was funded by the US. It became evidence for Putin that the US was paving the way for NATO to bring Ukraine into its orbit.
How much could have been avoided had the Russian President had around him a circle of people willing to keep in check his worst impulses, his most deluded of thoughts and his wild analysis of what sovereignty means. Instead, he is surrounded by a cabinet and advisors too frightened to contradict him, to bring his worst impulses back to reality.
Monica Attard was the ABCs Russian correspondent from 1989 to 1994. She is co-director of the UTS Centre for Media Transition.
Putin went a step further with recognition of the Donbass republics and got a muted reaction  sanctions, even if just the first round of measures that would undoubtedly hurt his relatively small economy and his now-worried oligarchs.
The Ukrainian Interior Ministry reports Russian troopers have landed in Odessa and are crossing the border into Kharkiv. Shelling is under way. Ukraines Foreign Minister tweeted that Russia had started a full-scale war.
It is unclear what tipped him into the massive build-up of Russian troops  some 200,000 of them  on the border late last year. Yet still, there were no concessions on security from the West.
It is undoubtedly a shocking, shameful, irreversible development. The best interpretation of Putin is that special military operation means taking out Ukraines military defences, rather than occupying the country. Few Ukrainians, nor the international community, believe this.
Ukraine, entirely undeserving of the show of force Putin is now unleashing, is seeing what happens when its one-time Soviet neighbour cant get its way. Diplomacy is over. The UN looks impotent.
But none of what Putin announced sounded remotely like a military operation limited to the Donbas. And it isnt.
Russia has declared war. Real war. And it has undoubtedly begun. At 6am Moscow time, President Vladimir Putin, seemingly still incensed at the Wests refusal to give him what he wants, security guarantees, announced he had received a request for help from the leaders of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics in eastern Ukraine, which he had just two days before recognised.
