West warns Russian invasion has begun slaps sanctions to cripple regime
20220222
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/eu-approves-russian-sanctions-as-nato-warns-of-full-scale-attack-on-ukraine-20220223-p59ysp.html
A deputy defence minister asked the chamber to deploy troops in Donbas  an umbrella term for the two regions.
Russias parliament approved treaties with the two regions a day after Putin said he was recognising the independence of the two enclaves, which adjoin Russia and have been controlled by Russian-backed fighters since 2014.
Putin said the territory covered the entire Donetsk and Luhansk regions, not merely the parts currently controlled by separatists. The move appeared to increase the likelihood of conflict.
Our action today is a response to Russias aggressive behaviour, von der Leyen said during a press conference.
The European Union is ready to take further action against Russia if Moscow keeps on ramping up its military activity in Ukraine, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday AEDT.
Russian President Vladimir Putins decision to send troops into two separatist regions in Ukraine was the beginning of a Russian invasion, US President Joe Biden warned in an address from the White House earlier on Wednesday AEDT.
In Donetsk, some residents celebrated, with cars flying Russian flags and sounding their horns. But several blasts were heard in the city on Tuesday, and some people questioned whether Putins moves would bring peace.
Moscow: Western nations and Japan have punished Russia with new sanctions for ordering troops into separatist regions of eastern Ukraine and threatened to go further if Moscow launched an all-out invasion of its neighbour.
The USThe Biden administration imposed sanctions on Russias sovereign debt, the countrys elites and their family members, Russian state development corporation VEB.RF and its military bank. The sovereign debt sanctions, the harshest of the penalties, effectively cut Russia off from Western financing and means it will no longer be able to trade in new debt on US or European markets. Biden, who signed an executive order on Sunday blocking new investments in the separatist territories by US persons or businesses, said the US would continue to escalate sanctions if Russia escalates. Meanwhile, Congress members havent been able to agree on a bipartisan package to impose sanctions on Russia.
Celebrations in Donetsk late on Monday after Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised the breakaway republic as independent from Ukraine.Credit:AP
Get a note direct from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
She spoke shortly after the EUs foreign ministers agreed to sanction 27 Russians and entities, as well as banks, the defence sector and limiting Russian access to European capital markets.
Russias actions dont just threaten Ukraines sovereignty, but are a blatant attack on freedom and democracy, the leaders agreed, a joint statement said.
The United States, the European Union, Britain, Australia, Canada and Japan announced plans to target banks and elites while Germany halted a major gas pipeline project from Russia in one of the worst security crises in Europe in decades.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday AEDT the alliance believed Russia was still planning a big assault on Ukraine.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron meanwhile agreed to continue to work together to target those who supported what Johnson called Putins aggressive approach.
He ended his address by saying: We desire peace and calm but if we are quiet today then tomorrow we will disappear.
Germany is Russias biggest customer for natural gas, and the decision by Chancellor Olaf Scholz to freeze the pipeline  built but awaiting approval  was widely seen as one of the strongest measures Europe could take.
The EUThe European Union imposed sanctions on 351 members of the Russian parliament Duma who voted for recognising the separatist regions in eastern Ukraine as independent, plus another 11 Russians who proposed the recognition three Russian banks that finance military or other operations in the region: VEB.RF, Bank Rossiya and Promsvyazbank. It imposed restrictions on Russian government to access EU capital and financial markets and services, and on trade by the two breakaway regions to and from the EU. EU sanctions still need to be confirmed by member states.
Scholz said he had asked his Economy Ministry to take steps to ensure that certification could not take place for now.
CanadaThe Trudeau will ban Canadians from all financial dealings with Luhansk and Donetsk, ban Canadians from engaging in purchases of Russian sovereign debt and sanction members of the Duma who voted for the decision to recognise Donetsk and Luhansk as independent, and will sanction two state-backed Russian banks and prevent any financial dealings with them.
The prospect of a disruption to energy supplies and fears of war  stoked by reports of shelling in some areas and movements of unmarked tanks overnight in the rebel-controlled city of Donetsk  rattled international financial markets and sent oil prices surging to their highest level since 2014.
JapanJapan has prohibited the issuance of Russian bonds in Japan and froze the assets of certain Russian individuals, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said on Wednesday. He said further steps would be considered should the situation worsen.
But even now, Biden said there was still time to avert a full-scale war in Europe.
AustraliaAustralia has imposed sanctions, including travel bans and financial bans on Russian individuals and entities as part of a first tranche of measures. It will follow the US in placing financial sanctions on the breakaway Ukrainian regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. It will also use the recent Magnitsky laws which target individuals for human rights abuses.
He also signed a decree on deploying Russian forces there, and on Tuesday parliament formally granted his request to use troops abroad with immediate effect.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced that reservists would be called up for military training but said there would be no general mobilisation of the armed forces.
Zelensky said he would meet 150 major Ukrainian businesses to persuade them to stay in Ukraine.
Every indication is that Russia is continuing to plan for a full-scale attack of Ukraine, Stoltenberg said in Brussels. We continue to call on Russia to step back ... its never too late not to attack.
In a national address, Zelensky welcomed the offer by Turkey to broker talks between Ukraine and Russia.
There is no question Russia is the aggressor, so were clear-eyed about the challenge ... nonetheless, there is still time to avert the worst-case scenario.
The measures came after a dramatic escalation of tensions triggered by Putins recognition of two self-proclaimed republics, Donbas and Luhansk, in eastern Ukraine, a move that effectively killed eight years of diplomacy. Russias upper house on Tuesday gave the green light to Putin to deploy troops to the separatist-held regions.
The Kremlin regretted Germanys move and said it hoped the delay was temporary. Putin said Russia aims to continue uninterrupted supplies of energy to the world.
Biden announced a first tranche of sanctions on Russia and the deployment of American forces already based in Europe to support NATO. His announcement followed earlier sanctions after the European Union and Britain set out an initial set of limited penalties targeting Moscow.
If Russia continues to escalate this crisis that it has created, we are ready to take further action in response, she added, also stressing the need for the EU to be less dependent on Russia for gas.
BritainThe UK imposed sanctions on five Russian banks including Bank Rossiya and Promsvyazbank. Three individuals saw their assets frozen: Gennady Timchenko, Boris Rotenberg and Igor Rotenberg. UK sanctions kicked in immediately.
The rapid series of events  including Germanys halting of the $US11billion $18billion Nord Stream 2 project  caps weeks of brinkmanship, with the Kremlin insisting it has no plans for a full-scale invasion. The pipeline is meant to import liquid natural gas from Russia to Germany and other European markets.
He welcomed the sanctions announced by Western governments against Russia and referenced Scholzs decision on the pipeline.
