Why Zelensky could defeat Putin by the end of the year
20220519
https://www.theage.com.au/world/europe/why-zelensky-could-defeat-putin-by-the-end-of-the-year-20220519-p5aml2.html
Sir Lawrence Freedman, a distinguished historian of 20th-century military and political strategy, says he now believes it is realistic that a turning point could come as soon as August, leading to a Ukrainian victory by the end of the year.
Mikhail Khodaryonok, a retired Russian colonel and military commentator, broke ranks earlier this week, telling state television that there was no good outcome for Russia in the war.
Meanwhile, Putins forces pressed against Ukraines battle-hardened, fortified positions in the east, while trying to cut them off in a massive encirclement by advancing south from the Ukrainian town of Izium.
Ukrainian success in the Donbas will be welcome. But unless it turns Russias military and the security elite against Putin, it will also propel the next phase in this war.
As modern Western weaponry bolsters Ukraines combat power, Vladimir Putin faces a critical decision of whether he wants to send more troops and hardware in to bolster his dramatically weakened invasion force.
We dont know extent of Ukraine military losses - they have not been as heavy as Russians but bad enough - and civilian losses have been horrendous.
The Secretary-General of the North Atlantic alliance had dialled in, remote from Brussels, to speak alongside the German foreign minister, Annalena Baerbock, following meetings with her counterparts in Berlin. In his trademark matter-of-fact style, he used a phrase that until this week hed not been prepared to use as he told journalists that Russias war in Ukraine was not going as Moscow had planned.
Russian soldiers play with a bear at the zoo in the now occupied city of Mariupol. Credit:AP
Freedman says Zelensky would probably take an offer on the territory occupied by separatists on February 23, the day before the invasion. The Ukrainian president should be prepared to negotiate on the rest, simply to spare his country more suffering.
Putin will not lose gracefully. More likely he will try to put a Ukrainian failure within the context of a greater European struggle, between a wounded, paranoid superpower and the rest of us, he says.
It is a testament of sorts to Russian stoicism and discipline that they are still going despite losses and reverses, Freedman says. But at some point it will be in serious trouble, especially if it struggles against the Ukrainian counteroffensive. Armies can be quite brittle, so they seem fine and then suddenly they break.
Russia is not achieving its strategic objectives, Stoltenberg said with an air of growing confidence.
Michael Clarke, visiting professor in war studies at Kings College London, said Putins last hope before being forced to conscript in large numbers was to conjure a quick victory. He is not certain there will be a clear victor in the war for some time.
Get a note directly from our foreign correspondents on whats making headlines around the world. Sign up for the weekly What in the World newsletter here.
A mass mobilisation, he argued, would not give Russia an immediate advantage on the battlefield as it would take months to train the recruits before they could be sent into action.
If he fails, mobilisation can hardly be avoided, and we should then expect Russia to pour more resources into the war, well beyond the end of this year, he said.
Zelensky argues that any concession towards Moscow on territory  including Crimea  would open the door to future Russian incursions into their territory.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, seen here watching the Victory Day military parade in Moscow, would be dangerous if humiliated, says French President Emmanuel Macron. Credit:AP
Putins tanks rolled across the border into Ukraine on February 24 in a failed attempt to capture the capital, Kyiv. On April 19, Moscow withdrew to focus on a second phase aimed at capturing the south and all the Donbas, some of which has been held by Kremlin-backed separatists since 2014.
We want the Russian army to leave our land  we arent on Russian soil.
They have indicated that they will start a major offensive over next few weeks and my guess is that once that picks up the process could get very dynamic. But there is an awful lot of ground to deliver and offensives are much harder than defensive ops.
He said if this happened, Western powers were likely to move into the grey zone between help and direct involvement in Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory. He has vowed to expel Russian troops from Ukrainian territory.
Clarke says if Putin is denied a swift victory in Donbas, then he cannot forever blame the military and his security chiefs for failing to do the impossible.
Freeman estimates the total Russian casualties, including dead, wounded, missing and prisoners of war in Ukraine, could be anywhere between 40,000 to 50,000 troops.
They Ukrainian forces have seen the trouble Russians have got into by rushing offensives and are trying to weaken the forces at front by pushing against them, he says.
While Russia has retained its land corridor in southern Ukraine, it was hampered by Ukrainian troops who held out against massive bombardments for 82 days in Mariupols steel works before ending their resistance this week.
While European leaders have publicly pledged their support for Ukraine, many also fear a new set of problems that could be created by a humiliation of Russia, as French President Emmanuel Macron called it.
Russia has failed to make significant gains in the Donetsk region after weeks of heavy shelling. Credit:AP
While Russias forces are unlikely to be vanquished quickly even if no major new troop deployment materialises, the stage for the four-week-old Battle for the Donbas to grind on.
We wont help Putin save face by paying with our territory. That would be unjust, he said in an interview with Italys RAI public broadcaster.
We need to view one million well-armed Ukrainian soldiers as a reality for the coming months, he said. We need to take it into account that the situation for us will frankly get worse.
From an overcautious Stoltenberg this was a significant statement. But its now an opinion gaining traction throughout many Western nations.
So, Donbas has become the prize for Putin which will likely define the course of his war. If his forces cant achieve a quick breakthrough, it is difficult to see where Putin could achieve any bargaining chip for the future.
They failed to take Kyiv, he said. They are pulling back from around Kharkiv, their major offensive in the Donbas has stalled.
But Ukraine stands. NATO is stronger than ever. Europe and North America are solidly united.
Around a third of the Donbas was held by Russia-backed separatists before the invasion. Moscow now controls around 90 per cent of Luhansk region, but it has failed to make major inroads towards the key cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk in Donetsk in order to extend control over the entire region.
Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi have all pushed in the past week for new discussions about a peace deal, which could be a face-saving resolution for Putin, even if it costs Ukraine some territory.
A Kremlin spokesman said in response that everything is going to plan ... theres no doubt that all the objectives will be achieved.
While the Kremlin attempts to take full control of the smouldering ruins of the port city of Mariupol, Russian forces now face the growing prospect of defeat in its bid to conquer all of Ukraines eastern Donbas because its depleted forces lack the manpower for significant advances.
Jens Stoltenberg, who has built a reputation while head of NATO as a reserved man who chooses his words carefully, dropped it in conversation with such subtlety that at first it almost went unnoticed.
