Netflix TikTok block services in Russia amid media crackdown
20220306
https://www.fox6now.com/news/netflix-tiktok-block-services-in-russia-amid-media-crackdown
The actions are likely to further isolate the country and its people after a growing number of multinational businesses have cut off Russia from vital financial services and technology products in response to Western economic sanctions and global outrage over the invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian refugees fleeing to Medyka, Poland, were greeted with live music, as a man played the piano near the border crossing on March 4. Credit: Daniel Baird via Storyful
The new legislation, quickly rubber-stamped by both houses of the Kremlin-controlled parliament and signed by Putin, imposes prison sentences of up to 15 years for those spreading information that goes against the Russian governments narrative on the war.
Multiple news outlets have also said they would pause their work inside Russia to evaluate the situation. Russian authorities have repeatedly and falsely decried reports of Russian military setbacks or civilian deaths in Ukraine as "fake" news. State media outlets refer to Russias invasion of Ukraine as a "special military operation" rather than a war or an invasion.
As the war intensifies in Ukraine, and Russian troops have taken control of Europe's largest nuclear plant, Michael O'Hanlon talks about the strategic decisions being made by both sides and the impact their actions have on the world.
Netflix and TikTok suspended most of their services in Russia on Sunday as the government cracks down on what people and media outlets can say about Russias war in Ukraine.
The law envisages sentences of up to three years or fines for spreading what authorities deem to be false news about the military, but the maximum punishment rises to 15 years for cases deemed to have led to "severe consequences."
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
TikTok said Russian users of the popular social media app would no longer be able to post new videos or livestreams and they also wouldnt be able to see videos shared from elsewhere in the world.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday intensified a crackdown on media outlets and individuals who fail to hew to the Kremlin line on the war, blocking Facebook and Twitter and signing into law a bill that criminalizes the intentional spreading of what Moscow deems to be "fake" reports.
TikTok spokesperson Hilary McQuaide said the TikTok app in Russia now appears in "view-only" mode and wont let people post or see new videos or livestreams. They can still see older videos, but not if they came from outside the country, she said.
"The safety of employees is our top priority," she said, adding that the company  part of China-based tech company ByteDance  didnt want to put either its Russian employees or users at risk of severe criminal penalties.
Delavan - Darien School District's DD Tech Administrator and CTE Coordinator, Michael Rick, discusses educational opportunities.
"In light of Russias new fake news law, we have no choice but to suspend livestreaming and new content to our video service while we review the safety implications of this law," TikTok said Sunday in a statement on Twitter. "Our in-app messaging service will not be affected."
