Russia invades Ukraine Kyiv resident speaks to FOX6
20220226
https://www.fox6now.com/news/russia-invades-ukraine-kyiv-resident-speaks-to-fox6
"I didnt believe that there would be a full invasion," Tykhonovsaid. "We live the 21st century. Its like nonsense, pure nonsense.
"We have a plastic panel here because we believe if theres a rocket attack, and theres glass here, so we can get damaged, so we made a small barricade for at least a little bit," Tykhonovsaid.
From the basement of his building in Kyiv, Ukraine's capital, Tykhonovshowed FOX6 around the place where his family has felt the safest.
The attack on his home is not something Tykhonovprepared for. He wants people in the U.S. to see what is happening.
MILWAUKEE - Milwaukee's Hoan Bridge was lit yellow and blue Friday night in a show of solidarity with the people of Ukraine.
In the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, FOX6 News spoke to Wisconsinites with ties to the eastern European nation.
People in the community are coming together to show their support for the people of Ukraine.
As we watch history unfold in Ukraine, Wisconsin political science professors say there's no better time for a history lesson.
A man in Kyiv, Ukraine fighting to keep his family safe following Russia's invasion spoke to FOX6 News from his basement Friday.
"Theres no light outside. I believe thats because of the bombs, so I wont go outside," said Tykhonov. "If I use any light that would maybe be dangerous."
"We really, really hope  at least people like me hope  that well get support who will fight with us, not just talk."
Delavan - Darien School District's DD Tech Administrator and CTE Coordinator, Michael Rick, discusses educational opportunities.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
"Every time we hear a warning, we go down, and I believe its like the 10th time for today," Ruslan Tykhonov said Friday.
"Ive seen it. I heard the sounds. I was shocked. It was too early in the morning," said Tykhonov. "I got a little panicked, packed our stuff and we stayed at our house because we dont have a place to go right now."
FREE DOWNLOAD: Get breaking news alerts in the FOX6 News app for iOS or Android.
FOX6 News spoke with one man who is in Ukraine right now, fighting to keep his family safe following Russia's invasion.
