Ukraine Ceasefire Elusive But UN Efforts Continue
20220419
https://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2022/04/19/2022041900623.html
Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, speaks with The Associated Press during an interview in Kyiv, Ukraine on April 7, 2022. AP
"The Donbas is a massive, massive humanitarian worry," Griffiths said, referring to the eastern region.
He urged the parties to return to the negotiating table in Istanbul to continue discussions. "Even if the eventual war aims may be unrealized or unclear, we certainly need that to happen," he said of resuming substantive talks. "On the humanitarian side, we need much, much more willing acceptance, primarily of the Russian Federation, to allow convoys in and convoys out in these places of great need."
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres spoke with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday regarding Turkish-hosted mediation efforts. Guterres also emphasized the need for humanitarian corridors for the distribution of aid and the evacuation of civilians. Griffiths will follow up on that discussion with Erdogan.
"Neither I nor the secretary-general, if I could speak for him, had any illusions about whether there would be some sort of an immediate breakthrough in this," Griffiths said. "What I wanted to do was to set out for both parties, first of all, what our vision of a local cease-fire would be. How would it be monitored, for example? That's crucial, and we have done a lot of work on that, and how ready we are to step forward as soon as there is an opportunity."
The United Nations says 4.9 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, and 7.1 million more are internally displaced.
"Cease-fires, they are not on the horizon right now, but they may be in a couple of weeks. They may be a little bit longer than that," Griffiths told reporters.
UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths will travel to Turkey on Tuesday to continue his efforts to achieve some level of humanitarian cease-fires in Ukraine.
The United Nations has 1,300 staff across Ukraine in both government-controlled areas and nongovernment areas in the east, and recently reopened its Kyiv office. In addition to trying to open aid and evacuation corridors to besieged cities such as Mariupol in the south, they are preparing for a fierce battle for eastern Ukraine."The Donbas is a massive, massive humanitarian worry," Griffiths said, referring to the eastern region.He urged the parties to return to the negotiating table in Istanbul to continue discussions. "Even if the eventual war aims may be unrealized or unclear, we certainly need that to happen," he said of resuming substantive talks. "On the humanitarian side, we need much, much more willing acceptance, primarily of the Russian Federation, to allow convoys in and convoys out in these places of great need."The United Nations says 4.9 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, and 7.1 million more are internally displaced.
The aid chief's trip to Moscow and Kyiv earlier this month has not yet yielded the hoped for cooperation from Moscow.
The United Nations has 1,300 staff across Ukraine in both government-controlled areas and nongovernment areas in the east, and recently reopened its Kyiv office. In addition to trying to open aid and evacuation corridors to besieged cities such as Mariupol in the south, they are preparing for a fierce battle for eastern Ukraine.
He said it depends on where the war is heading and how talks between Russia and Ukraine go. Those talks are currently taking place at very low levels. Griffiths also expressed hope that Orthodox Easter on April 24 could present an opportunity for a pause.
UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths will travel to Turkey on Tuesday to continue his efforts to achieve some level of humanitarian cease-fires in Ukraine."Cease-fires, they are not on the horizon right now, but they may be in a couple of weeks. They may be a little bit longer than that," Griffiths told reporters.He said it depends on where the war is heading and how talks between Russia and Ukraine go. Those talks are currently taking place at very low levels. Griffiths also expressed hope that Orthodox Easter on April 24 could present an opportunity for a pause.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres spoke with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday regarding Turkish-hosted mediation efforts. Guterres also emphasized the need for humanitarian corridors for the distribution of aid and the evacuation of civilians. Griffiths will follow up on that discussion with Erdogan.The aid chief's trip to Moscow and Kyiv earlier this month has not yet yielded the hoped for cooperation from Moscow."Neither I nor the secretary-general, if I could speak for him, had any illusions about whether there would be some sort of an immediate breakthrough in this," Griffiths said. "What I wanted to do was to set out for both parties, first of all, what our vision of a local cease-fire would be. How would it be monitored, for example? That's crucial, and we have done a lot of work on that, and how ready we are to step forward as soon as there is an opportunity."
