US Allies Ramping up Support for Ukraine
20220427
https://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2022/04/27/2022042700552.html
During the two-hour meeting, Putin agreed "in principle" to allow the United Nations and the International Committee for the Red Cross to assist with the evacuation of civilians from the Azovstal iron and steel plant in Mariupol, Guterres' spokesman, Stphane Dujarric, said.
A German Gepard antiaircraft tank fires during a demonstration about 80 km south east of Hamburg, Germany on June 20, 2007. Reuters
The U.S. at first "needed weeks" to move military equipment and munitions to Ukraine, Secretary of State Antony Blinken told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday, but now it often dispatches new armaments to the Ukrainians within three days.
The U.S. defense secretary also said allies supporting Ukraine would meet monthly to coordinate further aid. As he opened the talks, he said the aim was to "help Ukraine to win the fight against Russia's unjust invasion and to help build up Ukraine for tomorrow's challenges."
The United States and its allies signaled Tuesday they are moving swiftly and powerfully to support Ukrainian forces as they defend against Russia's two-month invasion, while the United Nations said Russia's president agreed "in principle" to let international aid groups evacuate civilians from the besieged port city of Mariupol.
But Ukrainian officials say the attempted creation of humanitarian corridors to let civilians escape from the devastation of Mariupol have repeatedly been blocked by Russian forces.
While in Kyiv, Blinken and Austin also pledged more military assistance, offering $713 million for Ukraine and 15 partner nations. "Russia's invasion is indefensible, and so are Russian atrocities," Austin said Tuesday. "We all start today from a position of moral clarity. Russia is waging a war of choice to indulge the ambitions of one man. Ukraine is fighting a war of necessity to defend its democracy, its sovereignty and its citizens."
Blinken said after he and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv over the weekend, the two countries are "largely aligned in what they say they need and what we think we're able to provide."
The United States and its allies signaled Tuesday they are moving swiftly and powerfully to support Ukrainian forces as they defend against Russia's two-month invasion, while the United Nations said Russia's president agreed "in principle" to let international aid groups evacuate civilians from the besieged port city of Mariupol.The U.S. at first "needed weeks" to move military equipment and munitions to Ukraine, Secretary of State Antony Blinken told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday, but now it often dispatches new armaments to the Ukrainians within three days.Blinken said after he and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv over the weekend, the two countries are "largely aligned in what they say they need and what we think we're able to provide." Germany signaled Tuesday for the first time it would send heavy weapons to Ukraine. Austin, meeting at a U.S. air base in Germany with officials from 40 countries, including NATO members, said Russian President Vladimir Putin "never imagined the whole world would rally behind Ukraine so swiftly and surely." "We're seeing more support every day" to combat the Russian invasion, he said Tuesday. "We don't have any time to waste. We've got to move at the speed of war."The White House said Germany's decision signals unprecedented unity in the face of Russian aggression. "The announcement by Germany is in line with announcements we've seen by a number of European countries in providing assistance they have never before provided, which is part of the significance here," said White House press secretary Jen Psaki. "So, this is an unprecedented change to provide lethal aid to another country, and that's the significance here from Germany. But I'd also note that Norway provided Mistral anti-aircraft missiles, that a number of countries have provided types of assistance that they have never done in the past, and that really speaks to the significant unity of NATO."
"So, this is an unprecedented change to provide lethal aid to another country, and that's the significance here from Germany. But I'd also note that Norway provided Mistral anti-aircraft missiles, that a number of countries have provided types of assistance that they have never done in the past, and that really speaks to the significant unity of NATO."
Moscow accused the West of carrying out a proxy war against Russia by sending more munitions to Ukraine and warned of a "considerable" risk that the fighting could evolve into a nuclear conflict.
Germany signaled Tuesday for the first time it would send heavy weapons to Ukraine. Austin, meeting at a U.S. air base in Germany with officials from 40 countries, including NATO members, said Russian President Vladimir Putin "never imagined the whole world would rally behind Ukraine so swiftly and surely." "We're seeing more support every day" to combat the Russian invasion, he said Tuesday. "We don't have any time to waste. We've got to move at the speed of war."
The U.S. defense secretary also said allies supporting Ukraine would meet monthly to coordinate further aid. As he opened the talks, he said the aim was to "help Ukraine to win the fight against Russia's unjust invasion and to help build up Ukraine for tomorrow's challenges."Austin also rebuked Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov for suggesting that the war could evolve into a nuclear conflict between Russia and the West. "We certainly will do everything in our power... to make sure it doesn't spin out of control," Austin said. "Nobody wants to see a nuclear war. Nobody can win it," he said, adding that "it's unhelpful and dangerous to rattle sabers" over a nuclear threat.Austin's appeal to allies for more help for Ukraine came a day after he said the U.S. objective in supporting Ukraine was to leave Russia with a "weakened" military. He described Russian casualties so far as "pretty substantial," with some military analysts saying Moscow might have sustained the deaths of as many as 20,000 troops.Moscow accused the West of carrying out a proxy war against Russia by sending more munitions to Ukraine and warned of a "considerable" risk that the fighting could evolve into a nuclear conflict. Diplomatic EffortsUnited Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres met Tuesday in Moscow with Putin and Lavrov in an attempt to broker a cease-fire agreement, even as Russia launched new attacks on eastern and southern Ukraine.During the two-hour meeting, Putin agreed "in principle" to allow the United Nations and the International Committee for the Red Cross to assist with the evacuation of civilians from the Azovstal iron and steel plant in Mariupol, Guterres' spokesman, Stphane Dujarric, said.The UN chief said that while Russia and the UN have "different interpretations of what's happening in Ukraine," there is still the possibility for a serious conversation about working to minimize suffering and "end the war as soon as possible." Guterres said he wanted to further address the wider impacts of the conflict on the world's most vulnerable populations amid rising food and energy prices.Lavrov welcomed Guterres and the UN's desire for dialogue, while accusing Western governments of flouting principles of multilateralism and instead undertaking a unilateral approach to the world. Lavrov said Russia's "goals are primarily to protect the civilian population, and here we are ready to cooperate with our colleagues from the U.N. to alleviate the plight of the civilian population."But Ukrainian officials say the attempted creation of humanitarian corridors to let civilians escape from the devastation of Mariupol have repeatedly been blocked by Russian forces.Meanwhile, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan urged Putin to agree to direct talks with Zelenskyy. Turkey, which shares a maritime border with Russia and Ukraine, has attempted unsuccessfully to broker an accord to end the fighting.Also on Tuesday, State Department spokesman Ned Price said American diplomats have taken concrete steps to reestablish a U.S. diplomatic presence in Ukraine. "I can confirm that the deputy chief of mission and members of the embassy team traveled to Lviv, Ukraine, today, where they were able to continue our close collaboration with key Ukrainian partners," he said. "Today, they met with interlocutors from the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs."While in Kyiv, Blinken and Austin also pledged more military assistance, offering $713 million for Ukraine and 15 partner nations. "Russia's invasion is indefensible, and so are Russian atrocities," Austin said Tuesday. "We all start today from a position of moral clarity. Russia is waging a war of choice to indulge the ambitions of one man. Ukraine is fighting a war of necessity to defend its democracy, its sovereignty and its citizens."
Austin also rebuked Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov for suggesting that the war could evolve into a nuclear conflict between Russia and the West. "We certainly will do everything in our power... to make sure it doesn't spin out of control," Austin said. "Nobody wants to see a nuclear war. Nobody can win it," he said, adding that "it's unhelpful and dangerous to rattle sabers" over a nuclear threat.
Austin's appeal to allies for more help for Ukraine came a day after he said the U.S. objective in supporting Ukraine was to leave Russia with a "weakened" military. He described Russian casualties so far as "pretty substantial," with some military analysts saying Moscow might have sustained the deaths of as many as 20,000 troops.
The UN chief said that while Russia and the UN have "different interpretations of what's happening in Ukraine," there is still the possibility for a serious conversation about working to minimize suffering and "end the war as soon as possible." Guterres said he wanted to further address the wider impacts of the conflict on the world's most vulnerable populations amid rising food and energy prices.
Meanwhile, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan urged Putin to agree to direct talks with Zelenskyy. Turkey, which shares a maritime border with Russia and Ukraine, has attempted unsuccessfully to broker an accord to end the fighting.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres met Tuesday in Moscow with Putin and Lavrov in an attempt to broker a cease-fire agreement, even as Russia launched new attacks on eastern and southern Ukraine.
Lavrov welcomed Guterres and the UN's desire for dialogue, while accusing Western governments of flouting principles of multilateralism and instead undertaking a unilateral approach to the world. Lavrov said Russia's "goals are primarily to protect the civilian population, and here we are ready to cooperate with our colleagues from the U.N. to alleviate the plight of the civilian population."
The White House said Germany's decision signals unprecedented unity in the face of Russian aggression. "The announcement by Germany is in line with announcements we've seen by a number of European countries in providing assistance they have never before provided, which is part of the significance here," said White House press secretary Jen Psaki.
Also on Tuesday, State Department spokesman Ned Price said American diplomats have taken concrete steps to reestablish a U.S. diplomatic presence in Ukraine. "I can confirm that the deputy chief of mission and members of the embassy team traveled to Lviv, Ukraine, today, where they were able to continue our close collaboration with key Ukrainian partners," he said. "Today, they met with interlocutors from the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs."
