Students show up to support Ukraine at U of S
20220225
https://www.ckom.com/2022/03/03/students-show-up-to-support-ukraine-at-u-of-s/
Stephaniuk said its great to see the support for the Ukrainian community in Saskatoon at rallies like the one held Thursday. One she attended Sunday also had a significant turnout.
I think that speaks volumes about not just Ukrainians but Canadians coming together to show support.
Foty-Oneschuk, a faculty member at St. Thomas More College, said she has seen the Ukrainian community come together to offer aid in an amazing way over the past week and a half.
But just as amazing is the general Canadian response, the term faculty member said. Referencing another rally she attended on Sunday, Foty-Oneschuk said one of the most wonderful things was the many non-Ukrainian people who attended.
Carrying posters painted the colours of the Ukrainian flag  with equally colourful sentiments about Russian President Vladimir Putin written on them  Kathryn Stephaniuk attended the rally with her mother and sister, having taken the afternoon off work.
Im really glad I was able to do it at the time, she said. Theres a lot of great memories. I have a lot of people there that I reached out to. The area that theyre in, theyre OK theyre starting to move out but its pretty scary.
Organizations like Stream of Hopes in Saskatoon are gathering supplies to send a shipment to Ukraine, and individuals are working on fundraising efforts for the Canada-Ukraine Foundation and the Canadian Red Cross.
Its the reality now and its really unfortunate and all we want is for it to stop, she said.
I think the people that are from Ukraine originally, for them to know that theyre not alone at this time is important, Stephaniuk said.
Especially right now, its nice to know that theres other people that relate to whats happening and what were feeling and its like a whole community that supports Ukraine together, Nesterova added. Its just nice to know that support is there.
He asked me if I was  from Ukraine and I said, No,  she recalled. And he said, Well, Im not Ukrainian at all, like, not at all, but I just couldnt sit at home and do nothing anymore. And frankly, I think all of us are Ukrainians right now.
Friends Ana Nesterova, Val Drozdovska, Victoria Cheremshymska and Diana Vashkova attended the rally together. They are all Ukrainian and speak the language. They grew up heavily involved in their culture.
Nadya Foty-Oneschuk, a faculty member at St. Thomas More College at the University of Saskatchewan attended the rally in support of Ukraine on March 3, 2022. Libby Giesbrecht650 CKOM
Its like our world kind of stopped for a moment, Drozdovska said of learning Russia had attacked Ukraine last week.
Students stand holding and wrapped in Ukrainian flags in front of Murray Library on the University of Saskatchewan Campus on March 3, 2022. Libby Giesbrecht650 CKOM
The best thing to be wrapped up in right now is a Ukrainian flag, so please dont apologize,  Foty-Oneschuk said the man responded.
The Lesya Ukrainka statue at the U of S in front of Murray Library. Lesya Ukrainka was a Ukrainian poet and writer. Libby Giesbrecht650 CKOM
I was lucky enough. I studied with Professor Nadya Foty-Oneschuk a couple years ago and was able to go to Ukraine for the spring session abroad, so were just here to show our support for Ukraine and for our roots as well, Stephaniuk said.
Vashkova agreed, adding that sharing a culture and traditions with others while a conflict like this rages is a special bond.
All of us go home and we go into our home with our cross  religion is big in our culture. We have icons on our walls, we have our embroidered shirts, we talk to our Ukrainian parents, we make our Ukrainian dishes. Its who we are when were home from our 9-to-5 or school.
Stephaniuk said her grandparents on both her moms and dads sides of the family come from a Ukrainian background.
Tearing up, Foty-Oneschuk said an elderly gentleman came up to her at the rally she attended Sunday.
The chance to travel to Ukraine was amazing, she recalled, adding her trip was the last time the opportunity has been offered since COVID-19 restricted travel over the past two years.
Theyre trying to survive. Their main thing is keeping optimistic and they have a sense of community, she said, adding they believe they will make it through.
Foty-Oneschuk was touched by the mans sentiment and she thanked him. They chatted and she later apologized, as the flag she had wrapped around her kept hitting the man because of the wind.
A rally in support of Ukraine brought several dozen people out in hats, scarves, shawls and blue-and-yellow flags to brave the chilly weather at the University of Saskatchewan on Thursday.
Nesterova said the war in Ukraine is affecting all their lives immensely, even though they are not in Ukraine themselves. She didnt believe the war would truly happen.
