Volunteers at Babas Closet helping hundreds of Ukrainian families
20220604
https://www.ckom.com/2022/06/04/849752/
Cherniatenski said its hard to imagine the situation Ukrainian families face after arriving in Canada. She said she wants to do everything in her power to help, and make life easier for them.
Cherniatenski said the volunteers only have their location for one year, and she wants to make the most of it while it lasts.
Nettie Cherniatenski poses by a table of kitchen supplies at Baba's Closet on 51st Street in Saskatoon. Dallas Dahlseide650 CKOM
Grocery items are at the top of the list of things that are needed to help care for these families, she said.
A number of volunteers in Saskatoon are doing everything they can for Ukrainian refugees in the province.
We all share hugs, we all share tears, Cherniatenski said. Its just a rewarding experience all the way around. Were all volunteers here.
She said her work wouldnt be possible if it wasnt for the generosity of the people of Saskatchewan and all of the items that have been donated.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, more than 100 days ago, hundreds of Ukrainians have made their way into Saskatchewan in search of a better life.
It is just amazing, the people and how theyve reached out for this cause, Cherniatenski said. We know from previous years of experience when it comes to fundraising: Saskatchewan people pull together.
Ive noticed this is a big area that we didnt even foresee, Cherniatenski said. Weve got a lot of clothing and were still taking in donations for kitchenware, but groceries  we get it in and it goes out just as fast as it comes in.
The list includes kitchen essentials, bedding, towels, toys and hygiene items that anyone can take, free of charge.
Nettie Cherniatenski runs Babas Closet, a warehouse located on the south side of 51st Street thats stocked with essential items for desperate families.
Theyre not only needing myself to help them with the necessities to start a new chapter, but theyre meeting fellow people from their own country that are in need just like them, she said.
Cherniatenski said it warms her heart to be able to help Ukrainian families in any way they need.
