Hitler had Jewish blood Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov
20220503
http://www.visionmp.com/international/hitler-had-jewish-blood-russian-foreign-minister-lavrov/
For some time we have heard from the Jewish people that the biggest antisemites were Jewish.
The backlash was swift, with officials in both Israel and Ukraine slamming Lavrovs remarks as deeply offensive and historically inaccurate.
Lavrov was asked about Russias claim that it had invaded Ukraine to denazify the country, which has a democratically-elected Jewish president.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said: Such lies are meant to blame the Jews themselves for the most terrible crimes in history and thus free the oppressors of the Jews from their responsibility.
Russias Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Sunday that the fact Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is Jewish does not negate his countrys Nazi elements, claiming that Nazi Germanys leader Adolf Hitler also had Jewish blood.
So when they say How can Nazification exist if were Jewish? In my opinion, Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesnt mean absolutely anything, he told the station in Russian, referring to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys religion, according to the Associated Press.
In his memoir, published in 1953, Frank said he had been instructed by Hitler to investigate rumours that he had Jewish ancestry. Frank said he uncovered evidence that Hitlers grandfather was indeed Jewish  though the claim, which has gained ground among conspiracy theorists, has been treated with scepticism by mainstream historians,
U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken weighed in later on the comments by his Russian counterpart saying it was incumbent on the world to speak out against such vile, dangerous rhetoric.
There have for decades been unproven claims that Hitlers unidentified paternal grandfather was Jewish, fuelled by an assertion by Hitlers lawyer Hans Frank, according to an article by theBBC.
Zelenskiy, in his nightly video message, noted Moscow has been silent since Lavrovs comments. This means that the Russian leadership has forgotten all the lessons of World War Two, he said. Or perhaps they have never learned those lessons.
