At least 25 killed in Russian missile attack on crowded train station
20220825
https://www.laprensalatina.com/at-least-25-killed-in-russian-missile-attack-on-crowded-train-station/
This is how were living each day. Its as if Russia made preparations for this meeting of the Security Council, he said.
Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelenskyy reported the attack during a United Nations Security Council meeting Wednesday.
Russias missile strike on a train station full of civilians in Ukraine fits a pattern of atrocities. We will continue, together with partners from around the world, to stand with Ukraine and seek accountability for Russian officials, Blinken tweeted.
Sak added that Moscows claims were a way to justify its invasion of Ukraine to the Russian people.
This shows that Russia is a country that does not know how to fight and relies on terror instead, he added. EFE
As a result of the shelling of the residential sector and the railway station, 25 people died, two of them children, deputy head of presidential staff Kyrylo Tymoshenko wrote on Telegram.
Chaplyne is our sorrow today,  we will see to it that the Russian occupiers are held accountable for all they have done. And we will certainly expel the invaders from our land, he told the meeting.
Lviv, Ukraine, Aug 25 EFE.- The death toll in a Russian missile attack on a crowded train station in the Dnipropetrovsk region, in southeastern Ukraine, rose to 25, including two children,  authorities said Thursday.
Another 31 people were injured in the strike that hit the Chaplyne railway station on Wednesday, Ukraines Independence Day and also the six-month milestone since the Russian invasion began.
He said the projectiles directly impacted several passenger trains and that four of them were on fire, adding that the number of victims could rise as rescue crews went through the wreckage.
Only five out of every 100 objects attacked by Russia since the start of the invasion were of military character, the advisor claimed.
I see the strike as a continuation of Russias terror tactics which grows from their inability to advance on the battlefield, advisor to Ukraines minister of defense, Yuriy Sak, told Efe.
The EU strongly condemns another heinous attack by Russia on civilians: in Chaplyne on Ukraine Independence Day, the European Unions top diplomat, Josep Borrell, wrote on Twitter.
An 11-year-old boy died under the rubble of a household, another 6-year-old child died in a car fire outside the railway station, he added.
Kyiv said Moscows claims that it had killed 200 Ukrainian soldiers in the attack was a lie and more propaganda by a terrorist country.
