Draghi defends arms shipments to Ukraine calls for unity
20220622
https://www.laprensalatina.com/draghi-defends-arms-shipments-to-ukraine-calls-for-unity/
The rift means MS5  which won more than 30 of the vote in 2018s general elections  has lost half its seats in the Chamber of Deputies, with the far-right Liga party led by Matteo Salvini the major beneficiary as it is now the largest group in parliament.
Rome, Jun 22 EFE.- Italian prime minister Mario Draghi defended his governments policy on providing weapons to Ukraine before the Chamber of Deputies on Wednesday, a day after setting out his position to the Senate ahead of European Council and Nato summits this month.
The Kremlin, Draghi said, is to blame for the economic, energy, social and food crises that have resulted from the conflict, not the EU or the West.
Following Draghis address on Wednesday, however, the remaining party members, led by former Italian prime minister Conte, and the majority of parliamentarians, voted in favor of a resolution that sets out Italys stance in favor of continued support for Ukraine.
Faced with an even more fragmented Chamber of Deputies, the prime minister on Wednesday called for unity in the face of the difficult decisions that will have to be taken on Ukraine.
Unity is essential at this time because the decisions we have to make are very difficult, he warned.
The issue has caused a rift within the Five-Star Movement MS5, which had been the largest party in the ruling coalition until its former leader and Italys current foreign minister Luigi Di Maio and 60 other deputies left the formation on Tuesday over the issue.
This request does not weaken the government, but rather strengthens it, the M5S spokesman in the Chamber, Davide Crippa, said Wednesday.
His words received resounding applause from his supporters, but also sparked criticism from his opponents, like deputies in the Alternativa C party, another split of the M5S, who held up No to war or Stop sending arms signs. EFE
Di Maio, who has created a new rival party Insieme per il futuro Together for the future, rejected MS5 president Giuseppe Contes ambiguous  and ultimately unsuccessful  proposal, under which the country could refuse to send more military equipment to Kyiv in preference for a diplomatic solution to the war in Ukraine.
The resolution, approved by the Lower House by 410 votes in favor to 29 against, stipulates that any decision related to the war in Ukraine  including the shipment of weapons  must first be approved by parliament.
