European leaders back EU candidacy for Ukraine
20220616
https://www.laprensalatina.com/european-leaders-back-eu-candidacy-for-ukraine/
We are at a turning point in our history. The Ukrainian people defend every day the values of democracy and freedom that underpin the European project, our project. We cannot wait. We cannot delay this process, Draghi added.
The EU leaders were on a symbolic trip to Kyiv to show their support for Ukraine in the wake of Russias invasion.
In addition to the already delivered 12 Caesar, I decided to put six extra, he said. EFE
We all four support the immediate EU candidate status, Macron said at a joint press conference following a meeting with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The leaders also discussed supplying Ukraine with more weaponry to ensure their victory against Russia.
We appreciate the support already provided by partners, we expect new deliveries, primarily heavy weapons, modern rocket artillery, anti-missile defense systems, Zelenskyy said.
We came to Kyiv today with a clear message: Ukraine belongs to the European family. Germany wants a positive decision in favor of Ukraine as a EU candidate country, Scholz said.
Ukrainians have already earned the right to go down this road and obtain this candidate status, Zelenskyy added.
Kyiv, Jun 16 EFE.- German chancellor Olaf Scholz, French president Emmanuel Macron, Italian prime minister Mario Draghi and Romanian president Klaus Iohannis said on Thursday that they backed Ukraines bid for European Union candidacy.
Europe is by your side, and will remain so for as long as necessary, all the way to victory, he added.
Zelenskyy reiterated that his country aspired to become a reliable partner and deserved to be a full member of the EU.
Germany has reached a trilateral agreement with the United States and the United Kingdom to provide Kyiv with multiple rocket launchers, Scholz said, adding that he had approved the supply of Cobra radars too.
We are ready to work for our state to become a full member of the EU, he said.
