Kyiv rejects Russias deadline to surrender Mariupol
20220321
https://www.laprensalatina.com/kyiv-rejects-russias-deadline-to-surrender-mariupol/
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk told Ukrainian news outlet Ukrainska Pravda that the Russian defense ministry sent an eight-page letter to Kyiv with a return to history and other nonsense.
Starting at midday on Monday, he said, Russia would allow humanitarian convoys to enter the city with food, medicines and basic items dispatched from Kyiv and from parts of Ukraine not under the control of Russian forces.
The Ukrainian government admitted two days ago that it has no way of sending military reinforcements to Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian forces, with officials saying that the closest Ukrainian troops are more than 100 kilometers 62 miles away and involved in other combat operations. EFE
The deputy PM added that we have facts that they kidnap children from orphanages and do not allow us to take them.
Russias relentless bombardment of the city has killed uncounted civilians and Ukrainian military personnel and devastated a large portion of the Black Sea coastal city.
Some 400,000 people have been trapped in Mariupol for more than two weeks amid heavy shelling that has cut off central electricity, heating and water supplies, according to local sources.
The deputy PM said that Kyiv has informed the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross, and that they await the reaction of the international community.
Moscow, Mar 21 EFE.- Ukraine has rejected Russias deadline to surrender Mariupol by 5 am 03:00 GMT on Monday, an official said.
On Sunday, Moscow issued an ultimatum to Ukrainian military forces in Mariupol to surrender and leave the coastal city before 5 am on Monday or face a military tribunal.
He also called on international organizations like the United Nations and the International Red Cross to send their representatives to the city to supervise the evacuation of civilians, adding that local residents would be allowed to select the humanitarian corridor via which they would exit or could remain in the city.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday described the siege of Mariupol as an act of terror that will be remembered for centuries to come.
There can be no talk of any surrender, laying down of arms. We have already informed the Russian side about this. I wrote: Instead of wasting time on eight pages of letters, just open a corridor,' she added.
He said that if Ukrainian forces in Mariupol agreed to surrender, humanitarian corridors for civilians would be opened so that civilians could leave the city.
Mikhail Mizintsev, the head of Russias National Center for Defense Management, said at a defense ministry briefing that Ukrainian forces who surrender and lay down their arms will be allowed to leave the city safely and without any danger to their lives.
