Putin hints at nuclear action Russian forces repelled from Kharkiv
20220227
https://www.laprensalatina.com/putin-hints-at-nuclear-action-russian-forces-repelled-from-kharkiv/
The international community, meanwhile, continues to provide military aid to the embattled country, while also tightening economic sanctions on Russia.
KyivMoscow, Feb 27 EFE.- Russian president Vladimir Putin on Sunday placed his countrys nuclear forces on special alert in response to Western countries increasingly tough economic sanctions on Moscow that have followed Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine resists  they believed that they could take over Ukraine in four, twelve, sixteen hours at the most, they were convinced. But the reality is different. The positional battles are being fought in the same places as three days ago, Podoliak added.
Zelenskyy welcomed the move, which he called a tangible price for this vile invasion of our country said would cause Russia to suffer losses in the billions and billions.
Local officials in Kharkiv said that Russian troops who had entered the countrys second city had been pushed back, while the Ukrainian army said it had also stopped Moscows forces from marching into the capital, Kyiv.
Meanwhile, EU foreign ministers were set to meet Sunday to discuss an aid package to the Ukrainian armed forces, said Josep Borrell, the blocs foreign policy and security chief.
We are determined to fight back fiercely as long as it is needed to defend our land and our people, he said.
Zelenskyy had previously said he would not travel to Belarus for any talks as part of Russias invading forces were launched from there.
Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said that Putins latest declaration, which Nato described as dangerous and irresponsible, was designed to pressure Kyiv into surrendering.
It seems that Ukraine has gained the sincerity and attention of the whole normal, civilized world. And the practical result  here it is, SWIFT  Disconnecting from global financial civilization, he said.
Putins escalation came as Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he would meet officials from Moscow to negotiate a ceasefire on the border with Belarus following a discussion with Belarussian president Aleksandr Lukashenko earlier on Sunday.
We will not surrender, we will not capitulate, we will not give up a single inch of our territory, Kuleba told a press conference.
This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally, the statement said.
Zelenskyys adviser Mikhail Podoliak said Ukrainian forces were fiercely resisting Russian troops attempting to enter the capital city, as fighting continued on the same fronts on the outskirts of Kyiv as at the outset of the invasion.
In a joint statement, the European Union, United Kingdom, Canada, and United States pledged to remove certain Russian banks from Swift, an international financial transaction system that underpins global banking.
Videos shared on social media early on Sunday showed fierce street battles raging in Kharkiv after Russian armored vehicles had entered the city, triggering calls from local authorities for civilians to stay indoors.
Top officials in Natos leading countries have been making aggressive statements against our country. For this reason, I give orders to the defense minister and chief of the General Staff to introduce a special combat service regime in the Russian armys deference forces, Putin said at a meeting with the Russian defense minister and the chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces.
We agreed that the Ukrainian delegation would meet with the Russian delegation without preconditions on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border, near the Pripyat River, a statement by the Ukrainian presidency read.
Ukraines Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar said Sunday that as many as 4,300 Russian troops had been killed since the invasion began on Thursday.
