Russia to withdraw some troops Ukraine warns not to jump to conclusions
20220215
https://www.laprensalatina.com/russia-to-withdraw-some-troops-ukraine-warns-not-to-jump-to-conclusions/
German chancellor Olaf Scholz echoed that message following his meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin in Moscow on Tuesday a day after he met with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kiev.
There are different statements coming in from the Russian Federation all the time. We have a rule: we wont believe it when we hear it, but we will believe it when we see it, he said.
We have heard that some of these troops have been removed from the border area. We hope that this trend will continue, we welcome that.
People of his Scholzs generation  I belong to the same generation  can hardly imagine another war in Europe, Putin said.
In Brussels, Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance had not seen signs of de-escalation on the ground along Ukraines border but that recent developments from Moscow allowed for cautious optimism that diplomatic routes out of the stand-off were still possible.
Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said it was too early to assume that the withdrawal of some military units signaled a de-escalation by Moscow, which has amassed over 100,000 troops near the borders.
MoscowKiev, Feb 15 EFE.- Some Russian military units have started returning to their permanent bases after concluding drills in western and southern military areas near the border with Ukraine although officials in Kiev on Tuesday said it was too early to say if the moves heralded a de-escalation in the region.
Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the Russian defense ministry, said however that Russian armed forces would continue their troop readiness training, including the naval fleets and airborne units.
The signs coming from Moscow about a willingness to continue to engage in diplomatic efforts  give some reason for cautious optimism but we will follow very closely what is happening on the ground, he said.
And of course this has been said in relation to the situation in Ukraine today but we have been witness to Europe, havent we, unleashed by the Nato bloc against Yugoslavia, he added.
Moscow has already issued some 700,000 Russian passports to citizens of the self-proclaimed republics, which were declared around the same period Russia annexed Crimea following Ukraines pro-European revolution.
There are still prospects for negotiations and right now we need to strive for a diplomatic solution to this crisis, he told a joint news conference.
Putin added that he was prepared to discuss Moscows proposals with Nato and the United States, including a legally binding guarantee to halt the alliances eastward expansion, which Russia views as a threat to its security.
The ensuing war between separatist forces and the Ukrainian national army has killed over 13,000 people according to United Nations estimates and the two industrial cities, home to a significant population of ethnic Russians, remain outside Kievs control.
While the purported troop withdrawal hints at a potential de-escalation, tensions could be further raised after members of Russias lower chamber of parliament, the State Duma, on Tuesday approved an appeal for President Vladimir Putin to recognize the breakaway regions of Luhansk and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, a cultural area known as the Donbas, much of which has been in the hands of pro-Russian separatists since 2014.
