Russia tells US not planning to attack Ukraine
20220110
https://www.laprensalatina.com/russia-tells-us-not-planning-to-attack-ukraine/
According to Washington, Russia has amassed 100,000 troops along the border and could double that number at short notice.
Russias president Vladimir Putin has proposed a set of security guarantees to avoid a new armed conflict in Ukraine, which includes putting a halt on Natos eastward expansion.
The US, NATO and Ukraine have in return urged Russia to withdraw its forces from the Ukrainian border.
Further discussions later this week will involve Nato on Wednesday and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE on Thursday.
At a separate meeting between Nato and Ukraine on Monday, the Alliances secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg warned that any further Russian aggression against Ukraine would come at a high political and economic price.
The Russian official said there is no reason to fear a possible escalation with Ukraine, who has warned along with Washington, plans for a Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman met with her Russian counterpart Sergey Ryabkov at the US diplomatic mission in what was the first of a series of important discussions set to take place this week.
For her part, Sherman said at a presser: One country cannot change the borders of another by force or dictate the terms of another countrys foreign policy, or forbid another country from choosing its own alliances.
We have no plans, no intentions to attack Ukraine, Ryabkov said in a televised presser held in Russias permanent mission to the UN after the talks.
We will listen to Russias concerns, but any meaningful dialogue must also address our concerns with Russias actions and it must take place in consultation with Ukraine, he said at a joint press conference with Olga Stefanishyna,
Stefanishyna stipulated that security negotiations could only take place after Russia withdraws its troops from the border. EFE
He was also pessimistic about the prospect of a breakthrough but said the meetings this week could lead to an agreement on a way forward.
Moscow, Jan 10 EFE.- Russia on Monday said it had no intention to attack Ukraine while the United States defended Kievs right to ally with Nato.
