Russia says it has taken control of Izyum in Ukraines Kharkiv region
20220324
https://www.laprensalatina.com/russia-says-it-has-taken-control-of-izyum-in-ukraines-kharkiv-region/
The only question is: How many more lives must be lost? How many more bombs must fall? How many more Mariupols must be destroyed? How many more Ukrainians and Russians will be killed before everyone realizes that this war has no winners  only losers? EFE
The war in Ukraine entered the second month on Thursday with United Nations saying the conflict has forced more than 3.5 million refugees leave the country.
Sooner or later, it will have to move from the battlefield to the peace table. This is inevitable, Guterres told journalists outside the Security Council in New York.
UN chief Antnio Guterres Tuesday said it was time for a diplomatic solution to be found to end Russias invasion of Ukraine, amidst signs of hope that progress could be made to end an unwinnable and indefensible war.
The UN estimates that between Feb.24 and Mar.15, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights recorded 1,900 civilian casualties  with 726 people killed, including 52 children  mostly caused by explosive weapons in populated areas.
By the morning of Mar.24, units of the Russian army completely took control of the city of Izyum, Russian Defense Ministry spokesperson Igor Konashnkov told reporters.
Konashenkov said that Russian aircraft destroyed 60 military targets in Ukraine overnight, including four ammunition depots and two drones.
Moscow, Mar 24 EFE.- Russia said on Thursday that its forces have taken full control of the besieged city of Izyum in Ukraines Kharkiv region, where heavy fighting has been seen in recent days.
The armed forces of the Russian Federation continue to carry out the tasks of a special military operation, he said.
This is really another tragic milestone for the people of Ukraine and its been achieved in just under one month, said Matthew Saltmarsh, spokesperson for the UN refugee agency.
