The Polish hotel turned humanitarian embassy for Ukrainian refugees
20220223
https://www.laprensalatina.com/the-polish-hotel-turned-humanitarian-embassy-for-ukrainian-refugees/
No one takes more than they need, and as blankets, powdered milk and baby food pile up against one of the rooms walls, some refugees lend a hand by unloading packages from cars.
Following Mrs. Brzozowskas decision to provide free accommodation to those who need it, the volunteers have helped turn the Duet Hotel into a kind of humanitarian embassy for refugees.
Lying just 30 kilometers from the Ukrainian border, Chelm is one of the main cities on the route between Kyiv and Warsaw. Three or four train convoys arrive at the station from Ukraine every day, each carrying more than 1,000 people fleeing the war.
In a matter of hours, she told Efe on Wednesday, she received not only packages from local businesses and residents of Chelm, but also calls from people willing to help from as far away as the Netherlands and Germany.
We give help, but we also need it, the hotel owner says as she opens boxes of diapers donated by a nearby pharmacy.
It all started with a message posted on the hotels social media channels, where its owner, Alicja Brzozowska, said she would organize the reception and distribution of aid to refugees from her establishment.
In the dining room, while some adults watch news of the war on TV, Bogdan, a six-year-old Ukrainian boy, goes around the tables to show them the hamster he keeps in a large glass jar.
The Hotel Duet in Chelm, a family establishment just a few kilometers from the Ukrainian border, has joined the national effort, becoming a place for thousands of refugees to get a bite to eat  free of charge  and receive medical, legal and psychological assistance.
Part of the dining room has been set up as a kindergarten where kids are cared for and have toys to play with.
By dedicating the hotel exclusively to refugees, we have incurred economic losses that for now are not important, but the price of heating and other expenses are a concern if no one supports us.
What happened at the Duet Hotel encapsulates the Polish peoples spontaneous and emotional reaction to the wave of refugees arriving from across the border, with which they share many cultural and historical ties.
The hotel owner complains that she has not yet received any promises of help from the state, but insists that this will not stop her, because it is necessary, and thats it  look, she says, pointing to the queue of people stretching out of the door.
All the facilities at the hotel, from the rooms, which are serviced and cleaned daily, to the dining room, the laundry and a 24-hour buffet, have been made available for the refugees, most of whom are women and children.
According to UN data, as many as five million Ukrainians could leave their country because of the conflict, the majority through Poland.
In the hotel car park, crowded with vehicles with Ukrainian license plates and a bus from Lviv, Chelm residents continue arriving with grocery bags full of food or packages of clothes.
Chelm, Poland, Mar 2 EFE.- Poland has already taken in half a million refugees in transit to other EU countries since Russias invasion of Ukraine began last week. To deal with the wave of humanity heading west to escape the bloodshed, authorities and civil society are joining forces to provide them with shelter.
Yulia, a mother of two girls from Kyiv, becomes emotional as she recalls how she fled from Ukraine, and says that if she hadnt decided to leave right away  she left on Friday  she would probably be trapped now and with no chance of getting to Poland.
Donations were followed by offers from volunteers such as Ukrainian interpreters, a psychologist, a doctor and even a hairdresser.
The faces of the hotels regular staff, who have volunteered to work overtime without pay, are visibly fatigued after a harrowing few days.
