Ukraine resisting in Lysychansk Russian army turns attention to Sloviansk
20220627
https://www.laprensalatina.com/ukraine-resisting-in-lysychansk-russian-army-turns-attention-to-sloviansk/
The adversary, with the support of artillery fire, is trying to blockade the city of Lysychansk from the south, the Ukrainian Military Command said in its Sunday evening briefing.
Along with intensifying their offensive in Ukraines eastern regions, on Saturday and Sunday Russia launched missile attacks against several areas of Ukraine, including Kyiv, where on Sunday one person died and six others were wounded when a Russian rocket hit a residential building and a childrens daycare center, city authorities said.
The Russians are not changing their tactics. Weve already seen what happened in Mariupol and Severodonetsk, and so in Sloviansk were preparing for any development, said the regional military chief.
No Russian rocket, no attack is able to break the spirit of the Ukrainians. Each Russian missile is an argument in the conversations with our partners, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Saturday night in his daily message to his countrymen.
KyivMoscow, Jun 26 EFE.- Ukrainian forces continued fighting on Sunday to contain the Russian army offensive targeting the city of Lysychansk, Kyivs last bastion in the eastern Luhansk region, while Moscows troops gathered to advance on Sloviansk, in the neighboring region of Donetsk.
He emphasized that the attack frustrated the sending of the said units into the combat zone.
According to Kirilenko, Russian forces are approaching Ukrainian defensive lines to be able to employ  in addition to warplanes and missiles  their huge artillery forces to bombard the city.
This is the first time in the four-month Ukrainian campaign  called by Moscow a special military operation  that a visit by Shoigu to the area of operations has been announced.
The minister, according to the Defense Ministry statement, received reports at local military headquarters and staging points about the situation and the actions of the Russian armed forces in the combat zone.
Ukraines top diplomat included a photo of a boy wounded in the attack on Kyiv in his Twitter post calling on the leaders of the worlds seven most industrialized nations, whose summit began on Sunday in Germany and will run until Tuesday, for greater efforts to hamper Russian initiatives and to send more armaments to Ukraine.
Ministry spokesman Gen. Igor Konashenkov said that the training centers that were attacked were located in the Chernihiv, Zhytomyr and Lviv regions.
Were observing a concentration of troops, armored vehicles and artillery in the direction of Sloviansk, said the Ukrainian head of the Donetsk military administration, Pavlo Kirilenko, in remarks to Ukrainian television.
According to the Ukrainian military leadership, Russian troops are stepping up the pressure on the Sloviansk zone, but Ukrainian forces have repelled their attacks in assorted areas.
G7 summit must respond with more sanctions on Russia and more heavy arms for Ukraine. Russias sick imperialism must be defeated, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitro Kuleba said in a Twitter message.
On Saturday, Russia launched a massive attack with missiles targeting three Ukrainian army training centers in northern and western Ukraine, according to the Russian Defense Ministry.
As a result of this attack, the Motorized 65th and 66th infantry brigades and the 46th airmobile brigade of the Ukrainian armed forces, which were receiving training at those sites completely lost their combat capabilities, the Russian military spokesman claimed.
The intensification of the Russian attacks coincided with the announcement of an inspection visit by Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu to Russian forces deployed in Ukraine.
