Ukraine president accuses Russia of coup plot warns of invasion
20211126
https://www.laprensalatina.com/ukraine-president-accuses-russia-of-coup-plot-warns-of-invasion/
I think he is being dragged into a war against the Ukrainian state. I believe that would be his big mistake because you cannot fight against your own people, against the president who was elected by Ukrainian people, he said.
We see Russia is massing troops there and is increasing the number of its military equipment, Zelenskyi said.
Western intelligence agencies and the US government have also voiced their concerns over the threat of a full-scale Russian invasion against Ukraine. EFE
The alleged coup plot comes amid heightened recent tensions and a Russian military buildup along its border with Ukraine.
Zelenskyi added he didnt believe a coup attempt would be successful and he was sure it wouldnt be supported by Ukraines military. He said he was not planning to leave Ukraine and there would be a response to any external attempts to illegally seize power in the country.
We see frequent rotation of Russian troops at Ukraines border, aimed to be detected by us, by satellites and by intelligence that a buildup is going on.
Kiev, Nov 26 EFE.- Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyi said Friday that Russia is plotting a coup to overthrow the Ukrainian government in early December, amid fears of a Russian invasion due to a military buildup near the border with Ukraine.
Moscow has also denied the allegations that the Kremlin is orchestrating a coup detat, saying Russia has no plans to get involved.
He said audio recordings showed that Ukraines richest man, Donetsk-born Rinat Akmetov, could be involved in the plot with Russian representatives.
In bombshell allegations, Zelenskyi said he believed Akhmetov, who became his bitter rival after the president made taking down the countrys oligarchs his policy priority, was being dragged into this by his entourage.
My position was and will always be unequivocal: independent, democratic and united Ukraine with Crimea and my native Donbas. My actions confirm this, he said in a statement given to Interfax-Ukraine.
