US to send longrange advanced rocket systems to Ukraine
20220601
https://www.laprensalatina.com/us-to-send-long-range-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine/
He reiterated America would not be directly engaged in the conflict and would not send American troops to fight in Ukraine as long as the United States or our allies are not attacked.
And we will help our European allies and others reduce their dependence on Russian fossil fuels, and speed our transition to a clean energy future.
The US official said the new shipment of weapons would include the so-called High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, which will allow more precise strikes on targets from a greater distance.
Every negotiation reflects the facts on the ground. We have moved quickly to send Ukraine a significant amount of weaponry and ammunition.
In his New York Time article titled What America Will and Will Not Do in Ukraine, Biden wrote the Ukraine war would end through diplomacy.
He said the US government would continue reinforcing NATOs eastern flank with forces and capabilities from America and other allies.
Ive decided that we will provide the Ukrainians with more advanced rocket systems and munitions that will enable them to more precisely strike key targets on the battlefield in Ukraine, Biden wrote in a late-night op-ed in The New York Times.
As much as I disagree with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and find his actions an outrage, the United States will not try to bring about his ouster in Moscow, Biden said.
We are not encouraging or enabling Ukraine to strike beyond its borders. We do not want to prolong the war just to inflict pain on Russia.
And just recently, I welcomed Finlands and Swedens applications to join NATO, a move that will strengthen overall US and trans-Atlantic security by adding two democratic and highly capable military partners.
New York, May 31 EFE.- The United States Tuesday appeared closer to sending a long-range multiple-rocket system MLRS to Ukraine as President Joe Biden Tuesday said he would ship advanced missile systems to the war-torn nation.
A government official told the media, in a background call, that the US would provide a long-range missile system as part of a new $700 million weapons package for Ukraine.
Biden said the US would continue providing Ukraine with advanced weaponry, including Javelin anti-tank missiles, Stinger antiaircraft missiles, powerful artillery and precision rocket systems, radars, unmanned aerial vehicles, Mi-17 helicopters, and ammunition.
But he insisted that the US must help Kyiv militarily so it can fight on the battlefield and be in the strongest possible position at the negotiating table.
Biden on Monday said the US would not send Ukraine rocket systems that can strike into Russia.
The US official said the weapons would be used to target Russian systems in Ukraine and would not be fired into Russian territory.
He said the US would work with its allies and partners to address the global food crisis that the Russian invasion sparked and is worsening.
