US unveils strategy against Chinese Russian authoritarian internet curbs
20220428
https://www.laprensalatina.com/us-unveils-strategy-against-chinese-russian-authoritarian-internet-curbs/
The last two months have provided an extreme example of such behavior in connection with Russias invasion of Ukraine, said the official.
Russia has aggressively promoted disinformation at home and abroad, censored Internet news sources, blocked or shut down legitimate sites, and gone so far as to physically attack the Internet infrastructure in Ukraine.
The US argues that the strategy is a response to attempts by Russia and China to create a splinternet  increasingly fragmented access to networks depending on political and technological factors.
The European Commission, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Colombia, Argentina, and Ukraine have signed the document.
Some states have been acting to repress freedom of expression, censor independent news sources, interfere with elections, promote disinformation, and deny their citizens human rights.
The National Security Council of the White House shared the document. Declaration on the Future of the Internet signed by more than 60 other countries.
He said the Internet was originally a network of networks designed to interconnect everyone. And we are here to try to restore that vision.
Even so, Washington advocates that there needs to be almost constitutional principles for countries that it shalt and shall not  things that should be off limits. EFE
We have seen a trend of rising digital authoritarianism, a senior administration official told reporters in a virtual background press briefing.
We are not, we and our allies are not here to splinter the Internet but, frankly, to save it from splintering, the administration official said.
Despite the emphasis on cybersecurity, President Joe Bidens administration does not see the declaration as a treaty on cyber warfare.
The text of the declaration does not directly mention Russia or China, but it asks signatories to defend human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people and protect and strengthen the multi-stakeholder approach to governance that keeps the Internet running for the benefit of all.
The official said Russia was just one of the leaders in a dangerous new model of Internet policy along with China and some of the other most censorial states in the world.
It urges the nations to advance inclusive and affordable connectivity so that all people can benefit from the digital economy.
You know, there has been a determined effort, as you said, to try and set up the two multiple Internets, each  each different. And we are  and our allies  reaffirming the vision of one Internet for the world.
Washington, Apr 28 EFE.- The United States Thursday unveiled a global declaration on collective efforts to curb rising digital authoritarianism after Russia aggressively promoted disinformation and censored online news sources during the invasion of Ukraine.
It is not about cyber warfare. There may be some overlap. We have principles related to cyber ransoms, electoral interference. Some people consider electoral interference to be the edge of cyber attacks. So I think it is compatible with some of the developing principles in cyber warfare, but it is not a cyber warfare treaty or anything  or agreement.
