Zelenskyy raises death toll in Russian attack on train station to 22
20220825
https://www.laprensalatina.com/zelenskyy-raises-death-toll-in-russian-attack-on-train-station-to-22/
He said that the projectiles directly impacted on several railroad cars that were at the Chaplyne station and four of them were set on fire, adding that thus the number of victims could rise as rescue crews went through the wreckage.
This is how were living each day. Its as if Russia made preparations for this meeting of the Security Council, he said.
Zelenskyy denounced attacks of this kind that have become a regular occurrence in his country as it fights for its freedom against Russian terror.
The Ukrainian leader insisted in his speech before the UN that The future of the world is being decided in Ukraine, warning that if Russia wins the conflict, it will probably expand the war to other countries. Now everyone can see how much the world depends on our independence, he added.
Search and rescue operations at the train station will continue and we will see to it that the Russian occupiers are held accountable for all they have done. And we will certainly expel the invaders from our land, Zelenskyy added.
International Desk, Aug 24 EFE.- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday raised the death toll in the Russian missile attack on a crowded train station to 22, a strike in which some 50 other people were wounded.
A few hours earlier, the Ukrainian leader had announced in a videoconference before the United Nations Security Council, which was meeting to discuss the war on the six-month anniversary of Russias unprovoked invasion of the neighboring country, that a Russian missile attack had killed at least 15 people and wounded 50 in a train station.
Chaplyne is our sorrow today. So far, there are 22 dead, five of them burned in their car, an 11-year-old boy died. A Russian missile destroyed his house, the president said of the attack in the Dnipropetrovsk region in his regular evening address and war update.
