Macron offers asylum to Russian TV editor who protested Ukraine war
20220315
https://www.connexionfrance.com/article/French-news/Macron-offers-asylum-to-Russian-TV-editor-who-protested-Ukraine-war
We will initiate diplomatic steps to offer her protection, either at the embassy or through the asylum system, he said.
French President Emmanuel Macron has said France will offer protection to the Russian journalist who yesterday March 14 staged a protest against the war in Ukraine by holding up a sign in the background of a live news programme.
The BBC reported this afternoon that it appears she is now on trial at Moscows Ostankino Court, and is being charged with organising an unauthorised public event, which could result in a fine of up to 30,000 roubles 247, community service or 10 days in jail.
Marina Ovsyannikova, an editor at Russias state TV Channel One, ran into the shot of a news bulletin with a sign that read, no war. Dont believe the propaganda. Theyre lying to you here. Russians against the war.
He said he would propose this to Russian President Vladimir Putin during one of their now-regular telephone exchanges.
Les Franais ont massivement rpondu prsents pour aider et accueillir les rfugis ukrainiens, par une aide humanitaire ou un hbergement. Le portail https:t.commZYcNGFnP a dj reu prs de 33 000 offres. Pour cet lan de solidarit : merci.
While on the visit, Mr Macron also said that the French governments online platform to help host Ukrainian refugees had so far received 33,000 offers of accommodation.
Mr Macron, who was earlier today visiting a Ukrainian refugee centre in La Pommeraye Maine-et-Loire, said France would step in to help her. It is likely he was not aware of her appearance at the Moscow court or the charges against her when he made the comments.
You can read our guide here about the different ways you can support Ukraine from France:
Absolutely astonishing. During Russian Channel 1's evening news broadcast, a woman ran onto the set with a sign: "No war...Don't believe the propaganda. They're lying to you here." pic.twitter.comwBdFGtzTsg
