President Macron to make TV address to nation on Ukraine war at 2000
20220302
https://www.connexionfrance.com/French-news/President-Macron-to-make-TV-address-to-nation-on-Ukraine-war-at-20-00
The French government has not yet released any further details on the content of tonights address.
Mr Macron said on February 24 on the outbreak of the war that France would not be weak during discussions on what response to take against Russia at the G7 and the European Council.
He cited examples of Cuba with Fidel Castro, Iraq with Saddam Hussein and Syria with Bashar al-Assad.
President Emmanuel Macron will address the nation tonight March 2 to speak about Russias invasion of Ukraine.
He also said that Russias act of war will have deep, lasting consequences on our lives and the geopolitics of our continent.
France has, alongside the EU and many other major international powers, slapped a series of heavy sanctions on Russia after the country invaded Ukraine last Thursday February 24.
Mes chers compatriotes,Je m'adresserai  vous ce soir  20h sur la guerre en Ukraine.
Mr Grandjean said, our objective with these sanctions is not to enter into war with Russia, it is to to increase the cost of the war for Vladimir Putin, to force him to cease hostilities, and return to the negotiation table with Ukraine.
This includes a promise to bring financial sanctions on several hundred individuals linked to the government.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said today that nearly 6,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in the first six days of the invasion. This figure is not confirmed.
The announcement of Mr Macrons address comes as French historian Fabrice DAlmeida said, in a televised interview today, that economic sanctions were insufficient to tackle dictators.
Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, with reports from Russia that its army has taken the southern city of Kherson. Local Ukrainian military leaders deny this, but say the city is encircled.
The announcement of Mr Macrons address came after a morning defence meeting today March 2 with members of his cabinet.
The EU has also targeted the Russian banking system and the airline Aeroflot and has imposed a blanket flight ban on Russian planes.
He also said that France was moving too slowly on imposing sanctions on Russian individuals with ties to Mr Putin and said delivering arms to Ukraine would be more appropriate.
He also added that the Kremlin would not be able to take Ukraine with bombs and air strikes.
So far, there is no country in history that has been brought to its knees by economic sanctions, he told Franceinfo.
The United Nations human rights office said yesterday that it had confirmed 136 civilian deaths, including 13 children, with a further 400 wounded. It admitted this number could be much higher.
The lyse Palace, the official residence of the president, said that Mr Macron had promised to keep people in France informed about the evolution of the war and that he was upholding this promise.
