Putin disagrees with Macron speech threatens more demands on Ukraine
20220303
https://www.connexionfrance.com/French-news/Putin-disagrees-with-Macron-speech-threatens-more-demands-on-Ukraine
Mr Putin has already laid out a lengthy series of demands on Ukraine and the West.
There are no Nato troops or bases in Ukraine. This is a lie. Russia is not being attacked, it is the aggressor, he said.
This includes requiring Nato to never accept Ukraine or Georgia or Moldova as members, pulling back Nato troops from countries such as Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, and also that Ukraine accepts the independence of the Donbas region and gives up its claim to Crimea.
Mr Putin said that he would continue without compromise his offensive against the nationalists in Ukraine, according to the Kremlin. He also threatened to add more requirements to his list of demands on Ukraine and the West.
This war is even less, as untenable propaganda would have us believe, a fight against Nazism. That is a lie, an insult to the history of Russia and Ukraine, to the memory of our elders, who fought side by side against Nazism.
Delegations from Russia and Ukraine are set for further talks today, after an unsuccessful first meeting on Monday February 28.
Russia yesterday reported its own military casualties for the first time since the invasion of Ukraine began last week on February 24, stating around 500 of its soldiers have been killed.
Ukrainian President Zelensky claimed the number was 6,000. Ukraine has not revealed how many of its soldiers have died.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed his disagreement with French President Emmanuel Macrons televised speech, made last night March 2, in a phone call between the two leaders today.
During the speech, Mr Macron said that he would stay in touch with Mr Putin as much as possible in order to try to end hostilities, but also criticised a war fed by a revisionist reading of the history of Europe.
The United Nations human rights office said on March 1 that it had confirmed 136 Ukrainian civilians have died, including 13 children, with a further 400 wounded. It said this number could be much higher.
Ukraine demands that Russia immediately stops its attack on the country and withdraws all of its troops.
Mr Macron gave a 14-minute speech last night in which he denounced Russias war on Ukraine and offered his support to Ukrainians. He accused Mr Putin of lying.
