Thousands in France lose internet in suspected Russian cyberattack
20220303
https://www.connexionfrance.com/French-news/Thousands-in-France-lose-internet-in-suspected-Russian-cyberattack
Nordnet makes every effort to respond and support its customers and apologises for any inconvenience caused.
We also contacted Viasat for an update on the situation.In a statement released earlier this week the company said: Our investigation into the outage continues, but so far we believe it was caused by a cyber event.
Providers connected to Viasat will also struggle to replace the devices, due to a current global shortage of the required materials, including electronic chips.
A spokesperson toldThe Connexionthat: "At this time, we have an understanding of the situation regarding the partial outage of the KA-SAT European network.
During the invasion of Crimea in 2014, Russian forces were suspected of damaging such cables.
Soon after Vladimir Putin launched a military assault on Ukraine last Thursday February 24, the global high-speed satellite broadband Viasat was hit by a cyberattack.
Around 10,000 people in France have been affected by a cyber event believed to be of Russian origin which happened shortly after the Ukraine war began, it has been revealed.
The attack has affected the internet connection of tens of thousands of customers in Ukraine, but also in France, where Viasats satellite services are sold through Nordnet.
Nordnet has also issued a statement saying: We are in constant contact with Viasat to ensure that service is restored as quickly and safely as possible for users.
Viasat owns the KA-SAT satellite, which provides SkyDSL with its broadband connection. However, a SkyDSL spokesperson told The Connexion that "There is currently no technical disruption in the SkyDSL service."
A Connexion reader has also been in contact to report that she has been having problems with her SkyDSL broadband for the past week.
If the cables running between Europe and the US were damaged, the economic consequences would be significant.
As a result of the incident, it is currently impossible to restart affected modems, or to carry out a factory reset.
"We remain focused on stabilizing the network and restoring service using multiple technical pathways. We are outlining a comprehensive plan, in coordination with our European distributors, to bring their end-customers online as quickly as possible through a variety of delivery actions."
Such an attack is comparable to an act of war in our territory, one internet expert told Le Figaro. We do not know that a cyber-blast  a massive attack with such a huge impact on people on the ground  was possible.
Another cybersecurity threat which is currently weighing on Europe is that of potential damage to its submarine internet cables, which ensure more than 90 of international connections.
