Biden meets top Ukrainian ministers in Warsaw calls Putin a butcher
20220327
https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/945023-biden-meets-top-ukrainian-ministers-in-warsaw-calls-putin-a-butcher
The meeting took place at the Marriott Hotel in the city centre  opposite a Warsaw train station where there has been a constant flow of Ukrainian refugees since the conflict started.
We stand with you, he told Ukrainians.Addressing ordinary Russians, he said that they were not our enemy and urged them to blame Putin for the heavy economic sanctions imposed by the West.
Kuleba gave Biden the fragment of a Russian missile that struck a base in Yavoriv near the western Ukrainian city of Lviv close to the Polish border.
I remember what its like when you have someone in a war zone and every morning you get up and you wonder, you are just wondering, you are praying you dont get that phone call, said Biden, whose son Beau served in Iraq before dying of a brain tumour.
Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov made a rare trip out of Ukraine in a possible sign of growing confidence in the fightback against Russian forces.
Biden also told Polish President Andrzej Duda that Natos collective defence was a sacred commitment for the US, adding: You can count on that... For your freedom and ours.
Biden said he had been asked by children to pray for their male relatives fighting in Ukraine.
Biden could be seen seated at a long white table between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, facing Kuleba and Reznikov, an AFP reporter saw.
Duda told him that Poles felt a great sense of threat from the conflict in neighbouring Ukraine.
Biden also called Russian President Vladimir Putin a butcher after meeting with Ukrainian refugees and said he was unconvinced by Russias claim it was scaling down its war aims.
Asked by reporters what he thought of Putins actions, Biden responded simply: Hes a butcher.
Biden compared Ukraines resistance against a Russian invasion to the anti-Soviet battle for freedom and said the world must prepare for a long fight ahead.
US President Joe Biden said his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power and called the conflict in Ukraine a strategic failure for Moscow in a major speech in Warsaw.
The invincible character of Ukrainians and Western ones, especially US ones, are the recipe for our victory, Kuleba said after the meeting.
Price said that Blinken and Austin pledged continued support to meet Ukraines humanitarian, security, and economic needs.
WARSAW: US President Joe Biden on Saturday in Warsaw met two Ukrainian ministers in the first face-to-face talks between the US president and top Kyiv officials since Russias invasion began.
The officials discussed the United States unwavering commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters.
Biden was on the second and final day of a visit to Poland after he met with EU and NATO leaders in Brussels earlier in the week.
Biden last met Kuleba in Washington on February 22  two days before Russia launched its assault.
Kuleba said he had discussed new sanctions that could be imposed against Russia and how to ensure the current ones are properly implemented.
Since then, Kuleba has also met Blinken in Poland, next to the border with Ukraine on March 5.
