Russias Putin issues statement after West imposes sanctions
20220223
https://www.thenews.com.pk/latest/936103-russias-putin-issues-statement-after-west-imposes-sanctions
But he added: "The interests of Russia, the security of our citizens, are non-negotiable for us."
"We will continue to develop advanced weapon systems, including hypersonic and those based on new physical principles, and expand the use of advanced digital technologies and elements of artificial intelligence," the Kremlin strongman added. "Such complexes are truly the weapons of the future, which significantly increase the combat potential of our armed forces."
On Tuesday, US President Joe Biden announced tough new sanctions against Russia for "beginning" an invasion of Ukraine but said there was still time to avoid war.
In the video address, Putin congratulated the countrys men and said he was certain of the "professionalism" of the Russian military and that they will stand up for the countrys national interests.
"Our country is always open for direct and honest dialogue, for the search for diplomatic solutions to the most complex problems," Putin said in a video address to mark the Defender of the Fatherland Day, a public holiday in Russia.
Western officials have been warning for weeks the Russian leader has been preparing an all-out invasion of Ukraine.
The statement from Russias strong man came a day after the US and other western countries announced to impose sanctions.
Moscow: Russian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that Moscow was ready to look for "diplomatic solutions" amid raging tensions with the West over Ukraine but stressed that the countrys interests were non-negotiable.
Putin spoke after parliaments upper house, the Federation Council, on Tuesday gave him unanimous approval to deploy "peacekeepers" to two breakaway Ukrainian regions now recognised by Moscow as independent, and potentially into other parts of Ukraine.
He praised the battle-readiness of the Russian army and said the country would continue to develop state-of-the-art weapons.
