Ukraine talks US warns Russia of risk of confrontation
20220110
https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/923920-ukraine-talks-us-warns-russia-of-risk-of-confrontation
Washington has also acknowledged that Moscow has expressed interest in discussing the future of missile systems in Europe. Blinken made the Sunday talk show rounds playing up the need for dialogue.
He acknowledged he was not anticipating major breakthroughs in the talks, but stressed there were potential punishments awaiting Washingtons rival if it does not engage in diplomacy.
"Theres a path of dialogue and diplomacy to try to resolve some of these differences and avoid a confrontation," Blinken told CNNs "State of the Union" show. "The other path is confrontation and massive consequences for Russia if it renews its aggression on Ukraine. We are about to test the proposition about which path President Putin is prepared to take."
The Kremlin, wary of Natos potential eastward expansion, has insisted the grouping never grant membership to Ukraine, a former Soviet state which is pushing to join the trans-Atlantic body.
On Sunday Moscow ruled out any concession at the highly anticipated talks, which open a week of diplomacy in which Russian officials will meet with Nato and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE.
Blinken warned that any positive outcome from the talks would rely in part on Russias willingness to stand down from its aggressive posture, which he likened to "an atmosphere of escalation with a gun to Ukraines head."
"So if were actually going to make progress, were going to have to see de-escalation, Russia pulling back from the threat that it currently poses to Ukraine," US President Joe Bidens top diplomat said.
Washington: US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday said Russia had to choose between dialogue and confrontation, ahead of talks in Geneva on soaring tensions over Ukraine.
Vladimir Putins government has reportedly massed tens of thousands of military troops along Russias border with Ukraine, drawing Washington into a Cold War-style stand-off.
