War over Ukraine
20220107
https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/923025-war-over-ukraine
Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
How many American soldiers will die in the battle for Luhansk? Or Kerch? Not 1 in 1,000 Americans could find these drab Ukrainian formerly Russian industrial cities on a map.
Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
Washington is warning Moscow not to react to US military intrusions. And, above all, not to invade Ukraine  which was part of historic Russia and the Soviet Union until the USSR fell apart after a US-engineered coup in Kiev that created western-orientated Ukraine. Today, Ukraine is governed by a former TV comic whose career was financed by shady oligarchs and western interests.President Biden has all but threatened war against Russia if Vlad Putin makes good on threats to attack Ukraine. Putin warns the US of his new arsenal of whizz-bang weapons, many of them nuclear. This reminds me of an Italian diplomats brilliant quip about the regional conflict over a barren Eritrean border region: two bald men fighting over a comb.Ukraine is an economic black hole, with massive industrial pollution, titanic debts, unbridled thievery, and staggering corruption.For Russia, Ukraine was its former industrial and agricultural heartland, and key component of the Russian state. Think of Ohio suddenly detached from America by pro-Trump rebels or the Red Fleet cruising the Great Lakes.Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
No matter. The US, says President Biden, is geared up for a major fight in this obscure coal-mining region of the former Soviet Union. US Navy vessels and aircraft now challenge Russias Black Sea and Azov Sea borders. NATO units probe Ukraines air and land borders.Washington is warning Moscow not to react to US military intrusions. And, above all, not to invade Ukraine  which was part of historic Russia and the Soviet Union until the USSR fell apart after a US-engineered coup in Kiev that created western-orientated Ukraine. Today, Ukraine is governed by a former TV comic whose career was financed by shady oligarchs and western interests.President Biden has all but threatened war against Russia if Vlad Putin makes good on threats to attack Ukraine. Putin warns the US of his new arsenal of whizz-bang weapons, many of them nuclear. This reminds me of an Italian diplomats brilliant quip about the regional conflict over a barren Eritrean border region: two bald men fighting over a comb.Ukraine is an economic black hole, with massive industrial pollution, titanic debts, unbridled thievery, and staggering corruption.For Russia, Ukraine was its former industrial and agricultural heartland, and key component of the Russian state. Think of Ohio suddenly detached from America by pro-Trump rebels or the Red Fleet cruising the Great Lakes.Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
For Russia, Ukraine was its former industrial and agricultural heartland, and key component of the Russian state. Think of Ohio suddenly detached from America by pro-Trump rebels or the Red Fleet cruising the Great Lakes.Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
President Biden has all but threatened war against Russia if Vlad Putin makes good on threats to attack Ukraine. Putin warns the US of his new arsenal of whizz-bang weapons, many of them nuclear. This reminds me of an Italian diplomats brilliant quip about the regional conflict over a barren Eritrean border region: two bald men fighting over a comb.Ukraine is an economic black hole, with massive industrial pollution, titanic debts, unbridled thievery, and staggering corruption.For Russia, Ukraine was its former industrial and agricultural heartland, and key component of the Russian state. Think of Ohio suddenly detached from America by pro-Trump rebels or the Red Fleet cruising the Great Lakes.Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
How many Americans are aware that a unit of the Florida National Guard is stationed in western Ukraine, of all places? Its just a training mission, says the Pentagon. Right. Training how to pick oranges. This from the invincible US military I used to be a member that got its backside whipped in Vietnam, Iraq and now Afghanistan.No matter. The US, says President Biden, is geared up for a major fight in this obscure coal-mining region of the former Soviet Union. US Navy vessels and aircraft now challenge Russias Black Sea and Azov Sea borders. NATO units probe Ukraines air and land borders.Washington is warning Moscow not to react to US military intrusions. And, above all, not to invade Ukraine  which was part of historic Russia and the Soviet Union until the USSR fell apart after a US-engineered coup in Kiev that created western-orientated Ukraine. Today, Ukraine is governed by a former TV comic whose career was financed by shady oligarchs and western interests.President Biden has all but threatened war against Russia if Vlad Putin makes good on threats to attack Ukraine. Putin warns the US of his new arsenal of whizz-bang weapons, many of them nuclear. This reminds me of an Italian diplomats brilliant quip about the regional conflict over a barren Eritrean border region: two bald men fighting over a comb.Ukraine is an economic black hole, with massive industrial pollution, titanic debts, unbridled thievery, and staggering corruption.For Russia, Ukraine was its former industrial and agricultural heartland, and key component of the Russian state. Think of Ohio suddenly detached from America by pro-Trump rebels or the Red Fleet cruising the Great Lakes.Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
Ukraine is an economic black hole, with massive industrial pollution, titanic debts, unbridled thievery, and staggering corruption.For Russia, Ukraine was its former industrial and agricultural heartland, and key component of the Russian state. Think of Ohio suddenly detached from America by pro-Trump rebels or the Red Fleet cruising the Great Lakes.Moscow has no doubt at all that Washingtons strategic objective is to complete the amputation of Ukraine from Russia and then to go on tearing down whats left of the current Russian Federation. Russias remote Far East would be a key target. No wonder Putin keeps making ever more dire warnings. He is the Wests target number one.Yes, Moscow has moved about 80,000 troops to NATOs border. But this border is Russias own external border as well. Moscow has every right to do so.Putin is no angel see his repression of the Chechen but he is quite right when he says that the West back-stabbed Russia when it orally promised not to expand NATO east in exchange for Gorbachevs agreeing to Germanys reunification and its inclusion in NATO.Today NATO has pushed into Moscows former backyard. In NATOs vanguard are Russia-hating Poland, the three Baltic states and Hungary  all of whom have ample reason to fear and mistrust Russia. All would be happy to see the US go to war with Russia. But the US has no strategic objectives and no logical war aims in southern RussiaUkraine.Excerpted: Nuclear War Over Ukraine?Courtesy: Commondreams.org
