UkrainianAmerican in Rochester weighs in on escalating tensions with Russia
20220222
https://www.whec.com/rochester-new-york-news/ukrainian-american-in-rochester-weighs-in-on-escalating-tensions-with-russia/6401037/?cat=565
Chiley lost classmates from the conflict in 2014 and says his family is frantically trying to get visas to escape the war-torn region.
They initially, a couple months ago, werent overly concerned, but in the last few weeks theyve become fairly concerned about inevitable invasion, Chiley said.
Chiley was born in southeast Ukraine, a couple hundred miles from the conflict region, and his moms side of the family is all living there now.
Im a combination of concerned and privileged. I am happy that I am here safe sitting at home comfortably, but at the same time concerned about my familys wellbeing in Ukraine. Im hoping that they can escape the issue before war comes knocking on the door, he said.
ROCHESTER, N.Y. WHEC  The Russia-Ukraine crisis continues to pose a lot of questions not just for world leaders but also for the families impacted by the situation.
On Monday, President Vladimir Putin formally recognized the independence of two Moscow-backed breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine. The move by Putin will likely be seen by the U.S. and eastern allies as a preemptive move to invade Ukraine.
What I would say is very simplethat Putin should know that sanctions will be imposed, and they will be strong, effective and swift, Schumer said. The president has the ability to impose those sanctions whenever he chooses.
Thousands of miles away from his birth country, Chiley says he just wants the best outcome for his family.
Chiley: "Umbelieve it or not, yes. I think if Russia wants to invade, Russias going to invade and theyre willing to pay whatever the cost."
News10NBCs Jenny Ly met with a local man with ties to the war-torn region and U.S. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer Monday said he stands with Ukraine.
What theyre telling me is that Russian citizens are being driven across the border by the busloads and relocated to parts of eastern Ukraine that are currently occupied by rebels as if theyre living there permanently, which is a very questionable move, Chiley said.
