Biden Russia chemical attack is real threat
20220323
https://www.tdtnews.com/news/article_611eff0e-aaac-11ec-8011-571e256fe2a8.html
The Swiss government has joined the European Union in imposing sanctions on hundreds of Russian individuals and entities in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Switzerland is not part of the EU.
 Biden starts a trip to Europe as Russia's war in Ukraine bogs down, challenges grow
Peter Maurer, the ICRC president, was expected Wednesday to take up issues such as prisoners of war, the conduct of hostilities and the delivery of aid.
PARIS  French authorities say a convoy of rescue vehicles and emergency equipment is to leave Paris on Wednesday to be provided to Ukraine's emergency service.
GENEVA  The Swiss attorney general's office says it is collecting evidence from Ukraine refugees on possible international crimes or embargo violations stemming from Russia's war with Ukraine.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukraine's president is urging Japan and other Asian countries to step up sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
The Swiss Bankers' Association has estimated the assets of Russian clients deposited in Swiss banks total between 150-200 billion Swiss francs about $160-$215 billion.
"There are practical steps guided by international humanitarian law that the parties must take to limit the suffering," Maurer said.
Elsewhere in Ukraine, U.K. defense officials say "Russian forces are attempting to envelop Ukrainian forces in the east of the country as they advance from the direction of Kharkiv in the north and Mariupol in the south."
Trading will resume Thursday but only for 33 stocks of large companies listed on the IMOEX index. There will be a ban on short-selling.
Glaz said, "This step is aimed at ending the undiplomatic activities of several staff of the Ukrainian foreign missions."
Biden's first stop is Brussels, where he'll attend a hastily arranged emergency NATO summit. He will also participate in meetings of the European Union and the Group of Seven, which includes the world's richest democracies.
Maurer traveled to Ukraine last week. While in Moscow, he was also expected to meet with the head of the Russian Red Cross, which has been helping people who have fled eastern Ukraine into Russia.
Francis on Friday is expected to preside over a special prayer for peace by consecrating both Ukraine and Russia to the Virgin Mary. The Vatican on Wednesday released translations of the consecration prayer in 30 languages in hopes that the faithful around the world will join him.
BERLIN  German Chancellor Olaf Scholz reiterated that his country will not support a no-fly zone over Ukraine or send troops to intervene in the war launched by Russia.
As he departed Wednesday, Biden told reporters the possibility that Russia could use chemical weapons in the Ukraine war is a "real threat."
The protection system, established in 2001 in response to the fallout from the 1990s Balkan wars but never previously used, streamlines entry procedures for Ukrainians arriving in the EU and outlines entitlements such as employment and housing.
BERLIN  Four environmental think tanks say the European Union can stop its imports of Russian gas by 2025, allowing the bloc to end its dependence in the medium term on a key energy source that's been called into question amid the war in Ukraine.
LVIV, Ukraine - The Kyiv city administration says Russian forces shelled the Ukrainian capital overnight and early Wednesday morning, damaging buildings in two districts.
 Security Council taking up Russian resolution on Ukraine crisis as Assembly hears rival resolutions
Belarus has allowed Russia to use its territory as a staging area for its forces invading Ukraine.
The United Nations says more than 3.5 million people  mainly women and children  have fled Ukraine in the four weeks since Russian tanks rolled across the border and Moscow began bombarding towns and cities.
Scholz said Germany would not support a boycott of Russian oil, coal and gas, but is seeking to wean itself off those imports by seeking out other suppliers and ramping up the use of renewable energy.
It suggests that the remaining shortfall can be met through existing gas infrastructure, without the need to build new terminals for LNG imports that some countries are now eyeing.
"Given the nature of documents kept by those units, the activity of the suspect posed a threat to both the internal and external security of Poland," the agency said in a statement.
He told the Japanese lawmakers that over the past 28 days, "thousands of people, including 121 children" were killed in Ukraine and about nine million were forced to leave their homes.
Veteran status brings various benefits, such as monthly payments, tax breaks, discounts on utilities and preferential access to medical treatment, among other things.
"I call on Asian states and your partners to unite their efforts so that Russia seeks peace and stops the tsunami of its brutal invasion of our state," Zelenskyy said in the address.
A report published Wednesday by Ember, E3G, the Regulatory Assistance Project and Bellona concludes that ramping up solar and wind power, reducing demand and electrification can replace two-thirds of Russian gas imports within three years.
MOSCOW  The Russian Central Bank says it is reopening trading on the Moscow stock exchange for the first time since it was closed nearly a month ago.
The agency also said it detained a Polish citizen on suspicion of espionage on behalf of the Russian secret services. The suspect worked in Warsaw's registry office and had access to city archives.
Belarusian Foreign Ministry spokesman Anatoly Glaz didn't specify Wednesday how many diplomats would have to leave but said a maximum of five could remain.
Scholz told German lawmakers on Wednesday that "NATO will not become a party to the war. We are in agreement on this with our European allies and the United States."
There are fears that Russia could use chemical or nuclear weapons as its invasion stalls amid logistical problems and fierce Ukrainian resistance.
In an update posted Wednesday on social media, Britain's defense ministry said Russian troops in the south are trying to circumvent the city of Mykolaiv as they push west towards Odesa, a key Black Sea port that has so far been spared major attack.
WASHINGTON  U.S. President Joe Biden has left the White House for a four-day trip to Europe, where he will meet with key allies to discuss Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The agency said Wednesday it is asking the Foreign Ministry to urgently expel the Russians, describing them as a danger to Poland's security.
He added: "We must repeat our expectations that Beijing abstains from actions supporting Moscow and participates actively and authoritatively in the peace effort."
The attorney general's office said in a statement sent to The Associated Press on Wednesday that it's in contact with the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, which monitors possible sanctions violations, to see if any violations of embargo law have been committed and merit investigation.
BRUSSELS  The European Commission has announced measures to help European Union countries provide the millions of refugees fleeing Russia's invasion of Ukraine with access education, health care, accommodation and work.
LONDON  Britain's defense ministry says the war in northern Ukraine is largely "static," with Russian forces trying to reorganize before resuming a large-scale assault.
European Commission Vice President Margaritis Schinas said Wednesday the new raft of measures aims to build on a "Temporary Protection Directive" issued earlier this month and on initiatives happening across Europe to welcome refugees.
VATICAN CITY  Pope Francis has again prayed for peace in Ukraine and added a personal note to explain his aversion to war: He said his Italian grandfather, a World War I veteran, taught him to hate war in all its forms.
WARSAW, Poland  Poland's Internal Security Agency says it is expelling 45 Russian intelligence officers using diplomatic status as cover to stay in country.
He said he would say more on the subject directly to the leaders he was meeting with Thursday.
It comes in addition to a convoy of 21 new ambulances, which left on Tuesday.
In an address by video link to Japan's parliament on Wednesday, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Japan to place a national embargo on trade with Russia. He also asked Japanese companies to pull out of the Russian market.
GENEVA  The head of the International Committee of the Red Cross has arrived in Moscow for talks at the Russian foreign and defense ministries on humanitarian issues caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Kyiv authorities said on Telegram that a shopping mall, some private sector buildings and high-rises came under fire in the districts of Sviatoshynskyi and Shevchenkivskyi.
Russia's lower house of parliament, the State Duma, passed the law on Wednesday, four weeks since the start of the war in Ukraine, with the three required readings taking place at once.
ROME  Italian Premier Mario Draghi says the European Union must engage with China to make sure it is working actively to mediate peace in Ukraine and does not show any support for Moscow's invasion of its neighbor.
"The devastation caused by the conflict in recent weeks, as well as eight years of conflict in Donbas, has been vast," Maurer said in a statement, referring to the region of eastern Ukraine held by Russian-backed separatists.
Still, the German leader said Ukraine could rely on Germany's help, citing the financial and military aid already provided, the harsh sanctions on Russia and the reception of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees.
Francis prayed for the victims of Russia's invasion in Ukraine, including the "many soldiers who fell on both sides," during his weekly general audience Wednesday. He urged government leaders to understand that buying and producing weapons is not the solution.
"Our people cannot even adequately bury their murdered relatives, friends and neighbors. They have to be buried right in the yards of destroyed buildings, next to the roads," Zelenskyy said.
LVIV, Ukraine  Russian ally Belarus says it is expelling Ukrainian diplomats and closing a consulate.
Draghi said: "It's fundamental that the EU is compact in keeping open spaces for dialogue with Beijing so that it contributes in a constructive way to the international mediation effort."
He offered a personal testimony, saying he learned "hatred and anger toward war" from his grandfather who fought in northern Italy during World War I and conveyed his experiences to his grandson.
A statement from the French foreign and interior ministries says 100 firefighters and rescue staff will dispatch the vehicles and equipment to Romania, at the border with Ukraine. They include 11 fire engines, 16 rescue vehicles, and 23 trucks transporting 49 tons of health and emergency equipment.
Draghi told Parliament on Wednesday that the EU summit with China on April 1 must underline the bloc's expectations that Beijing will be a constructive and authoritative player for peace.
The statement says the operation is meant to support rescuers from Ukraine's Emergency Situations Service "mobilized day and night to provide relief to victims."
MOSCOW  The Russian parliament has passed a law expanding military veteran status to troops taking part in the invasion of Ukraine.
