London Stansted Airport Ryanair issues update on Ukraine flights
20220226
https://www.hertfordshiremercury.co.uk/news/hertfordshire-news/stansted-airport-ryanair-ukraine-flights-6723893
For the latest travel news and updates from Stansted Airport, as well as up-to-date information on travel lists and rules there's no better place to turn than the Stansted Airport newsletter.
The suspension is due to the closure of Ukrainian airspace after Russia's forces commenced their military operations in the country on Thursday February 24.
Ryanair has suspended and removed all flights to and from Ukraine from sale until the end of March, the airline said in a statement.
Find out how you can get more news from HertsLive straight to your inbox for free HERE.
The statement read: "Ryanair remains committed to our services tofrom Ukraine and we look forward to restoring flight services there as soon as it is safe to do so.
The carrier said that the suspension is pending further information from EU safety agencies, and that all affected passengers have been notified by email.
"We sincerely regret and apologise for these unprecedented disruptions and any inconvenience that they will inevitably cause to our Ukrainian customers."
Simply press here, enter your email address and follow the instructions to sign up for the Stansted Airport newsletter.
There was fighting in and around the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv overnight, with the country's Health Minister saying this morning February 26 that 198 Ukrainians have been killed so far amid the Russian invasion.
Sign up to our daily email newsletter for all the latest news from across the country as well as breaking news delivered direct to your inbox
And keeping up to date with the latest from the aviation would couldn't be simpler: you can follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and even sign up to our weekly email updates giving you the latest headlines straight to your inbox.
The Foreign, Commonwealth  Development Office FCDO advise against all travel to Ukraine and says that British nationals should leave the country immediately if safe to do so.
