Beacon of hope Ukraine Russia sign grain export deal
20220722
https://www.ctvnews.ca/business/beacon-of-hope-ukraine-russia-sign-grain-export-deal-1.5997938
The sides will monitor the movement of ships remotely and no military ships. aircraft or drones will be allowed to approach the maritime humanitarian corridor closer than a distance the center sets. The agreement will remain in effect for 120 days and can be extended automatically.
The recent upturn in cryptocurrencies has inspired many to reconsider investing. But is it really a good idea? In a column on CTVNews.ca, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explores some of the pros and cons so that you can make an informed choice.
Zelenskyy said nearly 20 million tons of grain will be exported initially, then some of the current harvest.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, Guterres said. A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever.
Ukraine is one of the world's largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russia's invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments. Some Ukrainian grain is transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the prices of vital commodities such as wheat and barley have soared during the war.
This is a critical step forward in efforts to overcome the global food insecurity caused by Russia's aggression against Ukraine, said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell.
Guterres believes grain shipments could start within the next two weeks, according to U.N. deputy spokesman Farhan Haq. A senior U.N. official said Ukraine needs about 10 days to prepare the ports and needs time to identify and be clear about those safe corridors. The aim is to export 5 million tons of grains per month to empty Ukraine's silos in time for this year's harvest.
Before the agreements, Russian and Ukrainian officials blamed each other for the blocked grain shipments. Moscow accused Ukraine of failing to remove sea mines at the ports, insisted on checking incoming ships for weapons and lifting restrictions on Russian grain and fertilizer exports.
Russia decided not to fuel a new crisis in Africa and provoke a hunger and government changes there, Sidenko said. The African Union had asked Putin to quickly ease the crisis with grain supplies.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy echoed Kuleba's concerns in his nightly video address, saying, It is clear to everyone that there may be some provocations on the part of Russia, some attempts to discredit Ukrainian and international efforts. But we trust the UN.
Many Canadians have continued to see an increase in their rental rates in 2023. In an column on CTVNews.ca, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explains how to calculate how much rent you can afford.
Guterres said the plan, known as the Black Sea Initiative, opens a path for significant commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports: Odesa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
Food bloggers and cookbook authors say meal-planning and simple recipes can help home cooks put together filling and tasty dishes on a budget -- an increasingly stressful challenge amid rising food prices.
Guterres first raised the critical need to restart the supply of Ukraine's agricultural production and Russia's grain and fertilizer to world markets in late April during meetings with Putin in Moscow and Zelenskyy in Kyiv, then proposed a deal because of fears that the war could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
Traders anticipated a deal for the past several weeks, he said, so its effect might already have shown up in grain prices. And the agreement only covers the 2021 crop. There's still considerable uncertainty about Ukrainian production this year and even next, Meyer said.
Guterres described the deal as an unprecedented agreement between two parties engaged in a bloody conflict. Erdogan hoped it would be a new turning point that will revive hopes for peace.
Inspectors representing all parties at the Bosporus in Turkey will search vessels entering and leaving Ukrainian ports to ensure no weapons or soldiers are on board.
We will be watching to ensure Russia's actions match its words, Truss said. To enable a lasting return to global security and economic stability, Russian President Vladimir Putin must end the war and withdraw from Ukraine.
The UN plan will enable Ukraine - one of the world's key breadbaskets - to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural goods that have been stuck in Black Sea ports due to Russia's invasion. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres called it a beacon of hope for millions of hungry people who have faced huge increases in the price of food.
Many Canadians are experiencing strains caused by the increased cost of living and inflation. In his exclusive column for CTVNews.ca, contributor Christopher Liew shares some of the top credits and deductions that you may be able to claim on your income tax return to help you save money.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov signed separate, identical deals Friday with Guterres and Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar at a ceremony in Istanbul that was witnessed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Russia and Ukraine would not sign any deal directly with each other.
Fraser reported from Ankara, Turkey. Edith Lederer at the United Nations, Erika Kinetz in Kyiv, Ukraine, Raf Casert in Brussels, Jill Lawless in London and Geir Moulson in Berlin contributed.
Ukraine argued that Russia's port blockade and launching of missiles from the Black Sea made any safe sea shipments impossible. It sought international guarantees that the Kremlin wouldn't use the safe corridors to attack Odesa and accused Russia of stealing grain from eastern Ukraine and deliberately setting Ukrainian fields on fire.
African leaders, whose countries import food and fertilizer from Ukraine and Russia, also welcomed the deal, with South African President Cyril Ramaphosa saying it has taken much too long.
It was part of a deal: Kyiv doesn't raise the issue of stolen grain and Moscow doesn't insist on checking Ukrainian ships. Kyiv and Moscow were forced to make a deal and compromise, he said.
While there are many benefits to electric cars, the question of whether they are a good financial choice in Canada is still up in the air, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explains on CTVNews.ca.
Volodymyr Sidenko, an expert with the Kyiv-based Razumkov Center think tank, said Ukraine apparently did not raise the issue of stolen grain in the negotiations.
The Better Business Bureau says Canadians fell for home improvement scams the most in 2022, in a report highlighting the riskiest scams and how much money they cost Canadians.
Although international sanctions against Russia did not target food exports, the war has disrupted shipments of Russian products because shipping and insurance companies did not want to deal with Russia.
I'm not opening a bottle of champagne because of this deal, Kuleba told The Associated Press. I will keep my fingers crossed that this will work, that ships will carry grain to world markets and prices will go down and people will have food to eat. But I'm very cautious because I have no trust in Russia.
Peter Meyer, head of grain and oilseed analytics at SP Global Platts, said the deal does not mean that the global supply crisis is over.
A deal that allows grain to leave Black Sea ports is nothing short of lifesaving for people across the world who are struggling to feed their families, said Red Cross Director-General Robert Mardini. He noted that over the past six months, prices for food have risen 187 in Sudan, 86 in Syria and 60 in Yemen, just to name a few countries.
Under the deal, all activities in Ukrainian territorial waters will be under authority and responsibility of Ukraine, and the parties agree not to attack vessels and port facilities involved in the initiative. If demining is required to make the shipping lanes safe, a minesweeper from another country could clear the approaches to Ukrainian ports.
There are going to be some changes to Canada's tax brackets as we move into 2023. These changes could impact how youre taxed when you file your 2023 income tax returns next year.
In light of new poll results that found Canadians are spending a lot of time worrying about money, one personal finance expert shares some simple tips to help Canadians avoid making some common, costly mistakes with their cash.
Russia and Ukraine signed separate agreements Friday with Turkey and the United Nations clearing the way for the export of millions of tons of desperately needed Ukrainian grain - as well as some Russian grain and fertilizer - across the Black Sea. The long-sought deal ends a wartime standoff that has threatened food security around the globe.
You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all, he told the envoys.
The agreement, obtained by the AP, says a UN-led joint coordination center will be set up in Istanbul staffed by officials from Ukraine, Russia, Turkey to run the plan, including scheduling cargo ships' arrivals and departures.
