Canadians adjusting budgets cutting costs elsewhere amid rising gas prices
20220311
https://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/canadians-adjusting-budgets-cutting-costs-elsewhere-amid-rising-gas-prices-1.5815763
For the first time ever, a virtual option will be available for people participating in a survey for the Metro Vancouver homeless count.
Thomas Bateman, of Penobsquis, N.B., said he can no longer afford to drive to work and has been staying at his brother's house which is closer to his job, while Frank Berard, who is in Alberta, said his family now crams all their errands into one weekly trip so they are not taking the car out multiple times a week.
The Better Business Bureau has released its list of the top 10 riskiest scams in Canada.
For Winnipeg, StatCan data shows the price of gas has increased between 50 and 60 cents per litre since this time last year.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
"There are lots of Canadians in the low to middle class that will feel this hit each time," he said.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
StatCan reports the price of gas in Calgary in March 2021 was $1.17 per litre. As of Friday, according to GasWizard.ca, it's up to $1.77 per litre.
Waterloo regional police said a male has been taken to hospital with stab wounds after he was involved in a fight with another driver near a Kitchener intersection.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Plans to relieve congestion in Barrie's south end are driving forward, with work on the first phase of the Bryne Drive South extension.
With these rising costs, Canadians are looking to cut corners in order to save a buck, whether it be taking a walk or bike ride instead of a drive for errands, or keeping trips to a minimum altogether.
Post tropical storm Fiona showed how quickly Canadians can be displaced by climate change. W5 looks into whether more people living in vulnerable areas will have to consider moving in the years to come.
As a senior on fixed income, Louise Allison says she has no means to gain extra income to cover the elevated prices of gas, and other expenses.
Kayla Neal has been patiently waiting to bring her one-year-old son, Maverick, to the Ruthven branch of the Essex County Library.
P.E.I. Premier Dennis King announced Monday night that the province will go to the polls on April 3, just under four years after his Progressive Conservatives were elected.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
Brown said they have three children, all in different schools, so limiting their driving is not an option.
With gas prices reaching record highs, some Canadians say they are adjusting their budgets and cutting spending elsewhere, such as on groceries or travel plans, to offset rising costs at the pumps.
"While some of us have the luxury of public transit, not every community does and having a car then becomes essential," Howard said.
About 50 people rallied outside the Nova Scotia education ministers office Monday after students of Palestinian descent were allegedly told to take off cultural garments during a multicultural day at a school in Halifax last week.
Russia's war in Ukraine has pushed gas prices to record levels as countries impose sanctions on Russian oil. The average gas price in Canada climbed to $1.87 per litre on Thursday, up from $1.66 per litre last week, according to the gas price tracking website GasBuddy.com.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
The Calgary Police Service is asking for help from the public as investigators attempt to locate a missing woman.
British Columbias two biggest health authorities are pushing ahead with the massive task of modernizing the information technology systems in their hospitals, with issues already plaguing the effort.
Headingley RCMP is investigating after a "chaotic" party broke out near the end of February at a rental home that resulted in three people going to hospital and the house receiving thousands of dollars in damage.
W5 Producer Shelley Ayres explains how she was in awe to meet what the Guinness Book of World Record's has named the World's Tallest Teenager, a 17-year-old from Quebec who plays for Team Canada.
A firefighter was sent to hospital after responding to a fire at an abandoned home located on Grey Street Monday afternoon. Emergency crews responded to 253 Grey. St. for reports of a structure fire that had 'heavy smoke showing on all sides.'
Three staff at an elementary school in Ontario are under investigation after a six-year-old Black student was allegedly separated from his peers and locked in a closet-sized room.
"It's not only affecting us financially, but mentally and emotionally as well," Thiffault said. "We work so hard just to get by. But now, everything is weighing on us and with this last financial knockout with gas, I really don't know what we are going to do in the near future."
Kent Brown, who lives in Winnipeg, said he and his fiance have had to add an extra $50 each to their monthly budget for gas to accommodate the rising prices.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
"When I get home from work, I try not to go out in my car unless its necessary," he said.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
A growing number of men are undergoing a radical surgery to become taller. CTV W5 goes inside the lucrative world of limb-lengthening surgery.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
In 2013, Catherine Wreford Ledlow was told she had two to six years to live. She speaks to CTV W5 about winning 'The Amazing Race Canada,' nine years after her brain cancer diagnosis.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
CTVNews.ca asked Canadians to share how increased gas prices are impacting them and their wallets. The responses were emailed to CTVNews.ca and have not all been independently verified.
Kate Hallett, 18, is in the film Women Talking, nominated for Academy Awards in best picture and best adapted screenplay.
Allison, who lives in Okotoks, Alta., said one of the few activities seniors in the province could safely do during the pandemic was "go for a drive out into countryside and enjoy the beautiful scenery in our part of Alberta."
The Windsor-Essex County Health Unit WECHU issued an alert Monday after its system flagged 11 opioid overdose emergency department visits last week.
A unit manager at a hospital in Calgary wrote that they are "shocked and speechless" about a plan to have paramedics drop off patients and return to the streets in 45 minutes, something Alberta's premier downplayed as a "target" and the way it used to be.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
A 25-year-old man was sent to hospital with stab wounds after Montreal police say he escaped from a vehicle during a kidnapping Monday evening in the city's west end.
A bakery in Woodbridge, Ont. says a driver crashed into their storefront on Friday morning, then allegedly proceeded to get her nails done at a salon next door.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alberta Premier Danielle Smith says Calgary Mayor Jyoti Gondek did not provide a 'priority list' with her asks for Budget 2023.
A minor hockey league player who says he was repeatedly subjected to racial slurs is filing a complaint against Hockey Quebec.
"We live by Cross Iron Mills Mall and almost any trip is at least an hour round trip. So we can't really go anywhere for the foreseeable future together as a family," Thiffault said.
From Kitchener to cross-country recognition, a rapper from the city is nominated for the Juno Awards rap single of the year.
James Sabean, who works as information technology technician, said he commutes 45 minutes to his job in Windsor, Ont., but started driving at a speed of 90 kmh on the highway when gas prices spiked to save on fuel consumption.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
"The effects of this increase in the price of gas will have a huge impact on our social lives, not to mention our emotional and mental health, which in turn then will affect our physical health," she said.
More than two years after downtown Beirut was levelled by an explosion, a Lebanese-Canadian family of a 3-year-old girl killed in the blast is still searching for answers.
While prices dropped Friday by up to 15 cents per litre in the Greater Toronto Area, Montreal and Vancouver, some experts warn it could be a while before Canadians see any sustained relief at the pumps.
While he acknowledges that his current financial situation will help him "weather the storm," Howard said not all other Canadians are in the same position.
According to data from Statistics Canada, the price of gas in Toronto cost about $1.24 per litre in March 2021, which is roughly 50 cents less per litre than average prices in the city during the same month this year.
In addition, Sabean said he will walk more to get his groceries and run errands, rather than taking his car.
Ian Howard, who lives in southern Ontario, said he walks to work now instead of driving when he can, to help alleviate the pain he's feeling at the pumps.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
Among the responses from people across the country, many expressed concerns about being able to afford groceries or be able to get to work amid rising gas costs.
The point was made before the first word was uttered. On Monday, some disabled paratransit riders who wanted to attend a London Transit Commission meeting about improving service were unable to book a ride to get there.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
A Montreal police officer who grew up with dreams of playing in the NHL is finding a way to follow his dream... sort of. Patrick Chevrefils is an SPVM officer in Cote-St-Luc and swaps his badge for a blocker at night to sit as the emergency backup goalie.
Convicted murderer Daniel Jolivet, in prison for the past 30 years, has maintained his innocence since the day he was arrested. W5 reviews the evidence he painstakingly assembled while behind bars.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
Thiffault said the pinch at the pumps comes as families are already struggling to deal with rising food costs and unaffordable housing. He added that the expenses have started taking a toll on his family's well-being.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Simcoe County man, James White, has been charged alongside seven others in relation to the forgery and sale of fake artwork attributed to the renowned Indigenous artist Norval Morrisseau.
"We do not have the option of walking or biking," Allison said. "The inflated prices at the gas pumps are hitting everyone and greatly restricting our mobility."
Toronto resident Alvin Rebick wont be walking anywhere for six to eight weeks after slipping on a snowbank and fracturing his ankle Sunday morning.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
She urged governments to step in and help those drivers and consumers facing high energy prices before the rising cost of living takes a mental toll on Canadians.
A 64-year-old grandmother from Barrie, Ont. faces life in prison in Hong Kong, accused of smuggling drugs, after being duped twice in what her family believes was a sophisticated romance scam.
If gas prices remain high for an extended period of time, Howard said his family will likely have to start limiting social outings in their vehicle.
Stephanie DAloisio, who lives in Toronto, said the rise in gas prices has her looking into selling her large SUV and buying a smaller vehicle, which would help her family save approximately $1,000 to $1,500 a year, she says. While she would like to switch to an electric or hybrid vehicle, she said they aren't affordable for her family at this time.
Anishinaabe podcaster Ryan McMahon sought to uncover the truth behind the deaths of several Indigenous people in Thunder Bay, Ont. in a new Crave Original documentary.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
The man convicted of killing Amanda Zhao in 2002 is living in New Zealand, and told media there that his victim is still alive. A B.C. member of Parliament and Zhao's family are disgusted and outraged by the claims.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
"As much as we cut in other areas and limit our driving, its not enough to keep up with the rise in the cost of living," DAloisio.
"The amount of driving each day for our family just cannot be reduced and therefore, our cost can only go up with the prices which is now cutting in to our already extremely tight budget," Brown said.
The ownership group of the Winnipeg Jets may soon become the new owners of Portage Place mall in downtown Winnipeg, with plans to redevelop the area.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
Connor McDavid scored twice, giving him an NHL-leading 54 goals this season, and the Edmonton Oilers beat the Buffalo Sabres 3-2 on Monday night.
Brian Thiffault, who lives outside the northern city limits of Calgary, told CTVNews.ca his family stays home during most of their free time now due to rising gas prices.
