Canada relocates diplomatic staff in Ukraine foreign affairs minister
20220212
https://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/canada-relocates-diplomatic-staff-in-ukraine-foreign-affairs-minister-1.5779172
For the first time ever, a virtual option will be available for people participating in a survey for the Metro Vancouver homeless count.
The Better Business Bureau has released its list of the top 10 riskiest scams in Canada.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
"As always, our priority in these situations is ensuring the safety and security of all Canadians on the ground. Canadians should continue to avoid all travel to Ukraine. We urge those currently in Ukraine to leave now."
Waterloo regional police said a male has been taken to hospital with stab wounds after he was involved in a fight with another driver near a Kitchener intersection.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Plans to relieve congestion in Barrie's south end are driving forward, with work on the first phase of the Bryne Drive South extension.
A statement from Joly said along with establishing a temporary office in Lviv, located in western Ukraine near the border with Poland, Canada will temporarily suspend operations at its embassy in Kyiv "given the continued deterioration of the security situation caused by the buildup of Russian troops on Ukraine's border."
Post tropical storm Fiona showed how quickly Canadians can be displaced by climate change. W5 looks into whether more people living in vulnerable areas will have to consider moving in the years to come.
Ukraine is not a member of NATO and its proposed entry is something Russia has forcefully pushed back on.
"For the latest information on the situation, Canadians should continue to check our Travel Advice and Advisories for Ukraine and sign up with the Registration of Canadians Abroad service."
Kayla Neal has been patiently waiting to bring her one-year-old son, Maverick, to the Ruthven branch of the Essex County Library.
P.E.I. Premier Dennis King announced Monday night that the province will go to the polls on April 3, just under four years after his Progressive Conservatives were elected.
A statement from the Prime Minister's Office on Saturday said Justin Trudeau spoke with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
During a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin Saturday, U.S. President Joe Biden warned that invading Ukraine would cause "widespread human suffering."
About 50 people rallied outside the Nova Scotia education ministers office Monday after students of Palestinian descent were allegedly told to take off cultural garments during a multicultural day at a school in Halifax last week.
Biden also said the U.S. and its allies would respond "decisively and impose swift and severe costs" if Russia attacked Ukraine, according to the White House.
A group of 200 Canadian Armed Forces members are sent to the country every six months. Those troops have since moved west of the Dnieper River over concerns of a Russian invasion.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
About 600 Canadian troops are leading a NATO battlegroup in Latvia, tasked with defending against any Russian attack since 2017.
The department previously ordered families of U.S. embassy staff in Kyiv to leave, something Canada has done as well.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Canadas support for Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity remains steadfast - and we'll continue to be there for the people of Ukraine. On this, we stand united with our allies and partners. That was the message I shared with President ZelenskyyUa when we spoke today.
The Calgary Police Service is asking for help from the public as investigators attempt to locate a missing woman.
British Columbias two biggest health authorities are pushing ahead with the massive task of modernizing the information technology systems in their hospitals, with issues already plaguing the effort.
Headingley RCMP is investigating after a "chaotic" party broke out near the end of February at a rental home that resulted in three people going to hospital and the house receiving thousands of dollars in damage.
W5 Producer Shelley Ayres explains how she was in awe to meet what the Guinness Book of World Record's has named the World's Tallest Teenager, a 17-year-old from Quebec who plays for Team Canada.
A firefighter was sent to hospital after responding to a fire at an abandoned home located on Grey Street Monday afternoon. Emergency crews responded to 253 Grey. St. for reports of a structure fire that had 'heavy smoke showing on all sides.'
"The best friend of our enemies is panic in our country. And all this information is just provoking panic and can't help us," he said. "I can't agree or disagree with what hasn't happened yet. So far, there is no full-scale war in Ukraine."
Three staff at an elementary school in Ontario are under investigation after a six-year-old Black student was allegedly separated from his peers and locked in a closet-sized room.
The minister said operations will resume at the embassy "as soon as the security situation in Ukraine allows us to ensure the adequate delivery of services and guarantee the security of our staff."
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
The U.S. has ordered an additional 3,000 troops to Poland, on top of the 1,700 that are en route. The U.S. army also is shifting 1,000 soldiers from Germany to Romania.
A growing number of men are undergoing a radical surgery to become taller. CTV W5 goes inside the lucrative world of limb-lengthening surgery.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
In 2013, Catherine Wreford Ledlow was told she had two to six years to live. She speaks to CTV W5 about winning 'The Amazing Race Canada,' nine years after her brain cancer diagnosis.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
Kate Hallett, 18, is in the film Women Talking, nominated for Academy Awards in best picture and best adapted screenplay.
"Canada's diplomatic presence and strong engagement in Ukraine will continue. Services for Canadian citizens will also continue to be offered from the temporary office, by appointment only. However, our ability to provide consular assistance could become increasingly limited," Joly said.
A unit manager at a hospital in Calgary wrote that they are "shocked and speechless" about a plan to have paramedics drop off patients and return to the streets in 45 minutes, something Alberta's premier downplayed as a "target" and the way it used to be.
The Windsor-Essex County Health Unit WECHU issued an alert Monday after its system flagged 11 opioid overdose emergency department visits last week.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
A 25-year-old man was sent to hospital with stab wounds after Montreal police say he escaped from a vehicle during a kidnapping Monday evening in the city's west end.
A bakery in Woodbridge, Ont. says a driver crashed into their storefront on Friday morning, then allegedly proceeded to get her nails done at a salon next door.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alberta Premier Danielle Smith says Calgary Mayor Jyoti Gondek did not provide a 'priority list' with her asks for Budget 2023.
A minor hockey league player who says he was repeatedly subjected to racial slurs is filing a complaint against Hockey Quebec.
From Kitchener to cross-country recognition, a rapper from the city is nominated for the Juno Awards rap single of the year.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
"Prime Minister Trudeau reaffirmed Canada's steadfast support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and emphasized that any further military incursion into Ukraine would have serious consequences, including coordinated sanctions," the statement said.
Russia has denied it plans to invade but has massed well over 100,000 troops near its border with Ukraine and sent troops to exercises in neighbouring Belarus.
With files from CTVNews.ca Producer Sarah Turnbull,CTVNews.ca Online Politics ProducerRachel Aiello,The Canadian Press and The Associated Press
More than two years after downtown Beirut was levelled by an explosion, a Lebanese-Canadian family of a 3-year-old girl killed in the blast is still searching for answers.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
The point was made before the first word was uttered. On Monday, some disabled paratransit riders who wanted to attend a London Transit Commission meeting about improving service were unable to book a ride to get there.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
A Montreal police officer who grew up with dreams of playing in the NHL is finding a way to follow his dream... sort of. Patrick Chevrefils is an SPVM officer in Cote-St-Luc and swaps his badge for a blocker at night to sit as the emergency backup goalie.
Convicted murderer Daniel Jolivet, in prison for the past 30 years, has maintained his innocence since the day he was arrested. W5 reviews the evidence he painstakingly assembled while behind bars.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Simcoe County man, James White, has been charged alongside seven others in relation to the forgery and sale of fake artwork attributed to the renowned Indigenous artist Norval Morrisseau.
Toronto resident Alvin Rebick wont be walking anywhere for six to eight weeks after slipping on a snowbank and fracturing his ankle Sunday morning.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
A 64-year-old grandmother from Barrie, Ont. faces life in prison in Hong Kong, accused of smuggling drugs, after being duped twice in what her family believes was a sophisticated romance scam.
Canadians in need of consular assistance in Ukraine are asked to contact Global Affairs Canada's 247 Emergency Watch and Response Centre in Ottawa at:
Canada also announced plans in January to ship non-lethal equipment to Ukraine and has offered a $120 million loan, as well as up to $6 million in the form of a "technical assistance grant."
Anishinaabe podcaster Ryan McMahon sought to uncover the truth behind the deaths of several Indigenous people in Thunder Bay, Ont. in a new Crave Original documentary.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
The man convicted of killing Amanda Zhao in 2002 is living in New Zealand, and told media there that his victim is still alive. A B.C. member of Parliament and Zhao's family are disgusted and outraged by the claims.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
Canada extended Operation UNIFIER, to train Ukrainian armed forces and the National Guard, by another three years in January and announced the deployment of 60 more troops to Ukraine.
The ownership group of the Winnipeg Jets may soon become the new owners of Portage Place mall in downtown Winnipeg, with plans to redevelop the area.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
Canada has relocated its diplomatic staff in Ukraine to the city of Lviv, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly said Saturday.
Connor McDavid scored twice, giving him an NHL-leading 54 goals this season, and the Edmonton Oilers beat the Buffalo Sabres 3-2 on Monday night.
The United States is evacuating its embassy in Kyiv of nearly all staff amid warnings of an increasingly imminent Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has pushed back against what he called excessive amounts of information about a major looming war.
