Explainer How is the RussiaUkraine war linked to religion
20220227
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/explainer-how-is-the-russia-ukraine-war-linked-to-religion-1.5798062
With prayer on our lips, with love for God, for Ukraine, for our neighbors, we fight against evil - and we will see victory, vowed Metropolitan Epifany, head of the Kyiv-based Orthodox Church of Ukraine.
They emerged in 1596 when some Orthodox Ukrainians, then under the rule of the Catholic-dominated Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, submitted to the authority of the pope under an agreement that allowed them to keep distinctive practices such as their Byzantine liturgy and married priests.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
But current President Vladimir Zelinskyy, who is Jewish, has not put the same emphasis on religious nationalism.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
For the past century, independent-minded Ukrainian Orthodox have formed separate churches which lacked formal recognition until 2019, when current Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew recognized the Orthodox Church of Ukraine as independent of the Moscow patriarch  who fiercely protested the move as illegitimate.
In his Feb. 21 speech seeking to justify the imminent invasion of Ukraine with a distorted historical narrative, Putin claimed without proof that Kyiv was preparing for the destruction of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate.
Regardless of church affiliation ... you have a lot of new clergy who grew up in independent Ukraine, said Alexei Krindatch, national coordinator of the U.S. Census of Orthodox Christian Churches. Their political preferences are not necessarily correlated with the formal jurisdictions of their parishes, said Krindatch, who grew up in the former Soviet Union.
Ukrainian Catholics were severely repressed by the Soviets, with several leaders martyred. Many Ukrainian Catholics continued to worship underground, and the church has rebounded strongly since the end of communism.
The war may provide a point of unity among U.S. churches but may further test relations, said the Very Rev. Alexander Rentel, chancellor of the Orthodox Church in America, which has Russian roots but is now independent of Moscow.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
The division between Ukraines Orthodox bodies has reverberated worldwide in recent years as Orthodox churches have struggled with how and whether to take sides. Some U.S. Orthodox hope they can put such conflicts aside and unite to try to end the war, while also fearing the war could exacerbate the split.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
That means members of Moscow- and Constantinople-affiliated churches cant take communion at the others churches.
But many other churches have sought to avoid the fray. In the U.S., with multiple Orthodox jurisdictions, most groups still cooperate and worship with each other.
Forget mutual quarrels and misunderstandings and ... unite with love for God and our Motherland, said Metropolitan Onufry, head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which is under the Orthodox patriarch of Moscow but has broad autonomy.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
With Russia growing in strength and the Constantinople church weakened under Ottoman rule, the Ecumenical Patriarch in 1686 delegated to the Patriarch of Moscow the authority to ordain the metropolitan top bishop of Kyiv.
Even that seemingly united front is complicated. A day after posting Onufrys message on Thursday, his churchs website began publishing reports claiming its churches and people are being attacked, blaming one attack on the representatives of the rival church.
The Ukrainian Orthodox Church under the Moscow Patriarchate has long had extensive autonomy. Plus, its increasingly Ukrainian in character.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
The Russian Orthodox Church says that was a permanent transfer. The Ecumenical Patriarch says it was temporary.
While Putin says Russia is the true heir to Rus, Ukrainians say their modern state has a distinct pedigree and that Moscow didnt emerge as a power until centuries later.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
Ukrainian Catholics have an especially strong history of resistance to persecution under czars and communists.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
Even though Russian President Vladimir Putin justified his invasion of Ukraine in part as a defense of the Moscow-oriented Orthodox church, leaders of both Ukrainian Orthodox factions are fiercely denouncing the Russian invasion, as is Ukraines significant Catholic minority.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
With that kind of history, Ukrainian Catholics may have a strong reason to resist another takeover by Moscow. But theyre not alone, Karapinka said. Ukrainian Catholics were not the only group persecuted by the Soviets, she said. So many groups have reason to resist.
The disputes have spread to Eastern Orthodox churches in Africa, where the Russian Orthodox have recognized a separate set of churches after Africas patriarch recognized the Ukraine churchs independence.
By comparison, Moscow Patriarch Kirill has called for peace but has not laid blame for the invasion.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
But the reaction of the Metropolitan Onufry, who compared the war to the sin of Cain, the biblical character who murdered his brother, indicates that even the Moscow-oriented church has a strong sense of Ukrainian national identity.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
Ukraines former president, Petro Poroshenko, drew a direct link: The independence of our church is part of our pro-European and pro-Ukrainian policies, he said in 2018.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
Associated Press religion coverage receives support through the APs collaboration with The Conversation US, with funding from Lilly Endowment Inc. The AP is solely responsible for this content.
But after the Russian invasion, Pope Francis visited the Russian Embassy on Friday to personally express his concern about the war, the Vatican said, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
Many monasteries and parishes remain under Moscows patriarch, though exact statistics are difficult to find, said John Burgess, author of Holy Rus: The Rebirth of Orthodoxy in the New Russia. On the village level, many people may not even know about their parishs alignment, Burgess said.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
On Saturday, he said he had spoken to both Orthodox leaders as well as top Catholic, Muslim and Jewish representatives. All leaders pray for the souls of the defenders who gave their lives for Ukraine and for our unity and victory. And thats very important, he said.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
Associated Press reporters Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv and Luis Andres Henao in Princeton, New Jersey, contributed to this report.
The Russian Orthodox Church decided to break the Eucharistic communion with the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople in 2018 as he moved to recognize an independent church in Ukraine.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
This split that took place in world Orthodoxy was a difficult event for the Orthodox Church to process, he said. Now its only going to become more difficult because of this war.
Surveys estimate a large majority of Ukraines population is Orthodox, with a significant minority of Ukrainian Catholics who worship with a Byzantine liturgy similar to that of the Orthodox but are loyal to the pope. The population includes smaller percentages of Protestants, Jews and Muslims.
They trace their ancestry to the medieval kingdom of Kievan Rus, whose 10th century Prince Vladimir Volodymyr in Ukrainian rejected paganism, was baptized in Crimea and adopted Orthodoxy as the official religion.
Recent popes have tried to thaw relations with the Russian Orthodox Church even while defending the rights of Ukrainian and other Eastern Rite Catholics.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
But while there have been appeals to religious nationalism in both Russia and Ukraine, religious loyalty doesnt mirror political fealty amid Ukraines fight for survival.
Ukraines tangled political history with Russia has its counterpart in the religious landscape, with Ukraines majority Orthodox Christian population divided between an independent-minded group based in Kyiv and another loyal to its patriarch in Moscow.
Every time Russia takes over Ukraine, the Ukrainian Catholic Church is destroyed, said Mariana Karapinka, head of communications for the Ukrainian Catholic Archeparchy of Philadelphia.
In 2014, Putin cited that history in justifying his seizure of Crimea, a land he called sacred to Russia.
Orthodox churches have historically been organized along national lines, with patriarchs having autonomy in their territories while bound by a common faith. The Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople is considered first among equals but, unlike a Catholic pope, doesnt have universal jurisdiction.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
Orthodox leaders have long denounced such agreements as Catholic and foreign encroachment on their flocks.
