G7 countries including Canada reject Russias demand to pay for gas in rubles Germany
20220328
https://www.ctvnews.ca/business/g7-countries-including-canada-reject-russia-s-demand-to-pay-for-gas-in-rubles-germany-1.5837494
Estimates of the impact of a gas boycott or embargo on Europe vary but most involve a substantial loss of economic output, especially since the war and the resulting surge in energy and raw material prices is already weighing on Europe's economy. U.S. sanctions permit exceptions for payments for oil and gas, though it has banned Russian energy imports itself.
The Group of Seven major economies agreed Monday to reject Moscow's demand to pay for Russian natural gas exports in rubles.
German energy minister Robert Habeck told reporters that "all G7 ministers agreed completely that this would be a one-sided and clear breach of the existing contracts" for natural gas, which is used to heat homes, generate electricity and power industry.
The recent upturn in cryptocurrencies has inspired many to reconsider investing. But is it really a good idea? In a column on CTVNews.ca, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explores some of the pros and cons so that you can make an informed choice.
Asked by reporters earlier Monday if Russia could cut natural gas supplies to European customers if they reject the demand to pay in rubles, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call that "we clearly aren't going to supply gas for free."
"Payment in ruble is not acceptable, and we will urge the companies affected not to follow Russian President Vladimir Putin's demand," Habeck said.
A spokeswoman said Monday that the government does not see the need for an early warning declaration at this time.
Many Canadians have continued to see an increase in their rental rates in 2023. In an column on CTVNews.ca, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explains how to calculate how much rent you can afford.
When pressed by reporters on making the declaration, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said "the contracts we know lay down the euro as payment currency and the companies will pay according to the contracts they have signed."
Economists said the move appeared designed to try to support the ruble, which has collapsed against other currencies since Putin invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 and Western countries responded with far-reaching sanctions against Moscow. But some analysts expressed doubt that it would work.
Putin announced last week that Russia will demand "unfriendly" countries pay for natural gas only in Russian currency from now on, instructing the central bank to work out a procedure for buyers to acquire rubles in Russia. The demand sent already high gas prices even higher amid fears it could be a prelude to a natural gas shutoff, which could disrupt Europe's economy and hurt Russia's finances.
The energy ministers of France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, as well as the European Union energy commissioner, met by videoconference and reaffirmed that contracts "must be respected," with most stipulating payments be in euros or dollars, a G7 statement said.
Do you have both Ukrainian and Russian family members? How are you handling the crisis? Emaildotcombellmedia.ca.
Food bloggers and cookbook authors say meal-planning and simple recipes can help home cooks put together filling and tasty dishes on a budget -- an increasingly stressful challenge amid rising food prices.
Asked what happens if Russia turns off the taps now, Germany's energy minister said, "We are prepared for all scenarios."
What currency is used to buy Russian energy "doesn't really matter," said Robin Brooks, chief economist at the Institute of International Finance, a trade group for the world's banks.
"What matters is that energy exports give Russia purchasing power, which it can convert into goods from abroad," she said.
"Putin's demand to convert the contracts to ruble means he is standing with his back to the wall in that regard, otherwise he wouldn't have made that demand," Habeck said, adding that Russia needs rubles to finance its war at home, such as payments to troops.
Many Canadians are experiencing strains caused by the increased cost of living and inflation. In his exclusive column for CTVNews.ca, contributor Christopher Liew shares some of the top credits and deductions that you may be able to claim on your income tax return to help you save money.
"In our situation, it's hardly possible and feasible to engage in charity for Europe," Peskov said.
European governments have shied away from imposing a ban on energy imports from Russia over fears of the impact it would have on the economy. Europe gets 40 of its gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, and since the war, has scrambled to set out proposals to reduce its dependency. Russia is just as reliant on Europe, with oil and gas its dominant sector and paying for government.
Putin's demand for payment in rubles "is mostly window dressing. It doesn't change the underlying transactions," Brooks said. "At the margin, I would call this another own goal' by Putin, since it increases the focus on gas purchases by Western Europe and could potentially raise the odds of an import stop."
While there are many benefits to electric cars, the question of whether they are a good financial choice in Canada is still up in the air, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explains on CTVNews.ca.
The Better Business Bureau says Canadians fell for home improvement scams the most in 2022, in a report highlighting the riskiest scams and how much money they cost Canadians.
Putin's rubles payment proposal led Germany's utilities association, the BDEW, to call on the government to declare an "early warning" of an energy emergency.
There are going to be some changes to Canada's tax brackets as we move into 2023. These changes could impact how youre taxed when you file your 2023 income tax returns next year.
In light of new poll results that found Canadians are spending a lot of time worrying about money, one personal finance expert shares some simple tips to help Canadians avoid making some common, costly mistakes with their cash.
