Live updates Macron to provide extra support Zelenskyy says
20220405
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/live-updates-bring-justice-for-war-crimes-zelenskyy-says-to-un-1.5848480
Jason Straziuso, an ICRC spokesman, said the team was "not planning on trying to enter Mariupol today. Our team's humanitarian efforts today are focused on helping the evacuation efforts in nearby areas."
"We are already hearing statements from officials about a possible nationalization of some of our assets," he said. "How far will that get us? Let no one forget that it is a double-edged sword."
Zelenskyy, making his first appearance before the UN's highest body, stressed there are more places in Ukraine that have suffered similar horrors. He called for a tribunal to be established that is similar to the Nuremberg tribunal set up to try war criminals after World War II.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine says a civilian ship is sinking in the port of the besieged city of Mariupol after Russian forces fired on it.
The joint action will include a ban on new investment in Russia, toughened sanctions on its financial institutions and government-owned enterprises, and more sanctions on Russian government officials and their family members.
She observed that Poland had seen more clearly the threat that Moscow posed in past years, even as Western countries embraced doing business with Russia.
On energy, he said that using strategic stockpiles and reserves could help ease the energy crisis in the short-term but the only medium- and long-term solution is to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said late Tuesday that he and Western leaders have discussed a new round of sanctions against Russia.
Liz Truss said in Warsaw that sanctions have already frozen $350 billion of Putin's war chest, saying that makes more than 60 of Russia's $604 billion in currency reserves unavailable.
Participants agreed to take in 12,000 Ukrainian refugees currently in Moldova, provide 71 million euros in aid and almost 700 million euros in loans to the country, and support its efforts to fight corruption and decrease its energy dependence on Russia.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett told reporters Tuesday that we are, of course, shocked by the harsh scenes in Bucha. Terrible images, and we strongly condemn them.
Stoltenberg said Tuesday that we haven't seen everything that has taken place because Russia still controls most of these territories around the capital. But when and if they withdraw their troops and Ukrainian troops take over, I'm afraid they will see more mass graves, more atrocities and more examples of of war crimes.
"Poland has always been clear-eyed about Russia. You have understood Putin's malign intent. You were right," she said.
In televised remarks Tuesday, he says that if the peace deal fails to win approval in a referendum, a new deal will have to be negotiated. He says that we don't want to play such cat and mouse.
Daugavpils is Latvia's second largest city situated close to the border with Belarus and Lithuania in southeastern Latvia, not very far from the Russian border, and Liepaja is a major port city.
Slovenia's Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday that the Russian ambassador has been informed of the move. The ministry says Slovenia is cutting down the number of staff at the Russian embassy in Ljubljana to the level of Slovenia's embassy in Moscow.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told the UN Security Council on Tuesday that as a result of the global impact of Russia's "full-fledged invasion on several fronts" of Ukraine, he said "we are already seeing some countries move from vulnerability into crisis and signs of serious social unrest."
He said that the images are extremely horrible. The suffering of the citizens of Ukraine is huge and we are doing everything we can to help.
He said that "we expect a further push in the eastern and southern Ukraine to try to take the entire Donbas and to create a land bridge" to the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014.
The national prosecutors' office that specializes in terrorism cases said it launched three war crimes investigations on Tuesday, against suspects yet to be identified.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the Russian forces stopped the buses accompanied by workers of the International Committee of the Red Cross from traveling to the Sea of Azov port on Tuesday. The civilians who were able to leave in their personal vehicles traveled to Zaporizhzhia.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Tuesday that we are looking at what solutions there are, together with the EU, NATO and in particular the G-7 partners.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
He said that "these atrocities have taken place during a period in which Russia controlled these areas. So they are responsible. Second, we have information from many different sources."
UNITED NATIONS - Ukraine's president told the UN Security Council on Tuesday that the Russian military must be brought to justice immediately for war crimes, accusing invading troops of the worst atrocities since World War II.
The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said in a statement Tuesday that the ship was struck during "shelling from the sea" by Russia, causing a fire in the engine room. The crew was rescued, including one injured crew member, it added.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told the UN Security Council on Tuesday that as a result of the global impact of Russia's full-fledged invasion on several fronts of Ukraine, he said we are already seeing some countries move from vulnerability into crisis and signs of serious social unrest.
Von der Leyen said the ban on coal imports is worth 4 billion euros US$4.4 billion per year. She added that the EU has already started working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports.
Last month, Sweden's domestic intelligence agency, SAPO, said that "every third Russian diplomat in Sweden is an intelligence officer."
GENEVA -- The UN migration agency now estimates that more than 11 million people have fled their homes in Ukraine since Russia's invasion.
Austrian public broadcaster ORF reported Tuesday that the chancellery said Nehammer intends to visit and meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy "in the coming days."
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
French law allows prosecutors to investigate suspected war crimes committed outside of France if they involve French victims or suspects who are French or who reside in France.
RICHMOND, Va. - Ukraine's top cybersecurity official says cyberattacks against his country have increased in the last two weeks and there's evidence that Russian military hackers that tried to break into Ukrainian state agencies also attempted to hack Latvian officials' email accounts.
He added that "it is short-sighted and a step which firstly will complicate our communication, which is required in order to seek reconciliation. And secondly it will inevitably lead to reciprocal steps."
Albares said that evidence of massacres of civilians in areas that Russian troops recently left amounts to "a turning point which the international community cannot ignore."
Putin also bemoaned what he said was "administrative pressure on our company Gazprom in some European countries." Germany on Monday put a government agency in charge of a longtime German subsidiary of Gazprom, the Russian state-controlled energy giant.
Russian forces have been bombarding Mariupol for weeks as they try to tighten control over Ukraine's southeastern coastline.
In an interview with Turkey's Haberturk television in Kyiv on Tuesday, Zelenskyy also accused Russia of trying to hide its actions in the besieged southern city of Mariupol and did not want humanitarian aid to enter the city until they clean it all up.
UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations chief says it is more urgent by the day to silence the guns in Ukraine, citing rising deaths and a new UN analysis indicating that 74 developing countries with a total population of 1.2 billion people are especially vulnerable to spiking food, energy and fertilizer prices.
Peskov said that "we view negatively, we view with regret this narrowing of possibilities for diplomatic communication, diplomatic work in such difficult conditions, in unprecedent crisis conditions."
Stoltenberg said Tuesday that "Moscow is not giving up its ambitions in Ukraine" after withdrawing troops from region around the capital "to regroup, arm and resupply and to shift the focus to the East."
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
LONDON - British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has issued a direct appeal to the Russian people, urging them to seek the truth about a war he called a stain on the honor of Russia.
The war crimes "must be punished," added Draghi. "To President Putin, I say again, Put an end to the hostilities, interrupt the massacres and make a cease-fire."'
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett told reporters Tuesday that "we are, of course, shocked by the harsh scenes in Bucha. Terrible images, and we strongly condemn them."
Vereshchuk said in the same post that the Russian troops "don't allow anyone to enter Mariupol," and that the Russians "blocked the representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross" in the settlement of Manhush just west of Mariupol.
LVIV, Ukraine -- The governor of eastern Ukraine's Luhansk region has urged residents to stay inside, shut windows and doors and prepare wet face masks after a Russian strike hit a tank containing nitric acid.
She said that in addition to financial aid, Moldova also needs help building electricity interconnectors to Romania. She asked the European Union to open its market to agricultural imports from her country as it pivots away from Russia.
Tuesday's announcement followed expulsions by several other European countries. Germany said Monday that it was expelling 40 Russians with diplomatic status and France kicked out 35.
Mariupol has been besieged by Russian forces for a month, cut off from food, water and energy supplies and has faced relentless artillery barrage and air raids that killed thousands.
Steinmeier told ZDF television Tuesday that "we failed on many points," including efforts to encourage Russia toward democracy and respecting human rights.
Stoltenberg said Tuesday that "we haven't seen everything that has taken place because Russia still controls most of these territories" around the capital. "But when and if they withdraw their troops and Ukrainian troops take over, I'm afraid they will see more mass graves, more atrocities and more examples of of war crimes."
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
BUCHAREST, Romania - Authorities in Romania said Tuesday that the country is expelling 10 diplomats from Russia's embassy in Bucharest.
Romania's foreign ministry said the actions of 10 embassy workers, who have been declared persona non grata, contravene the provisions of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relationships.
HOUSTON - NASA's record-setting astronaut Mark Vande Hei says he and his Russian crewmates focused on their mission, not the heartbreaking news unfolding in Ukraine, while serving aboard the International Space Station.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rincevics said in a tweet that Latvia will close Russian consulates in Daugavpils and Liepaja and expel 13 Russian diplomats and employees.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- Sweden's foreign minister says the Scandinavian country is expelling three Russian diplomats.
Zelenskyy said he also expects European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell to visit Kyiv soon.
The tough statements from Lavrov contrasted with optimistic signals made by both Ukrainian and Russian representatives after the latest round of talks in Istanbul, Turkey, on March 29.
MOSCOW -- Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that any move by foreign countries to nationalize Russian stakes in companies would be a double-edged sword.
BERLIN -- Germany's president is admitting mistakes in policy toward Russia in his previous job as foreign minister.
He said that "the images are extremely horrible. The suffering of the citizens of Ukraine is huge and we are doing everything we can to help."
BRUSSELS -- NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says he expects more atrocities to come to light in Ukraine as Russian troops continue to retreat from areas around Kyiv.
On the situation in Mariupol, Zelenskyy said thousands may have been killed or injured there.
Also, the EU's executive branch has proposed a ban on coal imports from Russia in what would be the first time the 27-nation bloc has sanctioned the country's lucrative energy industry over the war.
MADRID -- A senior Spanish official says it is "very hard" for the European Union to take measures against Russia's natural gas sector because some of the bloc's countries are dependent on it for their energy supply and the EU's strength lies in its unity.
She dismissed criticism that Germany wasn't doing enough to arm Ukraine, saying there aren't many other countries that have supplied more weapons.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Tuesday that the EU needed to increase the pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin after what she described as the "heinous crimes" carried out around Kyiv.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, making his plea via video, cited reported atrocities against civilians carried out by Russian forces in the town of Bucha on the outskirts of the capital Kyiv, saying they are no different than other terrorists like the Islamic State extremist group.
In coordination with the European Union and Group of Seven nations, the U.S. will roll out more sanctions against Russia on Wednesday. That reportedly will include a ban on all new investment in the country.
Draghi said "if we look at the war through the lens of our values" -- peace, respect for human life and solidarity -- "for the great Russian people, the war makes no sense. It means only shame, isolation and poverty."
The ICRC said in a statement that the team's focus now is on the evacuation operation, and the "incident yesterday shows how volatile and complex the operation to facilitate safe passage around Mariupol has been for our team."
The official said they would further Russia's economic, financial and technological isolation from the rest of the world as a penalty for its attacks on civilians in Ukraine.
The officers have two weeks to leave Denmark. Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said "they pose a risk to our national security that we cannot ignore."
Kirill Goncharuk, Ukrtelecom's chief information officer, said hackers used compromised credentials of an employee in Russian-occupied territory occupied to break in to his company's network. He said the employee was okay but couldn't disclose additional details for safety concerns.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
The move came after France and Germany on Monday announced the expulsion of dozens of Russians with diplomatic status.
She said Spain should invest in industrial-scale solar power facilities to improve the EU's energy self-sufficiency.
While the ministry did not specify how many Russian diplomats would have to leave Slovenia, Prime Minister Janez Jana tweeted that the number would be reduced drastically. The STA news agency says that the Russian mission is the largest in Slovenia with 41 diplomats and other staff.
The ministry said the Russian ambassador was informed of the decision on Tuesday. It said Denmark strongly condemned "Russia's brutality against Ukrainian civilians in Bucha" and stressed that "deliberate attacks on civilians are a war crime."
BRUSSELS -- NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg says Russia is regrouping its troops away from Kyiv only to mass them in the east and south of Ukraine in the coming weeks "for a crucial phase of the war."
"We don't have a choice -- the fate of our land and of our people is being decided," he said. "We know what we are fighting for. And we will do everything to win."
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
I think Russia is afraid that we will successfully send humanitarian aid to Mariupol and the whole world will see what's going on there, he said. Russia doesn't want anything to be seen until they take control of the city and until they clean it all up.
On finance, he said "international financial institutions must go into emergency mode." He urged the world's 20 leading economies, the G20, and international financial institutions "to increase liquidity and fiscal space so that governments can provide safety nets for the poorest and most vulnerable."
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Russian forces still are trying to push deep into Ukraine in the east, but the Ukrainian army is holding them back.
In an emotional speech, he drew parallels between the Russian attacks on Ukrainian cities and the 1937 bombing of the Basque town of Guernica by Nazi aircraft during the Spanish Civil War.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
Estonia's Foreign Ministry said Tuesday the country decided to expel the staff of Russia's consulates in the southern city of Tartu and border city of Narva and close the premises. The combined 14-member Russian staff, including 7 employees with diplomatic status, must leave the country by April 30, the ministry said.
Amedia CEO Anders Muller Opdahl said Tuesday that "it is impossible for Amedia to continue the printing business" because of the war in Ukraine.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
WARSAW, Poland -- Britain's foreign secretary says her country will urge the G7 group to impose more sanctions on Russia, saying that current sanctions have already had a "crippling effect."
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
WARSAW, Poland - Britain's foreign secretary says her country will urge the G-7 group to impose more sanctions on Russia, saying that current sanctions have already had a crippling effect.
With Israel one of the few countries to have good relations with both Russia and Ukraine, Bennett has emerged as a mediator in efforts to end the war.
In an interview with Turkey's Haberturk television in Kyiv, Zelenskyy accused Russia of trying to hide its actions in Mariupol and didn't want humanitarian aid to enter the city "until they clean it all up."
The move by Romania follows a string of expulsions of Russian officials across the 27-nation European Union following a wave of criticism and shock after Russian troops are accused of committing war crimes in Ukraine.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
GENEVA -- An international Red Cross team has shelved for Tuesday hopes of entering the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol after being held overnight by police in a town about 20 kilometres 12 miles to the west.
"After what the world saw in Bucha, the sanctions against Russia must be commensurate with the gravity of the war crimes committed by the occupiers," Zelenskyy said in his daily night-time video address to the nation.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- Denmark's Foreign Ministry says the country is expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russia's Embassy in Copenhagen.
Ternopil region Gov. Volodymyr Trush said Tuesday that the Russian missile strike destroyed six reservoirs filled with fertilizers, resulting in an ammonia leak into ground water and the Ikva River.
Authorities are advising residents not to use water wells and stop fishing and officials have organized drinking water deliveries. Trush say the environmental situation is expected to stabilize in a few days.
MOSCOW - The Russian foreign minister is accusing Ukraine's government of sabotaging talks on ending the fighting in Ukraine, warning that Moscow will not play cat and mouse.
President Frank-Walter Steinmeier served twice as ex-Chancellor Angela Merkel's foreign minister, most recently from 2013 to 2017, and before that as ex-Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's chief of staff. In that time, Germany pursued dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin and cultivated close energy ties.
The flames of conflict are fueled by inequality, deprivation and underfunding, he said. With all the warning signals flashing red, we have a duty to act.
Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Tuesday that "we are looking at what solutions there are, together with the EU, NATO and in particular the G7 partners."
JERUSALEM -- Israel's prime minister says he is shocked by the gruesome images emerging from the Ukrainian town of Bucha, but he has stopped short of accusing Russia of being responsible or calling the atrocities a war crime.
BERLIN -- The prime minister of Moldova says the poor eastern European nation needs major international support to cope with the influx of people fleeing neighbouring Ukraine.
Germany's interior minister said authorities attribute those who are being kicked out to Russian intelligence services. And Denmark said on Tuesday that it is expelling 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russia's Embassy in Copenhagen.
Teresa Ribera, Spain's minister for ecological transition, said Tuesday "it is very difficult to explain to European public opinion and Ukrainian society that we are still importing Russian energy that finances this war" in Ukraine.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
The president conceded that "there were different assessments" of Russia among European countries. He added: "It is true that we should have taken the warnings of our eastern European partners more seriously, particularly regarding the time after 2014" and the building of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
She dismissed criticism that Germany wasn't doing enough to arm Ukraine, saying "there aren't many other countries that have supplied more weapons."
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
UNITED NATIONS -- Ukraine's president told the UN Security Council on Tuesday that the Russian military must be brought to justice immediately for war crimes, accusing invading troops of the worst atrocities since the Second World War.
On energy, he said that using strategic stockpiles and reserves could help ease the energy crisis in the short-term "but the only medium- and long-term solution is to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy."
Her spokesman, Eric Mamer, said Tuesday that her trip will come to ahead of a special pledging meeting in Warsaw over the weekend. It is the second such high-level trip by EU officials. European Parliament President Roberta Metsola went to Ukraine last week.
Zhora said hackers had also recently gained access to the emails of staff at Ukraine's foreign ministry. He said despite the increased hacking attempts in recent days, he's not seen any successful complicated attacks on any Ukrainian critical infrastructure targets.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
The Russian military political leadership and everyone involved in the planning of this war and everyone who gave this order, committed war crimes in my opinion, Zelenskyy said in comments translated into Turkish. We are not dealing with a situation where only one person can be prosecuted and be found guilty.
Muratov's Novaya Gazeta newspaper used Amedia's presses but said last month it will remain closed for the duration of the Russian offensive.
Zelenskyy said Turkish ships were involved in efforts to evacuate injured civilians from Mariupol, but would not elaborate.
The war crimes must be punished, added Draghi. To President Putin, I say again, Put an end to the hostilities, interrupt the massacres and make a cease-fire.'
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
In a speech Tuesday in Turin, Italy, Draghi said the atrocities committed in those and other Ukrainian towns "shake deep down the souls" of people who are democratic.
BRUSSELS - NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says he expects more atrocities to come to light in Ukraine as Russian troops continue to retreat from areas around Kyiv.
Earlier Tuesday, the European Union's executive Commission said that its president, Ursula von der Leyen, will travel to Kyiv this week.
France plans to expel 35. The French Foreign Ministry cited national security reasons for the expulsions, saying the Russian diplomats were conducting "activities contrary to our security interests." It gave no details.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
DJI has previously denied such claims, saying in March that it doesn't apply preferential treatment but also can't switch off the AeroScope tool. It has expressed openness to using technology that could ground its drones in the war zone if Ukraine made a formal request but the no-fly zone would apply to both Ukrainian and Russian drones and some would still be able to fly.
He also says Ukraine is sabotaging the talks by stonewalling Russian demands for demilitarization and denazification of the country.
Von der Leyen didn't mention natural gas. A consensus among the 27 EU member countries on targeting gas that's used to generate electricity, heat homes and power industry would be more difficult to secure.
In an intelligence update posted online, the U.K. says many of the Russian units "are likely to require significant re-equipping and refurbishment before being available to redeploy for operations in eastern Ukraine."
Germany, France, Italy and Spain are among the countries which have expelled diplomats since Monday.
ROME -- Italian Premier Mario Draghi is demanding that Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as the Russian authorities and the Russian army "answer for their actions" in Ukraine, including the "documented massacre of civilians" in Bucha, Irpin and other Ukrainian towns.
Images of slain bodies on the ground, particularly from the town of Bucha, have stirred global revulsion and led to demands for tougher sanctions and war crime prosecutions against Russia.
Poland has always been clear-eyed about Russia. You have understood Putin's malign intent. You were right, she said.
The move falls short of nationalization because the German state has not taken ownership of the shares, and it is a temporary change of administration through September.
He said that these atrocities have taken place during a period in which Russia controlled these areas. So they are responsible. Second, we have information from many different sources.
But she said "coping with this influx is one of the biggest challenges any Moldovan government has faced over the last three decades."
It was not immediately clear from Vereshchuk's statement whether Russia has agreed to halt the fighting along the announced corridors. Some of the Ukrainian efforts to evacuate civilians via humanitarian corridors had previously failed as fighting along them continued even despite agreements with Russia.
According to Vereshchuk's post, residents of Mariupol and Berdyansk will be able to leave to Zaporizhzhia on their own transport. Corridors will also be open from the city of Tokmak in the Zaporizhzhia region and cities of Severodonetsk, Lysychansk, Popasna and Hirske in the Luhansk region.
Zelenskyy spoke following the discovery of bodies of civilians in towns around Kyiv that were recaptured from Russian forces.
He told Russians they only needed an online VPN connection to gain access to independent information from around the world.
KYIV, Ukraine - A Ukrainian official says Russian troops have allowed 1,496 civilians to evacuate the besieged city of Mariupol by private vehicle but blocked a convoy of evacuation buses from entering.
As of Tuesday, more than 200 Russian diplomats or employees had been expelled from at least a dozen countries, including Germany, France and Italy.
Sticking to that project was a mistake that cost Germany "a lot of credit and credibility" in eastern Europe, he said. Chancellor Olaf Scholz suspended the pipeline in the week Russia invaded Ukraine.
Johnson said Russian authorities were hiding the truth of sickening slayings of civilians and other crimes, which betray the trust of every Russian mother who proudly waves goodbye to her son as he heads off to join the military.
She said the energy imports create "obvious moral tension," adding that accusations of Russian war crimes in Bucha in recent days increased the pressure on the EU to act.
Switching from English to Russian, Johnson said: Your president stands accused of committing war crimes. But I cannot believe he's acting in your name.
WASHINGTON - The U.S. and its European allies will impose stiff new sanctions, including a ban on new investments in Russia on Wednesday, a U.S. official says, in retaliation for Russia's war crimes in Ukraine.
IOM said more than 2.9 million others are actively considering "leaving their place of habitual residence due to war."
The three French probes will look into suspected suspected crimes in Mariupol, Chernihiv and Hostomel.
Victor Zhora told reporters Tuesday that a major Ukrainian telecommunications provider, Ukrtelecom, suffered an attack on March 28, but was able to restore most of the affected service within a day.
Baerbock spoke following a conference in Berlin on support for Moldova, a poor, small eastern European nation bordering Ukraine that has been strongly affected by the conflict.
Truss said Britain will encourage the other G-7 countries to ban Russian ships from its ports, crack down on Russian banks, set a timetable to eliminate imports of Russian oil and gas, and try to prevent Russia from using gold to fund its war effort.
The statement did not explain how investigators will go about their work or give details about the suspected French victims and what happened to them.
Ukrainian and Western officials say Russia is refocusing its offensive on the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine.
"Our coordinated sanctions are pushing the Russian economy back to the Soviet era," she said at a news conference with her Polish counterpart Zbigniew Rau.
Gavrilita said Moldova, with a population of 2.5 million, has tried to provide refugees with decent conditions thanks to an "unprecedented mobilization" by the public and private sectors.
Vande Hei also cleared up any misunderstandings about the yellow-with-blue-trim flight suits worn by their Russian replacements when arriving at the space station last month. Those were the school colors of their university, Vande Hei said from NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, and not meant as a political statement. The folks who wore them had no idea that people would perceive that as having anything to do with Ukraine ... I think they were kind of blindsided by it.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
On finance, he said international financial institutions must go into emergency mode. He urged the world's 20 leading economies, the G-20, and international financial institutions to increase liquidity and fiscal space so that governments can provide safety nets for the poorest and most vulnerable.
Serhiy Haidai said on the messaging app Telegram Tuesday that the incident occurred near the city of Rubizhne, which the Ukrainian military says the Russians have been trying to take over. He didn't specify what area the warning applies to.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
He said the group represents a threat to Spain's security and the timing of the expulsion "is a response to crimes that cannot go unpunished," in a reference to what he said were "barbaric" Russian war crimes in Ukraine in recent days.
Foreign Minister Ann Lindeannouncement on Tuesday came after Denmark and Italy said they were expelling 15 and 30 Russians, respectively. On Monday, France and Germany announced that they wer kicking out dozens of Russians with diplomatic status.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Seven humanitarian corridors will be open on Tuesday, including from the besieged port city of Mariupol and the Russian-controlled Berdyansk, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on the messaging app Telegram.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
The prosecutors' statement said the suspected crimes could include deliberate attacks against civilians and deliberately withholding the essentials they needed to survive, physical assaults, and the deliberate destruction of civilian installations.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
MOSCOW -- Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that any move by foreign countries to nationalize Russian stakes in companies would be "a double-edged sword."
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
ANKARA, Turkey - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said everyone in the Russian leadership and army who is involved in the war is responsible for war crimes committed in Ukraine.
The tally marked an increase from IOM's tally in mid-March of more than 9.7 million displaced internally in Ukraine or driven abroad.
In his daily night-time video address to the nation late Tuesday, Zelenskyy said Ukraine was aware that Russia was gathering up reinforcements for another offensive.
"The flames of conflict are fueled by inequality, deprivation and underfunding," he said. "With all the warning signals flashing red, we have a duty to act."
Sergey Lavrov specifically warns that Moscow will not accept the Ukrainian demand that a prospective peace agreement include an immediate pullout of Russian troops to be followed by a referendum in Ukraine on accepting the deal.
Both sides of the war have flown small consumer drones to monitor troop movements and help target attacks. But Ukrainian officials said Tuesday they have evidence that DJI's tool for detecting the location and flight information of nearby drones is working for Russians and not Ukrainians. A government report called for blocking all DJI products operating in Ukraine that were purchased and activated in other countries such as Russia.
BRUSSELS -- The European Union's executive branch has proposed a ban on coal imports from Russia in what would be the first sanctions targeting the country's lucrative energy industry over its war in Ukraine.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
Lavrov pointed at a 2015 peace deal for eastern Ukraine signed in Minsk, Belarus, that was brokered by France and Germany but never implemented. He says that we don't want a repeat of the Minsk agreements.
Truss said Britain will encourage the other G7 countries to ban Russian ships from its ports, crack down on Russian banks, set a timetable to eliminate imports of Russian oil and gas, and try to prevent Russia from using gold to fund its war effort.
KYIV, Ukraine - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has urged all Spanish companies to completely halt business with Russia and called for tougher Western sanctions against Moscow that would include a ban on Russian oil imports.
Britain's Ministry of Defence says Ukrainian forces "have retaken key terrain" after forcing Russian units to retreat north of Kyiv and around the northern city of Chernihiv. The ministry says "low-level fighting is likely to continue in some parts of the newly recaptured regions, but diminish significantly over this week as the remainder of Russian forces withdraw."
JERUSALEM -- Israel's prime minister says he is shocked by the gruesome images emerging from the Ukrainian town of Bucha, but he stopped short of accusing Russia of being responsible or calling the atrocities a war crime.
PARIS -- French prosecutors say they're opening investigations into possible war crimes committed against French nationals in Ukraine since Russian troops invaded.
What's happened in Ukraine on Tuesday and how are countries around the world responding? Read live updates on Vladimir Putin and Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares announced Tuesday that at least 25 diplomats and staff at the Russian Embassy in Madrid are being expelled.
The International Committee of the Red Cross, which has been trying to get a small team into Mariupol since Friday as part of efforts to escort beleaguered civilians out and aid in, said the team held by police in Manhush was released overnight. It did not identify the nationality of the police involved, but Manhush is under Russian control.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said French President Emmanuel Macron has agreed to provide technical and expert support for an investigation into crimes committed by Russian troops in Bucha and elsewhere.
LONDON -- British defense officials say Ukrainian forces have taken back more territory as Russian troops continue to retreat in Ukraine's north.
His 355-day spaceflight ended last Wednesday with a landing in Kazakhstan. He returned to Earth in a Russian Soyuz capsule with cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov, the latter of whom also spent a year in orbit.
Liz Truss said in Warsaw that sanctions have already frozen US$350 billion of "Putin's war chest," saying that makes more than 60 of Russia's $604 billion in currency reserves unavailable.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- A Norwegian publisher says it is handing control of its Russian printing operations to 2021 Nobel Peace Prize winner Dmitry Muratov, the longtime editor of Russia's leading independent newspaper.
Zelenskyy, making his first appearance before the UN's highest body, stressed there are more places in Ukraine that have suffered similar horrors. He called for a tribunal to be established that is similar to the Nuremberg tribunal set up to try war criminals after the Second World War.
Amedia, which has four printing houses in Russia, said it was withdrawing from Russia and that Muratov "will exercise all shareholder rights at his own discretion and have full control of day-to-day operations."
How can it be allowed that Russian banks generate incomes even as the Russian military tortures ordinary civilians to death in Ukrainian cities, how can European companies engage in trade with the state that deliberately destroys our people? he asked.
On food, Guterres urged all countries to keep markets open, resist unjustified export restrictions, make reserves available to countries at risk of hunger and famine and fund humanitarian appeals.
Ukraine's top cybersecurity official Victor Zhora told reporters Tuesday during a press call that DJI's drone detection tool AeroScope has been sharing information on Ukrainian drones to Russians.
Putin also bemoaned what he said was administrative pressure on our company Gazprom in some European countries. Germany on Monday put a government agency in charge of a longtime German subsidiary of Gazprom, the Russian state-controlled energy giant.
We are already hearing statements from officials about a possible nationalization of some of our assets, he said. How far will that get us? Let no one forget that it is a double-edged sword.
VIENNA -- Chancellor Karl Nehammer's office says the Austrian leader plans to travel to Ukraine soon.
Speaking in a video address to the Spanish Parliament on Tuesday, Zelenskyy denounced the Russian atrocities against civilians in Ukrainian cities, saying they represented war crimes for which Russian officers should face an international tribunal.
Gazprom said last week it had cut ties with the unit but Germany says that was invalid because the identity of any new owners is unclear and the deal happened without the required government approval.
In a video message, Johnson said Russians were being kept in the dark about the invasion of Ukraine because Russian President Vladimir Putin knows that if you could see what was happening, you would not support his war.
Bennett referred reporters to the comments Monday by Lapid, who said the civilian deaths in Bucha constituted a "war crime."
Zelenskyy said Tuesday that he also asked Macron to help the people trapped in the besieged southern city of Mariupol.
Zelenskyy said the fate of the entire European project, the values that unite us all is being decided in Ukraine, and urged Spanish lawmakers to do even more to force Russia to start searching for peace and respect the international law.
Haidai warned that nitric acid "is dangerous if inhaled, swallowed and in contact with skin and mucous membranes." The Russian military has not commented on the claim, and it could not be verified independently.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
Our coordinated sanctions are pushing the Russian economy back to the Soviet era, she said at a news conference with her Polish counterpart Zbigniew Rau.
PROVIDENCE, R.I. - Ukrainian officials are renewing pressure on Chinese consumer drone-maker DJI to block a tool that they say is enabling Russian troops to find and attack Ukrainian drone operators.
BERLIN -- Germany's foreign minister has spoken out in favour of providing Ukraine with additional weapons to defend itself against Russia.
Natalia Gavrilita told a donor conference in Berlin on Tuesday that Moldova is hosting about 100,000 refugees from Ukraine, about a quarter of those who have entered since late February.
BERLIN - Germany's foreign minister has spoken out in favor of providing Ukraine with additional weapons to defend itself against Russia.
ROME - Italian Premier Mario Draghi is demanding that Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as the Russian authorities and the Russian army answer for their actions in Ukraine, including the documented massacre of civilians in Bucha, Irpin and other Ukrainian towns.
The International Organization for Migration, in its first such full assessment in three weeks, reported Tuesday that more than 7.1 million had been displaced within Ukraine as of April 1. That comes on top of the figure of more than 4 million who have fled abroad, reported by the UN refugee agency.
The ministry's undersecretary Mart Volmer said "there can be no talk of business as usual" with Moscow following allegations of atrocities against civilians in Ukrainian cities by Russian forces.
MOSCOW -- Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov says the expulsions of Russian diplomats by European countries will prompt a response from Moscow and will complicate international relations.
In his first news conference back on Earth, Vande Hei said Tuesday that he did not shy away from the topic with his Russian crewmates while aboard the space station. They weren't very long discussions, but I did ask them how they were feeling and sometimes I asked pointed questions. But our focus really was on our mission together.
BRUSSELS -- Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Union's executive Commission, will travel to Kyiv this week to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Vereshchuk said that, after negotiations, the Red Cross representatives "were released at night and sent to Zaporizhzhia."
HELSINKI -- Estonia and Latvia will close Russia's consular missions in two cities each and expel a total of 27 Russian diplomats and employees currently stationed in the Baltic countries.
The ministry said the ship was flying the flag of the Dominican Republic and posted a picture of a cargo vessel. It didn't specify how many people were on board or the nationalities of the crew members.
In a speech Tuesday in Turin, Italy, Draghi said the atrocities committed in those and other Ukrainian towns shake deep down the souls of people who are democratic.
He said the full list of who is to be expelled is being finalized and may amount to more than 25 people.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
LJUBLJANA, Slovenia - Slovenia is reducing the Russian mission in the country and expelling some Russian diplomats.
LVIV, Ukraine - A regional official in western Ukraine says a Russian missile hit fertilizer tanks, polluting ground water.
In order to preserve his relationship with Vladimir Putin, Bennett has been measured in his criticism of the Russian president. Instead, he has allowed Foreign Minister Yair Lapid to voice harsher condemnations.
Slovenia's foreign ministry also has conveyed to the Russian ambassador thestrongest protest and dismay over the killing of civilians in Bucha and other towns in Ukraine.
