Live updates Ukrainian paramedic remembered for bravery
20220305
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/live-updates-ukraine-exodus-reaches-1-45-million-un-agency-says-1.5806975
She was always "running to the most dangerous places" to rescue to the injured, Nataliia Voronkova said.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukrainian forces were holding key cities in the central and southeastern part of the country Saturday, while the Russians were trying to block and keep encircled Kharkiv, Mykolaiv, Chernihiv and Sumy.
JERUSALEM -- Israel's prime minister met with Russian President Vladimir Putin for several hours in Moscow on Saturday.
The rights office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has confirmed. It said Saturday it believes the real figures are considerably higher, "especially in government-controlled territory and especially in recent days," as the receipt of information from some places where there was intense fighting was delayed and many reports were still undergoing corroboration.
WASHINGTON -- Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky urged U.S. lawmakers to sanction Russia's oil and gas sector and suspend credit card access, and backed an idea to ban Russian oil imports to the U.S. that's been gaining support in Congress.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
"I will do all I can to help the administration to facilitate their transfer," Schumer said.
ARD and ZDF said in a statement that they are examining the consequences of the new legislation and suspending reporting from the Moscow studios for now.
Zelensky also asked them to suspend access to Visa and Mastercard credit cards in Russia, according to another person granted anonymity to discuss the call.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. State Department has updated an earlier travel advisory and is now recommending that U.S. citizens leave Russia immediately.
"This is horrible," Zelensky said. "Guys 18, 20 years old ... soldiers who weren't even explained what they were going to fight for."
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
The city of Chernihiv, located north of Kyiv and with a population of 290,000, has come under heavy fire from Russian forces. Officials said 17 people in the region were killed in the shelling.
The measure was signed into law by President Vladimir Putin on Friday and already prompted some foreign media including the BBC and Bloomberg to say they were suspending operations within Russia.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
Zelensky told senators he needs planes and drones more than other security tools, according to a senior Senate aide granted anonymity to discuss the private meeting.
Others brought signs decrying Russian President Vladimir Putin or calling for a no-fly zone to be imposed over Ukraine.
Pushych used to be a well-paid worker at a transport and logistic company. But in 2016, she joined the army as a paramedic in response to the separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
It cited a high risk of foreign-leased planes being impounded as part of Western sanctions that ban leasing of planes to Russia.
Technical safety systems are intact and radiation levels are still normal at the Zaporizhzhia plant, according to the country's nuclear regulator, the International Atomic Energy Agency said Saturday.
An order from Ukraine's government prohibited men between the ages of 18 and 60 from leaving the country to keep them available for military conscription.
NATO has said a no-fly zone, which would bar all unauthorized aircraft from flying over Ukraine, could provoke widespread war in Europe with nuclear-armed Russia.
"We have some issues with supplies, not enough analgesics," Dubrov said. "We've worked more than a week without a break."
Ukraine's embassy in Cairo has said there were about 20,000 Ukrainian tourists in Egypt, a touristic hub for tourists from eastern Europe and Russia.
WASHINGTON -- A Russian airliner has received an exception to the U.S. airspace ban in order to return Russian diplomats expelled from the U.S to Russia.
The passing of the law comes amid a broader crackdown on media outlets and social media in Russia.
Russia has made significant advances in the south, clearly seeking to cut off Ukraine's access to the sea. Capturing Mariupol, which has been fending off the attack for six days, could allow Russia to build a land corridor to Crimea, which it annexed in 2014.
Blinken says the world is watching to see which nations stand up for the principles of freedom and sovereignty.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro, Michael Balsamo and Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington contributed to this report.
Volodymyr Zelensky said the third plant currently under threat is the Yuzhnoukrainsk nuclear power plant, located 120 kilometres 75 miles north of Mykolaiv, one of several cities the Russians were trying to keep encircled Saturday.
Wang called for negotiations to resolve the immediate crisis, as well as talks on creating a balanced European security mechanism. Wang says the U.S. and Europe should pay attention to the negative impact of NATO's eastward expansion on Russia's security.
Zelensky indicated he was 100 on board with banning Russian oil to the U.S. and told the senators it would be very helpful, the people said.
LONDON -- Ukraine's foreign minister on Saturday criticized Shell for continuing to buy Russian oil, lashing out at the energy giant for continuing to do business with Vladimir Putin's regime after the company announced it was exiting investments in Russia.
WASHINGTON -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made a "desperate plea" to U.S. senators on Saturday to send more planes to help the country fight the Russian invasion.
NEW YORK -- Russian President Vladimir Putin says there is nothing that warrants imposing martial law in Russia at this point.
One of the plants under the Russians' control is the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant in the southeastern city of Enerhodar, the biggest nuclear power plant in Europe. The other is Chernobyl, which is not active but is still staffed and maintained. Previous Russian shelling sparked a fire at the Zaporizhzhia plant that was extinguished without a release of radiation.
There was no immediate indication whether the U.S. government will approve the proposed export of the ammunition, which has a retail of about $700,000, Phoenix television station KSAZ-TV reported.
At the cemetery, red roses were placed on Pushych's body. After she was buried, the dirt was covered with the flag of Ukraine.
Zelensky made the request on a call joined by more than 300 people, including senators, some House lawmakers and aides.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Guterres relayed the promise to Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba in a phone call on Saturday, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said.
Schumer told Zelensky the U.S. lawmakers are inspired by him and by the strength and courage of the Ukrainian people, according to another person on the call who was granted anonymity to discuss it.
The claim could not be independently verified. The Russian military doesn't offer regular updates on their casualties. On Wednesday, military officials revealed a death toll of 498.
NEW YORK -- Aeroflot, Russia's flagship carrier, has announced that it will halt all international flights except to Belarus starting March 8.
"We know why we are here. We know why we defend our country. And our guys that are actually standing there and fighting Russian military forces," he told Britain's Sky News. "We know what we are doing and that's why we will win."
KYIV, Ukraine -- A Ukrainian paramedic who was shot while on her way to evacuate injured people from the outskirts of Kyiv was buried in the country's capital on Saturday.
In the city of Irpin, near Kyiv, a sea of people on foot and in wheelbarrows trudged over the remains of a destroyed bridge to cross a river and evacuate.
NEW YORK -- Mastercard and Visa are suspending their operations in Russia, the companies said Saturday,
CAIRO -- Egypt says it has transferred to Europe about 4,000 Ukrainian tourists who were stranded in the Middle Eastern nation after Russia invaded their country.
Zelensky said on Twitter the two presidents discussed security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.
NEW YORK -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres says the United Nations is committed to scaling up its humanitarian operations to help both those who have stayed in Ukraine and the more than 1 million who have fled.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
Monday's will be the third round of talks as the two sides try to negotiate a cease-fire and safe passage corridors for civilians.
Rosaviatsiya's recommendation doesn't apply to Russian airlines that use Russian planes or foreign planes that aren't at risk of being impounded. Aeroflot's statement Saturday cited "circumstances that hinder operating flights" as a reason for its move.
Bennett's office said he departed early Saturday morning for Moscow, accompanied by Russian-speaking Cabinet minister Zeev Elkin, who was born in Ukraine. Both men are observant Jews and wouldn't normally travel on the Sabbath.
Shell on Saturday said it has already stopped "most activities involving Russian oil," although it continues to buy some products from Russia to supply the needs of its refineries and chemical plants. These purchases are necessary to ensure fuel supplies for customers, Shell said.
The suspensions are a follow-up to more limited moves earlier in the week to block financial institutions from the networks that serve as arteries for the payments system. Russian people have already been hit hard by heavy sanctions and financial penalties imposed by the U.S. government and others.
Kuleba also said in a video message released by the Ukrainian government that the Russians had lost dozens of aircraft and hundreds of armored vehicles.
KYIV, Ukraine -- The next round of talks between Ukraine and Russia will be held on Monday, Ukrainian official Davyd Arakhamia said Saturday.
Kniaziev's letter of appeal was received Saturday by Malgorzata Manowska, the president of the Supreme Court in Poland, which borders Ukraine.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
Several women, including some dressed in camouflage jackets, cried as her body lay in a casket at a service. A portrait of Pushych was on a wall nearby.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina, said Zelensky emphasized during a private call Saturday with the U.S. lawmakers that the energy sector needs to be sanctioned.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
Dr. Evgeniy said the hospital had no power or heat. Patients were lined up in beds along the corridors, and some people were curled up on the floor to protect themselves.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
"Usually this weapon is used against military-industrial facilities and fortified structures," said Chaus, head of the same-named region of Chernihiv. "But in Chernihiv, against residential areas."
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko on Saturday showed off a shipment of the Starlink systems that had arrived in the capital city. He said Starlink would help secure the work of critical infrastructure and the defence of the city.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
The UN Security Council will hold a meeting Monday afternoon on the escalating humanitarian needs that have arisen since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
TIRANA, Albania -- Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama said he spoke by phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday to express his country's support.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
The notice offers this guidance: "If you wish to depart Russia, you should make arrangements on your own as soon as possible. If you plan to stay in Russia, understand the U.S. Embassy has severe limitations on its ability to assist U.S. citizens, and conditions, including transportation options, may change suddenly."
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
As we ramp up our efforts, it is essential that the safety and security of UN and associated personnel in Ukraine are protected, in accordance with international law, and that humanitarian access to vulnerable people and communities is guaranteed.
"Russians keep bearing devastating losses on the ground, and I cannot understand how mothers, wives and daughters of these Russian soldiers bear this pain, seeing how President Putin sends more and more of their beloved ones to Ukraine," Kuleba said.
Assisted by Ukrainian soldiers, they lugged pets, infants, purses and flimsy bags stuffed with minimal possessions. Some of the weak and elderly were carried along the path in blankets and carts.
Albania has joined the European Union in imposing hard-hitting sanctions against Russia's top officials and institutions.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
During the call, Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia asked Zelensky about the idea of banning Russian oil to the U.S., according to two people granted anonymity to discuss the private call.
CEO Fred Wagenhals of AMMO Inc. on Friday said it was his response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's appeal for international assistance.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Crowds of men have been lining up in Kyiv to join the Ukrainian army.
Are you in Ukraine? Do you have family in Ukraine? Are you or your family affected? Emaildotcombellmedia.ca.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Russian forces have intensified shelling in the port city of Mariupol, including with the use of airplanes, the mayor said Saturday night.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Russian forces have now seized two Ukrainian nuclear power plants and are advancing toward a third, Ukraine's president said during a call with U.S. senators Saturday.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
PHOENIX -- An Arizona-based ammunition company is offering to donate 1 million bullets to Ukraine's military amid Russia's invasion of its European neighbor.
BERLIN -- The UN human rights office says it has confirmed the deaths of 351 civilians in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began.
Israel is one of the few countries that has good working relations with both sides. The country has delivered humanitarian aid to Ukraine, but also maintains ties with Moscow to make sure that Israeli and Russian warplanes do not come into conflict in neighboring Syria.
Kuleba added, "Ukraine is bleeding but Ukraine has not fallen and stands with both feet on the ground."
The Ilyushin Il-62 is flying from St. Petersburg to Washington Dulles International Airport outside the U.S. Capitol. A U.S. government official confirmed it had been granted a waiver from the airspace restriction put in place in retaliation for Russia's invasion of Ukraine in order to retrieve the Russian diplomats.
Rai's measure, effective Saturday, follows similar moves by some other foreign media. Rai said the measure is necessary to "safeguard the safety of its journalists in the place as well as the maximum freedom of information about the country."
The U.S. Congress also is working on a $10 billion package of military and humanitarian aide, and Schumer told Zelensky that lawmakers hope to send it quickly to Ukraine, the person said.
A video released Saturday by the Ukrainian government showed people cheering as they watched a Russian military plane fall from the sky and crash.
Dmytro Kuleba said he had been told Shell "discreetly" bought the oil on Friday. He appealed to the public to pressure the company and other international firms to halt such purchases in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
NEW YORK -- Russian President Vladimir Putin says Moscow would consider any third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as "participation in the armed conflict."
Mastercard said cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by its network and any card issued outside the country will not work at Russian stores or ATMs in the latest blow to the country's financial system after its invasion of Ukraine.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
"That very second, we will view them as participants of the military conflict, and it would not matter what members they are," the Russian president said.
Visa said it's working with clients and partners in Russia to cease all Visa transactions over the coming days.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
"I'm grateful to him for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds" Zelensky said in a tweet. "Next week we will receive another batch of Starlink systems for destroyed cities." He joked that they discussed possible space projects, which he would talk about "after the war."
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett's office confirmed the meeting at the Kremlin, which came just days after Bennett spoke over the phone with both Russian and Ukrainian leaders.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
"We're inflicting losses on the occupants they could not see in their worst nightmare," Zelensky said. He alleged that 10,000 Russian troops were killed in the 10 days of the war, a claim that could not be independently verified. The Russian military doesn't offer regular updates on their casualties. Only once, on Wednesday, they revealed a death toll of nearly 500.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Several large Ukrainian cities remained without internet or phone connection after being shelled by Russian troops.
A soldier, Svyatoslav Borodin, said a blast blurred his vision, and he thought he might have lost his legs. Another soldier applied a tourniquet.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Saturday echoed the president's assertion that Russia has lost more than 10,000 troops.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
"It is a situation that no Ukrainian and no Romanian wanted, but we are very determined to deal with it here in Romania, as it should be," Iohannis said.
The move by Russia's biggest state-owned airline comes after the country's aviation agency, Rosaviatsiya, recommended that all Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes halt both passenger and cargo flights abroad.
The U.S. expelled 12 Russians at its mission to the United Nations accusing them of being intelligence operatives.
Putin said that "martial law is imposed in a country ... in the event of external aggression, including in specific areas of hostilities. But we don't have such a situation, and I hope we won't."
Valentyna Pushych was known locally as "Romashka," which means "Daisy." A friend described her as a "daredevil," who was never afraid to "get under bullets.'
WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Joe Biden has called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to discuss ongoing efforts to impose economic costs on Russia and to speed U.S. military, humanitarian and economic assistance to Ukraine.
The meeting ended after about three hours, according to an Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The official said the meeting was coordinated with the U.S., Germany and France and that Bennett "is in ongoing dialogue with Ukraine."
China has broken with the U.S., Europe and others that have imposed sanctions on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine. China says that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations should be respected, but that sanctions create new issues and disrupt the process of political settlement.
Ten days into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, 1.45 million people have fled the battered country, according to the UN-affiliated Organization for Migration in Geneva. The UN has predicted that the total number of refugees could swell to 4 million, to become the biggest such crisis this century.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
The Geneva-based office said that another 707 civilians were injured between Feb. 24 and midnight Friday.
NEW YORK -- Hundreds of people rallied in New York City's Times Square on Saturday to show solidarity with Ukraine.
Speaking at a meeting with female pilots on Saturday, Putin said Russia would view "any move in this direction" as an intervention that "will pose a threat to our service members."
Boychenko said that thousands of children, women and the elderly came under fire as they arrived in the morning for a possible evacuation through a safe passage corridor. Russia promised to stop the shelling of Mariupol, a port city of 430,000, and Volnovakha, a city in the east, but violated the cease-fire.
Another Russian airline, low-cost carrier Pobeda, said Saturday that also would halt all international flights starting March 8.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky thanked SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk for giving Ukraine access to his company's satellite-internet system, called Starlink.
"The city is in a very, very difficult state of siege," Vadym Boychenko told Ukrainian TV. "Relentless shelling of residential blocks is ongoing, airplanes have been dropping bombs on residential areas."
Ukraine's top court president, Vsevolod Kniaziev, said the Supreme Court of Russia should be excluded from the Conference of Chief Justices of Central  Eastern Europe "as it represents a country that brought terror, death and crimes against humanity in Ukraine."
The White House said the pair also discussed talks between Russia and Ukraine during the more than 30-minute call early Sunday in Ukraine, but offered no additional details.
BEIJING -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that China opposes any moves that "add fuel to the flames" in Ukraine.
CHERNIHIV, Ukraine -- Russia has dropped powerful bombs on residential areas of the city of Chernihiv, a regional official said Saturday.
Albanian Foreign Minister Olta Xhacka, meanwhile, vehemently shot down Russian President Vladimir Putin's assertsions that Albanian mercenaries are operating in Ukraine, calling it "a lie that Moscow keeps repeating shamelessly!"
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said in a statement that Zelensky made a "desperate plea for Eastern European countries to provide Russian-made planes to Ukraine."
Putin's comment on Saturday followed days of speculation that the introduction of martial law could be imminent.
Dujarric said the two also discussed the conditions for safely evacuating civilians, including foreigners, from combat zones.
WARSAW, Poland -- The head of Ukraine's Supreme Court has appealed for Russia's top court to be excluded from a body of Central and Eastern Europe's chief justices because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
Earlier this week, Shell said it was "shocked by the loss of life in Ukraine" and would end its joint ventures with Gazprom, the massive oil and gas company that is controlled by the Russian government.
Russia on Friday passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has pushed NATO to impose a no-fly zone over his country, warning that "all the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you."
About 140,000 people of Ukrainian descent live in New York, making it the largest Ukrainian population in the U.S., according to population data from the federal government.
Arakhamia is head of the parliamentary faction of President Volodymyr Zelensky's Servant of the People party and a member of Ukraine's delegation at the talks.
The tourists were brought to countries neighboring Ukraine on free flights operated by state-run airliners, and more flights are scheduled in the coming days, government spokesman Nader Saad said Saturday. He did not elaborate.
Vyacheslav Chaus posted a photo of what he said was an undetonated FAB-500, a Soviet-designed 500-kilogram 1,100-pound air-dropped bomb.
"Anything that could hurt the Russian economy will help the Ukrainian people and may make this war more difficult" for Russian President Vladimir Putin, Graham said in a video.
The U.S. State Department says Blinken underscored that the world is acting in unison in response to Russian aggression and ensuring that Moscow will pay a high price.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine -- Doctors relied on light filtering in through windows and emitted from cellphones to tend to wounded Ukrainian soldiers Saturday at a hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, where a promised cease-fire collapsed.
I spoke with PRC State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi about Moscows unjustified ongoing attack against Ukraine. The world is watching to see which nations stand up for the basic principles of sovereignty, as Moscow pays a high price for its unconscionable actions.
Talked to elonmusk. Im grateful to him for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds. Next week we will receive another batch of Starlink systems for destroyed cities. Discussed possible space projects . But Ill talk about this after the war.
The department already has advised Americans not to travel to Russia. That warning cites "the unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces in Ukraine" and "the potential for harassment against U.S. citizens by Russian government security officials," among other things.
Following Russia's invasion and the closure of Ukrainian airspace, the Egyptian government has allowed Ukrainian tourists to extend their stay for free in hotels and resorts, Saad said.
"I've got no illusions. I've got no romantic ideas of war or like 'I'm going to be some hero' or make a difference ... but it is what I do," Ayres said.
Many attendees were waving Ukrainian flags or draped the flag around their shoulders at the afternoon demonstration.
BERLIN -- German public broadcasters ARD and ZDF say they are suspending reporting from their Moscow studios after Russia passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
SIRET, Romania -- Romanian President Klaus Iohannis visited a refugee camp in Siret on Saturday and declared that no Ukrainian would be denied entry to his country.
