Live updates Zelenskyy says train station strike was a war crime
20220408
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/live-updates-russia-acknowledges-significant-troop-losses-1.5853642
The State Security Service said Friday they include people who "may be involved in obtaining intelligence or providing support for Russia's foreign policy interests." It says among them are those who despite the crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine express support for the Kremlin.
Writing on social media platforms, Zelenskyy said thousands of people were present in the station at the time of the strike. The head of the Ukrainian railway service, Olexander Kamyshin, made similar comments about the strike.
At least 50 people were killed in the attack and about 4,000 civilians were in and around the station at the time of the strike, according to the office of Ukraine's prosecutor-general said. Most were women and children heeding calls to leave the area before Russia is anticipated to launch a full-scale offensive in the country's east.
KYIV, Ukraine - Ukrainian prosecutors say a war crimes investigation has begun after one utilities worker was killed and two injured by a mine that retreating Russian forces left behind.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
He praised the United States for supporting international health efforts in Ukraine, including the delivery of more 180 metric tons of medical supplies to hard-hit areas. "We are outraged that attacks on health care in Ukraine continue," he said.
Bronk told the Associated Press that the strike was entirely in line with how Russian forces operate by terrorizing civilians to try and increase pressure on the Ukrainian government to agree a cease fire. He added this would allow them to consolidate their gains and try and stabilize their military position, which is not great.
LVIV, Ukraine -- The governor of Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region says the death toll from a missile strike on a rail station in the eastern town of Kramatorsk has risen to 50, including five children.
Zelenskyy mentioned S-300s by name when he spoke to U.S. lawmakers by video last month, appealing for defence systems that would allow Ukraine to "close the skies" to Russian warplanes and missiles.
Russian forces sought to enter Kyiv in the days after its Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine but despite severe losses and damage, the city withstood the attacks and the government was able to continue functioning from there.
According to Kushneruk, prompt American help will save civilian lives and he pleaded for people not to look away even as the war drags on.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
LONDON - A military expert has rejected Russia's effort to deny responsibility for the missile strike on a Ukrainian railway station, saying the denial follows a standard formula the Kremlin uses to muddy the waters after attacks on civilian targets.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
KYIV, Ukraine -- The regional governor of Ukraine's Sumy region that borders Russia is urging local residents to avoid using forest roads, walking on roadsides, or approaching destroyed military equipment after Russian troops pulled out of the region.
Speaking Friday at a news conference with Germany Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Johnson said he would give Ukraine's military more Starstreak anti-aircraft missiles, another 800 anti-tank missiles, and precision munitions capable of lingering in the sky until directed to their target.
He adds that the three want to help Ukraine on its path toward closer ties with the EU by "creating a ReformTeam." Ukraine has applied to join the EU, but was already sorely in need of reforms, notably to root out rampant corruption, years before Russian troops invaded in February.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
The amendment to the sanctions makes it possible to grant an exceptional permit for transports between museums. Finland's customs agency said the Foreign Ministry can grant a permit enabling the release of works of art.
BRUSSELS -- The European Union has returned its ambassador to Ukraine to the capital, Kyiv, in a move that underscores the improved security situation there and the 27-nation bloc's commitment to the beleaguered country.
CANBERRA, Australia -- The first of 20 Bushmaster armoured vehicles has left Australia for Ukraine, one week after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy specifically requested the Australian-manufactured four-wheel drives.
A list of nine Russians and six Belarus citizens was given by Latvia's State Security Service -- the counterintelligence agency -- to Interior Minister Marija Golubeva.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
The Rome-based agency says the war in Ukraine was largely responsible for the 17.1 rise in prices for cereals, including wheat and all coarse grains. Russia and Ukraine together account for around 30 and 20 respectively of global wheat and maize exports.
Friday's announcement came shortly after Slovakia donated its Soviet-era S-300 air defence system to Ukraine at its request. Nad previously said his country was willing to provide its S-300 long-range air defence missile system to Ukraine on condition it has a proper replacement.
The United States and Ukraine have called Russia's alleged rights violations tantamount to war crimes.
Zonneveld said the company was interested in putting an end to the conflict in this European country as soon as possible.
Slovakia previously said it was willing to give its S-300 to Ukraine on condition that it has a proper replacement.
The diplomats were picked up Friday by a Russian government plane that had received special permission to land at Berlin's Schoenefeld Airport despite a ban on flights from Russia in the European Union.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has said such actions endanger civil aviation and lives of passengers.
A Boeing C-17 Globemaster transport jet that can carry four Bushmasters left the east coast city of Brisbane for Europe on Friday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
"Once swiftly approved this will bring to 1.5 billion the EU support already provided for military equipment for Ukraine," Michel said in a message posted on Twitter in which he thanked EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell.
FAO said the index came in at 159.3 points last month, up 12.6 from February's all-time high since the index was created in 1990.
Albania's government has lined up with European Union sanctions and expressed support for U.S. initiatives against Russia at the UN Security Council, where Albania currently holds a seat.
The move blocks their access to the U.S. financial system as the United States looks to exact more economic pain on President Vladimir Putin for the invasion of Ukraine.
BRUSSELS -- European Council president Charles Michel says the bloc's top diplomat has proposed adding an additional 500 million euros US$544 million to Ukraine under the "European Peace Facility," the fund which has been used for the first time during the war to deliver defensive lethal weapons to a third country.
The statement stood out because Russian companies have generally remained silent about the war amid rigorous suppression of opposition by Russian authorities and state-controlled media narratives.
LVIV, Ukraine - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced the missile strike on an eastern train station as another Russian war crime and said Ukraine expects a tough global response.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian officials are raising the death toll from a missile strike on a packed train station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, as local hospitals buckled under an influx of injured victims.
Earlier Friday, Japan's Foreign Ministry announced it was expelling eight Russian diplomats and trade officials, joining similar moves in European countries.
Borrell said the ambassador's return would help ensure that the EU and Ukraine's government can work together more directly and closely.
Ukrainian officials have repeatedly warned of the dangers of mines and explosive traps left by Russian forces in formerly occupied areas.
WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden's chief spokesperson on Friday called the Russian missile attack on a train station in eastern Ukraine "another horrific atrocity" by Russian forces but stopped short of calling the action a war crime.
It says Western nations have collectively frozen 275 billion pounds US$360 billion, amounting to 60 of Russian foreign currency reserves.
Ukrainian officials have said as many as 4,000 people were at the station, where trains were evacuating civilians westward from the Ukraine-held town ahead of an expected Russian offensive.
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and other Ukrainian leaders have accused Russia's military of deliberately targeting a location where only civilians were assembled. Russia's Defence Ministry denied any Russian role in the attack.
LONDON -- Britain has added two adult daughters of Russian President Vladimir Putin to its sanctions list, following similar moves by the U.S. and the European Union.
BRUSSELS -- Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger and two top European Union officials are in Kyiv looking to shore up the bloc's support for war-torn Ukraine.
WASHINGTON -- A senior U.S. defence official says the Pentagon has determined that some of the Russian combat units that retreated from the Kyiv area in recent days are so heavily damaged and depleted that their combat utility is in question.
The EU has previously agreed to spend 1 billion euros $1.1 billion on military supplies for Ukrainian forces in an unprecedented step of collectively supplying weapons to a country under attack.
The IEA agreed last Friday to add to the amount of oil hitting the global market. It comes on top of the 62.7 million barrels that the agency's members said they would release last month to ease shortages.
WASHINGTON -- The Biden administration on Thursday announced it is levying sanctions against Russia's largest military shipbuilding and diamond mining companies.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia -- Prime Minister Eduard Heger says Slovakia has donated its Soviet-era S-300 air defence system to Ukraine.
He also said "it is much scarier" there, with even more victims of the Russian troops.
The Paris-based organization said Thursday that the new commitments made by its 31 member nations, which include the United States and much of Europe, amount to a total of 120 million barrels over six months. It's the largest release in the group's history.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
The rate increase shows how the central bank has managed to stabilize key aspects of the economy with severe controls, artificially propping up the ruble to allow it to rebound to levels seen before the invasion of Ukraine -- even as the West piles on more sanctions.
TOKYO -- Japan is expelling eight Russian diplomats and trade officials and will phase out imports of Russian coal and oil.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia - Slovakia's Defence Minister Jaroslav Nad says the United States will deploy a Patriot air defence system in his country next week.
"There are soldiers talking with their parents about what they stole and who they abducted. There are recordings of prisoners of war who admitted killing people," Zelenskyy said in an excerpt of an interview with CBS' "60 Minutes" that aired Friday.
Serbian officials said that on Wednesday a NATO jet flew close to an Air Serbia flight from Moscow to the Serbian capital, Belgrade, near the Latvian border.
It is energy exports that provide the lion's share of Russia's income and allow the Russian leadership to believe in their impunity, Zelenskyy said. That allows them to hope that the world will ignore the war crimes committed by the Russian army.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
Zelenskyy thanked the European Union for its commitment to help investigate Russian war crimes. He said he spoke with EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen Friday and urged the EU to impose a full embargo on Russian oil and gas.
The president told Ukrainians that great efforts would be taken to establish every minute of who did what, who gave what orders, where the missile came from, who transported it, who gave the command and how this strike was agreed, so that those behind the attack would be held responsible.
Besides Turkish carriers, Air Serbia remains the only European airline to maintain its regular flights to Russia after an international flight ban was imposed.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
BRUSSELS -- The European Union imposed has sanctions on two adult daughters of Russian President Vladimir Putin as part of a new package of measures targeting Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, according to two EU officials.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Alrosa is the world's largest diamond mining company and accounts for about 90 of Russia's diamond mining capacity, according to the U.S. Treasury Department.
EU countries and NATO have so far excluded the option of a direct military intervention in Ukraine.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
Kushneruk said Ukraine needs planes, anti-aircraft systems, heavy artillery, tanks, rockets systems and long-range missiles that can target Russian ships in the Black Sea.
In a statement, Biden said the images out of Bucha and other areas of Ukraine as Russian troops withdraw are "horrifying" and "an outrage to our common humanity."
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
The moves against the two-state owned companies come a day after the U.S. announced it was targeting the two adult daughters of President Vladimir Putin, two of Russia's largest banks and banning new American investment in Russia.
Western diplomats and the city's mayor joined Ukraine's ambassador in a procession from Tirana's main Skanderbeg Square to the Ukrainian embassy.
The prosecutor general's office is investigating the deaths, and other mass casualties involving civilians, as possible war crimes. Venediktova said the European Union is involved in the investigation and we are coordinating our actions.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
WASHINGTON -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his country's security service has intercepted communications of Russian troops that provide evidence of war crimes.
Zelenskyy said "everyone who made a decision, who issued an order, who fulfilled an order" is guilty of a war crime. Asked whether he held Russian President Vladimir Putin responsible, he said: "I do believe that he's one of them."
TIRANA, Albania -- Thousands of demonstrators waving Ukrainian flags and chanting support for Ukraine have marched through Albania's capital.
Margarita Robles said Friday that killings and alleged torture of civilians in the town of Bucha were "the tip of the iceberg" when it comes to atrocities committed since Russian forces invaded Ukraine.
Part of that, Heger says is "to offer options for transporting grains, including wheat." Ukraine is a major world wheat supplier and Russia's war on Ukraine is creating shortages, notably in the Middle East.
It says Russian shelling of cities in the east and south continues and Russian forces have advanced farther south from the strategically important city of Izium, which remains under their control.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, bottom, looks on as Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks via video call during a news conference in Moscow, Russia, on Dec. 17, 2020. Alexander Zemlianichenko  AP
The World Health Organization has verified more than 100 "attacks on health care" in Ukraine since the country was first invaded more than a month ago, the organization's top official said Thursday.
Zelenskyy lashed out at Russian forces, saying they were "cynically destroying the civilian population" and called it "an evil without limits."
Heger said in a tweet Friday that he, EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief have come with trade and humanitarian aid proposals for President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his government.
In a message apparently directed to local residents, Zhyvytskyy said any explosions in the area in the short term were likely to be sounds of rescuers and mine-clearing specialists at work deactivating the ammunition and other explosives.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
Half of that will come from the U.S. as part of the larger release from its strategic petroleum reserve that President Joe Biden announced last week.
Serbia has voted in favor of UN resolutions condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine but has refused to join international sanctions against its ally Moscow.
Youths held aloft a 30-metre 100-foot long blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flag and anti-war posters. Some sought to liken Russian President Vladimir Putin to the late Serb ex-authoritarian leader Slobodan Milosevic, a reviled figure in Albania.
The government said Friday it is imposing asset freezes and travel bans on Putin's daughters Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova, as well as Yekaterina Vinokurova, daughter of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- Latvia says it has blacklisted 15 citizens of Russia and Belarus on grounds that their activities pose a threat to the nation's national security.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -- A shipment of valuable art destined for Russian museums that was seized on the Finnish-Russian border can be released under an amendment to sanctions that went into effect on Friday, Finnish customs officials said.
Kramatorsk is a city in part of the Donetsk region that is controlled by the Ukrainian government, and its railway station was being used to evacuate civilians.
PHOENIX -- A Ukrainian diplomat pleaded for the United States to send weapons to his beleaguered nation in a speech to the Arizona Legislature on Thursday.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said Friday that 18 bodies had been located so far, 16 with bullet wounds and two with bullet and shrapnel wounds. Two were women and the rest were men, she said.
Kushneruk said it's a "war for the soul of humanity" and time is of the essence as Russia regroups for an expected offensive on the Donbas region of Eastern Ukraine.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
The vehicles are in addition to $116 million in Australian dollars $87 million in U.S. dollars in military and humanitarian aid previously committed to Ukraine.
Alrosa generated over $4.2 billion in revenue in 2021. Diamonds are one of Russia's top 10 non-energy exports by value.
The ban on coal imports will be the first EU sanctions targeting Russia's lucrative energy industry over its war in Ukraine, said an official on condition of anonymity because the official announcement had not yet been made.
Russian-backed separatists control part of the Donestsk region, but Kramatorsk remains under Ukrainian government control.
The EU included Maria Vorontsova and Katerina Tikhonova in its updated list of individuals facing assets freeze and travel bans. The two EU officials from different EU member countries spoke on condition of anonymity to The Associated Press because the updated list of sanctions has not been published yet.
Germany's top security official had said earlier this week that the diplomats were chosen because they were linked to Russian intelligence agencies.
He also said that it further demonstrates how Russian President Vladimir Putin's war "has made Russia an international pariah."
Earlier this month, Latvia said it will close two Russia's consular missions and expel a total of 13 Russian diplomats and employees currently stationed in the Baltic country.
Meanwhile, Bucha Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk said Thursday on Ukrainian television that investigators have found at least three sites of mass shootings of civilians during the Russian occupation.
They were seized at the Vaalimaa border crossing on April 1-2 under European Union sanctions imposed on Russia due to the invasion of Ukraine.
LONDON - U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged another 100 million pounds US$130 million in high grade military equipment to Ukraine, saying Britain wants to help Ukraine defend itself.
"There are pilots in prison who had maps with civilian targets to bomb. There are also investigations being conducted based on the remains of the dead," he said in a translation provided by CBS.
BELGRADE, Serbia - Serbia is seeking explanations from NATO on why its jets have allegedly shadowed Serbian passenger planes flying back from Russia.
BRUSSELS -- European Union nations have approved new sanctions against Russia, including an EU embargo on coal imports in the wake of evidence of torture and killings emerging from war zones outside Kyiv.
The UN General Assembly voted Thursday to suspend Russia from the UN's leading human rights body over allegations of horrific rights violations by Russian soldiers in Ukraine.
The artwork and artifacts -- which were returning to Russia from Italy and Japan, where they were on loan -- have a total insured value of around 42 million euros US$46 million.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Thursday night that work has begun to dig through the rubble in Borodianka, another city northwest of Kyiv that was occupied by the Russians.
Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote on social media that 38 people had died at the scene, and another 12 in hospital.
What's happening in Ukraine on Thursday and how are countries around the world responding? Read live updates on Vladimir Putin and Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The official says that the U.S. believes Russia has lost 15 to 20 percent of the combat power it had assembled along Ukraine's borders before launching its invasion Feb. 24.
The comments from Heger came as he was visiting the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv with top EU officials ahead of a planned meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday.
The office of Ukraine's prosecutor-general said about 4,000 civilians were in and around the station, most of them women and children. The Ukrainian government has been urging to leave the area before an expected new offensive by Russian forces.
Peskov said: "Yes, we have significant losses of troops and it is a huge tragedy for us."
At least 103 attacks on hospitals and other health-care facilities in the country, and at least 73 were killed and 51 injured in those incidents, said WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, speaking at a news conference in Washington, D.C.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
In a daily update, the ministry says that many of these forces will require significant replenishment before being ready to deploy farther east, with any mass redeployment from the north likely to take at least a week minimum.
The official described these units as "for all intents and purposes eradicated," with only a small number of functioning troops and weapons remaining. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal U.S. military assessments, did not say how many units sustained such extensive damage.
Additionally, Germany and the Netherlands have agreed to send troops armed with Patriot missiles to Slovakia as part of 2,100-strong force made up of soldiers from several NATO members states, including the US. The force will form a battlegroup on Slovak territory to boost NATO defences on the alliance's eastern flank.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
He said Japan will also ban imports of Russian lumber, vodka and other goods, and will prohibit new Japanese investment in Russia. It will also step up sanctions against Russian banks and freeze assets of about 400 more individuals and groups.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
The pledge of new weaponry came as Johnson condemned the attack on train station in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk earlier Friday. Women and children gathering on a train platform perished in the blast.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Kramatorsk mayor Oleksandr Goncharenko told Ukrainian TV that between 30 and 40 surgeons were treating the wounded, and hospitals were unable to cope with the surge in admissions.
ROME -- The United Nations says prices for world food commodities like grains and vegetable oils reached their highest levels ever last month due to fallout from the war in Ukraine.
Psaki added that "the targeting of civilians would certainly be a war crime" and that the U.S. would support "efforts to investigate exactly what happened."
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
The official said some combat units that withdrew from the Kyiv area are beginning to move toward the Russian towns of Belgorod and Valuyki for refitting and resupplying before likely deploying to the Donbas region of Ukraine. The official also said the U.S. has seen thousands of additional Russian troops added to the combat force that Moscow has been using in and around the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv.
Robles told Antena 3 that an expected Russian offensive in the eastern Donbas region -- where pro-Russian separatists have been fighting Ukrainian government forces since 2014 -- will likely bring more horror.
BUCHA, Ukraine - The Ukrainian prosecutor general's office says approximately 67 bodies were buried in a mass grave near a church in Bucha, a northern Kyiv suburb where journalists and returning Ukrainians discovered scores of bodies on streets and elsewhere after Russian troops withdrew.
LONDON -- Russia's central bank says it's lowering a key interest rate, and said more cuts could be on the way.
The move from the European bloc follows a similar move two days earlier by the United States.
Scores of people were injured in the strike, and local hospitals were overwhelmed in dealing with the influx of patients.
Rusal Chairman Bernard Zonneveld, an independent non-executive director, didn't address who was responsible or even directly say anyone was killed in Bucha. But he said in a statement this week that the reports shocked us and that we support an objective and impartial investigation of this crime.
The proposal needs to be approved by the 27 EU countries. The EU said the instrument should help Ukraine armed forces "defend the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty" and protect the civilian population.
NATO members Bulgaria, Slovakia and Greece have the S-300s, which can fire missiles hundreds of kilometres and knock out cruise missiles as well as warplanes.
A similar incident was reported by Serbian media on Friday when reportedly a NATO Belgian Air Force fighter jet escorted another Air Serbia plane flying from St. Petersburg to Belgrade.
Evidence of the violence against civilians emerged after Russian forces pulled out of the town on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv.
He also promised more helmets, night vision and body armour. The items were in addition to some 200,000 pieces of non-lethal military equipment from the U.K. that had already been promised.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
Biden has already accused Russian forces of committing war crimes outside of Kyiv, including in the town of Bucha.
LONDON -- The board chairman of Russian metals company Rusal has called for an investigation into events in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where Ukrainian forces and journalists discovered scores of bodies after Russian troops withdrew.
BERLIN - Officials say 40 Russian diplomats declared 'persona non grata' by Germany earlier this week have left the country.
Britain says it has sanctioned more than 1,200 Russian individuals and businesses since the invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, including 76 oligarchs and 16 banks.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
Germany ordered the expulsion after dozens of civilians were found killed in the Ukrainian town of Buch following the withdrawal of Russian troops there.
MOSCOW -- Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has acknowledged that Russia has suffered "significant losses of troops" during its military operation in Ukraine.
The State Department also said it was blacklisting the United Shipbuilding Corporation, as well as its subsidiaries and board members.
The Prosecutor-General's Office said Friday the incident happened near Trostianets, a town in northeastern Ukraine which was occupied by Russian troops for around a month until they withdrew in late March.
Russia's defence ministry rejected claims that Russia was responsible for the attack, saying it no longer uses the type of missile that hit the railway station.
Dmytro Kushneruk, Ukraine's consul general in San Francisco, told Arizona lawmakers that Ukraine needs three things to repel Russian invaders and prevent more civilian deaths -- "weapons, weapons and weapons."
KYIV, Ukraine -- President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says about 30 people have been killed and around 100 injured following a rocket strike on the railway station in Kramatorsk in the east of the country.
Fedoruk said hundreds have been killed and investigators are finding bodies in yards, parks and city squares.
Reduction of Russian fossil fuel imports is a difficult choice for resource-poor Japan, and could mean a shift for its energy policy toward more renewables and nuclear power. Russia accounts for about 11 of Japanese coal imports.
He had said earlier this week that Russia no longer controlled any settlements in the region.
"Where we are now is we're going to support efforts to investigate the attack as we document Russia's actions, hold them accountable," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters.
Zelenskyy also called for fully excluding all Russian banks from the global financial system and repeated his appeal for more weapons.
It said the workers were travelling Thursday to restore electricity to the area when their vehicle struck the mine outside the village of Bilka.
LONDON -- Britain's Defence Ministry has assessed that at least some of the Russian forces who had pulled out from northern Ukraine will be transferred to the eastern Donbas region to continue fighting.
This means that they killed civilians, shot them, Venediktova said, speaking as workers pulled corpses out under spitting rain. Black body bags were laid in rows in the mud.
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Friday that Moscow must be held accountable for "war crimes" in Ukraine and pointed to a "critical moment" now in efforts to get Russia's government to end its invasion of Ukraine.
The speech continued the outreach by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's government to political and cultural institutions around the world.
WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Joe Biden calls the United Nations vote Thursday to suspend Russia from the body's Human Rights Council "a meaningful step by the international community."
Justin Bronk, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, said Friday that railroads in eastern Ukraine are a significant military target for Russia because destroying this kind of infrastructure makes it more difficult for Ukraine to reinforce its forces in the region. He added that Ukraine has little incentive to deliberately kill its own people during a war of attrition.
Borrell called it "impressive" that Ukraine's government was fully functioning under "the very difficult circumstances."
The decision indicates the bank thinks strict capital controls and other severe measures are stabilizing Russia's currency and financial system despite intense pressure from Western sanctions over the war in Ukraine.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
Speaking in an exclusive interview with British broadcaster Sky on Thursday, Peskov also hinted that the operation might be over "in the foreseeable future." He said that Russian forces were "doing their best to bring an end to that operation."
Like the massacres in Bucha, like many other Russian war crimes, the missile attack on Kramatorsk should be one of the charges at the tribunal that must be held, he said during his nightly video address to the nation Friday.
The EU ban on coal is estimated to be worth 4 billion euros US$4.4 billion per year. In the meantime, the EU has already started working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell made the announcement Friday during a visit to Kyiv where he joined EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen for talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
In his daily nighttime video address to the nation Thursday, Zelenskyy said the Russians were preparing to shock the world in the same way by showing corpses in Mariupol and falsely claiming they were killed by the Ukrainian defenders.
PARIS -- The International Energy Agency says its member countries are releasing 60 million barrels of oil from their emergency reserves on top of previous U.S. pledges to take aim at energy prices that have soared since Russia invaded Ukraine.
Dmytro Zhyvytskyy warned Friday on the messaging app Telegram that locals are still in danger because of mines and other ammunition that the Russian forces left behind.
The 20 Bushmasters cost 50 million in Australian dollars, which is $37 million in U.S. dollars.
The UN Food and Agriculture Organization said Friday its Food Price Index, which tracks monthly changes in international prices for a basket of commodities, recorded a double-digit percentage-point increase in March from the record level already set the previous month.
Johnson said both the U.K. and Germany shared the revulsion at the brutality being unleashed, including the unconscionable bombing of refugees fleeing their homes, adding that the train station attack shows the depths to which Putin's vaunted army has sunk.
He said: "And we do hope that in coming days, in the foreseeable future, this operation will reach its goals, or we'll finish it by the negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian delegations."
Zelenskyy requested Bushmasters when he made a video address to the Australian Parliament on March 31.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
The bank said Friday it lowered its benchmark rate from 20 to 17, effective Monday. It had raised the rate from 9.5 on Feb. 28 -- four days after the invasion -- as a way to support the ruble's plunging exchange rate.
Donetsk regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said an updated count showed 39 people were killed in Friday's strike. Ukrainian officials had earlier put the figure at around 30. Officials put the number of injured anywhere from 87 to as many as 300.
A currency collapse would worsen already high inflation for Russian shoppers by ballooning the cost of imported goods.
