Live updates 410 civilian bodies found near Kyiv
20220403
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/live-updates-ukraine-urges-more-sanctions-over-atrocities-1.5846221
JERUSALEMIsraels foreign minister is condemning the reported atrocities in Ukraine, saying deliberate harm to civilians is a war crime.
Lithuania reduced imports of Russian gas to zero on Saturday, a move seen a milestone in achieving energy independence in the former Soviet republic of 2.8 million, the ministry said.
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of Poland's ruling conservative party, Law and Justice, said Sunday in an interview with German weekly Welt am Sonntag that "in principle, it makes sense to extend nuclear participation to the eastern flank."
A Russian government-linked Twitter account on Friday shared an interview with Marianna Vishegirskaya, in which the new mother says the hospital was not hit by an airstrike last month and that she told AP journalists she did not want to be filmed. But AP reporting, and recordings of AP journalists' interactions with her, contradict her claim.
He said that in the town of Balakliia Russian tanks hit a local hospital, damaging the building and prompting the authorities to evacuate patients.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
He called on the the whole world and especially Germany to immediately end gas imports from Russia.
A resident of the town 50 kilometres 31 miles west of Kyiv told the The Associated Press on Sunday that Russian troops targeted local officials in a bid to win them over and killed them if they did not collaborate. The man, Oleg, declined to give his full name for security reasons.
MOSCOW -- The Kremlin says that by imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin the West has demonstrated it has abandoned its sense of reason.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
In other areas recently retaken from Russian troops, Ukrainian officials say they have recovered hundreds of slain civilians in the past few days. Ukraines prosecutor-general says the bodies of 410 civilians have been recovered from Kyiv-area towns.
The interior ministry tweeted Sunday that "to date, federal police has registered 303,474 refugees from Ukraine in Germany. Most of them are women, children and old people."
In a video address Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced the allegedly targeted killings of civilians in towns that the Russians occupied, calling the killers freaks who do not know how to do otherwise. He warns that more atrocities may be revealed if Russian forces are driven out of other occupied areas.
Speaking Sunday in remarks carried by the Interfax news agency, Medinsky reaffirmed that the parties reached a tentative agreement on the need for Ukraine to adopt a neutral status and refrain from holding foreign military bases in exchange for international security guarantees.
KYIV, Ukraine  The Ukrainian military says that its forces have retaken some towns in the Chernihiv region and that humanitarian aid is being delivered.
Russian forces also withdrew from the Sumy region, in Ukraines northeast, local administrator Dmitry Zhivitsky said in a video message carried by Ukrainian news agencies Sunday. The troops had occupied the area for nearly a month.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
"We are the first EU country among Gazprom's supply countries to gain independence from Russian gas supplies, and this is the result of a multi-year coherent energy policy and timely infrastructure decisions," Minister of Energy Dainius Kreivys said.
Zelenskyy appealed again to the West for more modern weaponry, such as anti-missile systems and aircraft.
CAIRO -- The Muslim holy month of Ramadan -- when the faithful fast from dawn to dusk -- began at sunrise Saturday in much of the Middle East, where Russia's invasion of Ukraine has sent energy and food prices soaring.
BERLIN -- The mayor of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, has expressed shock at what he called "cruel war crimes" committed by Russian soldiers in the town of Bucha northwest of the capital.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
Asked about Ukrainian negotiator Davyd Arakhamia's claim that Moscow's negotiators had informally agreed to most proposals by Ukraine during the talks in Istanbul this week and the two presidents could discuss the draft deal, Medinsky said he doesn't share Arakhamia's optimism. He said the talks will continue online Monday.
In Germany President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin that "the war crimes committed by Russia are visible before the eyes of the world."
BERLIN -- German authorities have registered more than 300,000 refugees from Ukraine since the outbreak of the war there last month.
He described a column of dark smoke rising from the targets, and flames from the buildings.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
Italy gets 40 per cent of its natural gas from Russia and officials have said it would take three years to make the transition to other sources.
In an excerpt of the interview released by CBS before it aired, he says, "This is the reason we are being destroyed and exterminated. And this is happening in the Europe of the 21st century. So this is the torture of the whole nation."
The numbers of Ukrainian refugees in the country are thought to be much higher as Ukrainians can enter Germany without visas and there are no thorough controls along the Polish-German border.
What's happening in Ukraine today and how are countries around the world responding? Read live updates on Vladimir Putin and Russias invasion of Ukraine.
VALLETTA, Malta -- Pope Francis is praying for an end to the "sacrilegious" war in Ukraine and for the world to show kindness and compassion to refugees.
Kharkiv regional Gov. Oleh Synyehubov said Sunday that Russian artillery and tanks carried out over 20 strikes on Kharkiv and its outskirts over the past 24 hours.
Balakliya is about 75 kilometres southeast of the city of Kharkiv, which has been heavily hit by Russian attacks.
Other European leaders also condemned the reported attacks on Ukrainian civilians in response to images of bodies in the streets and some of the dead with their hands tied behind their backs.
BALAKLIYA, Ukraine  The governor of the Kharkiv region says Russian troops fired on a convoy of buses that was trying to evacuate patients from a hospital that had been heavily damaged in shelling a day earlier.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
Ukraine and its western allies reported mounting evidence of Russia withdrawing its forces from around Kyiv and building its troop strength in eastern Ukraine. The visible shift did not mean the country faced a reprieve from more than five weeks of war or that the more than four million refugees who have fled Ukraine will return soon.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Medinsky emphasized that Russia's stand on Crimea and rebel regions in Ukraine's east remained unchanged. The Kremlin demands that Ukraine acknowledge Russia's sovereignty over Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014, and recognize the independence of Russia-backed separatist regions in Donbas, Ukraine's eastern industrial heartland.
Residents of the town said the civilians were killed by Russian soldiers without apparent provocation.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock pledged to tighten sanctions against Russia but did not give details.
The conflict cast a pall over Ramadan, when large gatherings over meals and family celebrations are a tradition. Many had hoped for a more cheerful Ramadan after the coronavirus pandemic blocked the world's two billion Muslims from many rituals the past two years.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in televised remarks Sunday that the sanctions against Putin were going "beyond the edge of reason," adding that they showed that the West is "capable of any stupidities."
Leaders in France, Germany, Italy, Greece, Czech Republic and Poland expressed outrage at the images. Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala called the images "horrifying" and says Russia has been committing war crimes.
Vladimir Medinsky, who led the Russian delegation in Tuesday's talks in Istanbul, Turkey, said "there is still a lot of work to do" to finalize a draft agreement before Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy could meet.
Foreign Minister Yair Lapid wrote on Twitter that one cannot remain indifferent after seeing images from the town of Bucha near Ukraine capital.
Kaczynski added that "if the Americans asked us to store U.S. nuclear weapons in Poland, we would be open to it. It would significantly strengthen deterrence against Moscow."
He said that "Poland would welcome an increase in the American presence in Europe in the future from the current 100,000 soldiers to 150,000 soldiers because of Russia's increasing aggressiveness."
Among those at the Mass was Alina Shcherbyna, a 25-year-old Ukrainian who arrived in Malta just over a week ago after fleeing her bombed-out home in Dnipro. She left behind her parents, who are both doctors and had to remain.
Lapid says that intentionally harming a civilian population is a war crime and strongly condemned it.
Residents say Russian troops would go from building to building, take people out of the basements where they were hiding from the fighting, check their phones for evidence of anti-Russian activity and take them away or shoot them.
Russias Defence Ministry has rejected the claims of atrocities against civilians in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv.
Carrying Ukrainian and Vatican flags, Shcherbyna said she wanted to ask the pope and the world for prayers for Ukraine.
But eyewitness accounts and video from AP journalists in Mariupol lays out evidence of an airstrike, including the sound of an airplane before the blast, a crater outside the hospital that went at least two stories deep and interviews with a police officer and a soldier at the scene who both referred to the attack as an "airstrike."
Zelenskyy depicted the Hungarian leader as out of touch with the rest of Europe, which has united to condemn Putin, support sanctions against Russia and send aid including weapons to Ukraine.
The reports drew international condemnation. In Britain, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said there is increasing evidence of "indiscriminate attacks against innocent civilians" and said they must be investigated as war crimes.
Bodies of civilians lay strewn across the northern town, which was controlled by Russian soldiers for about a month.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
Zelenskyy noted the Hungarian people support the Ukrainian people, and distinguished between Hungarians and what he called "official Budapest."
He said a significant portion of the Russian forces are tied up around Mariupol, where the city's defenders continue to fight.
BUCHA, Ukraine -- Residents of the Ukrainian town of Bucha near the capital of Kyiv have given harrowing accounts of how Russian troops shot and killed civilians without any apparent reason.
PARIS -- French and German leaders have joined in growing international condemnation of alleged war crimes and civilian killings committed by Russian forces in Ukrainian towns including Bucha near Kyiv.
The mayor and her family had been reported by others as kidnapped by Russians on March 23 and taken in an unknown direction.
Kaczynski acknowledged that "at the moment, this question does not arise, but that may change soon."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned that departing Russian troops were creating a "catastrophic" situation for civilians by leaving mines around homes, abandoned equipment and "even the bodies of those killed." His claims could not be independently verified.
In an audio message posted by Italian news agency ANSA, Italian photographer Carlo Orlandi said Odessa woke to military sirens at 5:45 a.m. Sunday, followed immediately by the sounds of bombs falling on the port city from two aircraft.
Overall, more than 4.17 million Ukrainians have fled their country since Russia attacked Ukraine on Feb. 24. Almost 2.5 million of them have escaped to neighbouring Poland.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
"What is the goal of the Russian troops? They want to seize the Donbas and the south of Ukraine," he said. "What is our goal? To defend ourselves, our freedom, our land and our people."
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
The Recording Academy, with its partner Global Citizen, prior to the ceremony highlighted a social media campaign called Stand Up For Ukraine to raise money and humanitarian support.
The military's General Staff said in Sunday's statement that Russian units have withdrawn from areas in the country's north to neighbouring Belarus, which served as a staging ground for the Russian invasion.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Ukraine and Russia account for a third of global wheat and barley exports, which Middle East countries rely on to feed millions of people who subsist on subsidized bread and bargain noodles. They are also top exporters of other grains and sunflower seed oil used for cooking.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
KYIV, Ukraine -- A Ukrainian presidential adviser says authorities have found evidence of serious war crimes by Russian troops on the outskirts of Kyiv.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
But he also tells ABC's "This Week" that there are signs that Russian President Vladimir Putin is redeploying Russian troops to the eastern part of Ukraine.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine's top diplomat has called for tougher sanctions on Russia over growing evidence of a massacre of civilians in the suburbs of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
Russia's Defence Ministry has rejected the claims of atrocities against civilians in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv as a "provocation."
German news agency dpa reported that Steinmeier said "the images from Bucha shake me, they shake us deeply."
"We will not allow Russia to cover up their involvement in these atrocities through cynical disinformation and will ensure that the reality of Russia's actions are brought to light," she said.
With Russia's invasion of Ukraine, however, millions of people in the Middle East are now wondering where their next meals will come from. The skyrocketing prices are affecting people whose lives were already upended by conflict, displacement and poverty from Lebanon, Iraq and Syria to Sudan and Yemen.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian condemned "in the strongest terms" the alleged "massive abuses." He said France will work with Ukrainian authorities and the International Criminal Court "to ensure these acts don't go unpunished and that those responsible are being sent to trial and convicted."
French Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian says his country will work with Ukrainian authorities and the International Criminal Court "to ensure these acts don't go unpunished."
BERLIN -- Poland's most powerful politician says he is open to the permanent stationing of U.S. nuclear weapons in Eastern Europe.
The Polish leader also called for a much stronger presence of U.S. soldiers in Europe in the future, especially on NATO's eastern flank.
He said that "especially for Germany, there can only be one consequence: Not a penny should go to Russia anymore, that's bloody money used to slaughter people. The gas and oil embargo must come immediately."
In his words: Our musicians wear body armor instead of tuxedos. They sing to the wounded in hospitals, even to those who cant hear them. But the music will break through anyway.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz expressed shock Sunday about the "terrible and horrifying footage that has reached us this weekend from Ukraine."
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
The ministry says that "not a single civilian has faced any violent action by the Russian military" in Bucha.
"He is virtually the only one in Europe to openly support Mr. Putin," Zelenskyy said.
ROME  The head of Italy's Democratic Party called for a full oil and gas embargo in reaction to images emerging of atrocities against civilians by Russian soldiers retreating from the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.
In the new videos, Vishegirskaya says those huddled in the basement of the hospital after the attack believed the explosions were caused by "shelling," not an airstrike, because "no one" heard sounds that would indicate that bombs were dropped from planes.
Stoltenberg says it's "extremely important" that the International Criminal Court has opened an investigation into potential war crimes in Ukraine and that those responsible are held to account.
Wrapping up a final Mass in Malta on Sunday, Francis urged the faithful to "think of the humanitarian tragedy unfolding in the martyred Ukraine, which continues to be bombarded in this sacrilegious war."
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
He called for the world to be "tireless in praying and in offering assistance to those who suffer."
He tells CNN's "State of the Union" that "it's absolutely unacceptable that civilians are targeted and killed" and that it's Russian President Vladimir Putin's responsibility to stop the war.
"At school we were studying a lot about the Second World War, about bomb shelters and about this disaster, and we thought it was impossible in present time," she said. "We thought it had ended in 1945 and that was it. But now, it's really shocking for all of us."
LVIV, Ukraine -- President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukrainian troops retaking areas around Kyiv and Chernihiv are not allowing Russians to retreat without a fight, but are "shelling them. They are destroying everyone they can."
Arestovych said Ukrainian authorities will investigate the alleged war crimes and track down the perpetrators.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk says the mayor of the village of Motyzhyn in the Kyiv region was murdered while being held by Russian forces. Vereshchuk adds that there are 11 mayors and community heads in Russian captivity across Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines prosecutor-general says the bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian troops.
"What we can see is a dense screen of dark smoke, and one explosion after the other," Orlandi said.
International leaders have condemned the reported attacks in the Kyiv-area towns after harrowing accounts from civilians and graphic images of bodies with hands tied behind their backs.
Klain says while it will be up to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to decide if the political endgame is to allow Russia to occupy the eastern part of Ukraine, from the U.S. standpoint, the "military future of this attack has to be push back."
"Seeking full energy independence from Russian gas, in response to Russia's energy blackmail in Europe and the war in Ukraine, Lithuania has completely abandoned Russian gas," Lithuania's energy ministry said in a statement late Saturday, adding that the measure took effect in the beginning of April.
Russian officials have repeatedly tried to cast doubt on the strike in Mariupol, a key military objective for Moscow, since images were seen around the world and shed light on Russia's attacks on civilians in Ukraine.
Zelenskyy told CBS' "Face the Nation" Sunday that there are more than 100 nationalities in Ukraine and "this is about the destruction and extermination of all these nationalities. We are citizens of Ukraine and we don't want to be subdued to the policy of Russian Federation."
VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Lithuania says it has cut itself off entirely of gas imports from Russia and that it's the first of the European Union's 27 nations using Russian gas to break its energy dependence upon Moscow.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Zelenskyy, in his Saturday night video address to the nation, said Ukraine knows Russia has the forces to put even more pressure on the east and south of Ukraine.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
Synyyehubov said four people were wounded in a Russian missile strike on Lozova in the south of the Kharkiv region.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Maj.-Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian ships and aircraft fired missiles on Sunday to strike the facilities, which he said were used to provide fuel to Ukrainian troops near Mykolaiv.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted Sunday that the killings were "deliberate," adding that "Russians aim to eliminate as many Ukrainians as they can."
During the pre-recorded message that aired on the show Sunday night, he spoke in English, likening the attack to a deadly silence threatening to extinguish the dreams and lives of the Ukrainian people, including children.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht said Sunday night on German public broadcaster ARD that there must be a reaction. Such crimes must not go unanswered.
BRUSSELS -- NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says the graphic images coming out of Bucha, Ukraine, after Russian troops withdrew show "a brutality against civilians we haven't seen in Europe for decades."
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
He urged the West to impose an oil, gas and coal embargo, and close all ports to Russian vessels and goods. He also called for all Russian banks to be disconnected from the SWIFT international payment system.
His comments echoed those by other European leaders, who condemned alleged war crimes and civilian killings by Russian forces in Ukrainian towns including Bucha near Kyiv, the capital.
Following Zelenskyys message, John Legend performed his song Free with Ukrainian musicians Siuzanna Iglidan and Mika Newton and poet Lyuba Yakimchuk as images from the war were shown on screens behind them.
Klitschko said Russian President Vladimir Putin was responsible for these "cruel war crimes," adding that civilians had been "shot with tied hands."
The governor, Oleh Synyehubov, said Sunday that about 70 patients needed to be taken away from the damaged hospital in the town of Balakliya but that the buses were not able to enter the town.
Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, told a U.S. television interview Sunday that Russian attacks in Ukraine amount to genocide.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
Europe gets 40 of its gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, and since the war, has scrambled to set out proposals to reduce its dependency. Russia is just as reliant on Europe, with oil and gas its dominant sector and paying for government operations.
Lithuania'a president posted an upbeat tweet on his account and urged other European nations to do the same.
Chernihiv is a city 80 miles north of Kyiv and it had been cut off from shipments of food and other supplies for weeks. The mayor said Sunday that relentless Russian shelling had destroyed 70 of the city.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said Sunday scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of Kyiv' suburbs of Irpin, Bucha and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. He compared the scene to "a horror movie."
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymry Zelenskyy devoted a good part of his late-night address to his nation to call out Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban for his support of Russian President Vladimir Putin, as Hungarians prepared to vote in an election Sunday.
Peskov added that Putin's meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is "hypothetically possible" once negotiators from the two countries prepared a draft agreement to be discussed.
The mayor, Olga Sukhenko, and her family were shot and thrown into a pit in a forest behind a plot of land with three houses where Russian forces had slept. A fourth body was not yet identified.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
MOSCOW -- Russia's top negotiator in talks with Ukraine says it's too early to talk about a meeting between the two countries' president.
Arestovych said some victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound, and some of the bodies had signs of torture. He accused Russian troops of raping women and trying to burn their bodies.
BUCHA, Ukraine -- Ukrainian troops moved cautiously to retake territory north of Kyiv on Saturday, even amid fears that Russian forces left booby-trapped explosives.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
The news agency RBK Ukraina says the road between Chernihiv and the capital of Kyiv is to reopen to some traffic later Monday.
Estimates of the impact of a gas boycott or embargo on Europe vary but most involve a substantial loss of economic output.
Ukrainian troops took up positions in the town of Bucha, and were stationed at the entrance of Antonov Airport in Hostomel after retaking territory from Russian forces.
Ukrainian officials said earlier Sunday that scores of killed civilians have been found on the streets of Kyiv' suburbs of Bucha, Irpin and Hostomel after the withdrawal of Russian troops. They said that some of the victims were shot in the head and had their hands bound.
Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, says in a U.S. television interview that Russian attacks in Ukraine amount to genocide.
"The whole of Europe is trying to stop the war, to restore peace. Then why is official Budapest opposed to the whole of Europe, to all civilized countries?" Zelenskyy asked.
BERLIN  Germany's defence minister says European officials should talk about halting gas supplies from Russia in light of the alleged attacks on civilians in the Ukrainian town of Bucha.
MOTYZHYN, Ukraine -- A resident says the mayor of the Ukrainian town of Motyzhyn was killed in an execution-style slaying along with her husband and son.
KYIV, Ukraine -- The Ukrainian military says Russian troops have completed their pullback from the country's north.
An AP crew on Sunday saw the bodies of at least nine people who appear to have been executed. At least two of them had their hands tied behind their backs. They were all in civilian clothes and at least three were naked from the waist up. One appeared shot in the chest from close range.
In Bucha, AP reporters counted at least 6 bodies of civilians scattered along a street and in the front yard of a house. Ukrainian soldiers, backed by a column of tanks and armoured vehicles, attached cables to the bodies and pulled them off the street for fear they may be booby-trapped. Soldiers also cleared barricades and inspected suspicious objects, placing red rags on remnants of unexploded ordnance to draw attention to the possibility of explosions.
The Ukrainian military said its airborne forces have taken full control of the town of Pripyat just outside the decommissioned Chornobyl nuclear power plant and the section of the border with Belarus. It posted a picture of the Ukrainian soldier putting up the country's flag with a shelter containing the Chornobyl reactor that exploded in 1986 seen in the background.
LAS VEGAS  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has appeared in a video at the Grammy Awards asking for support in telling the story of Ukraine's invasion by Russia.
Premier Mario Draghi acknowledged last week that energy payments were fueling Russia's invasion, and the foreign minister has been traveling to oil and gas producing countries to line up alternatives to Russia.
At a logistics compound that residents say was used as a base by Russian forces, the bodies of eight men could be seen dumped on the ground, some with their hands tied behind their backs.
Johnson called the attacks in the towns of Irpin and Bucha "despicable" and says he "will do everything in my power to starve Putin's war machine." Johnson added that the U.K. will step up its sanctions and military support for Ukraine, but did not provide details.
So far, Germany and several other European governments have shied away from an immediate boycott of Russian natural gas over fears of the impact it would have on their economies.
"Dozens of shot civilians have been discovered in Bucha ... Streets littered with bodies. Bodies buried in makeshift conditions. There is talk of women, children and the elderly among the victims," he said. He added that international organizations should be given access to the areas to independently document the atrocities.
KYIV, Ukraine -- The regional governor in Kharkiv said Russian troops have continued shelling the city in northeast Ukraine.
In the interview, conducted by Russian blogger Denis Seleznev and filmed by Kristina Melnikova, Vishegirskaya is asked to provide details about what occurred at the hospital on March 9, the day of the bombing. It is not clear where Vishegirskaya is, or under what conditions the interview was filmed.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
Referring to reports of executed civilians, Klitschko told German daily Bild on Sunday that "what happened in Bucha and other suburbs of Kyiv can only be described as genocide."
A Ukrainian beauty blogger whom Russian officials accused of being a crisis actor when she was interviewed and photographed by The Associated Press in a bombed out Mariupol maternity hospital has emerged in new videos that are fueling fresh misinformation about the attack.
LONDON -- British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Russia's attack on Ukrainian civilians in towns on the outskirts of Kyiv "are yet more evidence that Russian President Vladimir Putin and his army are committing war crimes in Ukraine."
Zelenskyy told the audience: Fill the silence with your music. Fill it today to tell our story. Tell the truth about the war on your social networks, on TV, support us in any way you can any, but not silence. And then peace will come to all our cities."
Iryna Venediktova says on Facebook that the bodies were recovered Friday, Saturday and Sunday. She says 140 of them have undergone examination by prosecutors and other specialists.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says international organizations should be given access to the areas to independently document the atrocities.
"Thanks to this resistance, thanks to the courage and resilience of our other cities, Ukraine has gained invaluable time, time that is allowing us to foil the enemy's tactics and weaken its capabilities," Zelenskyy said.
The Russian military says it has struck an oil processing plant and fuel depots around the strategic Black Sea port of Odessa.
WASHINGTON -- White House chief of staff Ron Klain says the U.S. remains fully committed to providing a full range of economic and military support to Ukraine in its war against Russia, which he describes as "far from over."
Up to 10,000 arrived at Berlin's train station on some days. Recently the flow of refugees has slowed down from up to 15,000 new arrivals nationwide to around 5,000 to 7,000 new refugees per day.
Israel has walked a tightrope since Russia invaded Ukraine, simultaneously denouncing the invasion while avoiding taking too strident a stance out of concern of angering Moscow, with whom it has security coordination in neighbouring Syria. Israel has good relations with both countries and has mediated between them since the invasion on Feb. 24.
"How many Buca before we move to a full oil and gas Russia embargo," Enrico Letta wrote on Twitter Sunday. "Time is over."
Klain credits Ukrainians for fighting off Russian troops in the northern part of Ukraine and says the U.S. and its allies are sending weapons into the country "almost every single day."
He says regarding a potential Russian occupation of eastern Ukraine: "I will tell you, as President Zelenskyy has said, that's not acceptable to him, and we are going to support him with military aid, with economic aid, with humanitarian aid."
