Live updates US Congress seeks to restrict trade with Russia
20220306
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/live-updates-zelensky-pushes-call-for-ukraine-no-fly-zone-1.5807577
She was always "running to the most dangerous places" to rescue to the injured, Nataliia Voronkova said.
The U.S.-funded, Prague-based broadcaster's president and chief executive, Jamie Fly, said "this is not a decision that RFERL has taken of its own accord, but one that has been forced upon us by the Putin regime's assault on the truth."
Francis did not say where exactly the cardinals had gone, but said they represented him and all Christian people with the message that "war is madness."
Amid rising gasoline prices in the U.S., the Biden administration has yet to call for an oil import ban on Russia.
Bennett spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky after his meeting with Putin. He then flew to Germany to meet Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
NEW YORK -- Two of the so-called Big Four accounting firms are pulling out of Russia over its war in Ukraine.
NEW YORK -- The Russian military has warned Ukraine's neighbouring countries from hosting its warplanes, saying Moscow may consider them a part of the conflict if Ukrainian aircraft fly combat missions from their territory.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Voldymyr Zelensky is pushing his call for foreign countries to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
The strength of Ukrainian resistance continues to surprise Russian forces and they have responded by targeting populated areas, including the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol, Britain's Ministry of Defence said in its daily intelligence briefing.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Russian forces stepped up their shelling of Ukrainian cities in the centre, north and south of the country late Sunday, presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich said.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has repeatedly called on NATO countries to stop the Russian onslaught on his country by imposing a no-fly zone. Western leaders have refused for fear of triggering a wider war in Europe. Deploying fighter jets over Ukraine could "in current circumstances" be considered as "NATO's entry into the war and therefore risk World War III," Michel said in an interview with the public broadcaster France Inter.
"We urge all personnel of Ukrainian defense industry plants to leave the territory of their enterprises," ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in a statement carried by the state news agency Tass.
"Think about the sense of impunity of the occupiers that they can announce such planned atrocities," he said.
Michel denied that economic sanctions against Russia constitute "a war of the EU or NATO against Russia." Russian President Vladimir Putin has linked the West's economic punishment for his invasion of Ukraine to "declaring war" on Moscow.
BERLIN -- The head of the United Nations' refugee agency says that more than 1.5 million refugees have crossed from Ukraine into neighbouring countries since Russia invaded.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
"We are now talking to our European partners and allies to look in a coordinated way at the prospect of banning the import of Russian oil while making sure that there is still an appropriate supply of oil on world market," said Blinken. "That's a very active discussion as we speak."
According to the readout of Sunday's call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, "hope was expressed that during the planned next round of negotiations, the representatives of Ukraine would show a more constructive approach, fully taking into account the emerging realities."
Pushych used to be a well-paid worker at a transport and logistic company. But in 2016, she joined the army as a paramedic in response to the separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine.
In addition, RFERL said that Russian authorities initiated bankruptcy proceedings on Friday. It said it is seeing "the culmination of a years-long pressure campaign against RFERL."
LVIV, Ukraine -- An official in one of Ukraine's pro-Russia separatist region says Russian forces will observe a temporary ceasefire Sunday in two Ukrainian cities. An agreement to allow civilians to evacuate collapsed a day earlier amid continued shelling and the flight of refugees to neighbouring nations.
Bennett also told his cabinet Israel was readying for a wave of Jewish immigration from Ukraine. Israel is also preparing to allow entry to a small number of non-Jewish Ukrainians fleeing the conflict.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
PARIS -- European Union leader Charles Michel said Sunday closing Ukraine's airspace could spark a world war.
KPMG International said in a statement it would be "incredibly difficult" to have its Russia and Belarus firms leave the network. KPMG has more than 4,500 employees in the two countries.
KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers both said Sunday they would end their relationships with their Russia-based member firms. KPMG said it was also pulling out of Belarus.
"We admire the generosity of hospitality, the willingness to be such good friends to people who are in distress, and, indeed, I want to do everything we can to help you deal with the burden that this has imposed," he said.
An order from Ukraine's government prohibited men between the ages of 18 and 60 from leaving the country to keep them available for military conscription.
VATICAN CITY -- Pope Francis says he has dispatched two cardinals to Ukraine, a highly unusual move.
Evacuations also failed in Mariupol in the south and Volnovakha in the east because of the shelling.
Congress intends to approve the Biden administration's request for $10 billion in humanitarian, military and economic support for Ukraine, Pelosi said, as part of omnibus government funding legislation this week.
Erdogan's office said he told Putin that he was "ready to make every contribution" to resolving the crisis.
Blinken says the world is watching to see which nations stand up for the principles of freedom and sovereignty.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
Wang called for negotiations to resolve the immediate crisis, as well as talks on creating a balanced European security mechanism. Wang says the U.S. and Europe should pay attention to the negative impact of NATO's eastward expansion on Russia's security.
In a statement following Sunday's one-hour call, the Turkish presidency said Erdogan had urged a halt to fighting to "address humanitarian concerns" and "seek a political solution" to the conflict. The war is now in its 11th day.
It says it believes the real figures are considerably higher, "especially in government-controlled territory and especially in recent days." That's because the flow of information has been delayed amid the fighting and many reports still need to be corroborated.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Ukrainian officials confirmed that evacuations from Mariupol would take place starting from 12 p.m. local time. Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional military administration, said a ceasefire would be in effect between 10 a.m. and 9 p.m.
The Geneva-based office said that another 759 civilians had been injured as of midnight Saturday.
In a letter to Democrats released Sunday night, Pelosi says the legislation under consideration would also repeal normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus and begin the process of denying Russia access to the World Trade Organization.
Naftali Bennett flew to Moscow on Saturday, where he met the Russian leader for three hours. The trip was made "in coordination and with the blessing" of the Biden administration, according to Bennett's office.
At the cemetery, red roses were placed on Pushych's body. After she was buried, the dirt was covered with the flag of Ukraine.
Ukraine's regulatory authority said that phone lines, as well as e-mails and fax, are no longer working. Grossi said he is "extremely concerned about these developments," adding that for the plant to operate safely, "staff must be allowed to carry out their vital duties in stable conditions, without undue external interference or pressure."
LVIV, Ukraine -- A Ukrainian official says a second attempt to evacuate civilians from a southern city under siege for a week has failed due to continued Russian shelling.
Gen. Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke Sunday during a visit to an air base in Amari, Estonia. He is visiting the three Baltic nations to pledge U.S. and NATO support to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, former Soviet republics that border Russia.
Globally issued American Express cards will no longer work at merchants or ATMs in Russia, the company said in a statement. AmEx cards issued locally in Russia by the country's banks will also no longer work outside of Russia.
WASHINGTON -- U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says the House is exploring legislation to further isolate Russia from the global economy, including banning the import of its oil and energy products into the U.S.
The Jewish Agency for Israel, a quasigovernmental organization that manages immigration affairs, said that it had received 5,500 urgent requests by Ukrainian Jews to move to Israel since Russia attacked on Feb. 24.
LONDON -- British military officials on Sunday compared Russia's tactics in Ukraine to those used in Chechnya and Syria, where cities were bombarded and heavily damaged after Russian forces faced unexpected resistance from their defenders.
Filippo Grandi, the UN high commissioner for refugees, said Sunday that "those discussions continue" with hope for success, but didn't name specific cities. He said during a visit to Poland's border with Ukraine that "these corridors are mainly to bring humanitarian goods basic goods to people that are really in desperate need and also to extract maybe the most vulnerable people."
"We know why we are here. We know why we defend our country. And our guys that are actually standing there and fighting Russian military forces," he told Britain's Sky News. "We know what we are doing and that's why we will win."
BERLIN -- The UN human rights office says it has confirmed the deaths of 364 civilians in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Feb. 24.
"In light of Russia's new 'fake news' law, we have no choice but to suspend livestreaming and new content to our video service while we review the safety implications of this law," the company said in a statement on Twitter. "Our in-app messaging service will not be affected."
Macron reiterated his call for Russia to stop its military operations and insisted on the need to protect the civilians and allow access to humanitarian aid.
KYIV, Ukraine -- A Ukrainian paramedic who was shot while on her way to evacuate injured people from the outskirts of Kyiv was buried in the country's capital on Saturday.
JERUSALEM -- A group of 100 Ukrainian Jewish orphans who were evacuated from the country after Russia invaded have landed in Israel.
Turkey has extensive ties with both Russia and Ukraine and has sought to place itself as a mediator. It has invited both to a diplomatic forum in Antalya next week.
"The whole world today is on Ukraine's side not only in words but in deeds," Kuleba said on Ukrainian television Sunday night.
Michel said European and American allies imposed sanctions "to create pressure and hurt the Russian regime", not the people.
Interior Ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko said the planned evacuations along designated humanitarian corridors were halted because of an ongoing assault.
Zelensky said on Twitter the two presidents discussed security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.
The call was on request from Macron and lasted almost two hours, the Elysee said.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov charged Sunday that some Ukrainian combat planes had redeployed to Romania and other Ukraine neighbors he didn't identify.
WASHINGTON -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says the United States and its allies are having a "very active discussion" about banning the import of Russian oil and natural gas in the latest escalation of their sanctions in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine.
"The humanitarian situation is difficult" including in Mariupol on Sunday, the official stressed. "Our demands remain the same: we want Russia to respond to these demands... very quickly and clearly."
Naftali Bennett also spoke with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, whom he visited in Berlin on Saturday as well, and French President Emmanuel Macron, his office said.
Erdogan called for the opening of humanitarian corridors and a peace agreement between Russia and Ukraine.
Filippo Grandi, the UN high commissioner for refugees, tweeted on Sunday that it is "the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II."
HELSINKI -- The top U.S. military officer says Ukrainian soldiers and civilians alike have put up an "extraordinarily courageous" fight since the Russian invasion.
PricewaterhouseCoopers said it has 3,700 employees at its PwC Russia firm and is working on an "orderly transition" for the business.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said more than 20,000 people from 52 countries have already volunteered to fight in Ukraine, where they will serve in a newly created international legion. He did not say how many of the foreign volunteers have arrived in Ukraine.
Several women, including some dressed in camouflage jackets, cried as her body lay in a casket at a service. A portrait of Pushych was on a wall nearby.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
CHISINAU, Moldova - U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Moldova pledging America's support to the small western-leaning former Soviet republic that is coping with an influx of refugees from Ukraine and warily watching Russia's intensifying war with its neighbour.
It said it also will take a charge of 987 million euros related to financing for the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, whose certification was suspended by Germany last month, which "may be unrecoverable."
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
A French official said Macron insisted on the need to ensure the International Atomic Energy Agency's safety standards are respected at Chornobyl and in other nuclear plants. He told Putin these facilities must not be targeted by a Russian offensive or caught in the fighting.
The children arrived Sunday a few hours before two flights carrying around 300 other Ukrainian Jewish immigrants landed.
While Israel has condemned Russia's invasion, it has also refrained from taking action that could anger Moscow, out of concern of jeopardizing military co-ordination in neighboring Syria.
BERLIN -- Austrian energy company OMV says it has decided not to pursue any future investments in Russia and is starting a "strategic review" of its stake in the Yuzhno Rosskoye gas and oil field, which could result in its exit.
Establishing a no-fly zone would risk escalating the conflict by involving foreign militaries directly. Although the United States and many western countries have backed Ukraine with weapons shipments, they have sent no troops.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
Russia's advance has been slowed by attacks on its supply lines, the ministry said. As a result, there is a "realistic possibility" that Russia is now trying to disguise fuel trucks to reduce losses.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
JERUSALEM -- Israel's prime minister spoke Sunday evening by phone with Russian President Vladimir Putin, a day after his snap trip to Moscow to discuss the more than weeklong Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The agency said on Twitter that a record one-day number of over 129,000 crossed into Poland on Saturday, and almost 40,000 between midnight and 7 a.m. on Sunday.
He did not name the home countries of the volunteers, saying that some of them forbid their citizens from fighting for other countries.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
Pelosi says the House would also empower the Biden administration to raise tariffs on Russian imports.
Bennett landed in Israel on Sunday morning and is expected to convene his cabinet for its weekly meeting later in the day.
Referring to Ukraine as "that martyred country," Francis called for a cessation of violence, the establishment of humanitarian corridors and a return to negotiations.
Bennett's trip was the latest attempt at diplomacy in the Russia-Ukraine crisis. Israel is one of the few countries that has good working relations with both Russia and Ukraine. Israel has delivered humanitarian aid to Ukraine, but also maintains ties with Moscow to make sure that Israeli and Russian warplanes do not come into conflict in neighbouring Syria.
Kharkiv officials said the shelling damaged the television tower and heavy artillery was hitting residential areas.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday intensified a crackdown on media outlets and individuals who fail to hew to the Kremlin line on Russia's war in Ukraine, blocking Facebook and Twitter and signing into law a bill that criminalizes the intentional spreading of what Moscow deems to be "fake" reports.
NATO countries have ruled out policing a no-fly zone, which would bar all unauthorized aircraft from flying over Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin said Saturday that Moscow would consider any third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as "participation in the armed conflict."
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
Israel is one of the few countries that has good working relations with both Russia and Ukraine.
NEW YORK -- American Express announced Sunday it is suspending all operations in Russia and Belarus.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Crowds of men have been lining up in Kyiv to join the Ukrainian army.
Are you in Ukraine? Do you have family in Ukraine? Are you or your family affected? Emaildotcombellmedia.ca.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
Additionally, Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid will fly to Riga, Latvia, on Monday to meet with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, the Foreign Ministry said.
"The latest wave of missile strikes came as darkness fell," he said on Ukrainian television.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
The head of the United Nations' refugee agency said Sunday that more than 1.5 million refugees have crossed from Ukraine into neighbouring countries since Russia invaded.
He said Ukrainians have put up "an extraordinarily courageous and brave fight" and "they've been doing very, very well. But it's a little bit early to draw any definitive lessons."
Putin said he does not intend to attack nuclear plants and agreed on the principle of a "dialogue" between IAEA, Ukraine and Russia on this issue, according to the official, who spoke anonymously in line with the French presidency's practices. Potential talks are to be organized in the coming days, he said.
The Russian Defence Ministry announced Sunday that its forces intend to strike Ukraine's military-industrial complex with what it said were precision weapons.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
The Austrian company has already ended negotiations with Russia's Gazprom about the potential purchase of a stake in the Urengoy gas field in Siberia.
The pontiff said Sunday that "the Holy See is willing to do everything to put itself in service for peace." The papal almsgiver, Cardinal Konrad Krajewski, has been dispatched with aid, along with Cardinal Michael Czerny, who is head of the papal office that deals with migration, charity, justice and peace.
Naftali Bennett spoke Sunday to a meeting of his cabinet, hours after he returned from a surprise meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, where the two discussed the war with Ukraine. He then travelled to Germany where he met Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
LVIV, Ukraine -- As Russian forces increased their shelling of Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelensky appealed to the West to strengthen sanctions.
He said on Telegram that "there can be no 'green corridors' because only the sick brain of the Russians decides when to start shooting and at whom."
Ukrainian military authorities said earlier Sunday that evacuations from the port city of Mariupol were scheduled to begin at noon local time 10 a.m. GMT during a 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. local ceasefire.
Milley said that "the will of the Ukrainian people, the importance of their national leadership and the fighting skills of the Ukrainian army has come through loud and clear."
OMV said in a statement late Saturday that "Russia will no longer be a core region" in its business. CEO Alfred Stern said that "the war in Ukraine is a tragic and perilous situation that is causing great suffering for many and that we view with the utmost consternation."
Grandi said that "what is needed really is a ceasefire, is the end to hostilities because that's the only way to stop this tragedy."
The two other Big Four companies -- Deloitte and Ernst  Young -- didn't immediately return requests for comment Sunday.
Konashenkov warned that if those warplanes attack the Russian forces from the territory of those nations, it "could be considered as those countries' engagement in the military conflict."
TEL AVIV, Israel -- Israel's prime minister says his country will continue to assist in finding a diplomatic solution to the Ukraine crisis, even if the chances for success are few.
The director general of the agency, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said Sunday Ukrainian staff members are now required to seek approval for any operation, even maintenance, from the Russians, and that they have impeded normal communications by switching off some mobile networks and internet at the site.
Asked about oil and gas imports, Blinken told CNN on Sunday that U.S. President Joe Biden convened a meeting of his National Security Council on the subject the day before. Biden and Western allies have until now held off on sanctions against Russia's lucrative energy industry to avoid blowback on their own economies.
MEDYKA, Poland -- The head of the United Nations' refugee agency says the international Red Cross and the UN are negotiating access to the cities in Ukraine most impacted by fighting since Russia invaded Feb. 24.
He said Romanian authorities believe that the situation "will continue for a long time, and the complications will worsen." The president added: "We believe that this humanitarian catastrophe will spread, that a lot of help will be needed here, but also in Ukraine."
OMV holds a 24.99 stake in Yuzhno Rosskoye. It said that the review it has now launched "comprises all options including possibilities to divest or exit." It said that it expects to take costs of 500 million to 800 million euros US$547 million to $875 million.
Blinken was meeting on Sunday with senior Moldovan officials who are appealing for international assistance in dealing with more than 120,000 refugees from Ukraine that it is now hosting while also seeking security reassurances against potential Russian aggression. More than 230,000 people have fled into Moldova from Ukraine since the war began 11 days ago.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bennett revealed no details from his talks with Putin, but called the country's mediation efforts "our moral duty." Earlier, his office said he and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky spoke by phone Sunday morning, the third such call between the two leaders over the past day.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
Eduard Basurin, the head of the military in separatist-held Donetsk, said safe passage corridors for residents of the besieged port city of Mariupol and the city of Volnovakha would reopen Sunday. He did not say for how long nor whether a ceasefire would accompany the evacuation.
"I've got no illusions. I've got no romantic ideas of war or like 'I'm going to be some hero' or make a difference, but it is what I do," Ayres said.
The broadcaster, which has had a physical presence in Russia since 1991, plans to continue reporting on Russia and the war in Ukraine from abroad.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Putin has listed "demilitarization" and "denazification" of Ukraine, recognition of Russian-annexed Crimea as part of Russia and separatist regions in eastern Ukraine as independent states as the Kremlin's main demands.
During a visit on Saturday to Romania's northern border at Siret, Romanian President Klaus Iohannis said that "no Ukrainian will be denied entry into Romania."
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Kuleba also urged Ukrainians living in other countries to begin a campaign to push for Ukraine's membership in the European Union.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
The company previously halted its relationships with banks in Russia impacted by the U.S. and international government sanctions, the company said.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
NEW YORK -- The Kremlin says President Vladimir Putin told his Turkish counterpart that Russia's military action in Ukraine could be halted "only if Kyiv ceases hostilities and fulfills the well-known demands of Russia."
His agency didn't immediately give a more precise update on the refugee figures. Grandi is visiting countries that border Ukraine.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
Zelensky called for organizing a "tribunal" to bring to justice those who order and carry out such crimes.
PARIS -- The French presidency said the call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and French President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday focused primarily on the safety of Ukraine's nuclear plants.
Valentyna Pushych was known locally as "Romashka," which means "Daisy." A friend described her as a "daredevil," who was never afraid to "get under bullets.'
Arestovich described a "catastrophic" situation in the Kyiv suburbs of Bucha, Hostomel and Irpin, where efforts to evacuate residents on Sunday failed. He said the government was doing all it could to resume evacuations.
WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Joe Biden has called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to discuss ongoing efforts to impose economic costs on Russia and to speed U.S. military, humanitarian and economic assistance to Ukraine.
China has broken with the U.S., Europe and others that have imposed sanctions on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine. China says that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations should be respected, but that sanctions create new issues and disrupt the process of political settlement.
The announcement came after Russia on Friday passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
NEW YORK -- TikTok said Sunday that users won't be able to post new videos in Russia in response to the government's crackdown on social media.
TEL AVIV, Israel -- Israel's prime minister has returned from a surprise trip to Russia where he met President Vladimir Putin and discussed the war in Ukraine.
The announcement comes after TikTok said users on its platform in Russia have been blocked from posting and viewing videos shared from elsewhere in the world. American Express also announced earlier in the day it would suspend operations in Russia, as well as in Russian-allied Belarus.
Bennett has also spoken on the phone multiple times with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky -- most recently Sunday morning -- as part of his shuttle diplomacy to mediate between Ukraine and Russia after more than a week of fighting.
WARSAW, Poland -- Poland's border guard agency says that over 922,000 refugees have crossed the border from Ukraine since Feb. 24, when Russia launched its invasion.
The White House said the pair also discussed talks between Russia and Ukraine during the more than 30-minute call early Sunday in Ukraine, but offered no additional details.
The children were evacuated from the central Ukrainian city of Zhytomyr and brought to Israel by the KKL-JNF organization.
BEIJING -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that China opposes any moves that "add fuel to the flames" in Ukraine.
Russia already has troops in the country of 2.6 million that are stationed in the disputed territory of Transnistria and are being closely watched as Russian President Vladimir Putin presses ahead with the invasion of Ukraine. Although it has no plans to try to become a member of NATO, Moldova formally applied to join the European Union just three days ago in a fast-track bid to bolster its ties with the West.
"This is likely to represent an effort to break Ukrainian morale," the ministry said in a statement. "Russia has used similar tactics in Chechnya in 1999 and Syria in 2016, employing both air and ground-based munitions."
A similar ceasefire planned for Mariupol and the nearby city of Volnovakha collapsed Saturday, trapping residents under more shelling and aerial bombardment by Russian forces.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
In a video statement Sunday evening, Zelensky heaped criticism on Western leaders for not responding to the Russian Defence Ministry's announcement that it would strike Ukraine's military-industrial complex, while telling employees of these defense plants not to go to work.
"In Ukraine, rivers of blood and tears are flowing. This is not just a military operation, but a war that sows death, destruction and misery," he said in his traditional Sunday blessing.
VIENNA, Austria -- The International Atomic Energy Agency has said Russian forces are tightening their grip on the Zaporizhzhya nuclear plant, Ukraine's largest, that they seized last week.
Milley said the U.S. currently has no indications that Moscow is planning to attack on the Baltic countries and "we want to make sure it stays that way."
PRAGUE -- Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty says it has suspended its operations in Russia after Moscow intensified a crackdown on what it deems to be "fake" reports and tax authorities initiated bankruptcy proceedings against it.
Grandi stressed that wide international assistance is needed for Poland and other countries receiving refugees from Ukraine. He said that "predictions are difficult, hundreds of thousands are on the move inside Ukraine, and it is very likely that we will see a large influx continuing in the next few days." Earlier Sunday, he said that more than 1.5 million people have already fled Ukraine for neighboring countries.
Zelensky said in a video address on Sunday that "the world is strong enough to close our skies."
The U.S. State Department says Blinken underscored that the world is acting in unison in response to Russian aggression and ensuring that Moscow will pay a high price.
SIRET, Romania -- Romania's border police say more than 227,000 Ukrainian citizens have entered Romania in total since the crisis began and more than 155,000 of them have already left the country.
A nation of some 38 million people, Poland is receiving the largest number of refugees among Ukraine's neighbors. Some who entered Poland have continued to other countries.
He said the areas that came under heavy shelling include the outskirts of Kyiv, Chernihiv in the north, Mykolaiv in the south, and Kharkiv, the country's second-largest city.
ISTANBUL -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's office says he has called for an urgent ceasefire in Ukraine in a telephone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
A statement from the company cited "circumstances on the ground" for its decision to suspend its Russian service but didn't offer any additional details.
"I didn't hear even a single world leader react to this," Zelensky said. "The audacity of the aggressor is a clear signal to the West that the sanctions imposed on Russia are not sufficient."
