Nokia and Ericsson halt new business in Russia Is Huawei next
20220412
https://www.ctvnews.ca/business/nokia-and-ericsson-halt-new-business-in-russia-is-huawei-next-1.5858731
Asked about sanctions on Russia at an earnings conference in March, Huawei Rotating Chairman Guo Ping said: "Just like every one of you, we hope to see a ceasefire and end of the war as soon as possible. And we believe that wise leadership will soon put this crisis to an end, and restore normal life."
"Over the last weeks we have suspended deliveries, stopped new business and are moving our limited RD activities out of Russia," Nokia said in a statement. "We can now announce we will exit the Russian market."
The recent upturn in cryptocurrencies has inspired many to reconsider investing. But is it really a good idea? In a column on CTVNews.ca, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explores some of the pros and cons so that you can make an informed choice.
This task could extend to its next generation internet. Nokia and Ericsson are two of the world's biggest providers of 5G mobile networks  the ultra-fast internet that will underpin a raft of future technologies.
Over the past four years, the companies have launched the highest number of commercial and trial 5G networks globally  Ericsson launched 216, and Nokia 200  according to Kagan, a data provider owned by SP Global Market Intelligence. China's Huawei came in third, with 75 launches.
Many Canadians have continued to see an increase in their rental rates in 2023. In an column on CTVNews.ca, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explains how to calculate how much rent you can afford.
Western governments have imposed several rounds of punishing sanctions on Russia since the invasion, including restrictions on imports of advanced technology into the country.
Food bloggers and cookbook authors say meal-planning and simple recipes can help home cooks put together filling and tasty dishes on a budget -- an increasingly stressful challenge amid rising food prices.
Nokia has announced its exit from Russia, while rival Ericsson is putting its business there on hold indefinitely, throwing into doubt the country's ability to build super-fast 5G networks.
But they have emphasized the need, on humanitarian grounds, to maintain functioning telecoms networks to enable Russians to access information from abroad.
Forbes reported on Tuesday that Huawei has forced some of its office workers in Russia to take a month-long vacation after it suspended new orders, citing three sources close to the matter. The company fears it will fall foul of Western sanctions if it does business in the country, a source told the publication.
Many Canadians are experiencing strains caused by the increased cost of living and inflation. In his exclusive column for CTVNews.ca, contributor Christopher Liew shares some of the top credits and deductions that you may be able to claim on your income tax return to help you save money.
Nokia said it would "aim to provide the necessary support to maintain the networks" and was applying for licenses to ensure compliance with sanctions.
That leaves China's Huawei as the only top 3 global provider of 5G networks still active in the country.
The Finnish telecom company announced on Tuesday that staying in Russia would "not be possible" given President Vladimir Putin's ongoing assault on Ukraine.
Recent reports suggest Huawei  which supplies 5G networks to Russia's largest mobile operator MTS  could follow its European rivals in halting new business.
While there are many benefits to electric cars, the question of whether they are a good financial choice in Canada is still up in the air, personal finance contributor Christopher Liew explains on CTVNews.ca.
The Better Business Bureau says Canadians fell for home improvement scams the most in 2022, in a report highlighting the riskiest scams and how much money they cost Canadians.
But Huawei, which continues to fight for survival after U.S. sanctions severely curtailed its access to key technology, has stayed silent so far, except to call for peace in Ukraine.
Western companies have quit their Russian businesses in droves following the start of the invasion in late February. Russia now faces the onerous task of building homegrown alternatives to Western products and services, possibly with the help of Chinese suppliers.
There are going to be some changes to Canada's tax brackets as we move into 2023. These changes could impact how youre taxed when you file your 2023 income tax returns next year.
In light of new poll results that found Canadians are spending a lot of time worrying about money, one personal finance expert shares some simple tips to help Canadians avoid making some common, costly mistakes with their cash.
All three vendors are important to Russia: Huawei and another Chinese company, ZTE, provide between 40 per cent and 60 per cent of Russia's wireless network equipment, while Nokia and Ericsson supply the rest, the Financial Times reported, citing data from telecoms research firm Dell'Oro Group.
Ericsson, meanwhile, said on Monday that it would suspend its business in the country indefinitely and place its workers on paid leave. It had already halted all deliveries to customers in Russia in late February.
In November, Nokia said it was entering into a joint venture with Yadro, a Russian data storage developer, to build 4G and 5G telecoms base stations in Russia. That project has now been scrapped, a Nokia spokesperson confirmed to CNN Business.
