RussiaUkraine crisis updates Japan sanctions Russia separatist Ukraine areas
20220222
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/russia-ukraine-crisis-updates-protesters-in-berlin-decry-russian-troop-move-1.5790895
Authorities in Vienna are also stepping up surveillance of potential cyberthreats to Austrian government institutions. The country's foreign ministry was targeted in a cyberattack two years ago that was traced to Russia.
BERLIN -- Germany's Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock has chaired a call of the G-7 nations in which ministers strongly condemned Russia's recognition of the separatist-controlled areas of Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine and the decision to deploy Russian troops there.
Scholz said that the government had decided to "reassess" the certification of the pipeline, which hasn't begun operating yet.
Scholz said Tuesday that his and other countries made clear at a UN Security Council meeting that Moscow "has no support in the world" for its decision to recognize the independence of rebel-held regions in eastern Ukraine.
MOSCOW -- Russia says its recognition of independence for areas in eastern Ukraine extends to territory currently held by Ukrainian forces.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
BERLIN - Germany's top security official says authorities are preparing for possible cyberattacks in response to the crisis with Russia.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
Jon Finer, the principal deputy national security adviser, said Tuesday: "We think this is, yes, the beginning of an invasion, Russia's latest invasion into Ukraine." He said "latest" was important -- "an invasion is an invasion and that is what is under way."
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Russia has been a main backer of Assad's government during the Arab country's decade-old conflict. Russian military intervention since September 2015 has helped tip the balance of power in Assad's favour.
MOSCOW -- Russia's closest allies appeared reluctant to immediately back Moscow's decision to recognize the independence of rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine.
BERLIN -- German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Germany continues to rule out the delivery of arms to Ukraine despite Russian President Vladimir Putin's order to deploy troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine.
Stoltenberg called the move Tuesday a serious escalation by Russia and a flagrant violation of international law. The NATO chief called the military action a further invasion of Ukraine by Russia which had already invaded its neighbour in 2014.
BERLIN -- German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin may be looking for a pretext to occupy the whole of Ukraine.
"There is a variety of sanctions options that now need to be used in a targeted way because we have to assume that we haven't yet reached the peak of the escalation," he told reporters in Vienna.
Estonian President Alar Karis said that "Russia tore the Minsk agreements into pieces," referring to a 2015 peace deal. He said "this shows that Moscow's aim is to deepen the conflict, not to solve it."
He said failure to stop the Russian president's aggression now would send the message that Moscow can play around with the Europeans and the U.S.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
The Foreign Ministry of Belarus said Tuesday it saw Russian President Vladimir Putin's move "with respect and understanding," but refrained from saying whether Minsk would follow suit and recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk republics.
The benchmark SP 500 index fell 1 to 4,304.76 on Tuesday, and is now more than 10 below it's all-time high set in January. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and Nasdaq also lost more than 1. Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized the independence of rebel-held regions of Ukraine, raising fears of an imminent full-scale invasion.
HELSINKI -- Finland's president says that, despite Russia's actions in Ukraine, he hasn't seen an increase in Russian military activity in the Baltic Sea, where many countries are suspicious of Moscow's intentions.
The administration resisted initially calling the deployment of troops because the White House wanted to see what Russia was actually going to do. The official added that, after assessing Russian troop movements, it became clear it was a new invasion.
Another Russian ally, Armenia, has so far issued no message of support for the Russian move.
EU foreign ministers are meeting later Tuesday to discuss the measures. The two leaders said that "the EU has prepared and stands ready to adopt additional measures at a later stage if needed in the light of further developments."
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
The Baltic countries' position on NATO's eastern flank was at the forefront of discussions Tuesday as defence ministers from the Joint Expeditionary Force met in central England. The U.K.-led force is a group of 10 nations designed to react more quickly in the event of threats like those now posed by Russia.
HELSINKI -- The Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have strongly condemned Russia's decision to recognize the separatist regions of Luhansk and Donetsk as independent states.
Johnson accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "establishing the pretext for a full-scale offensive" against Ukraine and said "further powerful sanctions" would follow if that happened.
Johnson told lawmakers that sanctions would hit Rossiya Bank, IS Bank, General Bank, Promsvyazbank and the Black Sea Bank.
He said one reason may be Russia has noticed "that Ukraine has been strengthening year-by-year and is continuing to do so."
MOSCOW - Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for international recognition of Crimea as part of Russia, an end to Ukraine's NATO membership bid and a halt to weapons shipments there.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
MOSCOW -- Russian lawmakers have given President Vladimir Putin permission to use military force outside the country.
Latvian Defence Minister Artis Pabriks said in an interview with the Associated Press that world leaders must act swiftly to impose punishing sanctions or it will be too late to stand up for freedom and democracy.
Although he held out hope for a peaceful resolution through diplomacy, he said he did not believe a meeting with Lavrov would be productive at this time.
WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden says the U.S. will be sanctioning Russian oligarchs and their families, as well as Russian sovereign debt in retaliation for the country's invasion of Ukraine.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Speaking to Turkish journalists during a three-nation tour of Africa, Erdogan said the decision was a clear violation of Ukraine's political unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity.
People were waving yellow-blue Ukrainian flags and chanting "We stand united with Ukraine!" as they assembled in front of the building near the German capital's landmark Brandenburg Gate on Tuesday evening.
Blinken told reporters on Tuesday that Russia's actions indicated Moscow was not serious about a diplomatic path to resolving the crisis. As a result, he said he had called off his Thursday meeting with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations chief says the world is facing "the biggest global peace and security crisis in recent years" and is calling Russia's declaration of the "so-called independence"' of separatist areas in eastern Ukraine a violation of its territorial integrity and accusing Moscow of "the perversion of the concept of peacekeeping."
VIENNA -- Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer says his country has summoned the Russian ambassador to protest Moscow's breach of Ukraine's sovereignty.
BRUSSELS -- European Union foreign ministers will meet Tuesday to decide what sanctions to impose over Russia's decision to recognize two separatist regions in southeast Ukraine, the EU's top diplomat said.
He said the package would affect members of Russia's duma who voted against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine as well as another 27 people and entities which are often companies, banks or agencies.
He added that there's every indication Russia continues to plan for a full-scale attack on Ukraine.
The move follows Russia's recognition of Ukraine's rebel regions and the Russian parliament's vote to grant President Vladimir Putin a permission to use military force in Ukraine.
SANAA, Yemen -- Yemen's Houthi rebels have welcomed Russia's decision to recognize two separatist regions in southeast Ukraine.
BRUSSELS - French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian says the European Union's 27 members unanimously agree on an initial set of sanctions targeting Russian officials involved in Ukraine.
President Sauli Niinisto said Tuesday that "strangely enough, situation in the entire Baltic Sea area seems very calm and the number of Russian military equipment dispatched in the area is on the decline."
Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic, who led the small Adriatic state to NATO membership in 2017 despite strong opposition from Russia, gave his support to Ukraine.
ATHENS, Greece -- Greece's government says it is drawing up plans to assist some 100,000 ethnic Greeks who live in eastern Ukraine.
Baron was very worried about the future of Ukraine and said that she thought "that right now everything is possible" including Russian troops heading into mainland Ukraine.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
Foreign Affairs Minister Nanaia Mahuta is currently out of the country but said in a statement that the ambassador was called in "to hear New Zealand's strong opposition to the actions taken by Russia in recent days, and condemn what looks to be the beginning of a Russian invasion into Ukraine territory."
She added: "What we witnessed Monday evening might seem surreal for democratic world. But the way we respond will define us for the generations to come."
Some held up banners saying "Ukraine will resist," "Say no to Putin" or "Implement sanctions immediately," while others wrapped themselves into huge Ukrainian flags.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
WELLINGTON, New Zealand -- New Zealand's government summoned Russian Ambassador Georgii Zuev to meet Wednesday with top diplomatic officials who are urging Russia to return to diplomatic negotiations over Ukraine.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
The annexation has been widely condemned by Western powers as a breach of international law.
Officials in Kazakhstan whose president last month asked for a Russia-led security alliance to send troops to quell violent unrest, said the issue of recognizing the separatist regions was not on the country's agenda.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
Meanwhile, Putin sought to reassure Russia's ex-Soviet allies that he doesn't envision resurrecting the Soviet Union. He told the Azerbaijani president that speculation that Russia would attempt to restore its empire "is absolutely not true."
Nehammer also assured Austrians that even if Russia were to stop delivering natural gas immediately, "the energy supply is secure."
The White House decided to begin referring to Russia's actions as an "invasion" because of the situation on the ground, according to a U.S. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
Australia and Russia have imposed sanctions on each other since 2014. The sanctions were initiated by Australia in protest of Russian involvement in the Ukraine conflict.
Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Tuesday that his government was taking the measure in response to Moscow's actions in Ukraine.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
The vote formalizes a Russian military deployment to the rebel regions, where an eight-year conflict has killed nearly 14,000 people.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
"Many of us were forewarning that President Putin already had an agenda -- you heard that agenda in his speech last night," Wallace said, referring to Putin's decision to recognize two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine. "This is a sovereign state which has now had some of its land effectively annexed from it."
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
He added: "We strongly urge Russia to return to diplomatic process in resolving the development."
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address to the nation Tuesday night that he had signed a decree to that effect.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
The unanimous vote in Russia's upper house on Tuesday could presage a broader attack on Ukraine after the U.S. said an invasion was already underway there.
Guterres said Russia's unilateral actions also "conflict" with the U.N. Charter and are "a death blow to the Minsk Agreements" aimed at restoring peace to eastern Ukraine.
The Interior Ministry said Tuesday that security agencies have taken protective measures to avert such attacks and Germany's national cyber defence centre is monitoring developments.
The prime minister says up to 460 additional Canadian Armed Forces members are being sent to Latvia and the surrounding region to bolster NATO in the face of Russian aggression.
Scholz told German public broadcaster ARD on Tuesday night that Germany had made a decision to not export weapons to crisis regions a long time ago, "and we stick to that."
Several European leaders said earlier in the day that Russian troops have moved into rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine after Putin recognized their independence.
They said the restrictive measures would aim to limit "the ability of the Russian state and government to access the EU's capital and financial markets and services, to limit the financing of escalatory and aggressive policies."
Johnson is to set out further details of the sanctions in the House of Commons later Tuesday.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
He said that "if we do fail to stop Mr. Putin now -- to stop his aggression -- and if we are not managing to force him to de-escalate now, then our global values will decrease and everybody will think that they can play around with the Europeans -- they can play around also with Americans."
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Also Tuesday, President Bashar Assad's office released a statement saying that the Syrian president received in December a delegation of Russian legislators, including representatives from the Donetsk region, and told them at the time that Damascus "is ready to recognize the Republic of Donetsk and an agreement was reached to start relations with it."
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
Benko said that he believed further escalation of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine could bring armed activity all the way to Ukraine's western border. He said Hungarian soldiers would need to be prepared for the possible arrival of Ukrainian refugees in the wake of a greater conflict.
The German foreign ministry said Tuesday night that the G-7 foreign ministers agreed to step up restrictive measures responding to Russia's actions and reiterated their unwavering commitment to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders.
BELVOIR CASTLE, England -- Latvia's defence minister has urged world leaders to act now to stop Russian aggression in Ukraine, arguing that sanctions must be swift and punishing or it would be too late to protect international security.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
Asked whether Russia's decision to send "peacekeepers" in already amounts to an invasion, Borrell said, "I wouldn't say that's a fully fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil."
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed to The Associated Press on Wednesday afternoon that the meeting had taken place but declined to provide any further details.
In Baltic neighbour Latvia, President Egils Levits, Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins and the country's Parliament released a joint statement condemning Moscow's actions.
"He's setting up a rationale to take more territory by force," Biden said of recent comments by Russian President Vladimir Putin. "This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine."
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Wednesday that his government will ban new issuance and distribution of Russian government bonds in Japan in response to the "actions Russia has been taking in Ukraine."
Kishida repeated his "strong condemnation" of Russia for violating Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as international law.
OTTAWA, Ontario -- Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says Canada is sending hundreds more troops to eastern Europe and imposing new sanctions on Russia in response to the deployment of forces into Ukraine.
A statement Tuesday said the move would "target those who were involved in the illegal decision" to recognize two rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine. It didn't identify them.
Nehammer said Austria supports the EU's approach of imposing sanctions against Russia step by step, starting with a formal decision Tuesday afternoon by the bloc's foreign ministers.
Mohammed Ali al-Houthi, the head of the rebels' Supreme Revolutionary Committees, said late Monday that the Iranian-backed Houthis support the recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent republics. He called for restraint to avoid sliding into a war.
He told broadcasters that this would be "just the first barrage of U.K. economic sanctions against Russia because we expect, I'm afraid, that there is more Russian irrational behaviour to come."
Defence Minister Artis Pabriks told The Associated Press on Tuesday that it was time for European countries and their allies to impose sanctions on Russia.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Wednesday that targeted financial sanctions and travel bans will be a first batch of measures in response to Russian aggression toward Ukraine.
He said that the NATO response force remains on high readiness but is not yet being deployed, although some allies are moving troops, ships and planes into the Baltic states and near the Black Sea to defend other NATO members.
Interior Minister Nancy Faser said on Twitter that authorities are prepared for all conceivable impacts of this conflict.
"Today there is no need for a full mobilization. We need to quickly add additional staff to the Ukrainian army and other military formations," Zelenskyy said.
He said he doesn't currently see Finland, which is a member of the European Union but not NATO, facing a military threat from Russia. The two countries share a long border. But he stressed that Finland will pay close attention to Moscow's future actions outside Ukraine.
BERLIN -- Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Germany has taken steps to halt the process of certifying the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia.
Plans to assist members of that community were the subject of an emergency meeting convened Tuesday by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis with top defence, energy and foreign policy officials. Asked if there was a plan to evacuate ethnic Greeks from the region, Katsaniotis told state television: "Of course, but we still haven't reached that situation."
BELVOIR CASTLE, England -- U.K. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has warned of worrying signs that Russia has begun to move forces into Ukraine as he opened a conference of defence ministers from Baltic and North Atlantic states.
He said the decree only applies to those assigned to the so-called operational reserve, which is typically activated during ongoing hostilities, and covers "a special period of time," without clarifying what that means.
Lithuania Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte tweeted that Russia President Vladimir "Putin just put Kafka  Orwell to shame: no limits to dictator's imagination, no lows too low, no lies too blatant, no red lines too red to cross."
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Niinisto said he didn't know why Russian has "now simply decided to settle the Ukraine situation that has been going on for some seven, eight years."
WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Antony Blinken says he has cancelled plans to meet his Russian counterpart in Geneva later this week as Russia presses ahead with recognition of separatist regions of Ukraine.
Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev who's in Moscow for talks with Putin, made no mention of Moscow's recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk in his publicly broadcast remarks, but focused instead on bilateral relations.
CANBERRA, Australia -- Australia has announced additional sanctions on Russia and is warning businesses to prepare for retaliation through Russian cyberattacks.
"I'm afraid all the evidence is that President Putin is indeed bent on a full-scale invasion of the Ukraine, the overrunning, the subjugation of an independent, sovereign European country and I think, let's be absolutely clear, that would be absolutely catastrophic."
The statement said that "in a gross violation of international law, under a fabricated pretext, and by spreading false information, Russia seeks to induce a change in Ukraine's political leadership and foreign policy course by violent means."
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
The U.S. and European Union responded with sanctions. Technology shares also weighed on the broader market. Bond yields rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 1.93.
He also said that Russian tanks and armoured personnel carriers have been spotted in the separatist Ukrainian regions recognized as independent by Russian President Vladimir Putin. He said that amounts to "a renewed invasion" of Ukraine.
Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic also slammed Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision, as did Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell said Tuesday this first package of sanctions will hurt Russia and it will hurt a lot.
He said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy "deserves our highest respect for his country not letting itself be provoked by Russia, because the Russian president is waiting for just that to have a pretext possibly to occupy all of Ukraine."
TOKYO -- Japan's prime minister has announced sanctions targeting Russia and two separatist Ukrainian regions recognized as independent by Russian President Vladimir Putin, joining an international effort seeking to pressure Russia to return to diplomatic solutions.
Biden added that he was authorizing the movement of some U.S. troops in Europe to NATO's Baltic allies as a show of support and solidarity amid the Russian threat.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Putin claimed Tuesday that Russia's 2014 annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula should be internationally recognized as a legitimate reflection of the local population's choice, likening it to a vote for Kosovo independence.
The Houthis have been in war against a Saudi-led coalition since 2015, months after the rebels overran Yemen's capital, Sanaa, and ousted the internationally recognized government.
BELGRADE, Serbia - Most of the leaders in the war-scarred Balkans condemned Russia's decision to recognize two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine, while Serbia's president said he fears pressure to join Western sanctions against his Kremlin allies.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
BRUSSELS -- Top European Union officials say the bloc is set to impose sanctions on several Russian officials as well as banks financing the Russian armed forces. It also intends to limit Moscow's access to EU capital and financial markets.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told reporters Tuesday he is proud of the achievements of the U.N.'s far-flung peacekeepers, but when troops of one country enter the territory of another country without its consent, as Russian forces have done, "they are not impartial peacekeepers -- they are not peacekeepers at all" as Moscow has called them.
"Ukrainians are a peaceful nation, we want silence, but if we keep silent today, we will disappear tomorrow," Zelenskyy said.
BUDAPEST, Hungary -- Hungary's defence minister says the military will deploy soldiers and equipment to the region near the Ukrainian border to prepare for potential humanitarian and border protection operations.
DAMASCUS, Syria -- Syria's foreign minister has praised Russia's recognition of the independence of rebel regions in eastern Ukraine, describing it as a step "toward defending world peace."
ANKARA, Turkey -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says Russia's decision to recognize two separatist regions in eastern Ukraine is "unacceptable" and is calling for a respect of international laws.
NEW YORK -- Stocks are closing lower on Wall Street after Russia sent forces into Ukraine's eastern regions, escalating tensions.
"Montenegro confirms its unanimous support of the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders," said Djukanovic.
The pipeline bringing natural gas from Russia to Germany has long been criticized by the United States and some European countries who argue that it increases Europe's reliance on Russian energy supplies.
Echoing President Joe Biden, Blinken said Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision to recognize the independence of Ukraine's Donbass region was a violation of international law. And, he said the placement of Russian troops there constituted the beginning of an invasion.
The chancellor added "we must insist that the peace order in Europe is again based on the fact that borders are not moved and that the state sovereignty of countries is not questioned."
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine's president has called up some of the country's military reservists as the threat of a Russian invasion grows, but says there is no need for a full military mobilization.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
He said Japan will also suspend visa issuance to the people linked to the two Ukrainian rebel regions and freeze their assets in Japan, and will ban trade with the two areas.
He said three Russian oligarchs with interests in energy and infrastructure -- Gennady Timchenko, Boris Rotenberg and Igor Rotenberg -- will have their assets frozen and be banned from travelling to the U.K.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
"It's very important that we support our people even though we're abroad," she said adding that she talked to her family back home almost every day and spends hours on social media following the latest developments.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said the meeting in Paris "will take the political decisions vis-a-vis the European response."
Those involved included the foreign ministers of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S., along with the European Union.
Andreas Katsaniotis, a deputy foreign minister for Greek communities abroad, said consular services had been enhanced in the Ukrainian port of Mariupol, where the ethnic Greek community is based.
The National Security Committee of Morrison's Cabinet approved sanctions and travel bans that target eight members of the Russian Security Council. They also agreed to expand previous sanctions and to align with the United States and Britain by targeting two Russian banks.
"I'm here to protest against Russia invading our independent Ukrainian territory," said Victoria Baron, 27, who moved from Odesa in Ukraine last summer to work for a data science company in Berlin.
The ministry said Tuesday that Russian diplomats in Ukraine have received multiple threats, adding that they will be evacuated "in the nearest time." It did not elaborate.
Defence Minister Tibor Benko said Prime Minister Viktor Orban ordered the military to mobilize along the country's eastern border to prevent armed groups from potentially entering Hungarian territory, Hungarian state news agency MTI reported.
The statement Tuesday further raises the stakes amid Western fears that Moscow could follow up on Monday's recognition of rebel regions with a full-fledged invasion of Ukraine.
"We consider this decision by Russia as being unacceptable," Erdogan said. "We reiterate our call to the parties to respect common sense and international law."
Borrell added that the package will also affect financing of policies linked to Ukraine by limiting access to EU financial markets.
BERLIN -- Protesters have flocked to the Russian embassy in Berlin to decry Russian President Vladimir Putin's order to deploy troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine.
Speaking at the White House on Tuesday, Biden said those sanctions were just the "first tranche" of what the U.S. and its allies stand ready to put in place if Russia launches a larger invasion of Ukraine.
"Clearly, that response will be in the form of sanctions," Borrell said. He said the aim is not to impose the whole range of sanctions that the EU has prepared should Russian invade Ukraine, but rather to address the recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent.
Scholz also pointed out that "Ukraine has a lot of weapons ... and the point is that we have to protect Ukraine not by giving more weapons, but by standing together as an international community and saying that we will not simply accept such a breach of international law." He stressed that Germany has been the biggest financial supporter of Ukraine since 2014.
LONDON -- Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Britain is slapping sanctions on five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals over Russia's latest military moves on Ukraine.
Faisal Mekdad spoke during a visit to Moscow. He said that "we have been cooperating with the republics of Donetsk and Luhansk for a long time, and we believe that these current conditions will help increase this cooperation," Syria's state news agency SANA reported.
MOSCOW -- The Russian Foreign Ministry said that it has decided to evacuate Russian diplomatic personnel from Ukraine, pointing at threats.
He also says Canada is taking a number of steps alongside its allies to isolate Russia financially.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia has recognized the rebel regions' independence "in borders that existed when they proclaimed" their independence in 2014.
Stoltenberg said that NATO allies have more than 100 warplanes on high alert and more than 120 warships ready at sea from the Arctic Circle to the Mediterranean Sea.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
"This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed," Johnson told British lawmakers.
Ukrainian forces later reclaimed control of large part of both regions during a nearly eight-year conflict that has killed over 14,000 people.
But it was unclear how large the movements were. Ukraine and its Western allies have long said Russian troops are fighting in the region. Moscow denies those allegations.
Wallace issued the warning to a meeting of defence ministers from the nations of the Joint Expeditionary Force on Tuesday in Leicestershire, England, though he said reports of military equipment moving into Ukraine's Donbas region would need to be verified.
The Ukrainian capital of Kyiv is only a three hour drive from the border of Belarus, where Russia has stationed troops for earlier war games.
BELVOIR CASTLE, England - Defence ministers from the Baltic states urged world leaders to move swiftly and impose harsh sanctions on Russia, saying their countries know firsthand the dangers of trying to appease a bully.
To end the current crisis, he also called for the renunciation of Ukraine's NATO bid, saying it should assume a neutral status, and said that the West should stop sending weapons there.
"There are now many challenges for Serbia of political, security and economic nature," Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic said. "The political pressures will be greater than ever."
EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and EU Council President Charles Michel said it would also "target trade from the two breakaway regions to and from the EU."
Johnson said Putin had "completely torn up international law" and British sanctions would target not just the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk but "Russian economic interests as hard as we can."
LONDON -- Prime Minister Boris Johnson says the U.K. will introduce "immediate" economic sanctions against Russia, and warned that President Vladimir Putin is bent on "a full-scale invasion of Ukraine."
BRUSSELS - NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says Russia is taking military action against Ukraine and has condemned Moscow's decision to recognize separatist areas of southeast Ukraine as independent.
Scholz made the comment during an appearance in Berlin at which he announced the suspension of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
WASHINGTON -- The White House has begun referring to Russian troop deployments in eastern Ukraine as an "invasion" after initially hesitating to use the term -- a red line that U.S. President Joe Biden has said would result in the U.S. levying severe sanctions against Moscow.
