UK boosts Ukraine support with hightech missile system
20220606
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/u-k-boosts-ukraine-support-with-high-tech-missile-system-1.5934327
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Washington and London hope the deliveries will help Ukraine turn the tide of the war in its eastern Donbas region which Russia appears minded to capture entirely.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
The U.S. last week announced plans to deliver US$700 million of security assistance for Ukraine, including four precision-guided, medium-range rocket systems, as well as helicopters, Javelin anti-tank systems, radars, tactical vehicles and more.
The U.S. has stopped short of offering Ukraine longer-range weapons -- those with a range of up to 300 kilometres 186 miles -- that could fire deep into Russia and could inflame tensions with Moscow.
American D-Day veteran Charles Shay, 97, was at Omaha Beach to mark the 78th anniversary of June 6, 1944 landings and pay tribute to those who fell that day.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
Asked about his feelings regarding the war being waged on the European continent, Shay told The Associated Press it "is a very sad situation."
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
He blamed NATO allies -- with whom Moscow is at loggerheads -- for engineering the flight ban, saying it revealed that the main purpose of the alliance expansion is to try and isolate Russia.
"Our defenders managed to conduct a counteroffensive and free nearly half of the city, but the situation has worsened again now," Haidai told The Associated Press in written replies to questions.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
"A sovereign state has been deprived of its right to conduct foreign policies," Lavrov told an online news conference.
The United Kingdom pledged last week to send the weapons. It gave no details about delivery dates.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
West of those cities, in the towns of Sloviansk and Bakhmut, cars and military vehicles have been speeding into town from the direction of the front line. Dozens of military doctors and paramedic ambulances worked Sunday to evacuate civilians and Ukrainian servicemen, many of whom had been hurt by artillery shelling.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, meanwhile, attacked the refusal to let his plane fly into Serbia on Sunday as "cynical" and "unthinkable." Reports said that Serbia's neighbours, Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Montenegro had refused to allow the plane to fly through their airspace to reach Serbia.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
The statement came after comments Sunday by Russian President Vladimir Putin, who warned the West against sending longer-range rocket systems to Ukraine, where the war was in its 103rd day.
Putin vowed to strike deeper into the heart of Ukraine if the West sends Kyiv longer-range missile systems. In a show of force, Russian missiles struck Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, on Sunday.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
"The shelling of Sievierodonetsk has intensified, the Russians are destroying everything in line with their scorched earth tactics," he said. The Russians "have an enormous amount of equipment and personnel. They have pulled up a lot of reserves," he added.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Speaking during an online news conference Monday, Lavrov said that "the longer the range of weapons you supply, the farther away the line from where neo-Nazis could threaten the Russian Federation will be pushed." Moscow says it's fighting against neo-Nazis in Ukraine -- a false claim derided by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who is Jewish and lost relatives in the Holocaust.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
The British government said Monday that the multiple-launch rocket systems it is offering to Ukraine will bring "a significant boost in capability" for the country's efforts to resist Russia's invasion, which loomed large over D-Day commemorations in northern France.
They are unlikely to have an immediate impact, however. The Pentagon said last week that it will take at least three weeks to get the U.S. weapons onto the battlefield. Russia-backed separatists have fought the Ukrainian government since 2014 in the Donbas.
"The fight in Ukraine is about honouring these veterans of World War II," Army Gen. Mark Milley said at the American Cemetery of Colleville-sur-Mer, overlooking Omaha Beach.
"It's about maintaining the so-called global rules-based international order that was established by the dead who are buried here at this cemetery," he said.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
Ukraine's General Staff said Russian forces fired five X-22 cruise missiles from the Caspian Sea toward Kyiv, and one was destroyed by air defences. Four other missiles hit "infrastructure facilities," but Ukraine said there were no casualties.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
He described the combat situation as "quite dynamic," adding that the Ukrainian forces had lost some of the gains they made over the weekend but are holding their positions in the city's industrial zone.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Monday that fierce fighting was continuing in the city of Sievierodonetsk, which is at the epicentre of the Russian offensive.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
The British government described the M270 weapon system as a "cutting edge" military asset which can strike targets up to 80 kilometres 50 miles away "with pinpoint accuracy." The system is manned by three gunners and is mounted on an armored launcher with tracks.
Russian aircraft hit 73 areas of concentration of Ukrainian troops and equipment, while the Russian artillery struck 431 military targets, Konashenkov said. His claims couldn't be independently verified.
Russia's own use of missiles in Ukraine, meanwhile, continued to pummel targets, with the Russian military claiming Monday it had struck a Ukrainian factory that was repairing armor.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
"If the international community continues its support, I believe Ukraine can win" its war against Russia, British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said in a statement.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Russian warplanes fired long-range missiles to destroy a plant on the edge of the town of Lozova in the northeastern Kharkiv region that was repairing armoured vehicles, Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said.
Western military intelligence reports say Ukrainian counterattacks in Sieverodonetsk are probably halting the operational momentum Russian forces previously gained by concentrating their combat units and firepower in the area.
Ukraine's struggle was at the forefront of comments by the U.S. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and was heartfelt by veterans of D-Day who gathered in Normandy on Monday.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Zelenskyy on Sunday visited command posts and the frontline positions of Ukrainian troops in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which make up the Donbas.
Before Sunday's early morning attack, Kyiv hadn't faced any such Russian airstrikes since the April 28 visit of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
A Ukrainian regional governor said Monday that the situation in a key eastern town has worsened for defending troops.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov warned the West that if it provides Ukraine with long-range rockets, Moscow will respond by taking over larger areas of Ukraine.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
"In 1944 I landed on these beaches and we thought we'd bring peace to the world. But it's not possible," he added with regret.
