Ukraine updates Rocket strike in southern Ukraine wounds boy
20220428
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/ukraine-updates-rocket-strike-in-southern-ukraine-wounds-boy-1.5879692
"When I see those destroyed buildings, I must say what I feel. I imagined my family in one of those houses that is now destroyed and black. I see my granddaughters running away in panic, part of the family eventually killed," he said. "So, the war is an absurdity in the 21st century. The war is evil. And when one sees these situations our heart, of course, stays with the victims."
Biden is asking lawmakers to make it a criminal offence for a person to "knowingly or intentionally possess proceeds directly obtained from corrupt dealings with the Russian government," double the statute of limitations for foreign money laundering offences to 10 years, and expand the definition of "racketeering" under U.S. law to include efforts to evade sanctions.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said on Facebook that the 10 soldiers in Russia's 64th Separate Motorized Rifle Ground Forces Brigade who occupied Bucha were "involved in the torture of peaceful people." She did not specifically say that her office had filed criminal charges, and appealed to the public to help develop evidence.
BRUSSELS -- NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says that Finland and Sweden would be embraced with open arms should they decide to join the 30-nation military organization and could join quite quickly.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
Volunteers from Britain and many other countries have traveled to Ukraine to fight, despite being discouraged from doing so by their governments.
NATO's collective security guarantee ensures that all member countries must come to the aid of any ally under attack. Stoltenberg added that many NATO allies have now pledged or provided a total of at least US$8 billion in military support to Ukraine.
Speaking to journalists on Thursday at several points, Guterres urged Russia to cooperate with the International Criminal Court. That's after the bodies of civilians were found in areas once held by Russian forces, some shot with their hands bound.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Mariupol authorities are sounding the alarm about unsanitary conditions in the ravaged port city that they say pose a "deadly danger" to its remaining residents.
The rocket strike came as parts of southern Ukraine are preparing for a further onslaught by Russian forces who seek to strip the country of its Black Sea and Sea of Azov coasts.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
Mariupol City Council said on the messaging app Telegram Thursday that "deadly epidemics may break out in the city due to the lack of centralized water supply and sewerage, the decomposition of thousands of corpses under the rubble, a catastrophic shortage of drinking water and food."
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
Strikes on Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city, continue, the update said, and more forces have been moved to the city of Izyum. In the Donetsk direction, the Russian troops are focusing on encircling the Ukrainian forces.
The 11-year-old Ukrainian boy was one of at least three people wounded Thursday morning in what emergency officials called the first strike in a residential area of the southern city of Zaporizhzhia since Russia's invasion began. The city has been a crucial waypoint for tens of thousands of people fleeing the besieged southern port of Mariupol.
Scholz said his government aims to end imports of Russian coal and oil this year. He said that "the same will happen for gas, but that is a process that will require more time."
Asked whether he was concerned Russia might stop shipping gas to Germany, like it did this week for Poland and Bulgaria, Scholz acknowledged that "any interruption would have consequences for the economic situation."
This item was corrected to remove a reference to someone being killed in the attack. The person lost a leg.
This item has been corrected to say that NATO allies pledged or provided at least US$8 billion.
The 10 suspects included officers as high as a general, as well as privates. The Russian government denies it targets civilians. Russian President Vladimir Putin recently honoured the brigade's work, and Venediktova said he bears responsibility for the soldiers' actions as their commander-in-chief.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
"There's no military here, no strategic facilities," he said. "We were no threat to them."
A new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research shows 61 of people in the United States say the spread of misinformation about the war is a major problem, with only 7 saying it's not a problem. Older adults were more likely to identify the wartime misinformation as an issue, with 44 of those under 30 calling it a problem, compared with 65 of those 30 or older.
The violation essentially comes with the use of the second bank account. The EU's executive branch, the European Commission, has said that companies could remain in compliance by paying in euros or dollars, as per their contract, and then notifying Gazprombank that their payment obligations are over.
Stoltenberg says that "it's their decision. But if they decide to apply, Finland and Sweden will be warmly welcomed, and I expect that process to go quickly."
Stoltenberg's remarks Thursday come as public support in Finland and Sweden for NATO membership mounts in response to Russia's war on Ukraine. Media speculation in the two countries suggests the two might apply in mid-May.
The Russian forces "are exerting intense fire" in almost all directions, the General Staff said in their Thursday morning update, with the "greatest activity observed in Slobozhanske and Donetsk directions."
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
He reiterated Turkey's readiness to mediate between Russia and Ukraine and its wish to establish peace in the region "by increasing the momentum" generated in face-to-face talks that were held between the two countries' delegations in Istanbul late last month.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
VIENNA -- The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency says radiation levels in "excavations" found in the exclusion zone around the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant were well below the maximum authorized levels for plant workers.
Residents said at least eight homes in the modest neighbourhood of cherry trees and wooden fences were damaged or destroyed. The boy's father, Vadym Vodostoyev, stood in the courtyard and held up his still-shaking hands.
Germany had initially refused to send any offensive weapons to Ukraine and later balked at sending heavy equipment such as armoured vehicles.
He added that "no one should be making idle comments about the use of nuclear weapons" and called doing so "irresponsible."
He said that the levels were "three times or more lower than the authorized levels for workers in areas exposed to radiation."
Petkov was due to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv later Thursday. He said after viewing damage caused to Borodyanka during the initial Russian advance that "we cannot be indifferent. We cannot say that this is a Ukrainian problem, we cannot say some people are dying but we are not interested in that."
He gave no precise time frame, but did say that the two could expect some protection should Russia try to intimidate them from the time they apply until they formally join.
BERLIN -- German lawmakers have voted in favour of sending heavy weapons to Ukraine, a symbolic decision that reflects the government's change of course on the issue.
SOFIA, Bulgaria -- Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov has said during a visit to the Ukrainian town of Borodyanka that he hopes Bulgarian lawmakers will agree next week to send military assistance to Ukraine.
"Mr. Guterres ... informed me that the talks with Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were positive. In our discussion with Mr. Putin yesterday, Putin expressed the same views."
The group Mediendienst Integration said Thursday that a survey of all German police authorities showed that the crimes largely targeted people of Russian or Ukrainian origin, or their property.
Border guard spokeswoman Anna Michalska said Thursday that the number includes people who cross a number of times because, for example, they regularly do shopping in Poland and then go back.
WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Joe Biden is asking Congress or new powers to seize and repurpose the assets of Russian oligarchs as part of a new funding request to aid Ukraine in its defence against Russia's invasion.
He said this was also the reason why there no sanctions have so far been imposed on energy supplies from Russia, adding this had been decided "in close cooperation with our partners who themselves are energy exporters and therefore in a different starting position, such as the United States."
He criticized the argument of some politicians in Bulgaria that denying military aid to Ukraine would bring about a faster peace.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
The leaders also discussed a prisoner exchange between the United States and Russia that took place in Turkey on Wednesday. Erdogan's office said he told Putin on Thursday that Turkey's mediation in the exchange was an indication of the importance Ankara attaches to "peace, dialogue and cooperation."
As for whether anyone was actually exposed to those radiation levels, he said: "We have asked about possible exposures or situations we haven't received any answer."
The explosions, which sent plumes of black smoke into the air, came just shortly after the two leaders held a press conference in which Guterres condemned the atrocities committed in towns like Bucha, where evidence of mass killings of civilians was found after Russia retreated. Authorities said the UN chief and his team were safe.
Ultimately, it's up to the 27 EU countries to judge whether the rules are being broken. Some of those countries are heavily reliant on Russia for gas.
In an intelligence briefing posted Thursday morning, the ministry says that about 20 Russian naval vessels, including submarines, are currently operating in the Black Sea operational zone.
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
Thursday's non-binding motion -- with 586 lawmakers in favour, 100 against and seven abstentions -- received support from governing parties and the main opposition Union bloc of ex-Chancellor Angela Merkel.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
German companies have also asked to send 88 Leopard tanks, 100 Marder armoured vehicles and 100 howitzers to Ukraine, permission for which has yet to be granted.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
It wasn't clear whether the move was related to Russia's military operation in Ukraine. Turkey has close relations with both countries and has positioned itself as a mediator.
The Russian troops have pummeled the mammoth seaside plant with relentless airstrikes and artillery barrage, trying to uproot its defenders holed up in a 24-kilometre 15-mile maze of underground tunnels, passages and bunkers.
The images by Planet Labs PBC shot Wednesday show that concentrated attacks have greatly damaged a central facility at the Azovstal steelworks.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
Kraen Ostergard Nielsen, the chief executive of COOP Danmark, the country's second-biggest retailer of consumer goods, said that rising prices for transport, energy and food mean the costs of running the business must be reduced.
Emergency services official Pavlo Zhukov told The Associated Press at the scene on Thursday that the rocket had been hit by a Ukrainian anti-aircraft system and that if it had struck directly, much more damage would have resulted.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
WARSAW, Poland - Poland's border guard agency says that it has recorded 3 million crossings into Poland from neighbouring Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Feb. 24, while there have been 904,000 crossings into Ukraine.
Sky News reported that the Britons were believed to have been fighting with Ukrainians against the Russian invasion.
Zakharova made the comment when asked about Turkey's weekend announcement that it had halted Russian flights to Turkey over its territory from the start of this month.
The Telegram post cited Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko as saying that "the invaders are not able to provide the remaining population with food, water and medicines -- or are simply not interested in that." He said that "living conditions in the ruined Mariupol are now medieval" and that "an immediate and complete evacuation is needed."
BERLIN -- German police have recorded more than 1,700 crimes in the country in connection with the war in Ukraine, most of them property damage and insults.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian troops defending a steel plant that is the last Ukrainian bulwark in the key port of Mariupol say an intensive Russian bombing has inflicted more casualties.
The officials warn that Russia's central bank could hold on to the money before converting it and in essence use the funds as a temporary loan for the national economy or to prop up the ruble. The EU's sanctions prohibit any transaction with the Russian Central Bank.
One official said Thursday that if the member states and the European companies apply strictly the decree, it will constitute a breach of the sanctions. His job description does not allow him to be named publicly.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Russia struck the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv shortly after a meeting between President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Thursday evening.
Scholz said: "Whether and what decisions the Russian government takes in this regard one can only speculate, but it makes little sense to do so."
KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine's General Staff says Russia is increasing the pace of its offensive in the east of the country, the goal of which is to take full control of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and have a land corridor to Crimea.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
LVIV, Ukraine -- Satellite photos analyzed by The Associated Press show Russian fire is intensifying on a steel mill that is the last Ukrainian-held area in the city of Mariupol.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
IAEA director general Rafael Grossi said Thursday that, during a visit this week, experts from his agency took measurements from "excavations" probably made by occupying soldiers.
Ukraine's state power company said after Russian troops withdrew at the end of March that they received "significant doses" of radiation from digging trenches in the area.
Under pressure domestically and from allies, Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government agreed recently to let Ukraine purchase German armaments and support weapons swaps with allies who in turn are sending heavy gear to Ukraine.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
Then the father noticed blood. Glass shards had cut the boy's right leg to the bone.
An estimated 1,000 civilians are sheltering along with about 2,000 Ukrainian fighters in the steelworks, a massive Soviet-era complex with a warren of underground facilities built to withstand airstrikes.
At an event at the White House where Biden asked Congress for an additional US$33 billion to aid Ukraine, the president said Thursday that the idea of a larger proxy war was concerning but "not true."
BRUSSELS - Senior European Union officials say countries or companies bowing fully to the terms of a Russian presidential decree insisting that they pay their gas bills in rubles will be in breach of the bloc's sanctions.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
TOKYO -- German Chancellor Olaf Scholz is defending his country's ongoing purchase of gas and other fossil fuels from Russia.
"During the occupation of Bucha, they took unarmed civilians hostage, killed them with hunger and thirst, kept them on their knees with hands tied and eyes taped, mocked and beat them," Venediktova said.
The Kremlin says importers should establish an account in dollars or euros at Russia's Gazprombank, then a second account in rubles. They would pay the gas bill in euros or dollars and direct the bank to exchange the money for rubles.
It was the second telephone call between the two presidents this week. On Tuesday, Erdogan urged Putin to agree to direct talks with his Ukrainian counterpart.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
The Russian shelling has also destroyed 10 houses in the city of Popasna, Haidai said in the messaging app Telegram.
Several people were injured, including one who lost a leg and others who were trapped beneath the rubble, according to rescue officials. Mayor Vitali Klitschko said the Shevchenkivskyi district in the northwestern part of the city was hit twice, causing fires in at least two high-rise buildings.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark - One of Denmark's largest supermarket chains says it will lay off 100 office employees because of "the situation in Ukraine" and the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic.
Appearing to be one of boldest attacks on Kyiv since Russian forces retreated from around the capital weeks ago, the explosions came as residents have been increasingly returning to the city. Cafes and other businesses have reopened, and a growing number of people have been out and enjoying the spring weather.
Speaking during a visit to Japan on Thursday, Scholz said that "it is a challenge that many European countries, including Germany, are dependent on imports of fossil resources from Russia."
MOSCOW -- Russia says that Turkey gave it advance notice before moving to bar Russian planes from flying to Syria over its territory.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Thursday that Turkey had asked Russia more than a month ago not to send Syria-bound planes over its territory. She added that "the reasons for that were clear to us and the Russian side isn't using that route."
Erdogan told reporters before leaving for a trip to Saudi Arabia, that he held separate telephone calls with Guterres and Putin.
The strike occurred as Russian forces move closer to the industrial city that has been a crucial waypoint for people leaving Mariupol and other occupied cities.
The group said more than 160 cases of violence against a person were recorded. Authorities have also opened 170 investigations over the use of the 'Z' symbol that in some contexts is considered to be a show of support for Russia's war in Ukraine, which Germany deems illegal.
Russia also lost the landing ship Saratov, which was destroyed by explosions and fire on March 24.
Ukrainian officials say that up to 1,000 civilians also were sheltering in Azovstal. They are demanding that Russia provides a safe exit for them under the United Nations aegis.
KYIV, Ukraine -- United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has toured areas outside the Ukrainian capital that suffered damage during the Russian advance there.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
KYIV, Ukraine -- Serhiy Haidai, the governor of the Luhansk region, says Thursday that four civilians have died in the region over the past 24 hours and four more were wounded.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
KYIV, Ukraine - Ukraine's prosecutor on Thursday identified 10 Russian soldiers she accused of atrocities in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, one of the war's major flashpoints that helped galvanize western support of Ukraine.
Mariupol, a strategic port city on the Sea of Azov, is viewed as crucial for the Russians in the war.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
"Instead of saying that the Ukrainians, equipped with some capability to resist Russian forces, are doing this, they've got to tell their people that the United States and all of NATO is engaged," Biden said.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
Although that suggested the health risk wasn't at great as feared, Grossi stressed that "it's not a place to have a picnic or excavate."
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
WASHINGTON - U.S. President Joe Biden is rejecting the idea that Russia's war in Ukraine could grow into a larger proxy conflict between Moscow and the United States and NATO allies that may even bring the world closer to nuclear confrontation.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
The new images come as UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres visits Ukraine and plans to speak to Ukraine's president about his efforts to negotiate with Moscow for a corridor for people to leave the besieged area.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
He also added: "When we talk about war crimes, we cannot forget that the worst of crimes is war itself."
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
Erdogan added that the Russian president had "conveyed the opinion that a UN intervention is positive for the future." He did not elaborate.
ANKARA, Turkey -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has discussed the war in Ukraine in a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Misleading social media posts, fake pictures or videos and propagandized headlines have proliferated on websites, from TikTok to Facebook, since Russia's assault on Ukraine began in February. In recent weeks, Russian state media and social media accounts have operated in lockstep to push tweets, TV reports and posts that claim photos of bombed buildings and bodies across Ukraine have been staged or faked.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
It said that the lives of 100,000 people who still remain in Mariupol, out of 450,000 prewar residents, may be in danger -- pointing to diseases like cholera and dysentery.
What's happening in Ukraine today and how are countries around the world responding? Read live updates on Vladimir Putin and Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The Foreign Office confirmed Thursday that it is supporting the family of a British national killed in Ukraine. It also said it was "urgently seeking further information" on another Briton who is missing.
ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine -- The boy was at home when the rocket struck across the street and the window shattered. Stunned, he found his father and crawled under his blanket. They clung to each other and asked, "Are you still alive?"
Germany has already sent about 2,500 anti-aircraft missiles, 900 bazookas, and millions of rounds of ammunition, hand grenades and mines to Ukraine, the dpa news agency reported. It now plans to give armoured vehicles to Slovenia to replace Soviet-era tanks the country is sending to Ukraine, send mortars directly to Ukraine and let Kyiv purchase mothballed self-propelled armoured anti-aircraft guns from Germany.
In remarks at the White House on Thursday morning, Biden will formally ask for billions of dollars in additional U.S. spending earmarked for supplying Ukraine's military, bolstering its economy and supporting the millions of refugees who fled Russia's invasion two months ago. The White House said he will also seek new authorities from Congress to strengthen U.S. sanctions against the Russian government and those who profit from it, the White House said.
WASHINGTON -- A majority of U.S. adults say misinformation around Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a major problem, and they largely fault the Russian government for spreading those falsehoods.
"The Russian army shelled the residential area in Luhansk region for 29 times by aircrafts, multiple rocket launches, tube artillery and mortars," Haidai wrote. "The enemy shelled Popasna and Lysychansk for 10 times, and Hirske for four very long times."
But the ministry says Russia isn't able to replace the cruiser Moskva, which sank earlier this month in the Black Sea, because the Bosporus remains closed to all non-Turkish warships.
Germany has a large population of migrants from the former Soviet Union. Since the outbreak of the war in February it also has taken in almost 400,000 Ukrainians seeking shelter from the conflict.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
Over the past 24 hours, the Ukrainian forces have repelled six attacks in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the General Staff said.
LONDON -- The British government says a U.K. national has been killed in Ukraine, and another is missing.
He blamed Russian authorities for exaggerating such speculation, saying "it shows the desperation that Russia is feeling about their abject failure" with the invasion of Ukraine.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, visiting Bucha on Thursday, called for a thorough investigation of alleged war crimes. Ukrainian authorities have said they are investigating thousands of possible war crimes, including killing of civilians, bombing of civilian infrastructure, torture, sexual crimes and use of prohibited weapons.
Polish authorities say some 1.6 million refugees have applied for and received special ID numbers that will allow them to work and receive free health care and education in Poland.
LONDON -- Britain's defence ministry says the Russian navy still has the ability to strike coastal targets in Ukraine, even after the losses of two warships.
The Azov Regiment holed up at the giant Azovstal steel plant on Thursday posted a video showing people combing through the rubble to remove the dead bodies and help the wounded after the Russian bombing overnight. The Azov said the Russians hit an improvised underground hospital and its surgery room, killing an unspecified number of people and wounding others there.
Petkov said: "If this is the price of peace, if the Russian state continues to fire and no one can defend himself -- is this the peace we want?"
Stoltenberg says he's "confident that there are ways to bridge that interim period in a way which is good enough and works for both Finland and Sweden."
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
ISTANBUL -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says both UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and Russian President Vladimir Putin have told him that their talks in Moscow earlier this week were "positive."
ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine -- Witnesses and local authorities say that at least three people, including a child, were wounded when a rocket struck a residential area in the southern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia -- the first such residential strike since Russia's invasion began.
