Ukraine updates Russian rock singer faces charges for remarks
20220519
https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/ukraine-updates-turkey-opposes-sweden-finland-nato-bids-1.5910170
Haidai said the Russian shelling continued early Thursday. Sievierodonetsk is in the epicentre of the fighting in the east where the Russian forces have been trying to press their offensive amid staunch Ukrainian resistance.
The resolution seeks help for households and companies, possibly through a profit tax on energy companies or a revamp of the EU budget, to "maintain citizens' support for the actions taken against Russia and other actions to support Ukrainians."
GENEVA  The international Red Cross says it has registered hundreds of Ukrainian prisoners of war who left the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
Canadian retailer Sporting Life Group is launching a new chain of big box stores that will cater to players of team sports of all ages and genders.
Do not offer us a ceasefire  this is impossible without total Russian troops withdrawal, Podolyak wrote on Twitter. In a reference to a 2015 peace agreement for eastern Ukraine that was brokered by France and Germany and signed in the Belarusian capital Minsk, Podolyak wrote: Ukraine is not interested in new Minsk and the war renewal in a few years.
Russian authorities have repeatedly reported damage and casualties from the Ukrainian shelling of areas on the border.
Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre said Monday he has no plans to remove from his caucus three members of Parliament who recently met with a German politician from a far-right party.
Max Verstappen cruised to the win Sunday as he opened his defence of his back-to-back world championships. His dominance put all the focus on the rest of the field and it was Fernando Alonso who stole the show with his first podium in 26 races -- a performance that came 13 years after he won in Bahrain with Ferrari.
In 2016, the EU and Ukraine signed an association agreement that was aimed at opening Ukraine's markets and deepening the country's connection to Europe.
Two men have been convicted of helping Somali pirates who kidnapped a U.S. journalist for ransom and held him for 2 12 years, prosecutors said.
"Unlike the Russian staff expelled from Portugal, these Portuguese staff members were involved in strictly diplomatic tasks," a Portuguese Foreign Ministry statement said.
The woman, Kateryna Shelipova, said she saw her husband, Oleksandr Shelipov, shot dead just outside their home.
Vadim Shishimarin could get a life prison sentence prison if convicted of shooting a 62-year-old man in the head through an open car window in a village in the northeastern Sumy region on Feb. 28, four days into the invasion.
They were less positive about an accelerated process for Ukraine to join the European Union, which Kyiv requested following the Russian invasion.
This will likely place further strain on Russias centralized model of command and control as officers increasingly seek to defer key decisions to their superiors, the ministry said. It will be difficult for Russia to regain the initiative under these conditions.
Before the war, Ukraine was the EU's 15th-largest trading partner, representing around 1.2 of overall EU trade.
With this latest shipment, the U.S. has provided nearly $4 billion in military aid since Feb. 24 and $6.6 billion since 2014, when Russia seized and annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine.
The family of a B.C. woman who was found dead in Mexico on Friday is desperate to get her body home.
Also on Wednesday, a Russian armored train carrying troops and ammunition overturned in Melitopol, causing the ammunition to detonate, the regional administration said on Telegram.
PARIS -- French President Emmanuel Macron has reiterated concerns about the risk of the war in Ukraine spreading to surrounding countries, as he hosted the president of Moldova, Ukraine's neighbor.
Pushilin didnt give specific numbers, but Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Wednesday that 959 Ukrainian troops had abandoned the stronghold since they started coming out Monday. The Russian military has previously estimated the number of Ukrainian troops at Azovstal at over 2,000.
Duda said that, as Ukraine is fighting Russia's invasion, everyone is aware of the potential threat in the region.
BERLIN -- The UN nuclear watchdog says Ukraine has informed it new wildfires near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant don't pose a radioactive threat to people.
In a speech to lawmakers Thursday, Scholz dismissed concerns raised by some in Germany that arming Ukraine could result in a wider conflict. Arming Ukraine was a contribution to fending off the attack and thereby ending the violence as quickly as possible, he said.
WARSAW, Poland - Poland's President Andrzej Duda, the country's defense minister and the U.S. ambassador to Poland watched a joint military exercise dubbed DEFENDER-Europe 22 by Polish, U.S., French and Swedish troops in northeastern Poland on Thursday.
GE Appliances says it is offering sponsorship money in hopes of helping resolve the labour impasse between Canada Soccer and the women's national team.
BRUSSELS -- European Union lawmakers are calling for extra funding to help citizens deal with the impact of sanctions against Russia and the financial support being dedicated to help Ukraine.
The Kremlin spokesman responded by saying that authorities need to focus on providing basic services to the residents of areas under Russian control.
The name 'gruyere' can be used to label cheeses from outside of the Gruyre region of Switzerland and France, a U.S. appeals court said on Friday, in a victory for U.S. dairy groups and others.
Morawiecki said. he would like to say it clearly that in the case of an attack on Sweden or Finland during their process of accession to NATO Poland will come to their aid.
Kursk Gov. Roman Starovoit said the Ukrainian shelling early Thursday hit a driver who drove his truck to a distillery in the village of Tetkino.
The veteran foreign service officer, who has spent most of her career in the shadow of the former Soviet Union, was nominated to the position last month by U.S. President Joe Biden.
The registration process, which was ongoing Thursday, involves noting down personal details like name, date of birth and closest relative  partly as a way to help the Red Cross keep in touch with relatives of the prisoners of war.
The 21-year-old soldier told a court in Kyiv on Thursday that the officer insisted the man, who was speaking on his cellphone, could pinpoint their location to Ukrainian forces.
Old people, women and children are dying, he said. For some kind of Napoleonic plans of our latest Caesar, yes?
BERLIN - German lawmakers agreed Thursday to strip former Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of his office and staff after he defended his long-standing ties with Russia and its energy sector despite the invasion of Ukraine.
A veteran Russian rock musician faces charges of discrediting the army for remarks made at a concert on Wednesday.
The troops' task was to cross the Narew River near the town of Nowogrod, in a region about two hours' drive from the borders of Russia's exclave of Kaliningrad and of Russian ally Belarus.
The head of the UN Development Program, Achim Steiner, said, "Right now, we need all hands on deck. The question is, can we get the all hands on deck to also work in a well-coordinated fashion?"
Peskov made the statement during a conference call with reporters after being asked about some Russian officials saying that Russia could move to incorporate the captured Kherson region of southern Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine -- A Russian soldier facing the first war crimes trial since the start of the war in Ukraine has testified that he shot a Ukrainian civilian on an officer's orders.
Charges against Yuri Shevchuk, singer for the band DDT, were sent to an administrative court on Thursday. He could face a fine of up to 50,000 rubles US$800.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in a video released Thursday, We have told our relevant friends we would say no' to Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO, and we will continue on our path like this.
Asked about a plan reportedly proposed by Italy for a political settlement of the fighting in Ukraine, Peskov said the Kremlin was unaware of it but only learned about it from media reports.
Macron said Thursday that "a spread of the conflict to neighboring countries cannot be excluded" pointing to "recent incidents" in the Transnistria region of Moldova, where Russian troops are already stationed and where there have been explosions.
Soldiers in Myanmar rampaged through several villages, raping, beheading and killing at least 17 people, residents said, in the latest of what critics of the ruling military say are a series of war crimes since the army seized power two years ago.
Vladimir Ashurkov, the executive director of Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation, said the avalanche of sanctions imposed so far is having an effect in Russia.
Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said they died Wednesday when Russian troops bombarded the town of Sievierodonetsk. He said another three residents were wounded.
"It's sad but true that many civilians have lost limbs," Lauterbach said. "Among them are many children."
There will be no peace diktat, because the Ukrainians wont accept it and neither will we, he said. Only when Putin understand this, only when he understand that he cant break Ukraines defence, will he be prepared to negotiate the peace in earnest.
Do not offer us a ceasefire - this is impossible without total Russian troops withdrawal. Ukraine is not interested in new "Minsk" and the war renewal in a few years. Until  is ready to fully liberate occupied territories, our negotiating team is weapons, sanctions and money.
Separatist authorities in the Donetsk region bordering Luhansk in eastern Ukraine said two civilians were killed and another five were wounded in the Ukrainian shelling over the last 24 hours.
MOSCOW  A provincial governor in western Russia says a civilian has been killed by cross-border shelling from Ukraine.
The move was expected after lawmakers with the governing coalition - led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz's Social Democrats, Schroeder's party - on Wednesday proposed linking some of the privileges former chancellors enjoy to duties, rather than their status as ex-leaders.
Turkey's approval of Finland and Sweden's application to join the Western military alliance is crucial because NATO makes decisions by consensus.
The European Parliament on Thursday said the temporary move passed on a 515-32 vote, with 11 abstentions.
"We must support Ukraine at all levels with every tool at our disposal: not only with weapons and sanctions but with our trading power, too," said lawmaker Sandra Kalniete. "Giving Ukraine the support it needs to defend itself does not end on the battlefield it includes ensuring that Ukraine's economy remains resilient and competitive."
The death toll rose to two on Monday following a stampede at a rap concert in Rochester, New York, that authorities said may have been triggered by unfounded fears of gunfire.
The FBI is searching for a Florida woman who was supposed to stand trial Monday on charges stemming from the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack as well as another riot defendant who has also gone missing, officials said.
German police said Monday they have disrupted a ransomware cybercrime gang tied to Russia that has been blackmailing large companies and institutions for years, raking in millions of euros.
A new research found that face-blindness probably affects as many as three per cent of the world's population  significantly more people than initially believed.
Canada's six largest banks have put aside over $2.4 billion combined to cover potential losses, anticipating more Canadians will be unable to pay off loans and credit card debt as the country heads into an expected recession.
Shelipova told the court that Shishimarin deserves a life sentence for killing her husband but added that she wouldn't mind if he's exchanged as part of a possible swap for the Ukrainian defenders of the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol.
German Development Minister Svenja Schulze said Thursday after meeting her counterparts from the G7's major economies that the aim is to better co-ordinate the efforts of aid donors and to ensure that looming crises don't get overlooked.
Both leaders indicated optimism that the Nordic countries would join the military alliance, but did not explain how other alliance members could overcome opposition by NATO member Turkey.
New details about a devastating explosion in Ottawas east end suggest the blast is linked to the theft of water heaters.
A low-carb, high-fat 'keto-like' diet may be linked to higher levels of 'bad' cholesterol and double the risk of cardiovascular events such as blocked arteries, heart attacks and strokes, according to new research.
During the concert in Ufa, Shevchuk questioned the aims of the war and why young Russians and Ukrainians are fighting and dying in a war that is also costing the lives of civilians.
World Food Program Executive Director David Beasley said growing hunger will add at least 47 million people to the 276 million marching to starvation before Russia's invasion of its smaller neighbor.
BRUSSELS -- European Union lawmakers have voted to suspend import duties on all Ukrainian exports for a year to support the war-torn country's economy.
Japan has quickly joined the United States and other Group of Seven countries and Europe in their sanctions against Moscow over its war in Ukraine, due to fear that Russia's move may embolden China in the region.
UNITED NATIONS -- The UN food chief is warning that the war in Ukraine has created an unprecedented crisis of escalating food prices that has sparked protests.
Rescuers were searching for 42 people still missing Tuesday after two landslides triggered by torrential rains hit villages on an island in Indonesia's remote Natuna regency, disaster officials said.
The RCMP says it has launched an investigation into violations of national security information law in connection to media leaks of Chinese foreign interference allegations.
Philippine transport groups launched a nationwide strike Monday to protest a government program drivers fear would phase out traditional jeepneys, which have become a cultural icon, and other aging public transport vehicles.
He added that over 60 of residential buildings in Mariupol have been damaged beyond repair and will need to be razed after more than two months of fighting over the strategic port on the Sea of Azov.
WASHINGTON - U.S. President Joe Biden has hailed the momentous applications of once-neutral Sweden and Finland to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  An adviser to Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says that the country wont accept any ceasefire until all the Russian troops pull back.
The latest package includes 18 more howitzers as well as anti-artillery radar systems, both of which the U.S. has provided to Ukraine already since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the equipment will be in the hands of Ukrainian forces very, very soon.
LONDON  British military authorities say Russias centralized command and control structure is likely to come under increasing strain as senior officers seek to avoid responsibility for failures during the invasion of Ukraine.
The new pledge, combined with the $300 million Japan promised last month, brings Tokyos total contribution to $600 million.
Japan said it had destroyed a new medium-lift rocket it launched into space on Tuesday after the vehicle's second-stage engine failed to ignite, in a blow to its efforts to expand access to space and remain competitive in a launch market roiled by Elon Musk's SpaceX.
It said a team from the Geneva-based humanitarian agency, which has experience in dealing with prisoners of war and prisoner exchanges, did not transport them to the places where they are held  which was not specified.
The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said Thursday that Kyiv told it gamma dose rate levels near the plant, the site of the 1986 nuclear disaster, were "not exceeding the reference levels."
Erdogans objection to Sweden and Finland stems from Turkey's grievances with Stockholms  and to a lesser degree with Helsinkis  perceived support to the banned Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, and an armed group in Syria that Turkey sees as an extension of the PKK. Turkey also accuses them of harbouring the followers of the U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen whom Ankara says is behind a failed military coup attempt in 2016.
He praised Moldova's help for refugees from Ukraine. The small, Western-leaning former Soviet republic is coping with an influx of refugees. Macron appealed to European leaders to give a rapid initial response to Moldova's application to join the European Union.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday that people living in such places must "determine how and with whom they want to live."
Sven Kindler, a financial policy spokesman for the Greens, one of the governing parties, tweeted that parliament's budget committee approved a change to the rules that would leave Schroeder's office dormant.
WASHINGTON -- Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny's team is on Capitol Hill urging U.S. senators to consider a fresh round of sanctions on Russians with a more nuanced approach that targets mid-level government officials and public figures over the war in Ukraine.
After the war began, Russia passed a more severe law making the spread of fake news about the conflict punishable by up to 15 years in prison.
In a resolution passed Thursday with a show of hands, the lawmakers defended EU sanctions against Russia and Belarus but said the measures were hurting post-pandemic economic growth and "pose a serious threat to the EU's recovery."
WASHINGTON  The Senate confirmed Bridget Brink late Wednesday as U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, filling the post as officials plan to return American diplomats to Kyiv during the nations continuing battle against the Russian invasion.
A proposed class-action lawsuit alleges that some of Canadas largest brokerages and real-estate associations are engaged in price-fixing to inflate Realtor commissions.
Winnipeg police say a 15-year-old male was killed in a shooting on Amherst Street in St. James early Monday morning.
Alex Murdaugh didn't help his defence when he took the stand at his trial for the murder of his wife and son, three jurors said on Monday.
BERLIN -- Germany's health minister pledged Thursday to help Ukraine maintain its health system, which has come under severe pressure due to the war with Russia.
Duda said the exercise - which had been planned earlier - would help show the cooperation and the efficiency of NATO in collective defense.
It said previous experience suggests such fires could lead to a "very small increase" of radioactive concentration in the air but the IAEA supports Ukraine's assessment that it wouldn't endanger human health. It noted "spontaneous fires" often occur in the area this time of year.
Several Ukrainian officials have recently issued similar statements. Podolyak didnt specify what would constitute total withdrawal.
Twitter experienced a bevy of glitches for over an hour Monday as links stopped working, some users were unable to log in and images were not loading for others.
Speaking to a group of Turkish youth, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused the two countries  and especially Sweden  of being a focus of terror, home to terror. The video of their conversation was released Thursday.
A Massachusetts man tried to open an airliner's emergency door on a cross-country flight from Los Angeles to Boston and then tried to stab a flight attendant in the neck with a broken metal spoon, federal prosecutors alleged Monday.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Thursday he was confident that we will come to a quick decision to welcome both Sweden and Finland to join the NATO family.
The pair met in The Hague on Thursday to discuss the situation in Ukraine and energy concerns, in Scholz's first visit to neighboring Netherlands.
MOSCOW  The head of the Russia-backed separatist region in eastern Ukraine says that over half of Ukrainian troops holed up at a steel plant in the key port of Mariupol have come out.
The ministry says senior officials are likely to be increasingly distracted as they seek to avoid personal culpability amid this culture of cover-ups and scapegoating.
KYIV, Ukraine  A regional governor in Ukraine says four civilians have been killed by the latest Russian shelling.
The Biden administration has professed optimism for the applications, which would mark a significant embarrassment to Russia after its invasion of Ukraine.
Scholz added that Russian President Vladimir Putin was mistaken in thinking peace can be imposed on Ukraine by force.
It is also planning to meet Thursday with officials at the U.S. State Department, the Justice Department and other offices in Washington.
KYIV, Ukraine  The military administration for the region that includes Melitopol reported more actions of resistance on Wednesday against the Russian troops who have occupied the southern city since early in the war.
ISTANBUL  Turkeys president emphasized his opposition to Sweden and Finland joining NATO, stating Ankara would say no to their bid.
Lauterbach said Germany would help establish specialist centers in Ukraine for people suffering from burns and severe trauma due to the war.
17 In recent weeks, Russia has fired senior commanders who are considered to have performed poorly during the opening stages of its invasion of Ukraine.
BERLIN  German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has defended his countrys decision to supply Ukraine with weapons to fight Russia, saying this does not constitute an escalation.
Pushilin said that those Ukrainian soldiers who needed medical assistance were hospitalized while others were put in a detention facility. He charged that the International Red Cross Committee representatives were allowed to inspect the facility, the claim that couldnt be immediately verified.
American diplomats evacuated Kyiv when the war began three months ago, but Brink told senators during her confirmation hearing earlier this month that she would work to reopen the embassy.
A retail expert says Canadian mall operators looking to fill spaces left behind after Nordstrom Inc. stores depart this year could cash in on the country's strong demand for residential housing.
Bruce Willis' wife, Emma Heming Willis, has called on paparazzi to keep their distance and stop yelling at the "Die Hard" star when they see him in public.
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. has announced a shipment of US$100 million in military equipment to Ukraine, separate from what will be coming from the $40 billion approved Thursday by Congress.
Premier Mateusz Morawiecki made the statement during a conference Thursday at the Polish Institute of International Affairs think tank.
Multiple European countries expelled Russian diplomats last month after accusing Russian forces in Ukraine of killing civilians in Bucha and other towns outside Kyiv. The Kremlin denied the accusations.
Defying the odds since birth, Canadian twins Adiah Laelynn and Adrial Luka Nadarajah celebrated their first birthday after being named the world's most premature twins.
The ministry says Lt. Gen. Serhiy Kisel, who led the elite 1st Guards Tank Army, was suspended for failing to capture Kharkiv, and Vice Admiral Igor Osipov, who commanded the Black Sea Fleet, has probably been suspended following the sinking of the cruiser Moskva. The ministry also said it is unclear whether Chief of the General Staff Valeriy Gerasimov retains the support of President Vladimir Putin.
Toblerone bars, sold in over 100 countries, can no longer be called Swiss chocolate because the brand's U.S. owner is moving some production out of Switzerland.
On Tuesday, the regional administration said Ukrainian resistance fighters killed several high-ranking Russian officers in the occupied city. The report could not be independently confirmed.
Cartoonists are pushing back against racist remarks made by "Dilbert" creator Scott Adams, with one artist even using his own strip this week to lampoon the disgraced cartoon now dropped by newspapers nationwide.
Facing pressure over rising concerns around foreign interference in Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will be naming a new special rapporteur to investigate. Trudeau made the announcement on Monday as part of a suite of new measures aimed at addressing Canadians' concerns over alleged election meddling by China during the last two federal campaigns.
Canada should focus on exporting clean hydrogen to Europe as the continent shifts its fuel sources away from Russia, the head of the European Union said ahead of her visit to Canada.
The influential sister of North Korea's leader warned Tuesday that her country is ready to take 'quick, overwhelming action' against the United States and South Korea, a day after the U.S. flew a nuclear-capable B-52 bomber in a demonstration of strengthen against the North.
It said the Russian military does not maintain the tracks while overloading the trains, and as a result of the negligence and with help from resistance fighters, the armored train derailed.
Michelin's 2023 awards for French chefs put the accent on the regions of France, not Paris. The only chef to walk away with three stars -- the highest award, reserved for gastronomic luminaries -- was Alexandre Couillon for his creations at La Marine, his restaurant on the tip of the Ile de Noirmoutier on the Atlantic Ocean.
Russian forces took control of Chernobyl at the beginning of the invasion in February and withdrew at the end of March.
THE HAGUE, Netherlands - German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte welcomed Sweden and Finland's applications to NATO and expressed confidence that they would be approved despite Turkish opposition.
Thursdays statement from Mykhailo Podolyak, who was involved in several rounds of talks with Russia, reflects an increasingly confident stand taken by Ukraine as it has fought the Russian offensive to an effective standstill.
Japan will provide the additional $300 million through the World Bank to help Ukraines financial difficulties because of the Russian invasion, Kishida said.
Liashko also asked for more prostheses to help people who have lost limbs in the war.
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
The announcement comes just before Japan hosts U.S. President Joe Biden and two other leaders for a regional strategic framework known as the Quad summit and bilateral meetings next week when Kishida is expected to emphasize Japanese support for Ukraine.
A new study has found that NFL players who experienced concussion symptoms during their years on field showed reduced cognitive function long after retiring.
It said a grenade exploded near a Russian command post, followed by an exchange of fire. No casualties were reported.
"France remains particularly alert to the security situation in the region," the French leader said.
The group is discussing with senators a list of 6,000 Russians, including defense and security officials, administrative employees, governors, members of parliament, even editors and managers at Russian media operations for sanctions.
What's happening in Ukraine today and how are countries around the world responding? Read live updates on Vladimir Putin and Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Kirby said the U.S. will consult with Ukraine, as it has frequently since the invasion, about what it needs in terms of equipment.
ISTANBUL - Turkey's leader opposes having Sweden and Finland join NATO, but the military alliance's top official says he expects the issue to be resolved and the two Nordic nations to become members soon.
He stressed that conflict, the impact of climate change, and the COVID-19 pandemic were already affecting food security but the war in Ukraine, which grows enough food for 400 million people, now has the longest bread lines in the world.
She said the G7 will seek to bring as many partners on board as possible, including emerging countries that may have supplies. The alliance "is really open. It's not a closed club," Schulze said. The World Bank is helping to implement the project.
The U.K. Ministry of Defence, in a briefing posted Thursday morning, says a number of senior Russian commanders have already been fired for poor performance during the war.
Karl Lauterbach said Ukraine's health minister, Viktor Liashko, briefed his counterparts from the Group of Seven leading democracies during a meeting on Thursday.
Denis Pushilin, the head of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic, said Thursday that more than a half of Ukrainian servicemen who were holed up at the giant Azovstal steel plant have surrendered.
The Red Cross cited rules under the Geneva Conventions that should allow the organization to interview prisoners of war without witnesses and that visits with them should not be unduly restricted.
Beasley told a UN Security Council meeting Thursday that 49 million people in 43 countries are already knocking on famine's door.
Looking subdued, Shishimarin said he had to obey the orders of the officer. He asked the victim's widow, who also was in court, to forgive him for what he did.
MOSCOW -- The Kremlin says it will be up to residents of areas in Ukraine controlled by Russian troops to determine their future status.
The measure covers industrial products, fruits, vegetables and steel. The EU is Ukraine's most important trading partner, accounting for more than 40 of its total trade in goods last year.
BERLIN -- The Group of Seven countries are launching a new Global Alliance for Food Security that is aimed in part at addressing the impact of Russia's war in Ukraine.
A new study suggests classic paintings by renowned artists J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet may have been influenced by air pollution during the Industrial Revolution.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has produced a sharp increase in food and energy prices. Both countries are big exporters of wheat, barley and sunflower oil.
Ontario will need some victories over the last three days of round-robin play to have a shot of making the three-team cut out of Pool B.
TOKYO  Japans Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Thursday his country will double its financial aid for Ukraine to US$600 million in support of the country badly damaged by Russias aggression.
Biden greeted Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson of Sweden and President Sauli Niinist of Finland at the White House Thursday as they met for trilateral conversations on the NATO mutual defense pact and other European security concerns.
The International Committee for the Red Cross said Thursday the registrations of Ukrainian prisoners of war, which included wounded fighters, began Tuesday under an agreement between Russia and Ukraine.
LISBON, Portugal -- The Portuguese government says Russia is expelling five diplomats from its Moscow embassy, a day after the Kremlin also expelled diplomats from Spain, France and Italy.
Stoltenberg told reporters in Copenhagen, Denmark that we are addressing the concerns that Turkey has expressed.
The Portuguese Foreign Ministry said Thursday that Russia's decision was "unjustified" and merely a tit-for-tat step after Portugal last month expelled Russian diplomats at the Lisbon embassy.
WARSAW, Poland - Poland's prime minister says the NATO member nation would extend support to Finland and Sweden should they come under any threat or attack during their process of accession to the defense pact.
The motherland, my friends, is not the ass of a president that you have to lick and kiss all the time. The motherland is a poor grandmother selling potatoes at the train station. That is the motherland, he added.
The lawmakers also called for European allies of Russian President Vladimir Putin, such as former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, to resign. In addition, they think European board members of big Russian companies should be hit with sanctions.
He added that until Russia is ready to fully liberate occupied territories, our negotiating team is weapons, sanctions and money.
Airlines that operate in the North -- where many residents rely on flights for transportation and goods -- say disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Canada-wide pilot shortage and new fatigue regulations are creating headwinds.
Turkeys approval is crucial because the military alliance makes its decisions by consensus. Each of its 30 member countries can veto who can join.
