Could Lithuania be Putins next target
20220621
https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/is-putin-about-to-open-another-front-
When Russian troops started military exercises on Ukraines borders, those of us living in Kyiv had grounds to worry. Putin operates by bluff, disinformation and false flags. He blows smoke, but sometimes his troops march through that smoke. Thats why we ought to pay attention to reports on Russian state media that there are to be military manoeuvres in the Kaliningrad region, the Russian enclave sandwiched between Poland and Lithuania.
So whats being stopped? According to thegovernor of the Kaliningrad region, Anton Alihanov, 40 to 50 per cent of trade between Russia and the enclave has been stopped by the EU. This includes building materials, cement and metals, he said. Alihanov has alsopublished a letter from the Lithuanian carrier LTG Cargo which explained that sanctionedgoods cannot pass through EU territory even if theyre going from one Russian territory to another.
The language in Moscow has been hardening. This goods blockadecan be assessed as direct aggression against Russia, literally forcing us to urgently resort to proper self-defence, said Andrei Klimov, Russian senator. The agreement with the EU about simplified transit from Russia to the Kaliningrad through Lithuania has worked since 2002.
On Friday last week, Vilnius enforced EU sanctions that stop certain goods from being sent via EU territory  in this case, stopping Russia from sending building materials, steel and other metals via train to Kaliningrad. There has been recent discussion in Russian media about creating a corridor to the enclave  the so-called Suwaki Gap  to bypass Lithuania. Some regard this as Putins next military target and Natos weakest point.
Lithuania has emphasised that the decisions were made in Brussels, not Vilnius.  Gabrielius Lansbergis, the foreign minister recently interviewed in The Spectator said, First of all, these are not Lithuanias actions, they are European sanctionssteel and other products made of iron will no longer be imported through Lithuania, in consultation with the European Commission and in accordance with its guidelines.  Here is Arvydas Anusauskas, Lithuanias defence minister:
The European Union hastaken restrictive measures on certain goods moving from Russias mainland to Kaliningrad steel and similar metal products. This was called a blockade by Russia. However, in reality, the transit of passengers and goods food, medicine, etc. that are not subjected to EU sanctions continue to be transported to and from Kaliningrad through Lithuania lets not lose the ability to separate the disinformation and propaganda from real possibilities.
When it comes to Russia, separating truth from propaganda isbecoming increasingly difficult. Those living in the Suwaki Gap risk being swallowed into Putins reality gap.
About 1,000 military personnel and more than 100 units of military and special equipment of artillery and missile units are involved, says RIA News on its Telegram account.  Artillerymen and rocket launchers in Kaliningrad will carry out several hundred firing missions using Grad and Uragan multiple rocket launchers, Hyacinth large-calibre cannons and self-propelled artillery units, they add. There have been no official announcements to this effect it may well be misinformation. But it fits a trend.
Moscow is threatening retaliation. They must understand the consequences  and the consequences, unfortunately, will come, said an official from the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Russia-1 TV.
