Inside the Kremlins great lie machine
20220331
https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/putin-s-advisers-are-afraid-to-tell-him-the-truth
We know both presidents Xi and Putin place great value on their personal relationships. But Xis calculus is more nuanced. Hes not publicly condemned the invasion, presumably calculating that it helps him oppose the US. And, with an eye on re-taking Taiwan, China doesnt want to do anything which may constrain its ability to move in the future.
The great irony is, of course, that through his actions, Putin has brought upon himself exactly what he was trying to avoid  a Ukraine with a renewed sense of nationhood, a Nato that is more united than ever, and a global coalition of nations that condemn his actions.
Today, we are in a different era. We can see that significant technology leadership is moving East. Its causing a conflict of interests. Of values. Where prosperity and security are at stake.
Its also the case that China believes Russia will provide additional impetus and support to its digital markets and its technology plans. We can see China is seizing the opportunity to purchase cheap hydro-carbons from Russia at the moment, to meet its needs too.
And its a message supported by information campaigns all over the World. In the UK, its focused in a new Government Information Cell which identifies and counters Kremlin disinformation targeted at UK and international audiences. It brings together expertise from across government to challenge false narratives. It deals in facts, not falsehoods making sure that the truth is told well.
Historically, technology development was largely driven and owned by the West. Shared values amongst involved nations meant industry standards for emerging technologies tended to be global. Investment in technology brought status, wealth and security.
This is an edited version of Sir Jeremy Fleming's speech today at the Australian National University
Now this comes into particularly sharp focus when we think about the future of technology eco-systems and the norms and governance that guide their use. And for me, this as much about values as it is about technology. And both are vital to the competitive edge of a country. Thats why its also increasingly the focus for geopolitical competition.
So just as we pay tribute to the Ukrainian militarys brave actions, we should pay tribute to Ukrainian cyber security too. We and other allies will continue to support them in shoring up their defences. And at home, we are doing all we can to ensure sure that businesses and Government urgently follow through on plans to improve basic levels of cyber resilience. I know your ACSC is doing the same here in Australia.
It all adds up to the strategic miscalculation that our leaders warned Putin it would be. Its become his personal war, with the cost being paid by innocent people in Ukraine and increasingly, by ordinary Russians too.
As Ive said previously, without action it is increasingly apparent that the key technologies on which we all rely on for prosperity and security wont be shaped and controlled by the West in the future.
Recently, we have seen that Wagner is looking to move up a gear. We understand that the group is now prepared to send large numbers of personnel into Ukraine to fight alongside Russians.
Thats not to say that we havent seen cyber in this conflict. We have  and lots of it.
Just over a month in, it is far too early to confidently draw out all the implications of this crisis. But Im going to outline a few aspects that really stand out to me.
The first is that we have to find new ways to collaborate and cooperate with partners. For those of us in National Security, thats about ensuring the health of existing relationships. Its about securing our alliances, like the Five Eyes, Nato and in this region, ASEAN. And its about working with businesses in new and truly collaborative ways. And to do this we need to make sure that our counteroffer  to states who havent yet decided which way they should jump  is persuasive and coherent. Too often its not.
Against a backdrop of historic shifts, a new global security architecture was emerging. And all of this change will take decades to resolve. But what I can be clear on now is that how we approach these challenges will be as important as what our response is.
But here again, its clear that Putin has miscalculated. President Zelenskys information operation has shown itself to be extremely effective. Its agile, multi-platform, multi-media and extremely well-tailored to different audiences. One only has to look for Ukraines flag  a field of sunflowers under a sky of blue  to see it flying everywhere, including outside GCHQ, to see how well the message has landed.
And the second is that in whatever we do, we must make sure that we stay true to our values, those that have made our systems and democracies so successful and will do so in the future too.
And those choices will affect the global order and our national securities for decades to come.
It also has a competing vision for the future of cyberspace and its increasingly influential in the debate around international rules and standards. Chinas bringing all elements of state power to control, influence design and dominate technology, if you like, the cyber and the fibre.
They are looking at relocating forces from other conflicts and recruiting new fighters to bolster numbers. These soldiers are likely to be used as cannon fodder to try to limit Russian military losses.
But its not just in the military sphere that we see the influence and potential of other actors. Weve seen cyber hacking and ransomware groups pledging allegiance to both sides. Weve seen businesses all over the world distance themselves from the Russian economy. Weve seen technology providers step up to make sure that Ukraine can stay connected, or to address disinformation.
And all of that means, he seeks brutal control of the media and access to the internet, he seeks the closing down of opposition voices, and hes making heavy investment in their propaganda and covert agencies.
Russia wrote the hybrid warfare book. State media, on-line media and agents of influence are all used to obfuscate motivations and justify military actions. Weve seen them use this playbook in Syria and many other theatres. Their aim is to promulgate disinformation. To sow mistrust in the evidence and to amplify false narratives. Its also to make sure that the real picture of whats going on doesnt get exposed inside Russia.
And even though we believe Putins advisers are afraid to tell him the truth, whats going on and the extent of these misjudgements must be crystal clear to the regime.
From the warnings of the war. To the intelligence on false flag operations designed to provide a fake premise to the invasion. And more recently, to the Russian plans to falsely claim Ukrainian use of banned chemical weapons.
Whether were building on the lessons from the pandemic, understanding the implications of Russias invasion, or grappling with the implications of Chinas rise, its clear that we must step up.
Now, Russias position on this is clear. It has made a strategic choice to align with China as China has become more powerful and in direct opposition to the United States. In the current crisis, Russia sees China as a supplier of weapons, as a provider of technology, a market for its hydro-carbons and as a means to circumvent sanctions.
Now my next observation of this conflict is the extent to which non-state actors are involved and have a say in its outcome.
And increasingly, many of those truths come from intelligence. It is already a remarkable feature of this conflict just how much intelligence has been so quickly declassified to get ahead of Putins actions.
I think a lot of this misses the point. Whilst some people look for cyber Pearl Harbours, it was never our understanding that a catastrophic cyber-attack was central to Russians use of offensive cyber or to their military doctrine. To think otherwise, misjudges how cyber has an effect in military campaigns.
If we dont act  with our allies, with our partners and with the private sector  we will see undemocratic values as the default for vast swathes of future tech and the standards that govern it. There is no doubt that democratic nations are facing a moment of reckoning.
In my view, intelligence is only worth collecting if we use it, so I unreservedly welcome this development. Of course, other aspects of this confrontation play out in cyber space. There has been commentary expressing surprise that we havent seen the Russians deploy a major cyber-attack as part of their campaign.
This week, the Russian MoD stated publicly that they will drastically reduce combat operations around Kyiv and a city in the North. It looked like they have been forced to make a significant change. But then they proceeded to launch attacks in both of those places. Mixed messages or deliberate misinformation  well have to see how it unfolds.
And of course, here in this region, the most concerning issues relate to the choices China makes as it thinks about its interests in the longer term.
Now obviously, China is a sophisticated player in cyberspace. It has increasing ambition to project its influence beyond its borders and a proven interest in our commercial secrets.
On this and many other subjects, deeply secret intelligence is being released to make sure the truth is heard. At this pace and scale, it really is unprecedented.
And it is equally clear that a China that wants to set the rules of the road  the norms for a new global governance  is not well served by close alliance with a regime that wilfully and illegally ignores them all.
Its all making the space very complicated, and in some ways, way beyond the control of governments. Its another reminder of the interconnectedness of the world today. And as no single entity holds the whole solution, it highlights a need for global institutions effectively working in coalition.
Through the National Cyber Security Centre, a part of GCHQ, weve seen sustained intent from Russia to disrupt Ukrainian government and military systems. Weve seen what looks like some spill over of activity affecting surrounding countries. And weve certainly seen indications which suggests Russias cyber actors are looking for targets in the countries that oppose their actions.
Some of this is on the battlefields in Ukraine. Its clear Russia is using mercenaries and foreign fighters to augment its forces. This includes the Wagner group which has been active in Ukraine since Russias illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014.
Putins aggression has certainly galvanised Nato. The war has triggered an unprecedented international response  141 countries condemned it at the UN General Assembly. All over Europe countries are overturning decades long approaches to their defence policy investing more too. And further afield, including in this region, countries like Australia and Japan are leaning in. Its also showing, in stark relief, those countries that choose to either support Putin or abstain from making a choice.
And thats where the most dangerous disinformation war is being waged. We know Putins campaign is beset by problems  low morale, logistical failures and high Russian casualty numbers. Their command and control is in chaos. Weve seen Putin lie to his own people in an attempt to hide military incompetence.
Weve seen Putin lie to his own people in an attempt to hide military incompetence
The group works as a shadow branch of the Russian military, providing implausible deniability for riskier operations.
There are many ways for us to do that, but it seems to me that two things are very important.
But there are risks to them both and arguably more for China in being too closely aligned. Russia understands that long term, China will become increasingly strong militarily and economically. Some of their interests conflict Russia could be squeezed out of the equation.
That said, it increasingly looks like Putin has massively misjudged the situation. Its clear he misjudged the resistance of the Ukrainian people. He underestimated the strength of the coalition his actions would galvanise. He under-played the economic consequences of the sanctions regime. He over-estimated the abilities of his military to secure a rapid victory. Weve seen Russian soldiers  short of weapons and morale  refusing to carry out orders, sabotaging their own equipment and even accidentally shooting down their own aircraft.
Clearly, he plays by different moral and legal rules. Far too many Ukrainians and Russians have already lost their lives. And beyond this toll, many, many more have had their lives shattered. The UN estimate that in just over a month, more than ten million people have already fled their homes. Its a humanitarian crisis that need never have happened. And its not over yet.
Believe it or not, its only 36 days since Vladimir Putin launched an unprovoked and premeditated attack on Ukraine. Its been shocking in every sense of the word. But it wasnt surprising. Weve seen this strategy before. We saw the intelligence picture building. And were now seeing Putin trying to follow through on his plan. But it is failing. And his Plan B has been more barbarity against civilians and cities.
