Putin launches fullscale invasion of Ukraine
20220224
https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/putin-launches-a-full-scale-invasion-of-ukraine
The White House says that Joe Biden will make a statement later today. So we can expect the announcement of further sanctions within hours. China stands ready to help Russia minimise the effect of sanctions, buying gas and crops thatEurope might refuse. Only this morning, Chinas customs announced frictionless import of wheat from all regions of Russiapreviously they have only taken wheat fromcertain designated areas. Russia isthe worlds largest wheat exporter, with Turkey,Egypt and Kazakhstan its biggest customers.More orders from China would go a long way towards blunting any drop in western demand.
In a televised address, Putin has declared that his aim is to demilitarise and de-Nazify Ukraine but not to occupy it.Russia, he said, spent too long trying to appease Hitler and will not make the same mistake now forces along Russian borders. He even suggested that anti-Moscow forces in Ukraine claim to have nuclear weaponswe will not allow that to happen.
Claiming that Russia is facing a threat fromUkraine, he involved Article 51.7 ofthe UN Charter self-defence as justification for his attack.He has repeated his absurd claim that genocide is taking place in the country.
He also addressed Ukrainian military with his analogy that the Jewish president of Ukraine represents a neo-Nazi threat:
The foreign ministers of the Baltic states haveissued a joint statement asking for Russia to be cutoff from the Swift system. That would certainly hurt.But the question is will the measures that the US, the EU, the UK and other democratic nations impose on Moscow be sufficient to make Moscow, which has been trying to sanction-proof its economy since 2014, think again.
It was necessary to immediately stop this nightmare  the genocide against the millions of people living there, who rely only on Russia, hope only on us. It was these aspirations, feelings, pain of people that were for us the main motive for making a decision to recognize the peoples republics of Donbass.
Russia last night launched a full on assault on Ukraine, with cruise missilestrikes reported on the airport east of Kiev amongst targets inat least a dozen other cities. At the moment, it is unclear whether it is Kievs military or civilian airport which has been hit air raid sirens sounded at 7am. Thecity of Mariupol on the Azov sea has come underheavy shelling. Ukraines border guard agency saidtwo cities Chernihiv and Zhytomyr, in northwest Ukraine  are coming under attack.
Dear comrades! Your fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers did not fight the Nazis, defending our common homeland, so that todays neo-Nazis seized power in Ukraine.
In an attempt to deter other countries from intervening to prevent Russian aggression, he warned that:
A senior Ukrainian official has been quoted saying large numbers of of Ukrainian soldiers have already been killed.Russia has denied Ukrainian reports that five of its aircraft and one helicopter had been shot down earlier this morning. Hostilities started at 5am local time.
Russias actions raise the question of whether it was wise for the West to start with limited sanctions, rather than going for the most comprehensive set available immediately. But it is now vital that Moscow is hit with the most stringent sanctions possible, including ones aimed at Putin himself. Deterrence through economic measures has its limits, as Niall Ferguson argues in the magazine this week. But if these sanctions are going to have any hope of changing Russias behaviour, they will have to be so comprehensive that they will impose pain on the West too.
Anyone who tries to interfere with us, or even more so, to create threats for our country and our people, must know that Russias response will be immediate and will lead you to such consequences as you have never before experienced in your history.
An attempt to appease the aggressor on the eve of the Great Patriotic War turned out to be a mistake that cost our people dearlyThe second time we will not allow such a mistake.
Some 36,000 reservists with combat experience are being called upto add to Ukraines 200,000-strong army, but they may soon find themselves facing multiple attacks. Confirmed explosions have been seen in Kharkiv, Dnipro and Kramatorskbelow.
