Why are Ukrainians calling Russian invaders orcs
20220410
https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/why-are-ukrainians-calling-russian-invaders-orcs-
Ukrainian victims of Russias warhave taken to calling their invaders orcs. The word is familiar toJRR Tolkien readers as the name given to the monstrous anthropoids in hisepic novel The Lord of the Rings.In all Tolkiens stories of the wars in Middle Earth, orcs are violent, destructive and untrustworthy, wreaking wanton havoc wherever they go. It is not hard to see why the people of Ukraine use this name for the invaders of their land.
What is certain is that orcs were characters Tolkien returned to repeatedly. Whileorcs are not named as such in The Hobbit 1937 instead they are calledgoblins  they embody most of the characteristics of the orcs shown more fully in The Lord of the Rings 1954-55. Earlier in Tolkiens writings, in tales of the elves of Middle Earth  none of which were published until The Silmarillion, edited in 1977 by his son Christopher, four years after Tolkiens death they appear for the first time. In asection entitled Of the Coming of the Elves and the Captivity of Melkor in Quenta Silmarillion, we are told that the evil demigod Melkor later renamed Morgoth, predecessor of Sauron turned elves captured in war into orcs by torture. They werethen bred into armies of savage and merciless followers, some of whom appear in The Lord of the Rings as the captors first of the hobbits Pippin and Merry, and then of the second pair, Frodo and Sam. The orcs treat the hobbits with callous cruelty and contempt, while showing much the same feelings to each other.
Todays orcs wreaking havoc in the towns and villages of Ukraine appear to have this in common with their fictional predecessors. Yet there maybe something more to Ukrainians calling Russiansorcs than it beingmerely a term of casual abuse. When The Lord of the Rings became a worldwide bestseller it wastranslated into many languages and inspired countless imitations. In Russia, Kirill Eskov published aretelling of Tolkiens work in 1999 under the title The Last Ringbearer. Eskovs novel is a mirror-image of Tolkiens. It follows a group ofelves, led by Gandalf, who wage unremitting war on the peaceful realm of Sauron eventually Sauronsucceeds in defeating them and destroys their treacherous magic, ushering in a new age of progress and prosperity.
Its origins then suggest a possible link to theundead. But the elusive search for the meaning of the word is likely to be what attractedTolkien to it in the first place. Tolkienwas fascinated by words in ancient languages, including Old English, for which there were no definite meanings he enjoyed trying topuzzle out clearer definitions. In this he was part of the scholarly tradition of philology: the academic study of the roots and derivations of words and languages. Undoubtedly he was drawn to the word orc by the obscurity of its meaning.
The Last Ringbearer is not the first or the only inversion of the morality of The Lord of the Rings, but it is striking in its readiness to identify with Sauron and his orcs against elves, dwarves and humans. It is hard in 2022 to resist seeing a parallel with Vladimir Putins vision of Russia assailed by the West and driven to a self-righteous war of survival against a hostile world. On the other side, the people of Ukraine, not deluded by Eskov, label Putin and his troops the orcs they are.
But although Tolkien made the word his own, its origins are, as he acknowledged himself,much older. Orcs first appeared ina tenth-century glossary written in Old English Anglo-Saxon and, more famously, in line 112 of the Old English poem Beowulf: Eotenas ond ylfe ond orcneas.
In both cases, the word appears as an item in a list of the names of creatures. In Beowulf, it can be translated as ogres and elves and monsters. But apart from that context there is little to explain what orcs were or are. One possible clue linguists have picked up on is thatorcneas combines the word orc with another word neas that seems to mean corpses.
Todays orcs wreaking havoc in the towns and villages of Ukraine appear to have this in common with their fictional predecessors
