Boris Johnson to fly to region as RussiaUkraine war continues
20220228
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/liverpool-news/boris-johnson-fly-region-russia-23240026
Downing Street confirmed the Prime Minister will visit the region on Tuesday for meetings with allies and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace warned the invasion was likely to become "more violent" as Russia resorts to more brutal tactics to advance.
Mr Johnson told Cabinet on Monday that Mr Putin had made a "colossal mistake" believing his troops would be "garlanded with roses" by Ukrainians.
"The Prime Minister said Putin must fail in his attempts to subjugate Ukraine and the UK would continue its efforts in three main areas to achieve this: economically, diplomatically and militarily."
Downing Street accused Mr Putin of using a "distraction technique" for his stalling campaign - by trying to blame Foreign Secretary for his own nuclear threat.
Boris Johnson will fly out to Poland and Estonia for crisis talks over the escalating crisis in Ukraine.
It comes as Home Secretary Priti Patel was expected to set out more details on help for Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion.
The PM's spokesman said: "We will be doing even more with the Home Secretary expected to say a little more in the House later today."
The Government announced the relaxation of visa rules for immediate family members of Ukrainians settled in the UK after coming under intense criticism over the weekend.
British Government insiders believe Mr Putin expected to sweep through the country and Russian forces have been caught off guard by the level of opposition from Ukrainian people.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine has entered its fifth day, with Vladimir Putin's forces targeting the capital Kyiv and major cities of Kharkiv and Chernihiv.
But Labour demanded ministers extend it to all relatives and to provide a "broader sanctuary route" to help other Ukrainians.
There is growing hope in Government that sanctions slapped on Russian banks and oligarchs are starting to have an impact.
The spokesman added: "He Mr Johnson said Putin had also underestimated Western unity and the strength of the sanctions his action could lead to.
Downing Street also contradicted Ms Truss for saying she supported people who wanted to travel out to Ukraine to join the fight.
"He said latest intelligence suggested Putin's advances had been hampered by logistical problems and the heroic efforts of the Ukrainian military who are inflicting significant casualties on Russian troops."
He is also believed to have overestimated Russia's military capacity, with reports of some units struggling with fuel shortages.
The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister said it is becoming clearer with each day that Putin had made a colossal mistake believing that the guns of his tanks would be garlanded with roses when instead the Ukrainian people had put up a fierce resistance in defence of their homeland.
The PM's spokesman said: "We fully recognise the strength of feeling about British people wanting to support the Ukrainians following the Russian invasion.
He said the Russian handbook pointed to "ruthless, indiscriminate bombing of cities" with "high casualty levels" as Moscow's troops meet stubborn resistance.
