Ex BBC Strictly Come Dancing star apologises after backlash over RussiaUkraine tweets
20220228
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/tv/ex-bbc-strictly-come-dancing-23242178
"The country leaders should have found the way a long time ago to sort this peacefully but they didn't because war is profitable business and someone unfortunately making profit on this.
Receive newsletters with the biggest and breaking TV and showbiz news by signing up here
The dancer and choreographer clarified that she was born in Russia but left the country 22 years ago and was now an American citizen.
The Russian-born dancer, 44, faced a backlash after posting a series of now-deleted tweets including one which criticised Sky News reporting Russia had been banned from Eurovision following the invasion of Ukraine.
"Seeing the news is breaking my heart as I have Russian friends who live in Ukraine and vice versa."
Former Strictly Come Dancing professional Kristina Rihanoff has apologised for offending anyone for her tweets which were deemed insensitive amid Russian troops escalating their attacks on Ukraine.
Boris Johnson has dismissed the Russian leader's warning, suggesting his actions were more to do with the fact that his forces were meeting with "more resistance than the Kremlin had bargained for".
"And it's really sad that the hate is so powerful everywhere you look at the moment.
In a statement shared to Twitter, Ms Rihanoff said she "made fun" of the report as she thought there was "far more important information" on that day other than the Eurovision update but clarified that she did not support "Putin, war, invasion, lost lives and politics".
"It's absolutely devastating for someone like me who's grandad from Ukraine and I have Ukrainian name to my daughter - Milena.
This comes as Russian troops draw closer to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv and Vladimir Putin announcing he was putting Moscow's nuclear forces on a "special regime of combat duty" in response to "aggressive statements" coming from Western powers.
She continued: "The awful thing is that there is casualties on both sides and on both sides mums  dads will cry for their lost relatives.
Ms Rihanoff wrote: "I made fun of Eurovision tweet by Sky. I did think there was far more important information on that day that Eurovision. This is in any form says I was supporting what's happening at the moment between Russia  Ukraine.
Ms Rihanoff added: "So you can hate me if this will give you comfort but if I didn't say something you wanted me to say it's because sadly I'm powerless doing anything to help anyone in both countries and I don't believe in useless posts which can't help to safe lives.
