Liverpools Jewish community pay tribute  and everything we know from day 12 of fighting in Ukraine
20220307
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/liverpool-news/liverpools-jewish-community-pay-tribute-23318398
Ukraine branded the proposal "immoral" after it emerged many of the routes would only take civilians to Russia or its ally Belarus.
Brendan Wyatt, owner of Transalpino on Bold Street, is driving with friends to the Poland- Ukraine border to provide supplies during the current crisis.
He left the UK on Monday, February 28 and arrived in Ukraine on Tuesday, March 1, before spending time with his wife, son and parents-in-law.
In a video address, he said: "How many such families have died in Ukraine? We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will punish everyone who committed atrocities in this war."
The president of Ukraine, Volodymr Zelenskiy, has vowed to punish "every bd" who committed atrocities during the invasion of Ukraine.
A dad who travelled to Ukraine to reunite with his wife and child has given an emotional update to his TikTok followers.
Today Monday, March 7 Ian updated his 217k TikTok followers to say his family were "safe" and had crossed the border into Moldova.
Boris Johnson spoke at a press conference alongside his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau and Dutch premier Mark Rutte.
Attacks are said to continue despite a proposal from Russia to create safe escape routes out of Kyiv, Mariupol, Sumy and Kharkiv
"One of the other lads with us, Rado, he is a Polish translator in Liverpool, hes been in the city for 16 years, but his hometown is quite near to the border of Ukraine, so he wanted to come along too as he is worried about what is happening in his region."
A Ukrainian adviser to the president's office said there was some "small positive" progress on the logistics of humanitarian corridors. And Reuters news agency quoted a Ukrainian negotiator as saying no agreement had been reached that significantly improved the broader situation.
Liverpool's Jewish community came together to support Ukraine at Childwall Synagogue on Monday, March 7.
Brendan decided to make the trip after becoming frustrated at the response of the UK government.
A Kremlin aide said the talks in Belarus had "failed to live up to our expectations", in remarks broadcast on Russian TV.
Ian Umney, 28, from St Helens, quit his job as an English teacher and a courier to travel to Nikopol in south-eastern Ukraine to "save" Ukrainian wife Nelia and two-year-old son Jonathan.
Day 12 of Russia's Invasion of Ukraine saw Russia continue to prevent the evacuation of civilians and a third round of peace talks.
He said: "Like everyone else we are frustrated, you feel at a loss of what to do."
Day 12 also saw a third round of peace talks between Ukraine and Russia, but "little progress" was made.
Receive newsletters with the latest news, sport and what's on updates from the Liverpool ECHO by signing up here
He told the ECHO : "Robin, one of the lads with us, called me the other day and asked 'you fancy getting over to Ukraine?' and I thought 'well yeah okay'.
The Synagogue held the special service, which saw Rabbi Rafael Kruskal of the "Tikvah" community in Odessa, join the dozens of people who attended via Zoom.
Closer to home dozens came together in Childwall Synagogue in a special service to pray for Ukraine.
On March 2, Ian and his family decided to make arrangements to flea Ukraine and left their home on Saturday, March 5.
He says the United Kingdom will give 175m of aid to Ukraine, saying it takes the UK's total commitment to nearly 400 million.
