Mums fear for son 24 preparing to fight Russian invasion forces in Ukraine
20220305
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/liverpool-news/mums-fear-son-24-preparing-23290172
"I saw people who were happy, and now the happiness of my people has been broken, destroyed, ruined."
She added: "I sincerely pray for his health, for the victory of Ukraine and for peace and tranquility."
Now the 24-year-old, who graduated university as a computer science teacher, is preparing to fight the advancing Russian forces.
Inna said: "I feel very distraught. I feel the deepest pain. My country is ruined.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky called on civilians to take up arms, imposing martial law and banning Ukrainian males aged 18 to 60 from leaving the country when Russia launched a full-scale invasion on February 24.
"In spite of all the misunderstandings between Ukrainians before the war, now we've gathered, we've become very close, from the youngest to the elderly.
A woman in Liverpool cried as she spoke of her son preparing to fight against the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
"We have a professional army, but we need help and support because Putin's army is strong, but we can fight back. We can resist."
When her son visited Liverpool in 2019, Inna asked him if he wanted to move here, but he said no, preferring it as a holiday destination.
Inna Ruzheva, 46, moved from western Ukraine to the "beautiful city" of Liverpool five years ago and is learning English at Knowsley College.
Civilians attempt to block roads to Russian military convoys while others shelter in basements from the artillery fire hitting buildings above.
Inna told the ECHO: "He's very calm, focused. There is no time, no opportunity, to panic or worry."
Despite the mobile phone footage and satellite images of Russian troops, which keep Inna and other Ukrainians abroad informed, limited information has been shared about movements on the Ukrainian side as ordinary people join the fight on every front.
Standing on the steps of the Bombed Out Church during a solidarity vigil on Tuesday, March 1, Inna told the ECHO about the last time she visited Ukraine in July 2021.
Inna said: "It was summer, it was warm, it was sunny. I was hugging my son.
