Ukraine Russian invasion LIVE  latest updates as Kyiv hit by rocket strikes
20220224
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/live-putin-launches-russian-invasion-23200491
Mr Johnson told his Cabinet on Thursday night that the UK could be proud of its role in supporting Ukraine, after the Prime Minister announced the "largest and most severe" package of sanctions Russia has ever faced to punish Mr Putin, whom he labelled a "blood-stained aggressor".
"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.
Ukrainian servicemen walk by fragments of a downed aircraft seen in in Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Feb. 25, 2022.
He said in a tweet: "Consider this: Putin has launched a massive war of aggression in Europe during a still raging pandemic. On top of that, Russians bomb Ukrainian hospitals now.
Russia's communications regulator, Roskomnadzor, appeared to have brought in the restrictions in response to changes made by Facebooks parent company, Meta.
Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had "chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction"
Kyiv residents have been urged to make petrol bombs and take up arms against the invading forces.
This is beyond evil. The only moral choice any government can make now is to support Ukraine by all means."
In a joint statement the 30 leaders said: "No one should be fooled by the Russian government's barrage of lies."
"Said he should be ashamed of himself, that Russia has lied repeatedly and lost its last shred of credibility with the international community."
They added: "President Putins decision to attack Ukraine is a terrible strategic mistake, for which Russia will pay a severe price, both economically and politically, for years to come."
The Mirror has reported how the Foreign Secretary Andrei Kelin to speak to her after Vladimir Putin's repeated threats to invade Ukraine.
Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Sir Keir said he supported the Governments package of sanctions announced on Thursday but called for extra measures.
Important resource Ukrainians put together a list of resources on how foreigners can help. There are all reputable organizations doing good work. Spread far and wide:https:t.coNeGElG48jZ
A decision to freeze Mr Putin and Mr Lavrov's assets indicates that western powers are moving towards unprecedented measures to try to stop the invasion of Ukraine.
She added that Russia should expect a long, protracted conflict that would inflict a huge human, economic and political cost on the Russian government. She said allies and partners are united in support for Ukraine, providing economic and defensive support.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has "chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction" with his attack.
Boris Johnson has told Nato leaders "immediate action" must be taken to ban Russia from the Swift payment platform to "inflict maximum pain" on Vladimir Putin.
The Prime Minister attended a virtual meeting of the leaders on Friday afternoon and warned that Mr Putin was "engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn post-Cold War order", according to a No 10 spokesperson.
Speaking at a news conference in Ottawa's Parliament Hill, he said that Putin's own personal wealth... is at significant risk because of his terrible mistake".
Nato calls on Moscow to withdraw all its forces from Ukraine and "to turn back from the path of aggression it has chosen".
He added the UK armed forces are "stood ready for any further request" for further military support.
"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again."
President Zelensky said 137 civilians and military personnel have been killed so far in the invasion of his country.
Ukrainians demonstrated in Whitehall outside of Downing Street, the residence of the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, on February 25, 2022 in London.
Footage reportedly filmed in Ukraine shows civilians being handed weapons in the fight against invading Russia.
The FIA Formula 1 World Championship visits countries all over the world with a positive vision to unite people, bringing nations together.
It was unclear what aicraft crashed and what brought it down amid the Russian invasion in Ukraine Russia is pressing its invasion of Ukraine to the outskirts of the capital after unleashing airstrikes on cities and military bases and sending in troops and tanks from three sides.
The European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov along with other sanctions, according to Latvia's foreign minister.
Vitali Klitschko, famous for his dramatic fight with the UK's Lennon Lewis, has said that he is now ready to follow his famous brother Wladimir, the Mayor of Ukraine, and join Ukraines reserve army.
Footage appears to show a Russian hit on a cancer centre within the grounds of a hospital in Melitopol.A harrowing clip shows a missie fired at the building before it partly erupts into a ball of flames.Ukrain'e Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Russain shelling of a hopsital is "beyond evil".He said in a tweet: "Consider this: Putin has launched a massive war of aggression in Europe during a still raging pandemic. On top of that, Russians bomb Ukrainian hospitals now.This is beyond evil. The only moral choice any government can make now is to support Ukraine by all means."
Western leaders have scheduled an emergency meeting and Ukraine's president pleaded for international help to fend off an attack that could topple his democratically elected government and cause massive casualties.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has just announced the country will join the US, UK and EU in levying sanctions against Russian President Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
Mr Johnson said he was sanctioning "all the major manufacturers that support Putin's war machine", will ban Aeroflot from touching down planes in the UK and will freeze the assets of all major Russian banks, including immediately against VTB.
Mr Johnson told the leaders "the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday", bringing the Government in line with measures announced by the EU.
The spokesperson said the PM had "urged leaders to take immediate action against Swift to inflict maximum pain on President Putin and his regime"
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps says he has extended a flight ban meaning "no Russian private jet can fly in UK airspace, or touchdown - effective immediately".
It's also important to make sure you're only commenting and posting information from trusted news sources.
He called them "heroes" in a video address released early Friday in which he also said hundreds more have been wounded.
Russia began a large-scale attack on Ukraine, with Russian troops invading the country from the north, east and south, accompanied by air strikes and shelling.
A spokesman for Ukrainian President Zelensky has just said the country is prepared to hold ceasefire and peace talks with Russia immediately.
Explosions sounded before dawn on Friday in Kyiv and gunfire was later heard near the government quarter.
We have to stand together with our allies, particularly Nato, and its very important we must stand together as one United Kingdom, and therefore yesterday was significant in Parliament because all political parties spoke with one voice in our support for Ukraine and our support for Nato.
He said the UK should break open shell companies in Britain providing support to Vladimir Putin and target Russia via Swift, an international financial system.
Footage appears to show a Russian hit on a cancer centre within the grounds of a hospital in Melitopol.
Ukrainians have collated a list of local organisations you can donate to through secure methods like PayPal.
The Russian Grand Prix, due to be held in Sochi on September 25, has been cancelled following Russias invasion of Ukraine, Formula One has announced.
"We will be imposing sanctions on President Putin and his fellow architects of this barbaric war," he said, adding that sanctions will also be placed on the leaders of Belarus due to their support for Russia's invasion.
Latvian foreign minister Edgars Rinkevics said in a tweet on Friday that the EU's foreign ministers "adopted the 2nd sanctions package" and added that "the asset freeze includes President of Russia and its Foreign Minister".
We are watching the developments in Ukraine with sadness and shock and hope for a swift and peaceful resolution to the present situation.
Among the new UK sanctions introduced were measures to hit five further oligarchs, including the Russian president's former son-in-law, and to target more than 100 businesses and individuals.
Today at 10:30 am at the entrances to Chernihiv, Hostomel and Melitopol there were heavy fighting. People died. Next time I'll try to move the war schedule to talk to MarioDraghi at a specific time. Meanwhile, Ukraine continues to fight for its people.
A Tweet posted by the Defence of Ukraine shows a video of the President outside with his Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister and head of the Servant of the People of Kyiv.
Liz Truss "kicked out" the Russian ambassador from the Foreign Office during a "heated meeting."
He said: "The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.
The accompanying tweet says: "President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy: 'We are all here to defend our independence, our state! It will continue to be so. Glory to our defenders and defenders! Glory to Ukraine!'"
He said there had been 'deaths', but said Ukraine 'continued to fight for its people'.
I do want to go further. I think that we do need further financial restrictions, particularly the Swift mechanism. I also think weve got to break open the shell companies we have here in the UK that are providing financial support for Putin.
Boris Johnson has addressed a message directly to the people of Russia, saying in Russian: "I do not believe this war is in your name."
Mr Johnson is facing calls, including from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, to strengthen his package of measures hitting oligarchs supporting the Putin regime and freezing Russian bank assets.
In a video posted on social media, the Prime Minister also spoke Ukrainian after urging an end to the conflict "because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine".
On Thursday evening Formula 1, the FIA, and the teams discussed the position of our sport, and the conclusion is, including the view of all relevant stakeholders, that it is impossible to hold the Russian Grand Prix in the current circumstances.
Reacting to news that Russian troops were nearing Kyiv, Sir Keir said the situation was extremely serious and Britain should be absolutely clear in its stance.
Around a dozen Ukrainians led a demonstration outside of Liverpool Town Hall on Castle Street to condemn the Russian invasion.
Boris Johnson is considering sanctioning Vladimir Putin's "inner circle" after Ukraine demanded tougher measures and support fending off the Russian invasion, as Kyiv was hit by air strikes and fighting closed in on the capital.
On sending troops to to eastern Europe, Nato says it "will make all deployments necessary to ensure strong and credible deterrence and defence".
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he believes further financial restrictions against Russia are needed.
Ukrainians in Liverpool told of their heartache and "feeling helpless" over the safety of family and friends as they gathered to protest the Russian invasion.
Fierce fighting is underway on the streets of Kyiv after Russian special forces penetrated the city - with the army reportedly in control of a crucial nearby airfield.
A harrowing clip shows a missie fired at the building before it partly erupts into a ball of flames.
In relation to the sanctions, I thought what the Government put forward earlier this week was not strong enough. They came forward yesterday with a stronger package and I was able to say that we, the opposition, will support those further sanctions.
Guns and ammunition are seen being removed from crates on the street, as more are passed down from the back of an open-bed truck.
Putin's troops are on the outskirts of the capital however gunfire has also been heard near the parliament quarter of the city.
She reiterated there would be severe sanctions in retribution for the invasion, which will inflict pain on the Russian economy and those closely associated with the Kremlin.
Miltiple reporters in Kyiv including Michael Downey from the New York Times, said he has heard strikes and 'cluster munitions'.
A short time later rocket strikes began to hit Kyiv and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky ordered a full military mobilisation.
The Russian president Vladimir Putin announced the action during a televised address early on Thursday morning, saying the move was a response to threats from Ukraine.
The Ukranian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, has reported heavy fighting with Russian forces at Chernihiv, Hostomel and Melitopol.
The spokesperson said: "He warned the group that the Russian president's ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences."
Dozens of men in ordinary clothes are seen being armed at the scene located in what appears to be behind an industrial unit.
The European Broadcasting Union has announced Russia will no longer participate in this year's Eurovision Song Contest following the invasion of Ukraine.
Authorities said that the restrictions were censorship and accused Facebook of violating the human rights of its citizens.
Vitali Klitschko now set to his follow his famous brother into the army to defend Ukraine.
He said Russian and Ukrainian officials are currently discussing a time and place for talks to be held.
Aside from donating money, you can also write to your local MP either by email or post.
A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: The Foreign Secretary said the Russian government had repeatedly lied about having no plans to invade Ukraine, and its unprovoked aggression had made it an international pariah.
