Ukraine live updates Fighting erupts in second city Kharkiv as Russia attacks
20220226
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-live-updates-fighting-erupts-23225675
The European Union's chief executive has said the 27-nation bloc will close its airspace to Russian airlines, fund supplies of weapons to Ukraine and ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets in response to Russia's invasion.
Anfield has lit up in the colours of the Ukrainian national flag as a symbol of solidarity with the country.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said she would support British nationals who chose to go fight alongside the Ukrainian forces against the Russian invasion.
But until Sunday, they had remained on its outskirts without trying to enter the city, while other forces rolled past, pressing their offensive deeper into Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was staying in the capital Kyiv, boosting the morale of Ukrainian fighters as Russian troops were closing in on the city and huge explosions lit up the sky early on Sunday.
"The people of Ukraine are fighting for freedom and democracy, not just for Ukraine but for the whole of Europe.
"The Rosneft holding is no longer aligned with BP's business and strategy and it is now the board's decision to exit BP's shareholding in Rosneft.
Air raid sirens were heard in Kyiv this evening after a city-wide curfew came into force.
The oil firm's chief executive Bernard Looney is also resigning from the Rosneft board with "immediate effect", it said in a statement.
More than 150,000 Ukrainians HAVE fled for Poland, Moldova and other neighbouring countries, and the United Nations warned that the number could grow to four million if fighting escalates.
A Liverpool themed hotel once sat proud in the city of Donetsk - in the disputed region of eastern Ukraine.
Mr Zelensky banned men of military age, 18 to 60, from leaving the country and authorities have also called on foreign volunteers to come and fight in Ukraine's defence.
Mr Zelenskyy's office also said Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, prompting the government to warn people to protect themselves from the smoke by covering their windows with damp cloth or gauze.
Russian troops approached Kharkiv, which is located about 12.4 miles 20km south of the border with Russia, shortly after Moscow launched its invasion of Ukraine on Thursday.
"Its people have shown such courage, in the face of great loss of life and destruction.
Downing Street said the funding will help aid agencies respond to the deteriorating humanitarian situation, creating access to basic necessities and medical supplies such as medicines, syringes, dressings and wound care packs.
BP will sell its 14 billion dollar 10.4 billion stake in oil producer Rosneft, which it co-owns with the Kremlin, after facing pressure from the Government.
"It has led the BP board to conclude, after a thorough process, that our involvement with Rosneft, a state-owned enterprise, simply cannot continue.
The Liverpool Hotel was a combined food market, hotel and live music bar. It boasted a statue and a mural of the Fab Four in the reception area, and many of the bedrooms were Beatles-themed.
Ukrainian forces are battling Russian troops on the streets of Ukraine's second-city Kharkiv as Russian forces target cities and gas and oil depots.
Maj Gen Konashenkov also said that since the start of the attack on Thursday, the Russian military have hit 1,067 Ukrainian military facilities, including 27 command posts and communication centres, 38 air defence missile systems and 56 radar stations.
It came as the Kremlin said a Russian delegation has arrived in the Belarusian city of Homel for talks with Ukrainian officials, but Ukraine's leader said his country would not meet in Belarus after it was used as a staging ground for the invasion.
President Vladimir Putin has ordered Russian nuclear deterrent forces on alert amid tensions with the West over his invasion of Ukraine.
Mr Putin ordered the Russian defence minister and the chief of the military's General Staff to put the nuclear deterrent forces in a "special regime of combat duty".
The city's Mayor Vitali Klitschko said "all civilians on the street during the curfew will be considered members of the enemy's sabotage and reconnaissance groups".
The Irish foreign affairs minister has said he hopes the world is seeing the "first step" towards the ending of war, ahead of talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials.However, Simon Coveney also said the meeting will not be enough to deter the EU from imposing fresh sanctions.On Sunday, the office of Ukraine's president said a delegation will meet with Russian officials as Moscow's troops draw closer to Kyiv.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's office said on the Telegram messaging app that the two sides would meet at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border and did not give a precise time for the meeting.Mr Coveney tweeted: "Let's hope this can be a first step to ending Russia's war against Ukraine."But be clear, EU foreign ministers meet tonight to increase targeted sanctions against Russia for unjustifiable aggression  to substantially increase our support for Ukraine."
Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said "there are dead and wounded among our comrades", without offering any numbers, but added that Russia's losses were "many times" fewer than those of Ukraine's forces.
BP chairman Helge Lund said: "Russia's attack on Ukraine is an act of aggression which is having tragic consequences across the region.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said Russia should be stripped of its seat at the United Nations Security Council over its invasion of his country.
The protest by Liverpool Universities Polish Society, POMOC and United We Stand - Solidarity Network will be held at the Bombed Out Church from 6pm until 8pm.
Ms von der Leyen added that the EU will also target Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko for supporting Russia's widespread military campaign in Ukraine.
"I urge the Russians not to escalate this conflict but we do need to be prepared for Russia to seek to use even worse weapons. I think it would be hugely devastating. We need to avoid this at all costs."
European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said that "for the first time ever, the European Union will finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and other equipment to a country that is under attack".
We're also on Facebooktheliverpoolecho - your must-see news, features, videos and pictures throughout the day from the Liverpool ECHO.
The European Union's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell has said he is calling an urgent meeting tomorrow of the bloc's foreign ministers to consider further measures against Russia.
Boris Johnson said: "In the last days the world has witnessed awe-inspiring displays of bravery and heroism from the Ukrainian people in response to those who seek to obliterate their freedom by force.
Boris Johnson has praised Ukrainians for "fighting heroically" as allies unveiled new measures to hit Russia's financial system and Liz Truss said the Foreign Office is preparing a "hit list" of oligarchs to sanction.
The measures were announced jointly as part of a new round of financial sanctions meant to impose a severe cost on Russia for the invasion.
Britain has said Vladimir Putin may be prepared to use "the most unsavoury means" to secure victory in Ukraine amid warnings he could unleash Moscow's arsenal of battlefield nuclear weapons.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has not disclosed his ultimate plans, but Western officials believe he is determined to overthrow Ukraine's government and replace it with a regime of his own, redrawing the map of Europe and reviving Moscow's Cold War-era influence.
A senior Ukrainian source told the Daily Mirror: If this happens it will mean Belarus has openly joined Russia in its invasion of sovereign Ukraine.
She also said the EU will ban "the Kremlin's media machine. The state-owned Russia Today and Sputnik, as well as their subsidiaries, will no longer be able to spread their lies to justify Putin's war and to sow division in our union".
"Absolutely, if people want to support that struggle I would support them in doing that."
While hundreds of thousands of refugees are leaving Ukraine amid Russia's attack on the country, some Ukrainian men and women are returning home from across Europe to help defend their homeland.
Flames billowed into the sky before dawn from an oil depot near an air base in Vasylkiv, where there has been intense fighting, according to the town's mayor.
Following its gains on the ground, Russia sent a delegation to Belarus for peace talks with Ukraine, according to the Kremlin.
Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said visa restrictions for those seeking sanctuary in the UK from Ukraine are "totally unacceptable".
Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskyy took to Twitter to say a case has been taken to the International Court of Justice, in The Hague.
It added: "Numbers are constantly being updated ... We aim to have another update later today."
"The leaders agreed that President Putin is being met with a greater Ukrainian resistance than he calculated on.
Follow us on Twitter LivECHONews - the official Liverpool ECHO Twitter account - real news in real time.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has promised to arm foreign volunteers to travel to his country to join the battle against Vladimir Putin's forces.
"He paid tribute to the incredible heroism and bravery of President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people.
He said: "Ukraine has submitted its application against Russia to the ICJ. Russia must be held accountable for manipulating the notion of genocide to justify aggression.
President Volodymyr Zelensky vowed "We will fight for as long as needed to liberate our country."
At least 200,000 people have fled Ukraine into Poland and other neighbouring countries in the wake of the Russian invasion, UN refugee agency the UNHCR said on Sunday.
The move happened after Russian President Vladimir Putin attacked Ukraine last week in what BP's chairman called an "act of aggression" with "tragic consequences".
The US, European Union and UK have agreed to block "selected" Russian banks from the Swift global financial messaging system in retaliation for the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Asked about Russia's arsenal of chemical and tactical weapons, she said: "I fear this conflict could be very, very bloody.
Belarus special forces are believed to be preparing to assault the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, the Daily Mirror reports.
"The UK will not turn our backs in Ukraine's hour of need. We are providing all the economic and military support we can to help those Ukrainians risking everything to protect their country."
"The leaders agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially. They welcomed the increased willingness to take action on excluding Russia from SWIFT.
In a statement, No 10 said: "The Prime Minister spoke to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy this evening.
Russian troops have entered Ukraine's second city of Kharkiv and fighting is under way in the streets, Ukrainian authorities have said.
Demonstrators held pickets and marched in city centres, chanting "No to war!" as President Vladimir Putin ordered the Russian nuclear deterrent to be put on high alert, upping the ante in the Kremlin's stand-off with the West and stoking fears of a nuclear war.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said any use of nuclear or chemical weapons would represent an "extremely serious escalation" of the conflict which could see Russian leaders brought before the International Criminal Court.
The Russian assault on Kyiv has led to a curfew being announced in the city, set to last through until Monday morning, with people seeking safety underground.
Protests are being held across multiple UK cities to stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine.
Poland's Border Guard said on Sunday that some 22,000 people have crossed into Ukraine since Thursday, when Russia invaded the country.
"The BP board believes these decisions are in the best long-term interests of all our shareholders."
Speaking in a video message on Sunday, he named Warsaw, Bratislava, Istanbul, Budapest or Baku as alternative venues.
Mr Borrell said he will propose to the ministers that they endorse "a package of emergency assistance for the Ukrainian armed forces, to support them in their heroic fight".
The PM confirmed Britain would be sending further arms to the Ukrainians and he said that the financial measures were essential to put pressure on the Kremlin.
Speaking to Sky on Trevor Phillips on Sunday, he said: "People are fleeing with their children in their arms. Why would you ask people how rich they are to enter our country? Of course, there are some people who may not have family ties, but want to come into this country."
Ukraine's Minister of Defence has called for more support as 'your safety depends on us'.
72 hours of resistance! The world didnt believe. The world doubted. But we did not just stand, we confidently continue to fight with russian occupant!We showed the world - dont be afraid, be strong  repel it! Support of must be more stronger! Your safety depends on us! pic.twitter.comSlHhv6tGuz
"The Prime Minister updated on the UK's support to Ukraine and the progress rallying international partners to hold Russia to account for their campaign of destruction.
Activist from the KOD UK Magorzata Grabowicz said: "Solidarity is the most important now. We must show that we care, that we are not indifferent.
He said: "The Ukrainians are fighting heroically, and in some places with great success, as many of us thought they would because they're a great country and a very brave country."
Mr Borrell tweeted on Saturday that a virtual meeting will be convened at 6pm Central European Time 5pm GMT to adopt further measures in support of Ukraine.
Taking to Twitter on Sunday morning Mr Reznikov said there had been 72-hours of resistence.
Speaking at a meeting with his top officials, Mr Putin asserted that leading Nato powers had made "aggressive statements" along with the West imposing hard-hitting financial sanctions against Russia, including the president himself.
Previously they endorsed two packages of sanctions: one raft targeting Russians involved in the recognition of two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine, and another hitting Russia's economy, as well as freezing the assets of the president and foreign minister.
Ms von der Leyen added that "we are shutting down the EU airspace for Russians. We are proposing a prohibition on all Russian-owned, Russian-registered or Russian-controlled aircraft. These aircraft will no more be able to land in, take off or overfly the territory of the EU".
Vladimir Putin has given an address this morning as the Russian invasion of Ukraine enters a fourth day.Mr Putin praised his forces for their "impeccable service" in Ukraine.Live updates: https:t.cocz5NTchyMw Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comfT3Gdh4d2Y
The Ukraine presidents office has said Ukrainian envoys will meet with Russian diplomats as Russian troops draw closer to Kyiv.
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky suggested other locations, saying his country is unwilling to meet in Belarus because it served as a staging ground for the invasion.
The Russian military has said that some of its troops were killed and some were wounded in Ukraine - admitting for the first time that it had suffered casualties since the Russian invasion.
President Zelensky said his country is ready for peace talks with Russia but not in Belarus, given the Russian ally's role in the invasion.
Speaking in Russian, he said Ukraine wants peace talks and will "accept any other city in a country that hasn't been used for launching missiles. Only then, the talks could be honest and put an end to the war."
The Prime Minister praised the Ukrainian president and his people for their "heroism" in defence of their country.
Speaking on Sky News's Trevor Phillips on Sunday programme, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "This could well be the beginning of the end for Putin. I fear that he is prepared to use the most unsavoury means in this war."
Britain is to provide a further 40 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine, the Government has announced.
The Ministry of Defence has given an update on the latest situation in Ukraine as Russian forces are met with "stiff resistence"
Asked on the BBC's Sunday Morning programme if she would support UK citizens who chose to answer the call, Ms Truss said: "That is something people can make their own decisions about.
His claims and Ukraine's allegations that its forces killed thousands of Russian troops cannot be independently verified.
But the former 100-room hotel is now only a memory, and was one of the first casualties in the early days of the hostilities between Russia and Ukraine, before the invasion took place. A Google search gives its status as "permanently closed".
Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng held a virtual call with Mr Looney for around 20 minutes on Friday to discuss the company's position.
Mr Johnson also said the West is "tightening the economic ligature" around Russia, with Britain, the US, Canada and the European Union together announcing selected Russian banks would be excluded from the Swift global payments system.
"It could be us. And if it were us, we would want the world to care. It is nothing else but common decency that drives me to attend demonstrations."
From Moscow to Siberia, Russian anti-war activists have taken to the streets again to protest against Russia's invasion of Ukraine, despite the arrests of hundreds of protesters each day by police.
Huge explosions lit up the sky early on Sunday south of the capital, Kyiv, where people hunkered down in homes, underground garages and subway stations in anticipation of a full-scale assault by Russian forces.
"The Prime Minister and President Zelenskyy expressed their mutual concern about the role Belarus is playing as a conduit for President Putin's violence. "
Sky News reports that Vladimir Putin praised his forces for their "impeccable service" in Ukraine.
In a latest update from shortly before 9.30am, The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said more than 200,000 people have arrived in neighbouring countries from Ukraine.
"We request an urgent decision ordering Russia to cease military activity now and expect trials to start next week."
