Where is Ukraine and what countries border Ukraine
20220224
https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-what-countries-border-ukraine-23201475
Russian shells are believed to have fallen on Ukraine's capital Kiev as residents look to flee the city.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced today martial law was being imposed across all of Ukraine.
Sign up to the Merseyside Report, as elected officials continue to lead the city region out of lockdown
NATO are currently providing weapons, supplies and field hospital to Ukraine - and has called the invasion "a flagrant violation of international law".
Ukraine said a "full-scale invasion" has been launched with Russian forces crossing the country's borders and bombing military targets near big cities.
Ukraine was a founding member of the USSR in 1922 but regained its independence in 1991 following the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
Vladimir Putin announced the action during a televised address early on Thursday morning saying the move was a response to threats from Ukraine.
Ukraine also shares borders with Belarus to the north Slovakia, Poland and Hungary to the west Romania and Moldova to the south and has a coastline along the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea.
President Putin sees Ukraine as historically part of Russia - and in 2014 Russian invaded Crimea in the south of Ukraine, and continues to occupy it.
Russian-backed separatists and Ukraine have been fighting a war in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk since 2014.
The European Union is planning the "strongest, the harshest package" of sanctions on Russia while UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson - who is chairing Cobra emergency meetings - is set to unveil more sanctions to MPs later.
Receive newsletters with the latest news, sport and what's on updates from the Liverpool ECHO by signing up here
Russia has launched a military operation into Ukraine, with the country's foreign minister saying a "full-scale invasion" has begun.
Police in Ukraine said seven people are known to have died in bombing by Russian forces.
Ukraine is a country in Eastern Europe which borders Russia to the east and north-east.
