Russia launches fullscale war in Ukraine
20220224
https://www.milfordmercury.co.uk/news/national/19949242.russia-launches-full-scale-war-ukraine/
Brent crude oil jumped to more than 100 dollars per barrel on Thursday on unease about possible disruption of Russian supplies, while the rouble sank.
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said on Facebook that the Russian military had launched missile strikes on Ukrainian military command facilities, air bases and military depots in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Dnipro.
Russia has launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine, hitting cities and bases with air strikes or shelling, as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee.
She planned to head to the western city of Lviv and then to try to move to Poland to join her daughter.
The Russian military claimed to have wiped out Ukraines entire air defences in a matter of hours, and European authorities declared the countrys air space an active conflict zone.
Sirens rang out in Ukraines capital Kyiv and people massed in train stations and took to roads, as the government said the former Soviet republic was seeing a long-anticipated invasion from the east, north and south and reported more than 40 soldiers had been killed and dozens wounded.
World leaders condemned the attack, which could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraines democratically elected government, upend the post-Cold War security order and result in severe economic impact around the world from soaring heating bills to spikes in food prices.
The Ukrainian air defence system and air force date back to the Soviet era and are dwarfed by Russias massive air power and precision weapons.
The consequences of the conflict and resulting sanctions on Russia started reverberating throughout the world.
Anticipating international condemnation and countermeasures, Mr Putin issued a stark warning to other countries not to meddle.
Mr Zelensky urged global leaders to provide defence assistance to Ukraine and help protect its airspace, and urged his compatriots to defend the nation.
Russia is not only attacking Ukraine, but the rules of normal life in the modern world.
In announcing a major military operation, Russian President Vladimir Putin deflected global condemnation and cascading new sanctions  and chillingly referred to his countrys nuclear arsenal as he threatened any foreign country attempting to interfere with consequences you have never seen.
The Russian Defence Ministry said it was not targeting cities, but using precision weapons and claimed that there is no threat to the civilian population.
The president said he planned to speak to Americans on Thursday after a meeting of the Group of Seven leaders.
In these dark hours, our thoughts are with Ukraine and the innocent women, men and children as they face this unprovoked attack and fear for their lives, they said on Twitter.
Mr Zelensky said he asked to arrange a call with Mr Putin late on Wednesday, but the Kremlin did not respond.
In an apparent reference to Mr Putins move to authorise the deployment of the Russian military to maintain peace in eastern Ukraine, Mr Zelensky warned that this step could mark the start of a big war on the European continent.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres opened the meeting, just before the announcement, telling the Russian president: Give peace a chance.
Ukraines government said Russian tanks and troops rolled across the border in what it called a full-scale war that could rewrite the geopolitical order and whose fallout has already reverberated around the globe.
Russias claims could not immediately be verified, nor could Ukrainian ones that they had shot down several Russian aircraft.
He accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russias demands to prevent Ukraine from joining Nato and for security guarantees.
Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels: This is a deliberate, cold-blooded and long-planned invasion.  Russia is using force to try to rewrite history.
US President Joe Biden pledged new sanctions to punish Russia for the unprovoked and unjustified attack.
Later Ukrainian authorities described ground invasions in multiple regions, and border guards released security camera footage on Thursday showing a line of Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukraines government-held territory from Russian-annexed Crimea.
Ukraines foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba pleaded: The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.
European Council president Charles Michel and European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen later promised to hold the Kremlin accountable.
Ukrainians who had long braced for the prospect of an assault were urged to stay home and not to panic, even as officials said Russian troops were rolling into Ukraine, and big explosions were heard in the capital Kyiv, Kharkiv in the east and Odesa in the west.
Natos chief said the brutal act of war shattered peace on the European continent, as the US-led alliance mobilised more troops to move towards eastern Europe.
We woke up in a different world today, Germanys foreign minister said, as Nato agreed to beef up air, land and sea forces on its eastern flank near Ukraine and Russia.
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace, Mr Zelensky said in an emotional overnight address, speaking in Russian in a direct appeal to Russian citizens.
Members still unaware of Mr Putins announcement of the operation appealed to him to stand down.
In a reminder of Russias nuclear power, he warned that no-one should have any doubts that a direct attack on our country will lead to the destruction and horrible consequences for any potential aggressor.
Global financial markets plunged and oil prices soared, and governments from the US to Asia and Europe readied new sanctions after weeks of failed efforts for a diplomatic solution.
The attack began even as the UN Security Council was holding an emergency meeting to hold off an invasion.
But if we come under attack, if we face an attempt to take away our country, our freedom, our lives and lives of our children, we will defend ourselves.
An Associated Press AP photographer in Mariupol heard explosions and saw dozens of people with suitcases heading for their cars to leave the city.
Mr Putins announcement came just hours after the Ukrainian president rejected Moscows claims that his country poses a threat to Russia and made a passionate, last-minute plea for peace.
After weeks of denying plans to invade, Mr Putin justified his actions in an overnight televised address, asserting that the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a false claim the US had predicted he would make as a pretext for an invasion.
In the capital, mayor Vitaly Klitschko advised residents to stay home unless they are involved in critical work and urged them to prepare go-bags with necessities and documents if they need to evacuate.
His spokesman said on Thursday that Russia does not intend to occupy Ukraine but will move to demilitarise it.
We are facing a war and horror. What could be worse? 64-year-old Liudmila Gireyeva said in Kyiv.
