President Biden believes Russia will invade Ukraine some Burlingtonians say the US should stay out
20220219
https://www.mynbc5.com/article/president-biden-believes-russia-will-invade-ukraine-some-burlingtonians-say-the-us-should-stay-out/39142017
"I think people are largely uninformed on the matter and people who know anything are putting out a weak analysis quite frankly," Cook said.
"These deployments were conducted in full coordination with host nations and NATO military authorities, and although temporary in nature, they are prudent measures to increase readiness and enhance NATO's collective defense."
"This immediate crisis may not produce war but this crisis and conflict between the US and Ukraine isn't going anywhere at all." Ashley Smith, one rally organizer, said. "We have direct material stake in stopping the drive to war because all of these billions of dollars and billions of dollars get wasted on war machines like F-35's that could be used to go toward jobs education health care and social programs to people right here in Burlington."
Cook added that he's speaking out against the country's involvement because it is one way he can stand up for the working man, who may be most impacted by what he believes would be a senseless war.
"I work at UPS, I stack boxes to sustain myself," Cook said. "There's a guy like that in the Ukraine. There's a guy like that in Russia. This is a way of showing solidarity."
A new, local anti-war coalition has formed in Burlington, made up of democratic socialist organizations and other groups in the area.
This new anti-war coalition said their plan is to do "teach-ins" to educate the public on the history of this conflict, with events to be announced soon.
President Joe Biden addressed the nation Friday about the situation between Russia and the Ukraine. Biden said it is likely Russian President Vladimir Putin is planning an invasion.
On Friday, the coalition gathered downtown for a rally to publicly oppose any impending war.
"As of this moment I am convinced he has made the decision. We have reason to believe that," President Biden said. "We believe that they will target Ukraine's capital Kiev, a city of 2.8 million innocent people. We are calling out Russia's plans loudly and repeatedly, not because we want a conflict, but because we are doing everything in our power to remove the reason Russia may give to justify invading Ukraine."
University of Vermont student Trey Cook believes not enough of his classmates know what's going on.
On Friday, a new anti-war coalition gathered downtown for a rally to publicly oppose any impending war.
The U.S. Air Force released a statement following Wednesday's early morning flight. They said, in-part:
They group points to the scene earlier this week at Burlington International Airport when visiting F-35's from an air base in Utah were heard flying out at 3 a.m. on their way to Germany to help allied forces.
