RussiaUkraine War Western democracies chop Russian banks linked to Putin off from Swift
20220227
https://www.naija247news.com/2022/02/27/western-democracies-cut-some-russian-banks-off-from-swift/
Picking certain Russian banks will ensure the sanctions have the maximum impact on Russia, while preventing too much impact on Europe. European businesses will be able to continue to collect money owed and buy Russian energy.
The assets of Russias central bank will also be frozen, limiting Russias ability to access its overseas reserves.
The joint sanctions are the harshest measures imposed to date on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
Russia is heavily reliant on the Swift system for its key oil and gas exports.
The EU, US and their allies have agreed to cut off a number of Russian banks from the main international payment system, Swift.
Based in Belgium, it facilitates transactions between more than 11,000 banks and financial institutions across the globe.
This is only a slight exaggeration. There are workarounds to Swift but none which are as efficient.
She added there would be a crackdown on so-called golden passports that let wealthy Russians connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and gain access to our financial systems.
The EU and its partners agreed to freeze the banks transactions and prevent it from liquidating its assets.
It plays a pivotal role in supporting the global economy, but has no authority to make sanction decisions itself.
Only one country has been cut out in the past  Iran  which resulted in it losing 30 of its foreign trade.
EU foreign ministers are set to meet on Sunday to co-ordinate member states military aid to Ukraine, and discuss humanitarian assistance for the country and those fleeing the conflict.
The banks affected are all those already sanctioned by the international community, as well as other institutions, if necessary, the German spokesman said.
Removing banks from Swift is deemed to be a severe curb because almost all banks use the system.
Swift, or the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, is a secure messaging system that makes fast, cross-border payments possible, enabling international trade.
Excluding certain Russian banks from the Swift system used for trillions of dollars-worth of transactions will hit the economy hard  and in the words of the White House, it will make the country rely on the telephone or a fax machine to make payments.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain had taken decisive action, tweeting: We will keep working together to ensure Putin pays the price for his aggression.
Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, said the decision to paralyse the assets of Russias central bank would stop the Kremlin from using its war chest.
The impact of these measures may take a while to show  but they do express an immediate intent from Western nations.
Responding to the announcement, Ukraines Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal tweeted his appreciation for the sanctions, calling them a real help during this dark time.
Russia has been building up a cushion of foreign currency to protect its banks, but this new measure will significantly decrease the reserves available.
Other measures are equally powerful. Curbs on Russias central bank will stop it using its currency to limit the effect of sanctions.
The intention is to further isolate Russia from the international financial system, a joint statement said.
