Why is Russia invading Ukraine and what does Putin want
20220302
https://www.naija247news.com/2022/03/02/why-is-russia-invading-ukraine-and-what-does-putin-want/
For the families of both armed forces, these are anxious days. Ukrainians have already suffered a gruelling eight-year war with Russian proxies. The military has called up all reservists aged 18 to 60 years old.
The Russian city of St Petersburg will no longer be able to host this years Champions League final and the Russian Grand Prix will not take place in Sochi.
The US had offered to start talks on limiting short- and medium-range missiles, as well as on a new treaty on intercontinental missiles. Russia wanted all US nuclear arms barred from beyond their national territories.
Nato is a defensive alliance with an open-door policy to new members, and its 30 member states are adamant that will not change.
Natos defensive alliance has made clear there are no plans to send combat troops to Ukraine itself. But member countries have provided weapons and field hospitals and the EU, for the first time in its history, is to buy and send arms and other equipment.
Russia then retaliated by seizing the southern region of Crimea and triggering a rebellion in the east, backing separatists who have fought Ukrainian forces in a war that has claimed 14,000 lives.
Last year, President Putin wrote a long piece describing Russians and Ukrainians as one nation, and he has described the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991 as the disintegration of historical Russia.
He claimed his goal was to protect people subjected to bullying and genocide and aim for the demilitarisation and de-Nazification of Ukraine. There has been no genocide in Ukraine: it is a vibrant democracy, led by a president who is Jewish.
There seems very little chance for the moment, even if the two sides have held talks on the border with Belarus.
Beyond the war, any eventual deal would have to cover the status of eastern Ukraine as wells as arms control with the West.
Russias stated aim is that Ukraine be freed from oppression and cleansed of the Nazis. Under this false narrative of a Ukraine run by fascists since 2014, Mr Putin has spoken of bringing to court those who committed numerous bloody crimes against civilians.
Nato has deployed several thousand troops in the Baltic states and Poland and for the first time is activating part of its much larger rapid reaction force. Nato will not say where but some could go to Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Slovakia.
Russias leader has even put his nuclear forces on high alert, days after threatening the West with consequences the like of which you have never seen if it stands in his way.
Immediately, airports and military headquarters were attacked, then tanks and troops rolled in from Russia, Russian-annexed Crimea and its ally Belarus. Now, warplanes have bombed major cities.
He faces stiff resistance from a deeply hostile population, but he has shown he is prepared to bomb civilian areas to fulfil his goals.
Late in 2021, Russia began deploying big numbers of troops close to Ukraines borders, while repeatedly denying it was going to attack. Then Mr Putin scrapped a 2015 peace deal for the east and recognised areas under rebel control as independent.
Map showing the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine and the Russian-backed separatist-held areas within those regions.
Such scenes are horrifying for the entire continent, witnessing a major power invading a European neighbour for the first time in decades. Recalling the Cold War, Volodymyr Zelensky spoke of Ukraine battling to avoid a new iron curtain closing Russia off from the civilised world.
For Europes leaders, this invasion has brought some of the darkest hours since World War Two. Frances Emmanuel Macron has spoken of a turning point in Europes history, while Germanys Olaf Scholz has warned that Putin wants a Russian empire.
The idea that any current Nato country would give up its membership is a non-starter.
Ukraines president wants a clear timeline, but there is no prospect of Ukraine joining for a long time, as Germanys chancellor has made clear.
For months, President Vladimir Putin denied he would invade his neighbour, but then he tore up a peace deal and unleashed what Germany calls Putins war, pouring forces into Ukraines north, east and south.
This is not a war Russias population was prepared for, either, as the invasion was rubber-stamped by a largely unrepresentative upper house of parliament. Thousands of anti-war protesters have been detained in a state whose main opposition leader was already behind bars.
Ahead of the invasion, Russias public focus was always on the areas held by Russian-backed rebels in the east. But that changed when President Putin recognised their independence.
The paediatrics ward of this Kyiv hospital was forced to shelter in the basement as Russian forces attacked
President Putin has frequently accused Ukraine of being taken over by extremists, ever since its pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych, was ousted in 2014 after months of protests against his rule.
He has not only demanded that Ukraine never join Nato but that the alliance turns the clock back to 1997 and reverses its eastward expansion. He has complained Russia has nowhere further to retreat to  do they think well just sit idly by?.
Russias state-run media Sputnik and Russia Today, seen as a Kremlin mouthpiece, are being banned across the EU
He wants Nato to remove its forces and military infrastructure from member states that joined the alliance from 1997 and not to deploy strike weapons near Russias borders. That means Central Europe, Eastern Europe and the Baltics.
Women look after their babies at the paediatrics centre after the unit was moved to the basement of the hospital which is being used as a bomb shelter, in Kyiv on February 28, 2022
Russia has long resisted Ukraines move towards the European Union and the Wests defensive military alliance, Nato. Announcing Russias invasion, he accused Nato of threatening our historic future as a nation.
In President Putins eyes, the West promised back in 1990 that Nato would expand not an inch to the east, but did so anyway.
Russia refuses to use the terms war or even invasion many of its leaders justifications for it were false or irrational.
The Russian and US presidents have spoken several times via video link and over the phone
But this goes beyond Nato. In the words of Germanys chancellor, Russias leader wants to take over Europe according to his world view.
Hundreds have died already in what German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has dubbed Putins war  civilians as well as soldiers. Russias onslaught has prompted hundreds of thousands of people to flee across Ukraines borders. Poland, Hungary, Romania, Moldova and Slovakia are seeing a big influx, while the EU suggests more than seven million people could be displaced.
The EU, US, UK, Japan and Canada are cutting off key Russian banks from the international Swift payment network, which allows the smooth and rapid transfer of money across borders
How could I be a Nazi? said Volodymyr Zelensky, who likened Russias onslaught to Nazi Germanys invasion in World War Two. Ukraines chief rabbi and the Auschwitz Memorial have also rejected Russias slur.
That was before the collapse of the Soviet Union, however, so the promise made to then Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev only referred to East Germany in the context of a reunified Germany. Mr Gorbachev said later the topic of Nato expansion was never discussed at the time.
In a pre-dawn TV address on 24 February, President Putin declared Russia could not feel safe, develop and exist because of what he claimed was a constant threat from modern Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin holds talks with U.S. President Joe Biden via a video link in Sochi, Russia December 7, 2021
As the number of dead climbs, Russias leader stands accused of shattering peace in Europe. What happens next could jeopardise the continents entire security structure.
These are terrifying times for Ukrainians as bombs rain down on cities and civilians rush to Cold War-era bomb shelters.
Germany has halted approval on Russias Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, a major investment by both Russia and European companies
It is now clear Russia is seeking to seize the big cities and overthrow Ukraines democratically elected government. President Zelensky said he had been warned the enemy has designated me as target number one my family is target number two.
His long-term ambitions for Ukraine are unknown. He denies seeking to occupy Ukraine and rejected a UK accusation in January that he was plotting to install a pro-Kremlin puppet. One unconfirmed intelligence report says he aims to split the country in two.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visiting positions on the frontline with pro-Russian militants in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, 06 December 2021
There is no immediate threat to Russias Baltic neighbours, but Nato has bolstered their defences just in case.
Personal sanctions are being imposed on President Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov by the US, EU and UK, while 351 Russian MPs are being targeted by the EU
He has claimed modern Ukraine was entirely created by communist Russia and is now a puppet state, controlled by the West. It was his pressure on Ukraine not to sign an association treaty with the EU in 2013 that sparked the protests that ousted its pro-Kremlin president.
Russia had been positive towards a proposed transparency mechanism of mutual checks on missile bases  two in Russia, and two in Romania and Poland.
By air, land, and sea, Russia has launched a devastating attack on Ukraine, a European democracy of 44 million people. Its forces are bombing city centres and closing in on the capital, Kyiv, prompting a mass exodus of refugees.
Not only did he make clear he saw them as no longer part of Ukraine, he revealed he backed their claims to far more Ukrainian territory. The self-styled peoples republics cover little more than a third of the regions of Donetsk of Luhansk and the rebels covet the rest, too.
