How to help the people of Ukraine These relief efforts are collecting donations
20220305
https://www.13newsnow.com/article/news/nation-world/ukraine/how-to-help-ukraine-donations-fundraisers/285-43eb02a9-62a5-46fb-bab5-f1300d8f2f17
From their website: "Sunflower of Peace is a nonprofit organization whose current mission is to provide medical and humanitarian aid for people affected by violence in Ukraine." Donate now.
From their website: "7.5 million children in Ukraine are in grave danger of physical harm, severe emotional distress and displacement following an escalation in hostilities. Every effort should be made to find a diplomatic solution and avert a catastrophic war.
Some families are staying behind in makeshift sheltersrather than endure the long journey to freedom on foot. With food and water often scare, it has quickly become a humanitarian crisis.
"Were taking proactive measures to protect the GoFundMe community while also aiding the Ukrainian people throughout this humanitarian crisis. Heres how were handling the fundraisers started to benefit the Ukrainian people:
The Obama Foundation has listed several organizations, some in Europe, that are supporting the people of Ukraine.
From their website: "The Voices of Children Foundation has been helping children affected by the war since 2015. Thanks to you, we provide psychological and psychosocial support to children. It helps them overcome the consequences of armed conflict and develop. Today, during the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine, we are providing non-stop assistance to affected children and families from all over the country, providing emergency psychological assistance, and assisting in the evacuation process." Donate here.
ThePokrova Ukrainian Catholic Churchin Houston is recommending people donate to the following fundraisers providing humanitarian aid for victims of war.
Your donation today can help provide children and families with immediate aid, such as food, water, hygiene kits, psychosocial support and cash assistance. Together, we can protect children in crisis." Donate here.
GoFundMe has put together a list of several verified fundraising efforts for Ukraine. Complete list here.
HOUSTON  The video and images out ofUkraine and neighboring countries as desperate people flee the Russian invasion are gut-wrenching and have touched hearts all over the world.
