Highland Council awards Freedom of the Highlands to President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine and pledges action on pension funds links to Russian companies
20220310
https://www.ross-shirejournal.co.uk/news/emotions-run-high-as-highland-councillors-make-stance-on-ukr-268467/
I call on the Russian people to put an end to these atrocities and to the reign of terror being carried out in their name, he said.
Councillor Derek Louden then proposed a motion granting the freedom of the Highlands to Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky.
As the discussion in chamber wore on, the tone became increasingly defiant. Councillor Raymond Bremner delivered a speech in Russian offering solidarity to the people of Ukraine.
A number of councillors repeated their objections to the immigration rules. Councillor Emma Knox said: Let them in now and deal with the paperwork later.
Just imagine what theyre doing right now.What we did in the beginning of the pandemic is exactly what theyre doing.
Highland Council has shown its support to Ukraine with a series of emergency motions this morning.
Theyre trying to distribute food and water, and keep people as safe as they can. Their population is living in cellars.
The debate closed with a one minute round of applause for the people of Ukraine.
They speak with the same bravery and commitment as you hear from their leader, said Ms Davidson.
Mr Lobban proposed a motion to withdraw the councils pension fund from all Russian-owned companies.
Convenor Bill Lobban opened the discussion, calling Vladimir Putin a war criminal and mass murderer intent on wiping the Ukranian people from the map".
He ended his contribution with the words Slava Ukraini, which translates as glory to Ukraine.
Many councillors wanted practical action. Cllr Andrew Jarvie asked if the council could use its experience of sending out food, medicine and supplies in the early days of the pandemic.
Councillor Gordon Adam said he is utterly ashamed by the restrictions currently in place. He said the government has currently accepted only 300 refugees.
Councillor Andrew Sinclair said he spent time in Ukraine only three months ago, just as Russian troops began to gather on the borders. He said he was struck by their sheer defiance and resilience.
