Investment in Royal Navy a must says Easter Ross MP Jamie Stone amid concerns over cuts to armed forces
20220310
https://www.ross-shirejournal.co.uk/news/easter-ross-mp-speaks-out-on-size-of-armed-forces-268562/
"For the interest of the House, I will point out that my grandfather trained at Britannia, as it was known, in the very same two years as somebody called the honourable Reginald Drax, who is in a photograph with my grandfatherour ancestors were there together.
"I will end where I began: the size of the British Army. I cannot compete with the august gentlemen on all sides of the chamber who have served in the armed forces, but many years ago I was Private Stone in the mortar platoon of C company of the Second 51st Highland Volunteers. That battalion was set up in such a way that ifperish the thoughtsomething happened in Europe and the Bear began to growl, I would give up my day job and be whizzed right off to Germany. That was what we were intended to do. We knew that and we knew it was part of the job spec. I am also bound to say that Russiathe USSR as it then wasknew that that was how those battalions of the British Territorial Army would be deployed in the event of a deteriorating national situation."
Mr Stone made the plea against the backdrop of Russias invasion of Ukraine and concerns over the possibility of a wider conflict.
EASTER Ross MP Jamie Stone has again urged the UK government to reverse cuts to the armed forces and has called for investment in the Royal Navy.
"The report also contains a reference to the Type 31 frigates, and an eloquent argument is put forward that we will probably need more than the five that are planned. The National Flagship idea has its attractions, butI have made this point beforeif we are to build the ship at roughly the same cost as a Type 31, would it not be better as a Type 31? We could have internal alterations to accommodate Her Majesty, civic leaders, or whatever we want to do with it, but we should have it as a warship, rather than as a National Flagship that will, in turn, have to be escorted, I fear, by another warship.
"I would pull two things out of the report. The Type 45 destroyers having their engines repaired, which meant that so few of them were at sea, is a disgrace. We cannot have that happen. They are now projected to be re-engined or repaired by 2028. That is not good enough. We need these state-of-the-art warships at sea as soon as possibleright awayand if that takes extra money, so be it.
He said: "It is very good in that I sense that on all sides of the House we are singing from the same sheet. That is good for our armed forces personnel, because they are hearing a message supportive to them. It is bad in that most of my speech has been covered.
The Lib Dems want the government to invest in the Royal Navys Type 45 destroyers, all six of which were recently docked in port due to engine problems.
He says the governments decision to cut the army by 10,000 troops will take it to its smallest size in 300 years.
"However, I have read the December 2021 House of Commons Defence Committee report 'Were going to need a bigger Navy' with the very greatest of interest, and I congratulate the right hon. and hon. Members on the Committee on putting it together. It is sobering reading, and I will draw just two facts out of it. I will do this because my grandfather served with the Royal Navy at a time when the Royal Navy really did rule the waves: it was the biggest navy in the world.
The party is also asking the government to redirect the money being spent on the new National Flagship  over 200m  to building a new Type 31 warship.
