Ukrainian artists among those auctioning works to support refugees in conflict
20220510
https://www.ross-shirejournal.co.uk/news/national/ukrainian-artists-among-those-auctioning-works-to-support-refugees-in-conflict-47821/
The Contemporary Discoveries auction will feature work from 15 contemporary Ukrainian artists, including Oksana Mas, Nazar Bilyk and Maria Bilyan.
Bidding for the artwork will begin on May 13 until May 19, and the works will be on display at Sothebys New Bond Street galleries for the duration of the auction.
We are grateful for Sothebys bringing together gallerists and artists to support the International Rescue Committees emergency response in Ukraine and Poland during this crucial time.
Sebastian Fahey, managing director at Sothebys, said: Thanks to these generous contributions from artists and gallerists, this sale will directly help those displaced by the crisis in the Ukraine, generating funds to support the herculean humanitarian relief efforts of the IRC.
The sale has been organised to help the International Rescue Committee IRC and its humanitarian response, helping people whose lives and livelihoods have been shattered by the conflict.
In tandem, the sale will also support Ukrainian artists practicing today, helping them to continue with their work in these difficult times.
Ukrainian artists were among those donating their work to a benefit auction which will raise money for those displaced by the Russian invasion.
A total of 13 international artists  including Richard Deacon, Rachel Kneebone and Zadok Ben-David  have also donated pieces to the auction.
All Ukrainian artists who have donated to the sale will receive back 100 of the Buyers Premium raised from the auction of their artwork.
It is impossible not to be affected by the events in the Ukraine, and Sothebys will continue to use the platforms at its disposal to actively support those impacted.
Ourania Dionysiou, vice president of International Philanthropy and Partnerships at IRC, said: With over five million people having fled Ukraine and the fastest displacement crisis in Europe since World War II, it is important to come together as a global community.
The consequences for the Ukrainian people cannot be overstated. We stand with them. RefugeesWelcome pic.twitter.comi2NlFlEQF8
