Russia strikes Odesa port day after grain deal signed
20220723
https://www.luxtimes.lu/en/world/russia-strikes-odesa-port-day-after-grain-deal-signed-62dbe8fbde135b9236725ebe
The extent of damage to grain loading facilities was unclear. A large plume of smoke was visible across the city after the strikes.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, who signed Fridays agreement, said in a speech on state-owned TV that Moscow assumed the obligations which are quite clearly spelled out in this document.
The Luxembourg Times has a new mobile app, download here! Get the Luxembourg Times delivered to your inbox twice a day. Sign up for your free newsletters here.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, Guterres said on Friday. A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief, in a world that needs it more than ever.
Yesterday Ukraine grain export by sea was agreed, and today the Russians are hitting Odesa port, said Andriy Yermak, a top aide to Ukraines president. Thats the Russian diplomatic dichotomy.
Theres been no comment from Russia so far on Saturdays strike. Bridget Brink, the US ambassador to Ukraine, said on Twitter that Russia must be held to account. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell called the strike particularly reprehensible given the timing.
Russia attacked Odesas sea port with cruise missiles on Saturday, less than 24 hours after signing an agreement aimed at restarting Ukrainian grain exports from Odesa and two other Black Sea locations.
Two Kalibr missiles hit the ports infrastructure and two were shot down by Ukraines air defence, Serhiy Bratchuk, adviser to the head of the Odesa regional military administration, said on Telegram.
President Volodymr Zelenskiy said in his nightly address to the nation Friday that Ukraine had some $10 billion in grain available for export.
Oleg Nikolenko, a spokesman for the Ukrainian foreign ministry, said the missile strike was Vladimir Putins spit into the face of Guterres and Erdogan, who put enormous efforts into reaching the accord.
He called on Turkey and the UN to ensure that Russia sticks to its commitment within the framework of safe grain corridor functioning.
The export deal was signed with great fanfare in Istanbul on Friday in a ceremony presided over by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
