After joining Ukrainian army Latvian Saeima member puts down his mandate
20220314
https://bnn-news.com/after-joining-ukrainian-army-latvian-saeima-member-puts-down-his-mandate-233105
Ukraines President Volodimir Zelensky has urged European citizens with combat experience to take up arms and help defend Ukraine against Russia.
Ukrainian Ministry of Defence previously announced the formation of a special unit  Foreign Legion. More than 20 000 of volunteers from 52 countries have expressed an interest at joining it so far.
Following Russias attack on Ukraine, on 28 February Latvias Saeima amended the National Security Law, allowing Latvian citizens to voluntarily join Ukrainian armed forces. Amendments came to force 1 March.
As of last week, a total of five Latvian residents have informed authorities of their decision to join the Ukrainian army.
As previously reported, the graduate of Latvian Police Academy and long-time head of Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau Juris Juras has joined the Ukrainian army as a volunteer.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
According to election results, Jurass seat in the parliament should go to Ieva Akuratere. However, so far there is no confirmation as to whether or not she wants to work in the parliament, as confirmed by Conservative party leader, Minister of Justice Jnis Bordns.
After joining the Ukrainian army, the chairman of Latvian Saeimas Legal Affairs Committee and representative of Conservative party Juris Juras has sent back to the parliaments chancellery an official notification that he has decided to put down his mandate, as confirmed by the politician.
Once approval has been received from the embassy, volunteers should notify Latvian National Armed Forces Recruitment Office with a letter Krustabazncas iela 9, Rga, LV-1006 or an e-mail bearing an electronic signature rpusmil.lv, with name, surname, personal code, form of service and country of service.
At the same time, Latvian Ministry of Defence and National Armed Forces urge residents to carefully consider their military skills and knowledge before joining the fight in Ukraine. It is possible to undergo relevant training by joining Latvian armed forces.
