Day 89 of war in Ukraine Three months of invasion Russian diplomat condemns Putins war Denmark to send missiles
20220524
https://bnn-news.com/day-89-of-war-in-ukraine-three-months-of-invasion-russian-diplomat-condemns-putins-war-denmark-to-send-missiles-234934
Zelenskyy noted in a video address on the evening of Monday, May 24, that the coming weeks of the war would be difficult, as the invaders are trying to gain a foothold in the occupied territories.
Defying a law in Russia that sets forth a prison sentence of up to 15 years for criticising and publicly speaking out against the war, Boris Bondarev, a Russian diplomat at the UN in Geneva, has likened it to a shameful attempt to cling to power in Moscow.
The Ukrainian President judged that Ukrainians have no alternative, but to fight against the invaders: fight and win, free our land and our people because the occupiers want to take away from us not just something, but everything we have, including the right to life for Ukrainians. .. However, to win, each and every one of us must work for it, including those in the rear. Help the army. Protect the needs of our state in all international platforms to which you have access, in communication with foreign journalists, even just with your friends and acquaintances abroad. Every vote counts, Zelensky said.
On Tuesday, May 24, three months pass since Russian President Vladimir Putin began Russias invasion of Ukraine. It has caused the death of tens of thousands of Ukrainians and Russians, while causing the largest refugee migration in Europe since World War II and a surge in food prices. Russian diplomats rarely criticise the actions of the Kremlin, but one in the UN has done so publicly. As Europe continues to supply weapons to Ukraine, anti-ship missiles from Denmark are to be sent, Belarusian Nexta TV, Ukrainian Ukrinform and British BBC report.
Those, who conceived of this war want only one thing to stay in power forever, Bondarev was quoted as writing in a letter to other diplomats and on social media.
To achieve that, they are willing to sacrifice as many lives as it takes, the career diplomat added. Thousands of Russians and Ukrainians have already died just for this.
The Russian occupiers are trying very hard to show that they allegedly will not give up the occupied areas of the Kharkiv region, the Kherson region, the occupied territory of the Zaporizhzhia region and Donbas. They are going on the offensive in some areas. Reserves are being accumulated in some areas. Somewhere they are trying to reinforce their positions. The coming weeks of the war will be difficult. And we must be aware of that, Zelensky evaluated as quoted by Ukrinform.
The US stated on Monday that many more arms supplies to Ukraine would follow from numerous countries.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy signalled that Ukraine was determined to win the war and recover all of the vast territories in the east and south of the country that have been seized by Russian occupation troops. Atrocities in occupied territories and the destruction caused by the aggressors missile and air strikes, as well as by relentless shelling is a factor that has increased the determination of Ukrainians to seek victory not a ceasefire.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
As fierce fighting rages in eastern Ukraine, the US has stated that Denmark would supply Harpoon anti-ship missiles to Ukraine. Nexta TV also reported that Czechia sent fire-support helicopters, tanks and missile systems to Ukraine.
Russian Foreign Ministry and its diplomatic service generally tend to repeat the propaganda lines of the Kremlin seeking to justify the actions of the Russian government abroad with a mix of lies and propaganda materials.
