Day 49 of war in Ukraine US place Putin in genocide context more arms to Ukraine Russia increases attacks on cities
20220413
https://bnn-news.com/day-49-of-war-in-ukraine-us-place-putin-in-genocide-context-more-arms-to-ukraine-russia-increases-attacks-on-cities-233924
Partial siege and artillery shelling of the city of Kharkiv continued. In some temporarily occupied territories, the Russian troops were trying to form units of the so-called peoples militia.
In the Donetsk and Tavriya directions, the invaders conducted more air strikes on the long-besieged city of Mariupol. Russian troops started an assault operation near the Azovstal metallurgical complex and the local seaport.
New satellite images from Maxar Technologies show that Russia is pulling troops into the Belgorod region for an offensive in eastern Ukraine. pic.twitter.comflWuL8LKAr
Russia also raised the so-called terrorist threat level to yellow in the areas bordering Ukraine  until April 26. The General Staff evaluated that the move was likely aimed at organizing relocation of military equipment, weaponry and personnel from the areas and into Ukraine.
Russia continues to amass its forces and military equipment both in eastern Ukraine and in Russian border regions, notably in the area of Belgorod.
In the south of Ukraine, the South Buh river direction, Russia was trying to seize individual settlements, seeing no success.
Over the past 24 hours, Ukrainian forces repulsed six enemy attacks, destroyed two enemy vehicles and three artillery systems in Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
Reuters and Ukrinform reported on unnamed US officials speaking about the Biden administration preparing to announce further USD 750 million in defense and security assistance for Ukraine. A senior congressional aide had added that the equipment to be announced would likely include heavy ground artillery systems to Ukraine, including howitzers. These are much needed in Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has welcomed the remarks by the US President. He praised them as true words of a true leader.
The Ukrainian Air Forces stated that they shot down Russias Su-25 fighter jet and that is was the 300th air target hit by Ukrainian anti-plane missile systems.
US President Joe Biden has put Russian President Vladimir Putin in the context of committing genocide and being a dictator, though not specifically blaming him in organising genocide in Ukraine.
Asked to clarify the statement made on Tuesday, April 12, Biden said: Yes, I called it genocide. It has become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being  being able to be Ukrainian.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
In the Siversky direction, in north-eastern Ukraine, separate Russian military units could remain in place in the border areas of Kursk region, Russia to restrain Ukraines troops.
In Ukraine on Wednesday, April 13, the defenders of the country reported of increased shelling and air strikes on cities in the east. Washington has placed Russian President Vladimir Putin in the context of committing genocide and prepares a new tranche of defence assistance, Ukrainian public broadcaster Ukrinform, Belarusian outlet Nexta and British public broadcaster BBC report.
The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces wrote in its report on the military developments in and around Ukraine over the past 24 hours that Russian troops were launching more missile and bomb strikes on civilian infrastructure in Kharkiv and Zaporizhia regions, as well as actively conducting air reconnaissance.
