European Parliament requests full embargo of Russian oil coal nuclear energy and gas
20220408
https://bnn-news.com/european-parliament-requests-full-embargo-of-russian-oil-coal-nuclear-energy-and-gas-233801
Reminding that nearly 6.5 million Ukrainian citizens have been relocated within the country and more than 4 million have fled the country, MEPs request safe humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians who flee bombings.
Read also: Day 43 of war in Ukraine: Civilians fleeing Donbass offensive, Zelenskyy judges EUs no Russian coal too soft
MEPs also point to the chocking atrocities committed by Russian armed forces, especially in Bucha and in regards to almost completely destroyed Mariupol, Volnovakha and other cities and villages. They stress that those responsible for war crimes must be brought to justice and request a special UN tribunal for crimes committed in Ukraine.
such as UN Human Rights Council, Interpol, World Trade Organisation, UNESCO and others, so that it which would be an important sign that the international community will not return to business as usual with the aggressor state.
The priority should be full and effective implementation of sanctions across the entire European Union and with aid from Europes international allies, MEPs say.
To enhance sanctions, EP also requests removing Russian banks from SWIFT and imposing a ban for ships with ties to Russia to enter sea ports within EU territorial waters. MEPs also request full closure of road freight transport coming from Russia and Belarus, as well as seizure of all assets belonging to Russian officials or the oligarchs associated with Putins regime, their proxies and strawmen.
The European Parliament EP has requested a full embargo of Russian oil, coal, nuclear energy and gas, as confirmed by EP press-secretary in Latvia Jnis Krasti.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
In response to the terrible crimes committed by Russian armed forces, the EP call for those responsible for war crimes to be brought to justice.
This must come with a plan under which energy supplies to the European Union are ensured in a short-term perspective, as well as gradual measures to roll back sanctions in case Russia takes steps towards restoring Ukraines independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders and completely removes its troops from the territory of Ukraine.
MEPs support the decision to increase defensive aid to Ukrainian armed forces, which member states provide individually and collectively European Peace Facility.
to exclude any loopholes for Vladimir Putin to use Aleksandr Lukashenkos support in circumventing sanctions.
MEPs strongly condemn Russias rhetoric about potentially using nuclear arms, stressing that any such move would be unacceptable and would have heavy consequences for Russia.
On Thursday, 7 April, in a resolution passed with 513 votes in favour, 22 against and 19 MEPs abstaining, EP requests additional sanctions, including a full embargo on Russian oil, coal, nuclear energy and natural gas.
