Expert Russia is preparing its audience for a long war in Ukraine
20220525
https://bnn-news.com/expert-russia-is-preparing-its-audience-for-a-long-war-in-ukraine-234966
Commenting Kremlins narration for Russian residents, she admits  the main thing to take away is that the war in Ukraine is going as Russia had planned. Russia has been repeating this from the start. However, the narrative has changed in the sense that Russia has started preparing its domestic audience for a lasting war. While at first the operation was presented by a short and lightning-fast war, now there are talks about a war with no end, claims the expert.
Read also: Day 89 of war in Ukraine: Three months of invasion, Russian diplomat condemns Putins war, Denmark to send missiles
At the same time, she said the possibility of Russia using nuclear arms is low, because its a very strict red line for the western world. If Russia uses nuclear arms, even tactical nuclear arms in Ukraine, not NATO member states, there will be very high pressure from the west for a stronger response. The question is does Russia gain anything from the war and its current situation, said the StratCom expert.
When asked if the topic of nuclear arms is still popular in Russia, Lange-Ionatamivili said this blackmail tool is also present. This is a way for them to deter the west from more actively providing aid to Ukraine, said the expert.
The third direction used in Russian propaganda, according to the expert, is the discrediting of Ukrainian troops,
Lange-Ionatamivili also noted that another narrative Kremlin has started spreading more and more actively is that the western world will face a food and energy crisis as a result of their own sanctions.
As previously reported, Tuesday marked three months since the start of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Russian politicians and state media use information reported in the public space for a longer war in Ukraine, said NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence Stratcom senior expert for diplomatic affairs Elna Lange-Ionatamivili.
