Latvian expert says Russia doesnt care about its troops
20220725
https://bnn-news.com/latvian-expert-says-russia-doesnt-care-about-its-troops-236342
Russia is trying to make it more appealing for men to join the army, but this means there will be more casualties, because they basically dont care about their soldiers, said Srts.
The sentiment about the war and how Russian troops are avoiding the draft indicates that those who have seen action in Ukraine are not happy.
According to Srts, expecting Ukraines counter attack, Russia may decide to freeze the existing front line in order to start its own.
The question is will this be used as an instrument of control, or will they try to go through with this to the end, said Srts.
As for Russias military goals, the expert said Russias President Vladimir Putin may want to establish control over entire Ukraine. On top of that, preparations are underway for referendums in order to annex what Russia already controls.
The war in Ukraine is unlike anything Europe has ever seen. It has claimed many lives already. Both sides suffer losses, but the difference is how commanders treat losses.
Sometimes Im shocked seeing how Russian commanders show no care about the lives of Russian troops. Ive not seen something like that from Ukrainian commanders, said the Latvian expert.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Russian commanders dont care about the troops that have died in Ukraine, said the chief of NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence Jnis Srts in an interview to LTV programme Rta panorma.
We shouldnt have any illusions about Russia having any good will, said the Latvian expert.
Real peace talks between Ukraine and Russia are unlikely or realistic. What could happen during these talks is now taking place on the battlefield.
He said Russias capabilities in leading an intensive offensive have gone down  since the capture of Severodonetsk and Lisichansk there havent been any major events, which may indicate the accumulation of numerous problems within the Russian army. The Ukrainian army, on the other hand, is preparing a counter attack  whether it will be enough to turn the tide, time will tell. However, the transition from defence to offensive will be a new test for Ukrainian armed forces.
As for the agreement reached for exports of grain, Srts believes the agreement is dubious, as Russia will let it work from time to time and interfere with it just as often, using it as a tool of influence.
