Russia has halted gas supplies to Europe
20220831
https://bnn-news.com/russia-has-halted-gas-supplies-to-europe-237901
Russia has already significantly reduced gas exports via the pipeline. It denies accusations it has used energy supplies as a weapon of war against Western countries.
The pipeline was shut down for 10 days in July  again for repairs, according to Russia  and has recently been operating at just 20 capacity because of what Russia describes as faulty equipment.
On Tuesday,30 August French Energy Transition Minister Agnes PannierRunacher accused Russia of using gas as a weapon of war.
We need a new market model for electricity that really functions and brings us back into balance, Ursula von der Leyen she said at the conference in Slovenia.
European leaders fear Russia could extend the outage in an attempt to drive up gas prices, which have already risen sharply in the past year.
But Russian President Vladimir Putins spokesman has rejected the accusations  and insisted that Western sanctions have caused the interruptions by damaging Russian infrastructure.
Russia shuts major gas pipeline to Europe, saying repairs are needed. The Russian stateowned energy giant, Gazprom, said the restrictions on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline would last for the next three days, informs British broadcaster BCC.
He insisted that that technological problems caused by sanctions are the only thing preventing Russia from supplying gas via the pipeline.
Earlier this week, EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen promised to intervene in energy markets.
Earlier this month, Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the pipeline was fully operational and said there were no technical issues as claimed by Russia.
The Nord Stream 1 pipeline stretches 1,200 kilometers under the Baltic Sea from the Russian coast near St Petersburg to northeastern Germany.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
The steep rise threatens to create a cost of living crisis over the winter months, potentially forcing governments to spend billions to ease the burden.
Before the conflict, Germany had approved the EUR 10 billions Nord Stream 2 pipeline  which runs parallel to its namesake  but halted operations after Russia sent troops into Ukraine in February.
The president of Germanys network regulator has said the country will be able to cope  if Russia resumes delivery in the coming days.
