UN SecretaryGeneral to meet with Ukrainian and Turkish Presidents meanwhile Ukraines secondbiggest city bombarded
20220818
https://bnn-news.com/u-n-secretary-general-to-meet-with-ukrainian-and-turkish-presidents-meanwhile-ukraines-second-biggest-city-bombarded-237289
The south district of the Operational Command of the Ukrainian armed forces said Ukrainian forces killed 29 occupiers near the town of Bilohirka, northeast of Kherson, as well as destroying artillery, armoured vehicles and a military supply depot.
Russian bombardment of a residential area of Kharkiv, Ukraines second biggest city, on Wednesday evening killed seven people and wounded 16, the Ukrainian Emergencies Service said.
Ukraines foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, said he had spoken to the director general of the International Atomic Agency, who was ready to lead a delegation to the plant.
Russias defence ministry accused Ukraine of planning a provocation at the plant on Friday when Guterres is due to visit, Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported.
Ukrainian forces said on Thursday, August 17, they had beaten back a Russian attack in the southern region of Kherson, while the death toll from Russian shelling of Kharkiv city in Ukraines northeast climbed, informs news agency Reuters.
This is a devious and cynical strike on civilians with no justification, Zelenskiy said on the Telegram messaging app.
The two sides have exchanged accusations of shelling near the plant but the Russian ministry said its forces had no heavy weapons at the plant or in nearby districts.
I emphasised the missions urgency to address nuclear security threats caused by Russias hostilities, he said on Twitter.
Ukrainian presidential adviser said in a video that Russian forces have achieved minimal advances and in some cases Ukrainian forces advanced, since last month.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan later on Thursday, August 18, in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv.
They will discuss possible ways to find a political solution to the war, as well as address the threat to global food supplies and risk of a disaster at Europes largest nuclear power plant, which has been taken over by Russian forces.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
The war has forced millions to flee, killed thousands and deepened a geopolitical rift between the West and Russia, which says the aim of its operation is to demilitarise its neighbour and protect Russianspeaking communities.
Fighting around the Russianoccupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant has raised fears of a catastrophe and U.N. chief has said he wants a demilitarised zone established.
