Catholic schools in Perth Amboy gather in prayer for Ukraine
20220305
https://www.mycentraljersey.com/story/news/local/2022/03/05/nj-catholic-schools-gather-prayer-ukraine/9375455002/
We have certainly been through a tough period, Checchio said, addressing the students from beneath the shimmering gold dome of the church. First, the pandemic turned everything upside down and caused great suffering and loss. Now, on top of that, we have this aggression in Ukraine. It is heartbreaking to watch the news and to see what is happening there, as we watch mothers and children fleeing and becoming refugees, and as we watch young men and even older men taking up arms to protect their family and their homeland.
The Liturgy was the latest in a series of Metuchen diocesan efforts to support Ukrainians, including those in local communities here who are left to worry about their loved ones and their home country from afar.
Checchio told the students that one thing never changes, even amid the difficulties in life.
We are united with you at this time and with the people of Ukraine, Checchio said, speaking to Father Turyk, the religious sisters and the students and faculty who have family and friends still in Ukraine. We are united in prayer and we are storming heaven for peace in Ukraine.
PERTH AMBOY  Wearing blue and yellow ribbons for Ukraine, students and faculty from Assumption Catholic School and Perth Amboy Catholic School gathered Thursday night in a prayerful response to the Russian invasion.
Checchio has asked parishes in the diocese to participate in a special Collection to Aid the Church in Central and Eastern Europe, which will allow the faithful to provide assistance to the victims of the war and many other projects in the region. Anyone wishing to support to the collection is invited to donate online by visitingdiometuchen.orgUkraine.
The Holy Spirit was sent to be present with us until the end of time, and the presence of Jesus in the Eucharist nourishes us, strengthens us and fortifies us for the challenges that we do face, so do not ever take it for granted. Remind yourself each day of the presence of our loving God with us, the bishop said. No matter what we are facing, we have Someone who loves us always and who is with us always and protects us.
On Ash Wednesday, heeding the call by Pope Francis to participate in a day of prayer and fasting for peace in Ukraine, all parishes and schools in the Diocese of Metuchen were asked to pray the rosary. In solidarity with the Ukrainian people, students and faculty of Assumption Catholic School prayed the rosary in English and Ukrainian, and a recording of their prayer was shared with all parishes and Catholic schools in the diocese.
With Bishop James F. Checchio of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Metuchen present, and Father Ivan Turyk, pastor of the Ukrainian Catholic Church of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary presiding, the students stood side by side at the Divine Liturgy in the Ukrainian Catholic Church of the Assumption and prayed for peace.
