Germany signals major shift by sending weapons to Ukraine
20220226
https://www.darlingtonandstocktontimes.co.uk/news/national/19955272.germany-signals-major-shift-sending-weapons-ukraine/
The news came shortly after the economy and climate ministry said Germany is allowing the Netherlands to ship 400 German-made anti-tank weapons to Ukraine. The government has also approved the shipment of 9 D-30 howitzers and ammunition originally from Estonia.
Previously, Germany contributed 5,000 helmets to Ukraines defense, a move that was mocked on Twitter.
After earlier opposing the prospect of banning Russia from the Swift global financial system, Ms Baerbock and Mr Habeck said that Germany supports a targeted and functional restriction of Swift.
As part of a significant shift, Germany is also ready to also support some restrictions of the Swift global banking system for Russia, officials said.
In this situation, it is our duty to help Ukraine, to the best of our ability, to defend itself against Vladimir Putins invading army.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz said in a statement: The Russian invasion of Ukraine marks a turning point. It threatens our entire post-war order.
The German government has said it will send weapons and other supplies directly to Ukraine, as Russia attempts to invade its capital city, Kyiv.
Germany has just announced the provision of anti-tank grenade launchers and stinger missiles to Ukraine. Keep it up, Chancellor OlafScholz! Anti-war coalition in action!
But the country  which has the strongest economy in the 27-nation European Union  has faced criticism from Ukrainian officials and other allies that it has not acted decisively enough to help Ukraine fend off the Russian invasion.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy welcomed the news of weapons shipments, posting praise for Mr Scholz on Twitter: Keep it up, Chancellor OlafScholz! Anti-war coalition in action!
After Russias shameless attack, Ukraine must be able to defend itself, foreign minister Annalena Baerbock and economy minister Robert Habeck said in a statement.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Germany had long stuck to a policy of not exporting deadly weapons to conflict zones, including Ukraine.
In addition, the German economy and climate ministry said on Saturday that Germany will send 14 armoured vehicles and up to 10,000 tonnes of fuel to Ukraine.
What is needed is a strategy to limit the collateral damage of decoupling from Swift in such a way that it affects the right people, the ministers said.
The chancellery announced it will send 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 Stinger surface-to-air missiles to Ukraine as quickly as possible.
