How to avoid Ukraine charity scams Trust nothing click nothing
20220310
https://www.kcrw.com/news/shows/press-play-with-madeleine-brand/oil-ukraine-hiv-music/charity-scams
Scammers are now taking over peoples social media accounts, then direct-messaging their friends. You click a link and next thing you know, they've taken over one of your accounts, or created a fake account pretending to be you, then friend your friends. And because it appears it's from you, they trust it, she explains.
Be careful about any phone calls and text messages that are appealing to your generosity, including ones claiming to be from your bank, says Michelle Singletary, personal finance columnist for the Washington Post.
I cannot emphasize enough, folks. Don't click on any links and anything that you receive, even if you think it's from a legitimate charity that maybe you've got a relationship with. Don't click from that email. Get out of that email, go to that charity's website. ... Be super paranoid. Don't click anything, even if it's from your mama  or from your boo.
Many people worldwide want to help Ukraine  by donating money and supplies  as the conflict with Russia continues. But there are scammers to watch out for, as usual.
Which charities are most directly sending money to Ukrainians? The Red Cross and any thats related to the United Nations, Singletary identifies.
What about renting an Airbnb belonging to a Ukrainian as a way to send money  but not actually staying at their home? Do your due diligence and check if its an established host with commentsreviews, she says.
Email accounts can be taken over too. Dear friend of mine, her email got compromised, and they were able to send an email.  I was communicating, thinking it was my friend. But the moment they asked for money, I knew it wasn't her.  Four of her friends thought it was her, and sent the scammers about $1,000, so about $250 each of them.
Singletarys bottom line: Trust nothing, trust no one. She says if her husband texts her, shell call him to check if he truly sent that message.
