SoCal Russian Jew feels angry betrayed about Ukraine invasion
20220303
https://www.kcrw.com/news/shows/kcrw-features/levin-banchik-ukraine-russia-belarus
Levin-Banchik also says she feels the pressure of being at the intersection of her cultural and ethnic identities.
Levin-Banchik fears that the invasion will lead to a new wave of antisemitism globally, no matter who comes out victorious in the conflict.
Misinformation in the Russian media is another concern for the political science professor. In a speech to the Russian Security Council, President Vladimir Putin implied Ukrainian leaders are drug-addicted and neo-Nazis. That rhetoric has many concerned, especially since Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is Jewish.
We are very much concerned. I can't even explain to you the feelings, says Luba Levin-Banchik, an Inland Empire resident who is from Belarus and married to a Ukrainian native.
The connection of her home country, Belarus, has made her particularly aware of the severity of the crisis. The former Soviet republic, which neighbors both Ukraine and Central European nations, has passed a referendum that renounces the countrys non-nuclear status.
Either side will blame Jewish people for what happens given the ethnicity of the president.
As Russia continues its attack on Ukraine, political science professor Luba Levin-Banchik at California State University, San Bernardino has been nervously watching the conflict. As a Russian Jew born in Belarus and married to a Ukrainian native, she has a lot of stakes in the matter.
Even though I was born in Belarus, I identify myself as a Russian Jew, she explains. Because of the policy of Russia in this case, I feel it puts shame on Russia's, in the words of Putin, historical future.
Despite her struggles to cope with the reality, Levin-Banchik feels optimistic about the resolve of the Ukrainian people, who see themselves as Ukrainian even as Putin presents them as Russian.
Its very concerning for me personally. Its also the feelings of anger and sometimes betrayal because of what is being done to defend Russian-speaking minorities in Ukraine. Thats how this is presented in Russian media.
Hey! Did you enjoy this piece? We cant do it without you. We are member-supported, so your donation is critical to KCRW's music programming, news reporting, and cultural coverage. Help support the DJs, journalists, and staff of the station you love.
Most of the Russian public, they do not speak other languages  and definitely do not consume other media than Russian language, Levin-Banchik explains. When you dont have alternatives and youre constantly being fed with the same images, then its really difficult to question the rhetoric.
Levin-Banchik says Putins rhetoric makes sense given that many Russian people dont have access to other types of media and are unable to see diverse points of view.
