Ukraine isnt part of little Russia LA Ukrainians explain relationship of 2 countries
20220302
https://www.kcrw.com/news/shows/greater-la/rent-russia/ukrainian-expats-la
As Russian forces drop bombs and wage a grim and bloody battle across Ukraine, many Ukrainian expats in LA want their neighbors here to understand whats going on, the context of this conflict, how the histories and cultures of the two countries overlap, and how Ukraine became its own independent nation in the wake of the Soviet collapse.
I think this is Putin's war.  Most of the Russian people that come to us stand with Ukraine and don't want to see this happen.
Vasylkova says her parents raised her to be Ukrainian, even though it was unpopular at the time to do so. I'm bilingual. I speak  also Russian because I went to Russian school. That was the only option in the military town where we lived.
She says most people coming into her restaurant have been confused about whats happening in Ukraine, but theyve also been supportive of her and her staff.
On August 24, 1991, Ukraine proclaimed its independence, which Vasylkova calls the happiest day of her life.
If theres one thing Vasylkova wants Americans to understand, its that Ukraine is an independent, free, sovereign country.
Despite the overlapping history, Vasylkova says there is nothing nostalgic or sentimental about the Soviet Union.
Rina Atroshenko left Ukraine in 1975 and now owns Traktir restaurant, which has locations in West Hollywood and Tarzana.
Ukrainians even starved to death, she says. They tried to do everything to wipe us out from the map.
Don't be fooled when you hear that Ukraine is part of Russia, little Russia. That is not true.
People demonstrate against Russia after it launched a massive military operation against Ukraine, in Los Angeles, California, U.S., February 24, 2022.
Iryna Vasylkova, cultural diplomacy program director at the Ukrainian Art Center in LA, was born in the Soviet Union while Ukraine was under its rule. She says at the time, no one was allowed to speak Ukrainian, and Russians burned Ukrainian literature.
