Contracts for 515 aircraft leased to Russian airlines will be terminated
20220228
https://flightaware.com/squawks/view/1/today/popular/88105/Contracts_for_515_aircraft_leased_to_Russian_airlines_will_be_terminated
Avolon, the worlds second biggest leasing company which is headquartered in Ireland, has fewer than 20 airplanes in Russia and one or two in Ukraine out of a total fleet of more than 550 aircraft, CEO Dmhnal Slattery told Reuters this month.
AerCap said it would cease its leasing activity with Russian airlines in compliance with sanctions, adding that as of December 31 5 of its fleet by net book value was leased to Russian carriers.
Lessor BOC said it had 18 planes representing 4.5 of its owned fleet based in Russia, placed with Aeroflot subsidiary Pobeda as well as Ural Airlines, S7 Airlines and AirBridgeCargo Airlines.
Lessors are set to terminate hundreds of aircraft leases with Russian airlines following Western sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine that require the contracts be cancelled.
Russian companies have 980 passenger jets in service, of which Boeing 777 are leased, according to analytics firm Cirium.
Group of Seven G7 leaders said over the weekend that Western allies had decided to cut off certain Russian banks from the SWIFT a secure messaging system to ensure rapid cross-border payments which has become the principal mechanism to finance international trade.
Other non-Russian lessors with planes in the countries include SMBC Aviation Capital, Air Lease and Aviation Capital Group, IBA said. Reuters.com and rte.ie
He said at the time that Avolon was concerned that sanctions on international payment transfers through SWIFT could be disrupted, making it hard for airlines to pay their bills.
Of these, two-thirds, or 515 jets, with an estimated market value of about $10 billion, are rented from foreign firms in the mainly Ireland-based industry.
Asian lessor BOC Aviation said today that most of its aircraft in Russia would be affected by European Union sanctions that require the leases be terminated by March 28.
Dublin headquartered AerCap Holdings, the worlds biggest leasing company, has the largest exposure to Russia and Ukraine with 152 planes, according to aviation consultancy IBA.
Dubai Aerospace Enterprise DAE has at least three Russian airline customers, including Aeroflot, according to its website. The Dubai-owned lessor did not respond to a request for comment.
Novus Aviation Capital co-chief executive Mounir Kuzbari told Reuters the firm had no aircraft in Russia but that mass cancellation of leases in Russia could hit global lease rates and aircraft values.
The lessor has over 2,000 planes in its total portfolio and its Russian clients include Aeroflot, S7 Airlines, Rossiya, Azur Air and Ural Airlines, its website shows.
