FactboxThe Moskva Russias lost Black Sea Fleet flagship
20220415
https://katcountry989.com/2022/04/14/factbox-the-moskva-russias-lost-black-sea-fleet-flagship/
The Moskva first entered service with the Soviet navy in 1983 after being built in then-Soviet Ukraine and was called Slava or Glory at the time. It was renamed Moskva Moscow in 1995 after the fall of the Soviet Union.
If the damage was caused by some kind of an onboard explosion, it would be the second flagship of Russias Black Sea Fleet to be taken out of action in a similar fashion. The Imperatritsa Maria dreadnought battleship sank in 1916 after an explosion involving ammunition.
The Moskva briefly took part in a blockade of the Ukrainian navy in March 2014 as part of Russias annexation of Crimea.
The ship is armed with multiple anti-ship and surface-to-air missiles. Russia has two other ships of the same class, the Marshal Ustinov and the Varyag, which serve with Russias Northern and Pacific fleets respectively.
The Moskva would be the biggest Russian warship damaged by enemy fire since 1941, when German dive bombers crippled the Soviet battleship Marat in Kronshtadt harbour, military analysts said.
Experts do not see the Moskvas loss as likely to have a major impact on what Russia calls its special operation to demilitarise Ukraine.
It has more status value than real combat value, and in general, had nothing to do with the current operation. It will have no effect on the course of hostilities.
The ship was thought to be located in the Black Sea somewhere off the Ukrainian port of Odesa at the time of the explosion.
Whatever the cause, the episode is a setback for Russia. If Ukraines assertion that it hit the ship in a missile strike turns out to be true, the attack will go down in history as one of the highest-profile naval attacks so far this century.
Russia has sufficient resources to maintain a blockade of Ukrainian ports and to hit targets inside Ukraine with other missile systems, the experts said.
Reuters      The following are some facts about the Moskva, the Soviet-era flagship of Russias Black Sea fleet, which sank on Thursday after a fire according to the Russian Defence Ministry. Ukraine said the fire was caused by its missile strike.
In 2015, it took part in Russias military operation in Syria, providing air defence for Russian forces there.
The ships were designed in the Soviet Union in the late 1970s to counter U.S. aircraft carrier groups and to provide air defence to Soviet vessels operating in distant oceans. They were nicknamed carrier killers at the time.
The ship provided security for a meeting of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and U.S. President George Bush in Malta in December 1989.
The defence ministry, cited by Russian news agencies, acknowledged that the ship suffered serious damage, saying that there was a fire from a detonation of ammunition and that the vessel sank in stormy seas while it was being towed back to port. Kyiv says the ship started to sink after the fire broke out.
The ship is really very old. Actually, there have been plans to scrap it for five years now, Russian military analyst Alexander Khramchikhin said.
