Lithuanian documentary film director Kvedaravicius killed in Ukraines Mariupol  reports
20220403
https://katcountry989.com/2022/04/02/lithuanian-documentary-film-director-kvedaravicius-killed-in-ukraines-mariupol-reports/
Our friend Artdocfest participant, Lithuanian documentary writer Mantas Kvedaravicius, was murdered today in Mariupol, with a camera in his hands, in this shitty war of evil, against the whole world, the Russian film director Vitaly Mansky, the founder of a festival of documentary movies Artdocfest, said on Facebook.
The broadcaster, which also reported Kvedaraviciuss death, said it has not been officially confirmed yet.
Now Mariupol, encircled since soon after Russias Feb. 24 invasion, is Moscows main target in Ukraines Donbas, the southeastern region including the Donetsk and Luhansk breakaway areas. Tens of thousands are trapped in the city with scant access to food and water.
Filmed in Mariupol, it is the portrait of a Ukrainian city under siege with a strong will to live. The strategic port is in the breakaway region of Donetsk, neighbouring Russia, where pro-Russian fighters have been fighting Ukrainian forces since 2014.
Kvedaravicius was born in 1976, studied at Vilnius University and got a degree in social anthropology from the University of Cambridge, according to the Lithuanian public broadcaster LRT.
Kvedaravicius was known, among other works, for his conflict-zone documentary Mariupolis, which premiered at the 2016 Berlin International Film Festival.
RIP dearest talented Mantas. A terrible loss for Lithuanian cinema community and all the world. Our hearts are broken, Giedre Zickyte, a Lithuanian documentary film director and producer, wrote in her Facebook account.
Reuters      Lithuanian film director Mantas Kvedaravicius was killed on Saturday in Ukraines Mariupol, where he had long documented the besieged port city, according to colleagues and a media report.
Everyday life develops a poetry of its own, which occasionally can seem absurd, said the Berlin International Film Festivals synopsis of Mariupolis.
