Singapore sanctions Russia over unprovoked attack on Ukraine
20220305
https://katcountry989.com/2022/03/04/singapore-sanctions-russia-over-unprovoked-attack-on-ukraine/
SINGAPORE Reuters      Singapore announced sanctions against Russia on Saturday that include four banks and an export ban on electronics, computers and military items, in a rare move by the Asian financial hub in response to what it said was Moscows dangerous precedent in Ukraine.
Asked by Reuters about its exposure to Russia, Singapores sovereign wealth fund GIC reiterated the new measures, which it said would also apply to the governments funds managed by GIC.
For a small state like Singapore, this is not a theoretical principle, but a dangerous precedent. This is why Singapore has strongly condemned Russias unprovoked attack.
We cannot accept the Russian governments violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of another sovereign state, its foreign ministry said in a statement, which gave no timeframe for when the sanctions would take effect.
GIC continues to assess the Russian-Ukrainian situation and will ensure compliance, it said in an emailed response.
A statement https:bit.ly3sGjb6D on Thursday by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN, of which Singapore is a member, called for a ceasefire in the Ukraine crisis, but made no mention of Russias involvement.
Singapores stand against Russias invasion is the strongest so far by a Southeast Asia country.
The restrictions bar Singapores financial institutions including its central bank, from dealing with Russias central bank as well as VTB Bank Public Joint Stock Company, The Corporation Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs Vnesheconombank, Promsvyazbank Public Joint Stock Company and Bank Rossiya. The measures also cover cryptocurrencies.
The tiny city-state, an international shipping hub, rarely imposes sanctions of its own but said it would not allow export of items that could inflict harm on or subjugate Ukrainians, or help Russia launch cyber attacks.
