Stranded in Ukraine with COVIDpositive child Australian mum talks of her fears
20220211
https://katcountry989.com/2022/02/17/stranded-in-ukraine-with-covid-positive-child-australian-mum-talks-of-her-fears/
Nataliya and her son Michael had to miss the Feb. 9 flight and remain in Poltava, a town 300 kilometres 185 miles to the south-east of capital Kyiv. They stayed with Nataliyas parents, who they had been visiting for Orthodox Christmas.
KYIV Reuters      Nataliya Poshyvaylo-Towler, an Australian mother-of-two of Ukrainian descent, found out her son had tested positive for COVID-19 at the worst possible moment.
They were preparing to fly last week from Ukraine to Melbourne, where they live, after receiving an advisory from Australian authorities that citizens should immediately leave Ukraine over fears a Russian invasion could be imminent.
Probably designing those rules, they didnt think about situations like mine, you know, the possible war conflict.
Im looking at the email with results and theres an email coming from DFAT Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade  evacuate now. And the result is positive, Nataliya recalled in an interview with Reuters.
So hopefully I can fly, and be back home, dreaming of coming back to Ukraine. Because I love my country, and I stand with her.
To board a plane back, Nataliya needed to complete a declaration form and show a negative COVID-19 test.
Nataliya and her son are now booked on a flight back for Sunday. She is looking forward to reuniting with her family in Melbourne, but still fears for Ukraine, where she was born.
COVID is not that bad compared with other problems that can happen with your country, she said.
My son is asking Mum, why were you looking at these bomb shelters? That was hard, she said.
Russia denies planning to invade its neighbour. This week it said it was pulling back some of the more than 100,000 troops it had massed near the frontier and on Thursday it said some had returned to base. NATO says Russia is not withdrawing, but appears to be sending in more forces.
Nataliyas fears rose when some media reported an invasion could begin on Feb. 16. She looked for bomb shelters on a map of her hometown.
Nataliya told Reuters that she didnt expect the Australian government to bend the rules for her and her family, however.
