Top Azovstal commanders transferred to Russia for investigation  TASS
20220619
https://katcountry989.com/2022/06/19/top-azovstal-commanders-transferred-to-russia-for-investigation-tass/
Uncertainty has surrounded the fate of hundreds of fighters captured by Russian forces in May after a months-long siege of Mariupol. Moscow said at the time they were moved to breakaway Russian-backed entities in eastern Ukraine.
The self-styled Donetsk and Luhansk peoples republics are in the industrial Donbas region in eastern Ukraine, which Russia is fighting to remove from Kyivs control.
Russian agencies reported in early June that more than 1,000 Azovstal fighters were transferred to Russia to undisclosed locations for investigation.
Reuters could not immediately verify the report and there was no immediate reaction from Kyiv. Earlier this month, Ukraine said its intelligence services were in communication with the captured Azovstal steelworks fighters.
The Azov Battalion, an all-volunteer infantry military unit which formed in 2014 as an extreme right-wing volunteer militia to fight Russian-backed separatists, and the 36th Marine Brigade unit, were key in defending the steelworks.
Kyiv is seeking the handover of all the fighters in a prisoner swap with Moscow, but some Russian lawmakers want some of the fighters put on trial.
Special forces officers transferred them from Donetsk, an eastern Ukrainian province that Moscow recognises as a pro-Russian republic, to conduct investigative activities with them, TASS cited the source as saying.
Citing an unnamed Russian law enforcement source, TASS said late on Saturday that Svyatoslav Palamar, a deputy commander of the Azov battalion, and Serhiy Volynsky, the commander of the 36th Marine Brigade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, were moved to Russia.
Reuters      Two top commanders of fighters who defended the Azovstal steel plant in Ukraines southeastern port of Mariupol have been transferred to Russia for investigation, Russias state news agency TASS reported.
