Ukraine and Russia What you need to know right now
20220509
https://katcountry989.com/2022/05/08/ukraine-and-russia-what-you-need-to-know-right-now-26/
 Irish rock group U2s frontman Bono and his bandmate The Edge performed a 40-minute concert in a metro station in Kyiv and praised Ukrainians fighting for their freedom.
 More than 170 civilians were evacuated from the Mariupol area bringing the total to about 600 given safe passage during a week-long rescue operation, the United Nations said.
 Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made an unannounced visit to the Ukrainian town of Irpin, which was retaken from Russian troops in late March, the towns mayor said on Telegram.
 The deputy commander of the Azov regiment holed up in the sprawling Azovstal steel plant pleaded with the international community to help evacuate wounded soldiers.
 U.S. first lady Jill Biden also made an unannounced trip to Ukraine to show support for its people, visiting a school that is serving as a shelter and meeting Ukraines first lady, Olena Zelenska.
 The United States unveiled sanctions against three Russian television stations, banned Americans from providing accounting and consulting services to Russians, and sanctioned executives from Gazprombank.
 Zelenskiy said evil has returned to Ukraine as he gave an emotional address for Victory Day, when Europe commemorates the formal surrender of Germany to the Allies in World War Two.
 Ukrainian fighters at the Azovstal steel plant vowed to continue their stand as long as they are alive.
 Russian Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin said on Telegram that he visited Mariupol on Sunday, the most senior Russian government figure to set foot in the city after weeks of bombardment.
Reuters      About 60 people were feared to have been killed in the bombing of a village school in eastern Ukraine, while Russian President Vladimir Putin prepared to mark the 77th anniversary of the Soviet Unions victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two.
 The Group of Seven leaders said in a statement that they would reinforce Russias economic isolation and elevate a campaign against Russian elites who support Putin.
 European Union governments moved closer to agreeing tough sanctions against Russia that include a ban on buying Russian oil, but scheduled more talks for Monday to work out how to ensure countries most dependent on Russian energy can cope.
