RTHK Putin uses Victory Day to justify war on Ukraine
20220509
http://7thspace.com/headlines/1835086/rthk__putin_uses_victory_day_to_justify_war_on_ukraine.html
There was nothing significant in Putins speech today, but he will need to make a decision regarding mobilization in the coming weeks, wrote Rob Lee, a senior fellow at the Philadelphia-based Foreign Policy Research Institute, on Twitter.
The Ukrainian militarys General Staff warned Monday of a high probability of missile strikes on the holiday, and Britains Defense Ministry said in its daily assessment Russian forces could increasingly subject Ukrainian towns and cities to intense and indiscriminate bombardments with little or no regard for civilian casualties" as they run short of precision-guided munitions.
Ukrainian leaders and their Western backers have often rejected claims that Kyiv posed any threat to its giant neighbor.
Many analysts had suggested Putin might use his speech to declare some sort of limited victory  potentially in the besieged strategic port city of Mariupol  as he looks for an exit from the conflict that has unleashed punishing sanctions from the West and strained Russias resources. Others suggested he might order a nationwide mobilization to beef up the depleted ranks for an extended conflict.
Very soon there will be two Victory Days in Ukraine, he said in a video released to mark the holiday. We have never fought against anyone. We always fight for ourselves. ... We are fighting for freedom for our children, and therefore we will win.
The danger was rising by the day, he said as he surveyed the troops. Russia has given a pre-emptive response to aggression. It was a forced, timely and the only correct decision.
With the war now in its 11th week, battles were being waged on multiple fronts, but Russia was perhaps closest to victory in Mariupol, where Ukrainian fighters are making a last stand at a sprawling steel mill in a battle that has highlighted some of the worst suffering of the war.
Mykhailo Podolyak wrote on Twitter that NATO countries were not going to attack Russia. Ukraine did not plan to attack Crimea, which Russia seized in 2014.
The complete capture of Mariupol would deprive Ukraine of a vital port, allow Russia to complete a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, and free troops up for fighting elsewhere in the Donbas, which is now Putin's stated focus following his failure to seize the capital in the early days of the conflict. The fall of the city would provide a much-needed symbolic victory for Russia. AP
As Putin laid a wreath in Moscow, air raid sirens echoed again in Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital. But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declared in his own Victory Day address that his country would eventually defeat the Russians.
The Russian leader oversaw a Victory Day parade on Red Square, with troops marching in formation, military hardware on display, and a brass band blaring to mark the Soviet Union's defeat of Nazi Germany. But his much-anticipated speech offered no new insights to how he intended to salvage the grinding war  and instead stuck to allegations that Ukraine posed a threat to Russia, even though Moscows nuclear-armed forces are far superior in numbers and firepower.
More than 60 people were feared dead after a Russian bomb flattened a Ukrainian school being used as a shelter in Bilohorivka, an eastern village, Ukrainian officials said.
An adviser to Zelenskyy also pushed back against the idea that Ukraine and its Western allies posed any threat to Russia.
