RTHK Russia blocked from paying debt using US bank funds
20220405
http://7thspace.com/headlines/1810310/rthk__russia_blocked_from_paying_debt_using_us_bank_funds.html
"We are working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports, and we are reflecting on some of the ideas presented by the member states, such as taxes or specific payment channels such as an escrow account," von der Leyen said.
In a speech posted on Twitter, the EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen outlined new sanctions including a ban on imports of coal from Russia worth 4 billion euros per year, and a full transaction ban on four key Russian banks, including the country's second-largest, VTB.
The EU will also ban Russian vessels and Russian-operated vessels from accessing EU ports, although there would be exemptions for agricultural and food products, humanitarian aid and energy.
In addition, the bloc will ban Russian and Belarusian road transport operators and prohibit the sale to Russia of quantum computers, advanced semiconductors, sensitive machinery and transportation equipment worth around 10 billion euros annually. AFP, Reuters
The European Commission, meanwhile, proposed new sanctions against Russia, including a ban on buying Russian coal and on Russian ships entering EU ports, and said it was working on banning oil imports too.
Today is the deadline for Russia to make another debt payment, a US Treasury spokesman said on Tuesday. Beginning today, the US Treasury will not permit any dollar debt payments to be made from Russian government accounts at US financial institutions.
The latest US move will further deplete the resources Putin is using to continue his war against Ukraine and will cause more uncertainty and challenges for their financial system, the Treasury official said in a statement.
Russia must choose between draining remaining valuable dollar reserves or new revenue coming in, or default.
The country has also been allowed to receive payments for oil and gas sales, although the US has banned imports from Russia.
The White House warned on Monday however that more sanctions were coming against Russian leader Vladimir Putin following the emergence of alleged atrocities in formerly Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine.
Debt payments had so far been exempt from a near-complete lockdown that severed Russia from the global financial system, and Moscow had made several payments to foreign creditors through major US banks.
