RTHK Fresh shelling at Ukraine power plant
20220827
http://7thspace.com/headlines/1912135/rthk__fresh_shelling_at_ukraine_power_plant.html
Agency head Rafael Mariano Grossi has said he wants to visit the site within days, warning of potential disaster.
The Zaporizhzhia plant in southern Ukraine has been occupied by Russian troops since early March.
On Friday both Germany and France reported that they expected electricity prices next year to increase tenfold over those this year.
French finance minister Bruno Le Maire pledged on Saturday to keep electricity costs in check.
Russia's defence ministry said Ukrainian forces "shelled the territory of the station three times" from the town of Marganets across the Dnipro River.
On Tuesday residents in Khortytskyi district  45 kilometres north-east from the power plant  were given iodine pills to reduce radiation risk in case of a leak.
On Saturday its Ukraine operator Energoatom said Russian troops "repeatedly shelled" it over the past day.
Moscow says 3.6 million Ukrainian nationals, including 587,000 children, have come to Russia since the start of the offensive in late February. AFP
Kyiv suspects Moscow intends to divert power from the Zaporizhzhia plant to the Crimean peninsula, annexed by Russia in 2014. Washington has warned against any such move.
Britain's defence ministry said satellite imagery showed an increased presence of Russian troops at the power plant with armoured personnel carriers deployed within 60 metres of one reactor.
"As a result of periodic shelling, the infrastructure of the station has been damaged, there are risks of hydrogen leakage and sputtering of radioactive substances, and the fire hazard is high," Energoatom said on Telegram.
It came back online on Friday afternoon but Zelenskyy warned "the worst case scenario ... is constantly being provoked by Russian forces".
The agency said that as of midday on Saturday 0900 GMT the plant "operates with the risk of violating radiation and fire safety standards".
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA is urging for a mission to the plant "as soon as possible to help stabilise the nuclear safety and security situation there".
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the power cut was caused by Russian shelling of the last active power line linking the plant to the network.
In a communique the ministry accused Kyiv of "nuclear terrorism" and said shells landed near areas storing fresh nuclear fuel and radioactive waste.
Residents closer to the plant said earlier this month that they received iodine pills at the very start of the war.
Russia's assault on Ukraine  which this week entered its seventh month  has also prompted a wider global energy crisis.
On Thursday, the Zaporizhzhia plant was cut off from Ukraine's national power grid for the first time in its four-decade history due to "actions of the Russians", Energoatom said.
But Zerkal told Ukraine's Radio NV late on Thursday she was sceptical the mission would go ahead, despite Moscow's formal agreement, as "they are artificially creating all the conditions so that the mission will not reach the site".
Kyiv and Moscow have repeatedly accused each other of rocket attacks in the vicinity of the plant  Europe's largest  located in the city of Energodar.
Meanwhile on Saturday, Russia published a decree that makes it easier for Ukrainian citizens to live and work in Russia by scrapping work permits and allowing indefinite residency.
"The electricity that it produces rightly belongs to Ukraine," State Department spokesman Vedant Patel told reporters, saying attempts to redirect power to occupied areas were "unacceptable".
Meanwhile the EU  which declares itself a staunch ally of Ukraine  has vowed to wean its 27 member states off Russian energy to protest the nation's attack on its neighbour.
The EU presidency has said it will hold an emergency summit to address the crisis as the winter months approach.
Russia's defence ministry issued a counter-claim that Ukraine's troops were responsible for a salvo of 17 shells landing on the site.
Paris has put in place an energy price cap to shield households until December 31 and Le Maire said that next year's expected hikes would be "contained increases".
Ukraine energy minister adviser Lana Zerkal said an IAEA inspection "is planned for the next week".
