Dee Snider Supports Ukrainians Using Were Not Gonna Take It As Battlecry
20220228
https://1059therock.iheart.com/content/2022-02-28-dee-snider-supports-ukrainians-using-were-not-gonna-take-it-as-battlecry/
"Well, one uses is for a righteous battle against oppression," Snider responded, referring to Ukraine's resistance. "The other is an infantile feet stomping against an inconvenience."
"I absolutely approve of Ukrainians using 'We're Not Gonna Take It' as their battlecry," the heavy metal legend wrote. "My grandfather was Ukrainian, before it was swallowed up by the USSR after WW2. This can't happen to these people again."
After weeks of reports that Russia was mobilizing troops along the Ukrainian border, Russian President Vladmir Putin ordered an attack on Ukraine on February 24. More than half a million Ukrainians have fled the country and several hundred deaths have been reported.
Ukrainians holding off Russia's invasion of their country are reportedly using Twisted Sister's 1984 anthem "We're Not Gonna Take It" as a rallying cry, and Twisted Sister frontman Dee Snider couldn't be prouder.
Early Monday, it was reported that Russian and Ukrainian officials planned to meet at the Belarussian border to negotiate a ceasefire.
Some users brought up how Snider decried the use of his song when it was adopted recently by the anti-maskanti-vaccine movement in America.
The U.S. Department of Defense reported over the weekend that Russian forces were frustrated by Ukraine's stiff resistance in its two largest cities, Kyiv and Kharkiv.
Snider followed up the Tweet by engaging many other Twitter users on the war issue, and answering questions about other causes where he's disapproved of his music being used.
Russia has maintained  especially in its own national media  that the assault on Ukraine is justified and that the nation of 44 million people is the true aggressor.
Around the world, support for Russia's operation is minimal. Many western nations have announced sanctions against Russia and even Putin, specifically. They have also assisted Ukraine by sending weapons and supplies as the country defends its cities.
Snider has over the years been quick to call out people he feels misinterpret or misappropriate his music, especially when it comes to political causes. He clarified via Twitter on Saturday that Ukrainians defending their country's independence are welcome to use any of his songs.
Reports say as much as 60 percent of Russians in Russia support the war effort, but Snider argues that the Russian people have been fed a "stream of propaganda" by their government. The war in Ukraine sparked protests in every major city in Russia the Kremlin responded by arresting thousands of demonstrators who opposed the invasion.
