Thousands Arrested At AntiWar Protests Throughout Russia Report
20220225
https://kfiam640.iheart.com/content/2022-02-24-thousands-arrested-at-anti-war-protests-throughout-russia-report/
A Ukraine interior minister confirmed to NBC News via text message that "cruise and ballistic missile strikes" were already underway shortly after Putin's announcement.
"At least 1,400 anti-war protesters detained by Russian police - monitor," BNO News shared alongside a video of a protester being arrested on its verified account.
"NATO Allies will meet to address the consequences of Russias aggressive actions," he added, calling for Russia to cease military action in Ukraine. "We stand with the people of Ukraine at this terrible time. NATO will do all it takes toprotect and defend all Allies."
Okeksiy Arestovich, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy confirmed the totals Thursday February 24.
"The prayers of the entire world are with the people of Ukraine tonight as they suffer an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces," Biden said in a White House statement issued late Wednesday February 23 evening local time. "President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering. Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable."
This is a matter of live or death," Putin said via NBC News. "Its a threat against the existence of the Russian people."
Putin criticized the U.S. and its allies during his announcement, claiming, everything is clear, the U.S. doesnt seek to negotiate with Russia... so what do we do next? Why wait?
Stoltenberg issued an initial statement condemning "Russia's reckless and unprovoked attack" and a "serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security" after reports of booms and explosions heard in Kyiv early Thursday morning.
NBC News later reported at least four people and at least 10 others injured were killed after a Russian shell struck a hospital located in Vuhledar, located in the Donetsk region Thursday, Ukraine's interior ministry confirmed on its Telegram channel.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the country was prepared to defend itself against Russian attacks and referred to Putin's decision to conduct a military operation as "a war of aggression," NBC News' Alana Satlin reported.
Wall Street Journal reporter Matthew Luxmoore shared footage from a protest in Moscow, which showed citizens chanting "No to War" and "risking serious repercussions to protest Putin's attack on Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced his country would conduct military operations in Eastern Ukraine during an NBC News translation of a speech addressing the Russian population prior to sunrise early Thursday morning in Moscow.
The attacks come after reports of more than 100,000 Russian military troops being present on three sides of the neighboring Ukraine, according to the AP.
More than 1,000 protesters were reportedly arrested during anti-war protests throughout Russia amid President Vladimir Putin's announcement to conduct military operations and ensuing attack on Ukraine, BNO News reports.
The announcement appeared to serve as the final action ahead of an attack by Putin and the Russian military, which the U.S. and European allies to the neighboring Ukraine have attempted to prevent from taking place through diplomatic discussions.
At least 40 people were confirmed to have been killed and several dozen others were injured during the early casualty tolls following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, ABC News reports.
NBC News correspondent Erin McLaughlin said explosions could be heard from her live shot in Kyiv, Ukraine's capital city, at 6:00 a.m. local time.
"Once again, despite our repeated warnings and tireless efforts to engage in diplomacy, Russia has chosen the path of aggression against a sovereign and independent country," Stoltenberg said in a statement obtained by NBC News.
President Joe Biden condemned Putin's actions, stating that he had "chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering" following the announcement.
