Top Stories for 228
20220228
https://bob949.iheart.com/featured/whp580-newsroom/content/2022-02-28-top-stories-for-228/
The governor says removing Russian products from LCB shelves would be a show of solidarity and support for the people of Ukraine.
Harrisburg, PA--Pennsylvania is moving closer to the endemic phase of COVID-19, according to acting state Secretary of Health Keara Klinepeter.She says case counts are at their lowest since August and continue to fall and that COVID hospitalizations are falling. Klinepeter says a lot of the credit for those two factors goes to most people getting vaccinated and many following the guidelines set out by the state and federal government.State figures show as of last week some 22 million shots have been given out across the commonwealth.
Philadelphia, PA--All is good for the Philadelphia 76ers as the squad adjusts to its new star-studded lineup.Philadelphia has won three-games in a row and two-straight since James Harden hit the court.On Sunday, Harden dropped a triple-double to go along with 37 from Joel Embiid as they dominated the New York Knicks.The Sixers are off today and tomorrow before they host the Knicks on Wednesday night.
Lancaster County, PA--Police said one person has been stabbed at a club in Lancaster.It happened just before 1 a.m. Sunday at the Rainmakers Association Lodge on East Chestnut Street. However, club management says on its social media pages that the incident only involved someone getting cut on their face, not stabbed.They also wrote that the police have the information that they need to address this incident including names and video footage.Police say the victim was a 43-year-old man who suffered a non-critical injury.No arrests have been made.
Reading, PA--One man is dead after a shooting in Reading over the weekend.Officials say it's the third homicide within the city, in just one week.It happened Saturday afternoon in the one-thousand-block of Green Street and officials say the shooting stemmed from a domestic incident between one woman's boyfriend and her ex.The boyfriend, 21-year-old Deivis Gutierrez Garcia reportedly shot four times into a car, striking the man inside.The victim, whose identity is not being released, died from his injuries on the way to the hospital.Authorities have issued an arrest warrant for Garcia. Berks County D.A. John Adams says they consider him to be armed and dangerous.
Wolf says, like most other leaders across the nation and the world- he's condemned the attacks on Ukraine.
Lancaster, PA--A 21-year-old man was taken to the hospital for a gunshot wound to the leg Saturday afternoon, according to the Columbia Borough Police Department.The incident happened in the 400 block of Locust Street shortly before 1:00 p.m.The man was treated and released.Officials say the shooting was not random and may have been targeted.That's why they're asking for anyone with information to call Columbia Borough Police.
Harrisburg, PA--Three state senators are soliciting co-sponsors for legislation to introduce a resolution urging President Joe Biden to reopen the Keystone XL Pipeline.Republican Senators Wayne Langerholc of Johnstown Joe Pittman of Indiana and Gene Yaw of Williamsport have posted a co-sponsorship memorandum in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.The memo says re-opening the Keystone XL Pipeline will start to ease the energy burden. The senators also say it will protect national energy security going forward. They say they'll introduce the resolution "in the near future." The pipeline officially was abandoned in June 2021 with about eight percent of construction completed.
Meanwhile, in a statement from the PA Licensed Beverage and Tavern Association has encouraged family-owned taverns, bars, clubs, and licensed restaurants to avoid using Russian-made vodka for now.
Northumberland County, PA--A preliminary hearing has been set for a man accused of leaving a four-year-old boy alone inside a store.Nyre Edwards is scheduled to appear before Judge Michael Toomey on March 15th.The alleged incident happened in October and the child reportedly told officials he was hit with a belt by an adult and ran away from his home. Police observed a bodily injury that required medical treatment on the child's thigh after he was transported to the Sunbury Police Department.Edwards was charged with two misdemeanors that included first-degree simple assault and endangering the welfare of children.
Harrisburg, PA -- Governor Tom Wolf has sent a letter to the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board urging it to remove Russian-sourced products from Fine Wine  Good Spirits Stores across the commonwealth.
Harrisburg, PA--Attorney General Josh Shapiro has announced that a Bradford County nurse practitioner has been charged with felony violations of the federal drug act as well as insurance fraud and Medicaid fraud. Stephanie King of Ulster reportedly wrote over 37-hundred prescriptions for medications without a collaborating doctor. She is also facing multiple counts of false billing, including while she reportedly was engaging in a personal relationship with her patient. The investigation found that beginning in November 2016, King entered into a sexual relationship with a patient at her Athens practice and billed a private insurer for their rendezvous time. Prosecutors also allege that Ms. King misled past physician collaborators and renewed previous agreements without their knowledge.
Harrisburg, PA--The Pennsylvania Senate Law and Justice Committee has a scheduled public hearing Monday to discuss, among other items, legalized recreational marijuana use in the state. Last week,Governor Tom Wolf expressed his hope that the idea would come to pass before he leaves office later this year. But political watchdogs say that's not likely to happen as the General Assembly has competing bills to legalize marijuana, and in different ways.Marijuana legalization for recreational use been approved in 18 states and the District of Columbia - Pennsylvania would be the 19th.
