Banning Crypto Users
20220303
https://seekingalpha.com/article/4492357-banning-crypto-users
By 8:15 on Thursday morning the price of bitcoin was $35,244, down from close to $39,000 the day before.
The question is going to be, how much is the U.S. government going to have to do to stop the cheating? Might China be an example in this case?
It seems, according to Paul Vigna, writing in the Wall Street Journal, that there had been a surge in the trading volume of bitcoin in exchange for rubles beginning earlier in the week.
But, then, things seemed to change as Western sanctions were placed upon Russia, Russian banks, and Russian oligarchs.
The price of bitcoin began to rise and reached $44,259 by late last evening, up more than 17 percent according to Coinbase from the recent low.
More and more, national governments are being challenged by the movement in technology and are in need of exerting themselves more forcefully.
Disclosure: Iwe have no stock, option or similar derivative position in any of the companies mentioned, and no plans to initiate any such positions within the next 72 hours. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it other than from Seeking Alpha. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.
"Crypto is popular in Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine ranked fourth on a global adoption index and a Russian government report estimates that there were more than 12 million cryptocurrency wallets held by Russian citizens with about two trillion rubles."
"The situation in Ukraine has brought to light the value of bitcoin as an alternative monetary network."
And there is even the thought that the United States will move to block the Russians from using the SWIFT network to handle daily payment instructions.
Question: should Bitcoin, and other crypto-assets, ban the use of certain users for various reasons?
The most prominent reason right now is the possibility of banning Russia from the use of Bitcoin.
The argument was that the price of bitcoin seemed to be moving in tandem with the stock market. Some research was indicating that the bitcoin price had a 0.56 correlation coefficient with the SP 500 stock index, the highest correlation ever recorded.
Mr. Vigna reports, that according to Binance, the largest bitcoin exchange in the world, between February 20 and February 28, about 1,792 bitcoins exchanged hands in the rublebitcoin trading pair, compared with only 522 in the nine days before that.
Just a couple of examples give us the picture. September 2021, the U.S. Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Suex, a virtual currency exchange, for its role in ransomware transactions. And the FBI announced last month it was launching a unit for blockchain analysis and virtual asset seizure.
It can only get worse...until the United States...and some others...get current with their efforts to play in this world of information science.
The Chinese have banned crypto and have moved to a central bank digital currency and are building the Chinese financial system around that.
The United States is behind the curve in this area and is only really starting to accelerate its effort to be a player in the digital and the crypto. But, it better hurry.
But, as Oanda analyst Edward Moya is quoted as saying that Western sanctions and restrictions are
"Even so, blocked users would still be able to find unregulated exchanges or even more opaque marketplaces for buying and selling their cryptocurrencies."
In the current case, we are seeing how a "rogue," like Russia, can do something, face possible sanctions, but, at least partially, escape the full brunt of the sanctions by using the new innovation.
So, we see the price of bitcoin increasing. And the price of most other cryptocurrencies, like Ether, XRP, Avalanche, and Cardano, has also risen in recent days.
This gets us into the discussion I have been presenting in recent weeks and months about the independence of these crypto-assets and the role that regulators and governments are going to play in the advancement of the digital.
But, Russia and Iran, for example, along with China, are building their own digital currencies. The ability of these nations to "cause disruption" to the global financial world is becoming more and more real as we see cases of abuse showing up all over the place.
My guess is that bigger and bigger issues are going to arise. The Russian situation may just be the start of this acceleration.
The initiating technology that disrupts the economic system, opens the door to all the other possibilities that can be associated with the innovation. Then the society, the government, the people must react to all these changes that are emerging.
