Cameco Why I Think This Uranium FrontRunner Is Going Further Up
20220316
https://seekingalpha.com/article/4495887-cameco-stock-why-uranium-leader-going-up
ForbesSimilarly, according to the recent numbers, the EU imports about 40 of its gas from Russia, worth about $100 billion, more than twice as much as Norway, its next-largest import partner. This heavy dependency on Russian gas is clearly visible in the Ukraine-related sanctions imposed on Russia as the sanctions fall short of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Moreover, imposing sanctions on Russia will not only affect the governments of the United States and the European Union but also affect Oil and Gas giants like Exxon Mobil XOM and Shell SHEL, etc., as these companies are progressively involved in projects with Russia.
Likewise, CCJ stock is expected to go up because of the rising demand for the companys offerings, the potential opportunities created by the current situation, and rising Uranium prices.
But with the rising demand, the company has announced to re-establish its McArthur River site, planning to add 3.5 million pounds in 2022 and ramping up to 15 million pounds per annum to its supply portfolio by 2024. The company expects these operations to impact financial performance significantly positively. By 2024, its operational capacity is expected to rise to about 60 of its production capacity, up from around 25 in 2021.
CCJ has an annual dividend policy, which has just seen a 50 rise from $0.08 per share to $0.12 per share because of its positive outlook on its earnings and operating cash flows. If the share count remains flat, this will result in a cash outflow of $48 million, amply covered by the companys cash position.
Due to its hinged performance in 2021, CCJ appears to be performing weakly. However, the industrys long-term nature and the rising portfolio demand make it a good buy for long-term investors before the stock gets too expensive. The stock is already up over 51 in the previous 52-week period and is expected to go further up as uranium demand solidifies further in the wake of the Russia-Ukraine crisis. I expect the world governments to double down on their efforts towards increasing their nuclear energy outputs, which will bolster the demand for uranium and, in turn, benefit Cameco.
2021 was a harsh year for the company as revenue plummeted 15 to $465 million with a net loss of $103 million, or $98 million on an adjusted earnings basis. But by 2021, the company had an aggregate delivery commitment of more than 90 million pounds over the next 5 years, with the remainder of the contracts stretching well into the 2030s. The company is efficiently profiting off its fuel services segment while expanding its uranium segment and securing long-term contracts. In 2022, the company has committed uranium sales volume between 23 to 25 million pounds, expecting revenue growth of high-single-digits at midpoint based on an average realized price of $42.1 per pound.
Uranium is a commodity where supply is currently a greater bottleneck than demand, in part due to previously low prices and supply chain disruptions. Consequently, Cameco has halted about 190 million pounds of uranium production since 2016.
Cameco is a Canada-based company, the second-largest uranium producer in the world, with controlling ownership of the worlds largest high-grade uranium reserves. In 2021, the company accounted for about 9 of the worlds uranium production, as many of its operations were in care and maintenance. The company also offers refining, conversion, and fuel manufacturing services as an integrated uranium fuel supplier with about 21 of the worlds primary conversion capacity.
Because of the pandemic, the company operated at about 75 below its productive capacity in 2021, resulting in a material falloff in the income statements top line and bottom line. However, it still generated $458 million in cash from operations compared to $57 million in 2020. The company is highly liquid with $2.3 billion in cash, short-term investments, and undrawn credit facilities against approximately $1 billion of long-term debt.
Europe is heavily dependent on Russia for its natural gas supply that runs deeply through Ukraine, while the United States imported more gasoline and refined petroleum products from Russia than any other country in 2021.
In tune with the above and the companys recent announcement for restarting its Canadian Operations in response to the rising demand for clean energy, the companys stock has gained over 20 within the previous week and 8 YTD. Uranium prices have been on the rise since 2016 and are galloping towards their 10-year high, which further bolsters the growing volume of the business and solidifies the bullish investor sentiments.
Disclosure: Iwe have no stock, option or similar derivative position in any of the companies mentioned, and no plans to initiate any such positions within the next 72 hours. Business relationship disclosure: This article was researched and written by Waleed Tariq, reviewed, and submitted by myself.
According to the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, 442 nuclear reactors were operating globally, and 49 reactors were under construction by 2020. UxC has estimated a cumulative uncovered requirement of about 1.4 billion pounds of uranium by 2035. This will play a vital part in igniting the uranium demand and creating an open opportunity for Cameco to benefit from this global situation.
The current events signify the importance of turning away from such dependability into more sustainable and reliable energy sources for the continent. Similarly, the focus of the world governments shifting towards low carbon power sources is also a strong incentive for the rise of nuclear energy in the world. Understandably, alternative energy sources on such a major scale are a long-term game rather than a short-term endeavor, and thats where Cameco Corporation NYSE:CCJ comes to shine.
Overall, the world is riddled with volatility right now regarding non-reliability on significant energy sources from a single region. The worlds governments will look towards alternative sources of energy, especially nuclear energy, not only to achieve their zero-emission targets and green initiatives but also to resolve a long-term energy dependency issue.
The recent drive to achieve net-zero carbon targets by countries and companies worldwide leads to increasing demands for clean fuel and energy alternatives, with nuclear energy being at the forefront. Accordingly, the demand for uranium has also increased, leading to higher prices around the globe. The rise in uranium prices has overtaken other minerals and fossil fuels in the past year, with an almost 75 rise in the previous 52-week period to a 9-year high of almost $50 per pound.
The company generates revenue by offering these services to 13 countries with sales  commitments of over 160 million pounds of Triuranium octoxide U3O8 to 34 customers and over 48 million kilograms of Uranium hexafluoride UF6 fuel conversion services to 30 customers. The company added 70 million pounds of long-term uranium contracts portfolio in 2021.
Trading economicsThe pandemic disrupted global uranium production through global supply chain disruptions and rising costs for associated products and services, as apparent by CCJs reduced production capacity in 2021. According to UxC, one of the nuclear industrys leading market research and analysis companies, the supply side of the uranium market remains weaker than the demand side, resulting in a bullish trend on uranium prices, in turn causing finance-related buyers to purchase 45 million pounds of U3O8, further exacerbating this supply-to-demand imbalance. According to their report, there is significant demand growth for nuclear reactors from 2026 to 2035, which may put upward pressure on uranium prices.
The company is uniquely positioned to leverage the growing global demand for uranium. It definitely seems like strategically gearing up its production in line with the demand without exposing itself too much to the spot market and holding excess inventories.
CamecoTo ensure the smooth running of operations, nuclear reactors engage in long-term contracts, which usually demand delivery of uranium after 2 years of the contract. Accordingly, Cameco does not focus on the spot market, where the delivery of the goods is expected within a year of the contract. The company has secured a diversified portfolio of long-term contracts with a mix of base-escalated pricing a term-price on contract date and escalated over the contract term and market-related pricing often include ceilingfloor prices mechanisms including hedging provisions against pricing volatility. This also ensures that the company doesnt hold excess uranium inventory on its books, creating a working capital blockage.
It is pertinent to consider the recently unfolding events involving Russia and Ukraine. Reportedly, Russia accounted for 21 of all U.S. gasoline imports in 2021, with Canada being second at 17. By value, Russian imports increased 71.05, slightly less than gasoline imports from the world, which increased 80.53. However, the United States exported $84.94 billion of gasoline and other refined petroleum products in 2021, 6 times as much as those Russian imports.
