CocaCola dazzles analysts with organic sales stunner
20220425
https://seekingalpha.com/news/3826197-coca-cola-dazzles-analysts-with-organic-sales-stunner
Bernstein may be the most bullish on the Coca-Cola KO numbers, saying the blockbuster EPS beat and maintained full-year guidance leaves the potential for upward revisions.
Wells Fargo also stayed constructive on Overweight-rated Coca-Cola KO after noting the beverage giant's top line beat in every division and gross margins that met expectations. The firm said a caveat is that shipments were ahead of consumption especially LatAm, but sales nevertheless still came in noticeably ahead, even after normalizing for shipment timing. WF said reiterated full-year organic sales guidance from Coca-Cola implies 4 to 5 delivery for the remainder of the year, decelerating from Q1 18 due partially due to COVID comparisons.
Morgan Stanley said strong Q1 results and maintained FY22 guidance from KO offer very clear confirmation that the company is well positioned compared to peers in a turbulent consumer packaged goods environment. An Overweight rating is held on KO following the strong Q1 results.
Coca-Cola Company NYSE:KO moved up 0.88 following earnings on a day that broad market averages are all solidly lower. Analysts were uniformly impressed with the quarter turned in by the beverage giant, particularly the strong organic sales mark of 18 vs. 9 consensus.
Bank of America pointed out that Coca-Cola's KO growth was volume-led, with 11 points of concentrate volume, 3 points vs. unit cases on inventory build and 7 points of pricing. Coca-Cola KO was noted to have reiterated FY22 guidance including RussiaUkraine headwinds of 1 point to unit case vol., 1 to 2 to sales, and $0.04 to EPS.
BofA maintained a Buy rating on KO and price objective of $70 based on 26X the FY23 EPS estimate, which is a premium to non-alcoholic beverage peers at 22.9X. BofA thinks a premium multiple is warranted as it expects KO to emerge from the COVID-19 crisis in a stronger position.
