Publix pulls Russian vodka brands from its shelves in support of Ukraine
20220303
https://www.theledger.com/story/news/2022/03/02/publix-removes-russian-vodka-store-shelves-support-ukraine/9351044002/
LAKELAND  In a show of support for Ukraine, Publix has removed Russian vodka from its liquor store shelves,according to various media reports.
The move by Publix is part of a growing trend toward hurting the Russian economy due to the invasion of Ukraine. Multiple media reports said Canadian and U.S. liquor stores have joined the anti-Russian vodka campaign as well as many bars.
The brands removed from shelves were Beluga, Roskova, Russian Standard and Zyr, the Times reported, citing First Coast News. This does not include vodkas with Russian sounding nameswhich will continue to be sold, including Stolichnaya Stoli, Romanov and Smirnoff, the news station said.
Gas prices jump:Prices at the pump in Florida rise as Russian invasion of Ukraine continues
The post included a picture of an empty shelf with a sign stating "We are no longer selling any Russian made product," the Free Press reported.
In a news release earlier this week, Southeastern Grocers, which has Winn-Dixie, Fresco y Mas and Harveys Supermarket said it would donate $250,000 through its SEG Gives Foundation for the benefit of the International Committee of the Red Cross for the group'srelief efforts in Ukraine.
Supporting Ukraine:NASCAR Hall of Fame owner Richard Childress donating one million rounds of ammo to Ukraine
Since the attackthe U.S. and its allies have imposed economic sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin, the country's oligarchs, energy and banking industries, among other moves to retaliate against Russian aggression.
There are more than 2,500 comments on the post that has nearly 5,000 shares, the report said.
Publix had planned to distribute coupons advertising Russian vodka for a saleon Thursday, so ads already in distribution may be seen by customers. But the sale won't be happening and most were removed from online circulars, the Times reported.
A Publix spokeswoman confirmed the decision to the Miami Herald on Wednesday, the Tampa Bay Times reported.
Total Wine  More, which has 34 stores in Florida, also removed Russian vodkas from its shelves on Mondayannouncing the move via a Facebook post, the Detroit Free Press reported.
Thebrands of vodka still on the shelves have statements on their websites saying they are not made in Russia even though two, Stoli and Smirnoff,were originally made there, the Times reported.
The Russian military began a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24 includingattacks on cities with ballistic missiles, artillery and tanks, but met an unanticipated level of resistance fromUkrainian forces and its citizens.
