Voice of the people Truth and facts can become matter of life and death
20220324
https://www.theledger.com/story/opinion/letters/2022/03/24/voice-people-truth-and-facts-become-matter-life-and-death/7131740001/
Further down on their website, under "About Us" I stumbled onto a confusing mixture of church and state regarding their modus operandi: "Our process is based on the Biblical model of Matthew 18:15-17. When a breach of freedom or liberty is identified, we model our response in the following way: First, attempt to address the issue privately with the person or entity responsible for the breach. If the breach is not corrected, we will make local citizens aware of the infringement. If the breach is still not corrected, we will expose the entity or person via local and national media. Our final step for a breach that has not been rectified will be legal action."
Reporting from journalists has indicated that as much as 60 of Russians do not believe that Vladimir Putin has attacked Ukraine and is bombing and killing Ukrainian citizens. This means that we should not count on the Russian people to remove Putin from power.
There is nothing that affects our cost of living more than transportation costs. Everything we buy, everything we use and everything we consume is transported to us in some method that is dependent on the price of oil.
Hard to believe? Here in America, tens of millions of our citizens believe the last presidential election was stolen from the incumbent. Latching on to the Big Lie cost the lives of a number of people during the insurrection at our Capitol Jan. 6. In addition, the same lack of truth and facts puts dozens of public officials in harm's way from the supporters of the Big Lie.
As our stock market continues to decline, check the stock prices of the companies that drill for oil, that refine oil and that sell these petroleum products to us. They are climbing, with stock prices up over 100 since the Ukrainian crisis began. We are not dependent on oil shipped from around the world, but every crisis is used as an excuse to pump up oil prices even when it has absolutely nothing to do with the supply of petroleum.
The Ledger encourages its readers to share their opinions through letters to the editor. Submit your letter byclickinghere, or send it tovoicetheledger.com. Include your name, street address, a phone number and an email address. Only your name and city of residence will be printed. Letters are limited to 200 words or less and are subject to editing.
Some elements of our media are in the same business as the Russian state media, spreading misinformation to advance their causes. The truth and facts can become amatter of life and death, especially with regard to the life of our democracy.
Gary White's Feb. 27 article "Who Is Behind the CCDF?" cites a code of conduct for its "ambassadors," claiming that "We shall act with respect, dignity, honesty, and unselfishness."
A Russian child in Ukraine was told by parents back in Russia that this attack and killing of Ukrainians is not true. Russian state media has conditioned its citizens to believe its version of invasion.
Our government needs to get involved before these anonymous traders are allowed to destroy our economy.
Unfortunately, the Law of Supply and Demand does not control oil prices. They are set by some unknown, anonymous traders located somewhere in the world. There is no government oversight, nor control, or even rationale to these price hikes other than they can. Someone, somewhere, says oil prices will be $150barrel and within minutes every gas station in the city has raised their prices.
I am sure this CCDF process is exactly what the author of Matthew 18:15-17 had in mind when writing: "If a brother or sister sins, go and point out the fault, just between the two of you. If they listen to you, you have won them over." A song from "Godspell" comes to mind: "Alas, alas for you lawyers and pharisees, hypocrites to a man!"
