Biden Putin should face war crimes trial for Bucha killings
20220404
https://www.winknews.com/2022/04/04/biden-putin-should-face-war-crimes-trial-for-bucha-killings/
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
The Biden administration has announcedanother $600 millionin military aid to help the Ukrainian army maintain momentum against Russia. In an interview for this Sundays 60 Minutes, Scott Pelley spoke with President Biden about Ukraines recentbattlefield success and the dangers that could bring. As Ukraine succeeds on the battlefield, Vladimir Putin is becoming embarrassed and pushed 
The U.S. and more than 40 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, after the passage of a resolution by the United Nations Human Rights Council to establish a commission of inquiry. There is another probe by the International Criminal Court, an independent body based in the Netherlands.
Russia and the other four permanent members of the U.N. Security Council  Britain, China, France and the United States  all currently have seats on the 47-member-state rights council, which is based in Geneva. The United States rejoined the council this year.
We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue the fight. And we have to gather all the detail so this can be an actual  have a war crimes trial, Biden said.
A venue change request for the trial of a man accused of killing a Fort Myers police officer has been denied. This is the second request to move the trial for 33-year-old Wisner Desmaret, who faces a first-degree murder charge for the deadly shooting of Officer Adam Jobbers-Miller in 2018. Desmarets attorneys made the argument 
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general, Iryna Venediktova, said. Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of the capital.
There are a lot of people in leadership in Russia who get brutality mixed up with strength, they think its the same thing. Its not they really lose their civilization, their idea of being part of the human race, said Goss.
The Florida Highway Patrol said Monday that Maiky Simeon, the driver who was headed the wrong way in a crash that killed five people on the Palmetto Expressway early Saturday morning, is facing five counts of vehicular homicide. Here is what the FHP had to say about the charges: Mr. Simeon has been arrested and 
Her fear is understandable. Harrowing new reports indicate Russian troops killed hundreds of civilians execution-style over the weekend with their hands tied behind their backs.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
I believe this is a wake-up call for the whole world. This is not just about war between two nations. But there is evil going on. Its not less its more and more every day, said Antipov.
Its just unreal. 21st century. Evil in the worst meaning of the word, said Ukrainian Pastor Viktor Antipov.
The we Goss is referring to, Its what I would call western civilization, but Ill drop the western and simply say, the civilized world. There are ways to persuade people that its time to take bad players off the field. And sometimes those are just bumps in the night and sometimes theyre more dramatic. And I certainly wouldnt go into the details of how to do that. But I believe that Mr. Putin should be looking over his shoulder, said Goss.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen tweeted Monday that the European Union will send investigators to Ukraine to help the local prosecutor general document war crimes.
WINK News spoke with Goss moments after President Biden called for a war crimes trial against Vladimir Putin. Goss said he supports it. But its not going to do the trick. I mean, Ive watched those things drag on for years all through the Balkans and other atrocities, by and large. So, the accountability comes very late and is very small, said Goss.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
So, how does the Russian invasion of Ukraine end? Im not suggesting that we kill anybody. But Im certainly suggesting that we take two levers of power away from people who are abusing them, said Goss.
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
Meanwhile, Bidens chief envoy to the United Nations, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, announced Monday that the U.S. plans to seek a suspension of Russia from its seat on the U.N.s top human rights body in the wake of more indications Russian forces may have committed war crimes in Ukraine. That would require a decision by the U.N. General Assembly.
You saw what happened in Bucha, Biden said. He added that Putin is a war criminal
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
President Joe Biden announced Monday that al-Qaida leader Ayman al-Zawahri was killed in a U.S. drone strike in Kabul, an operation he said delivered justice and hopefully one more measure of closure to families of the victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States. The president said in an evening address from 
This guy is brutal and whats happening to Bucha is outrageous, and everyones seen it, Biden said.
Antipov is a pastor at the House of Mercy church in North Port. He believes that no matter what, there is always Jesus, theres always hope, but that does not mean there is no evil.
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
President Joe Biden on Monday called for a war crimes trial against Russian President Vladimir Putin and said hed seek more sanctions after reported atrocities in Ukraine.
Every time Anna Beach sees another dead body on the news she wonders, what if one of those bodies belongs to a person she loves? I speak to my father once in the morning, once at night, just to make sure that theyre still alive, said Beach.
I know, sometimes my dad cant go to the phone right away. And I understand that, logically, it may be just because he didnt hear it. But internally, I already think of the worst-case scenario, said Beach.
I dont know if you can call Russian army people. I dont know what you call that. Thats pure evil, said Beach.
Anna now lives in Fort Myers. Her father, his wife, and her cousins are all in Ukraine. They see the smoke, hear the sirens and smell the bodies.
Biden noted that he faced pushback last month when he described Putin as a war criminal for the unfolding onslaught in Ukraine after hospitals and maternity wards were bombed. In his remarks on Monday, Biden made clear that label still applied.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
Bidens comments to reporters came after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Bucha, one of the towns surrounding Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found. Zelenskyy called the Russian actions genocide and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
