Russian forces seize key Ukrainian port pressure others
20220303
https://www.winknews.com/2022/03/03/russia-ready-to-talk-wont-stop-targeting-ukraine-military/
The Russians announced the capture of Kherson, and local Ukrainian officials confirmed that forces have taken over local government headquarters in the vital Black Sea port of 280,000, making it the first major city to fall since the invasion began a week ago.
Russia reported its military casualties Wednesday for the first time in the war, saying nearly 500 of its troops have been killed and almost 1,600 wounded. Ukraine insisted Russias losses are many times higher but did not disclose its own military casulaties.
Meanwhile, a senior U.S. defense official said the immense Russian column of hundreds of tanks and other vehicles appeared to be stalled roughly 25 kilometers 16 miles from Kyiv and had made no real progress in the last few days.
We are a people who in a week have destroyed the plans of the enemy, he said. They will have no peace here. They will have no food. They will have here not one quiet moment.
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
Among the million-plus refugees who have fled Ukraine in recent days were some 200 orphans with severe physical and mental disabilities who arrived from Kyiv by train in Hungary on Wednesday.
At least 227 civilians have been killed and 525 wounded in that time, according to the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, though it acknowledged that is a vast undercount, and Ukraine earlier said more than 2,000 civilians have died. That figure could not be independently verified.
A top Russian officer, Maj. Gen. Andrei Sukhovetsky, commander of an airborne division, was killed in the fighting earlier this week, an officers organization in Russia reported.
10-year-old Jameson Jr. lost a leg after a shark attacked him in the Florida Keys while snorkeling on Saturday. According to the familys Facebook post, Jameson was attacked by what they believe was a bull shark around 8-feet-long. The family quickly got him back on the boat and started rushing to shore. Paramedics were on 
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
Putin told French President Emmanuel Macron that he was determined to press on with his attack until the end, according to an official in the French presidents office.
From Kherson, Russian troops appeared to roll toward Mykolaiv, another major Black Sea port and shipbuilding center to the west. The regional governor, Vitaliy Kim, said that big convoys of Russian troops were advancing on the city.
But the Russian forces have brought their superior firepower to bear in the past few days, launching missile and artillery attacks on civilian areas and making significant gains in the south as part of an effort to sever the countrys connection to the Black and Azov seas.
The convoy, which earlier in the week had seemed poised to launch an assault on the capital, has been plagued with fuel and food shortages, the official said.
But the two sides appeared to have little common ground going into the meeting, and Russian President Vladimir Putin warned Ukraine that it must quickly accept the Kremlins demand for its demilitarization and declare itself neutral, formally renouncing its bid to join NATO.
Families with children fled via muddy and snowy roads in the eastern region of Donetsk, while military strikes on the village of Yakovlivka near the eastern city of Kharkiv destroyed 30 homes, leaving three dead and seven injured, and rescuers pulled 10 people from the ruins, according to emergency authorities.
He said the fighting is taking a toll on the morale of Russian soldiers, who go into grocery stores and try to find something to eat.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
Heavy fighting continued on the outskirts of another strategic port, Mariupol, on the Azov Sea, plunging it into darkness, isolation and fear. Electricity and phone service were largely down, and homes and shops faced food and water shortages.
The mayor of Enerhodar, the site of the biggest nuclear plant in Europe, said Ukrainian forces were battling Russian troops on the citys outskirts. Dmytro Orlov urged residents not to leave their homes.
Total resistance.  This is our Ukrainian trump card and this is what we can do best in the world, Ukrainian presidential aide Oleksiy Arestovich said in a video message, recalling guerrilla actions in Nazi-occupied Ukraine during World War II.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
The fighting at Enerhodar, a city on the Dnieper River that accounts for about one-quarter of the countrys power generation, came as the two sides met for another round of talks aimed at stopping the bloodshed that has set off an exodus of over 1 million refugees.
Moscows advance on Ukraines capital in the north has apparently stalled over the past few days, with a huge armored column outside Kyiv at a standstill. And stiffer than expected resistance from the outmanned, outgunned Ukrainians has staved off the swift victory that Russia may have expected.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Russian land forces have stalled and Moscow is now unleashing air attacks, but that they are being parried by Ukrainian defense systems, including in Kherson.
New shelling was reported in the northern city of Chernihiv, where emergency officials said at least 22 civilians had been killed in a Russian bombardment of a residential area. They warned that the number of casualties could grow as rescuers search the debris. The mayor said he was struggling to organize safe passage for civilians.
Ukrainians still in the country faced another grim day. In Kyiv, snow gave way to a cold, gray drizzle, as long lines formed outside the few pharmacies and bakeries that remain open.
The mass evacuation could be seen in Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, with about 1.4 million people. Residents desperate to escape falling shells and bombs crowded the railroad station and pressed onto trains, not always knowing where they were headed.
Despite a profusion of evidence of civilian casualties and destruction of civilian infrastructure by the Russian military, some of it documented by The Associated Press, Putin also called accusations that his military had attacked residential areas part of an anti-Russian disinformation campaign and insisted that Russia uses only precision weapons to exclusively destroy military infrastructure.
Guelord Nzenge is a drum instructor. He is from Ukraine. Nika is his student. She is from Russia. The desire to play the drums is what brought them together. What are the odds, Nzenge said. Jim Bauchat, of the Florida Institute of Music, answered that. A drum teacher from Ukraine teaching a Russian student in 
Cutting Ukraines access to the coastline would deal a crippling blow to the countrys economy and allow Russia to build a land corridor stretching from its border, across Crimea, which has been occupied by Russia since 2014, and all the way west to Romania.
In Kherson, the Russians took over the regional administration headquarters, said Hennady Lahuta, governor of the region. But he added that he and other officials continued to perform their duties.
Kyiv withstood the night and another missile and bomb attack. Our air defenses worked, he said. Kherson, Izyum  all the other cities that the occupiers hit from the air did not give up anything.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said explosions heard overnight in the Ukrainian capital were Russian missiles being shot down by air defense systems.
The North Port Police Department has arrested six people due to an undercover investigation into unlicensed contractors. Police say an unlicensed contractor task force was established on November 1 called Operation Con-Tractor. North Port detectives say they called the numbers advertised by several contractors on roadside signs and community social media sites. Detectives found several 
A group of Russian amphibious landing vessels also headed toward the port of Odesa, farther west, the Ukrainian military said.
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
More than half of the nearly 124,000 applications filed by Americans seeking to sponsor Ukrainians fleeing the war in their homeland have come from households in New York, Illinois, California, Washington state and Florida, according to unpublished Department of Homeland Security DHS data obtained by CBS News. Since April 25, 123,962 people in the U.S. 
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
These are not warriors of a superpower, he said. These are confused children who have been used.
Russian forces battled for control of a vital energy-producing city in Ukraines south on Thursday and also gained ground in their bid to cut off the country from the sea, as Ukrainian leaders called on citizens to wage guerrilla war against the invaders.
In just seven days of fighting, more than 2 of Ukraines population has been forced out of the country, according to the tally the U.N. refugee agency released to The Associated Press.
Putin has long contended that Ukraines turn toward the West is a threat to Moscow, an argument he used to justify the invasion.
Around Ukraine, others crowded into train stations, carrying children wrapped in blankets and dragging wheeled suitcases into new lives as refugees.
Ukrainian negotiator David Arakhamiya said Kyivs main demand in the talks would be the establishment of humanitarian corridors so civilians could reach safety. Ukraine also sought a cease-fire.
Ukrainian authorities called on the people to wage guerrilla warfare against Putins forces by cutting down trees, erecting barricades in the cities and attacking enemy columns from the rear.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
