Russian alcohol being pulled from bars store shelves in support of Ukraine
20220228
https://www.winknews.com/2022/02/28/russian-alcohol-being-pulled-from-bars-store-shelves-in-support-of-ukraine/
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
WINK News asked Publix if the grocery giants liquor stores might be pulling vodka with Russian roots but has not heard back.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
At ABC Wine and Spirits, there is vodka on the shelves but no Russian vodka. Gone is Russian Standard, or Ruskova, with the slogan Russias best kept secret.
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
In 2019, the U.S. imported $22.3 billion in goods from Russia. You can find more information about the United States trade relationship with Russia by clicking here.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
It may cost him some money, but Geib hopes other bar owners and customers make the switch. We feel for the people and what theyre going through in the Ukraine, and we want to do what we can to help, said Geib.
At the Nauti Parrot in Fort Myers, the owner said being thousands of miles away, its hard to feel helpless. So we decided to pull off Smirnoff and Stoli. We also are working with our food vendors right now, making sure that theres nothing from Russia thats coming in, or anybody from Russia benefiting from it, said Nauti Parrot Owner Tyler Geib. So its, you know, more of a symbolic gesture that were getting rid of these products and asking our customers to switch to Titos or Sky Vodka, you know, something that is more domestic.
According to the United States Trade Representative, Russia was the 20th largest supplier of imports to the U.S in 2019. Of those, mineral fuels topped the list, followed by precious metal and stone, iron and steel, fertilizers and inorganic chemicals.
Russian troops were withdrawing from around Ukraines second-largest city after bombarding it for weeks, the Ukrainian military said Saturday, as Kyiv and Moscows forces engaged ina grinding battlefor the countrys eastern industrial heartland. Ukraines military said the Russian forces were pulling back from the northeastern city of Kharkiv and focusing on guarding supply routes, while 
When most people think of vodka they think of Russia, but Russian vodka makes up just one percent of all vodka sold in the United States.
Russian troops are withdrawing from around Ukraines second-largest city after weeks of heavy bombardment, the Ukrainian military said Saturday, as Kyiv and Moscows forces engaged in a grinding battle for the countrys eastern industrial heartland. Ukraines general staff said the Russians were pulling back from the northeastern city of Kharkiv and focusing on guarding supply 
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
Two Russian musicians, a pianist and a conductor who are also Putin sympathizers, are banned from playing with a prestigious group. That orchestra happens to be headed to Naples very soon. Those musicians typically draw an audience but were pulled from the program last week. The press office for the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra told me 
When night falls in Tatiana Trofimenkos villagein southern Ukraine, she pours sunflower oil that aid groups gave her into a jar and seals it with a wick-fitted lid. A flick of a match, and the make-do candle is lit. This is our electricity, Trofimenko, 68, says. It has been over 11 weeks sinceUkrainian forces wrested 
Russias attack on Ukraine is impacting liquor stores in Southwest Florida. They are removing alcohol that is made in Russia.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
