Russia batters Ukraine both sides say ready for more talks
20220302
https://www.winknews.com/2022/03/02/russia-takes-aim-at-urban-areas-biden-vows-putin-will-pay/
Kharkiv today is the Stalingrad of the 21st century, said Oleksiy Arestovich, a top presidential adviser, invoking what is considered one of the most heroic moments in Russian history, the five-month defense of the city from the Nazis during World War II.
Russia, too, ramped up its rhetoric, with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov reminding the world about the countrys vast nuclear arsenal. In an interview with Al-Jazeera, he said: A third world war will be nuclear, and devastating, according to Russian news sites.
Russia renewed its bombardment of Ukraines second-biggest city Wednesday, pounding Kharkiv with attacks that shattered buildings and lit up the skyline with balls of fire. At least 21 people were reported killed.
Russian airstrikes targeted gas, electricity, and other key infrastructure across Ukraine on Thursday, knocking out heating and water supplies to a huge number of civilians just as winter sets in. As the snow started falling around the country, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Vladimir Putins tactics had left more than 10 million Ukrainians without electricity. That 
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
The agencys top official warned that the fighting poses a danger to Ukraines 15 nuclear reactors.
President Vladimir Putin claimed that Russia is ready for talks to endthe war in Ukraineeven as the country faced more attacks from Moscow  a clear sign that peace wasnt imminent. Putin said in a state television interview, excerpts of which were released on Sunday afternoon that Russia is prepared to negotiate some acceptable outcomes 
But both sides said they were ready to resume talks aimed at stopping the fighting, which had Ukraine under threat on multiple fronts. A huge, 40-mile-long column of Russian tanks and other military vehicles stood outside the capital, and Russian invaders pressed their assault on the strategic port cities of Kherson and Mariupol.
Oleg Sinehubov, head of the Kharkiv regional administration, said 21 people were killed and at least 112 injured over the past day. The city has a population of about 1.5 million
Britains Defense Ministry said Kharkiv and Mariupol were encircled. A third city, Kherson, was under pressure, but there were conflicting reports as to who was in control.
In the northern city of Chernihiv, two cruise missiles hit a hospital, according to the Ukrainian UNIAN news agency, which quoted the health administration chief, Serhiy Pivovar, as saying authorities were working to determine the casualty toll.
The three boys were rushed to a regional hospital. One had lost his legs in the attack and died soon after arriving, according to an Associated Press reporter at the scene. Family members told the AP the three had been playing soccer near a school when the shelling hit.
We cannot even take the wounded from the streets, from houses and apartments today, since the shelling does not stop, he was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying.
Russia found itself even more isolated economically as Airbus and Boeing said they would cut off spare parts and technical support to the countrys airlines, a major blow. Airbus and Boeing jets account for the vast majority or Russias passenger fleet. Dozens of multinational companies have curtailed or stopped doing business in Russia.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
The price of oil continued to soar, reaching $112 per barrel, the highest since 2014.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
On the far edges of Kyiv, volunteer fighters well into their 60s manned a checkpoint to block the Russian advance.
The two sides held talks Monday, agreeing only to keep talking. It was not immediately clear when new talks might take place or what they would yield. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Tuesday that Russia should stop bombing before another meeting.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
Zelenskyy has decried Russias attacks on civilian targets as a blatant terror campaign, while U.S. President Joe Biden warned Tuesday that if Russian leader Vladimir Putin is not made to pay a price for the invasion, the aggression wont stop with one country.
Russia already seized control of the decommissioned Chernobyl power plant, the scene in 1986 of the worlds worst nuclear disaster.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba also said his country was ready but noted that Russias demands have not changed and that he wouldnt accept any ultimatums. Neither side said where the talks might take place.
Arestovich said that several Russian planes were shot down over Kharkiv, though that could not be confirmed.
Russian attacks, many with missiles, blew the roof off Kharkivs five-story regional police building and set the top floor on fire, and also hit the intelligence headquarters and a university building, according to officials and videos and photos released by Ukraines State Emergency Service. Officials residential buildings were also hit, but did not provide details.
In my old age I had to take up arms, said Andrey Goncharuk, 68. He said the fighters needed more weapons, but well kill the enemy and take their weapons.
The State Emergency Service reported that more than 2,000 civilians have been killed, but that could not immediately be independently verified, and neither side has disclosed its military casualties.
The attacks came a day after Russia, intensifying its attacks on cities, bombed Kharkivs central square  where at least six people were reported killed  and struck Kyivs main TV tower, where authorities said five died. Kyivs nearby Babi Yar Holocaust memorial also came under fire, but the main monument was not damaged.
The International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog, said Russia had told the agency that its military had taken control around Ukraines largest nuclear power plant, but operations there were continuing normally.
Even as Russias invasion continued on multiple fronts, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that a delegation would be ready later in the day to meet Ukrainian officials.
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
Seven days into Russias invasion, a refugee crisis unfolded on the European continent, with the United Nations saying that more than 870,000 people have fled Ukraine and that the number could soon hit 1 million.
The Kremlin, in its first report of military casualties, said 498 of its troops have been killed in Ukraine, while, 1,597 have been wounded.
When there is a conflict ongoing, there is of course a risk of attack or the possibility of an accidental hit, Rafael Mariano Grossi, director-general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said in Vienna.
Russia resumed its blockade of Ukrainian ports on Sunday, cutting off urgently needed grain exports to hungry parts of the world in what U.S. President Joe Biden called a really outrageous act. Biden warned that global hunger could increase because of Russias suspension of a U.N.-brokered deal to allow safe passage of ships carrying grain 
In besieged Mariupol, at least one teenager died and two more were wounded by apparent Russian shelling.
Five years ago, people living in Island Park in south Fort Myers had to deal with flooding after days of rainfall. Some areas logged about 30 feet of rain before Hurricane Irma hit, making things worse. Fast forward to 2022, the county has dredged part of Ten Mile Canal to help alleviate any future flooding, 
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, acknowledged the global economic punishment hitting Russia is unprecedented but said that Moscow had been prepared for all manner of sanctions and that the potential damage had been taken into account before launching the invasion.
