Russians strike near Kyiv block aid convoy port city reels
20220313
https://www.winknews.com/2022/03/12/russians-strike-near-kyiv-block-aid-convoy-port-city-reels/
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
When I woke up in the morning, everything was covered in smoke, everything was dark. We dont know who is shooting and where, resident Serhy Protsenko said as he walked through his neighborhood. Explosions sounded in the distance. We dont have any radio or information.
Russian forces have hit at least two dozen hospitals and medical facilities, according to the World Health Organization.
A convoy of hundreds of people fleeing Peremoha, about 12 miles northeast of Kyiv, were forced to turn back under shelling by Russian forces that killed seven people, including a child, Ukraines defense ministry said Saturday. Moscow has said it would establish humanitarian corridors out of conflict zones, but Ukrainian officials have accused Russia of disrupting those paths and firing on civilians.
The first major city to fall, earlier this month, was Kherson, a vital Black Sea port of 290,000 residents. Zelenskyy said Saturday that Russians were using blackmail and bribery in an attempt to force local officials to form a pseudo-republic in the southern Kherson region, much like those in Donetsk and Luhansk, two eastern regions where pro-Russian separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in 2014. One of the pretexts Russia used to invade was that it had to protect the separatist regions.
In Irpin, a suburb about 12 miles 20 kilometers northwest of central Kyiv, bodies lay out in the open Saturday on streets and in a park.
We do not have the right to let up our defense, no matter how difficult it may be, he said. Later Saturday, Zelenskyy reported that 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers had died since the Russian invasion began Feb. 24.
Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said just nine of 14 agreed-upon corridors were open on Saturday, and that about 13,000 people had used them to evacuate around the country.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
French and German leaders spoke Saturday with Russian President Vladimir Putin in a failed attempt to reach a cease-fire. According to the Kremlin, Putin laid out terms for ending the war. For ending hostilities, Moscow has demanded that Ukraine drop its bid to join NATO and adopt a neutral status acknowledge the Russian sovereignty over Crimea, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014 recognize the independence of separatist regions in the countrys east and agree to demilitarize.
Thousands of soldiers on both sides are believed to have been killed along with many civilians, including at least 79 Ukrainian children, its government says. At least 2.5 million people have fled the country, according to the United Nations refugee agency.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov warned on Saturday that his country could attack foreign shipments of military equipment to Ukraine. He said sending equipment is an action that makes those convoys legitimate targets.
The Ukrainian president also accused Russia of detaining the mayor of Melitopol, a city 119 miles west of Mariupol. The Ukrainian leader called on Russian forces to heed calls from demonstrators in the occupied city for the mayors release.
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
Russian forces pounded areas around Kyiv and another Ukrainian city overnight, local officials said Wednesday, just hours after Moscow pledged to scale back military operations in those places. The shelling further tempered optimism about possible progress in talks aimed at ending the punishing war. Russia did not spell out what exactly a reduction in activity 
Russian soldiers pillaged a humanitarian convoy that was trying to reach Mariupol and blocked another, a Ukrainian official said. Ukraines military said Russian forces captured Mariupols eastern outskirts, tightening their siege of the strategic port. Taking Mariupol and other ports on the Azov Sea could allow Russia to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
In Mariupol, the Ukrainian government said Saturday that the Sultan Suleiman Mosque was hit, but an unverified Instagram post by a man claiming to be the mosque associations president said the building was spared when a bomb fell about 750 yards away.
Zelenskyy again deplored NATOs refusal to declare a no-fly zone over Ukraine and said Ukraine has sought ways to procure air defense assets, though he didnt elaborate. U.S. President Joe Biden announced another $200 million in aid to Ukraine,with an additional $13 billion included in a billthat has passed the House and should pass the Senate within days. NATO has said that imposing a no-fly zone could lead to a wider war with Russia.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
In multiple areas around Kyiv, artillery barrages sent residents scurrying for shelter as air raid sirens wailed. Britains Defense Ministry said Russian forces that had been massed north of the capital had edged to within 15 miles of the city center and spread out, likely to support an attempted encirclement.
They will come here only if they kill us all, he said. If that is their goal, let them come.
The Ukrainian Embassy in Turkey said 86 Turkish nationals, including 34 children, were among the people who had sought safety in the mosque.
Fleeing shelling, civilians on Saturday streamed out of the southern Ukrainian city whose recapture they had celebrated just weeks earlier. The exodus from Kherson came as Ukraine solemnly remembered a Stalin-era famine and sought to ensure that Russias war in Ukraine doesnt deprive others worldwide of its vital food exports. A line of trucks, vans, 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of trying to break his country apart, as well as starting a new stage of terror with the alleged detention of a mayor from a city west of Mariupol.
Russia bombarded cities across Ukraine on Saturday, pounding Mariupol in the south, shelling the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv, and thwarting the efforts of people trying to flee the violence.
Ukraines military and volunteer forces have been preparing for an all-out assault on the capital. Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said Thursday that about 2 million people, half the metropolitan areas inhabitants, had left and that every street, every house  is being fortified.
One is Elena Yurchuk, a nurse from the northern city of Chernihiv. She was in a Romanian train station Saturday with her teenage son, Nikita, unsure whether their home was still standing.
Russian shelling pounded civilian targets in Ukraines second-largest city again on Tuesday, and a 40-mile convoy of tanks and other vehicles threatened the capital  tactics Ukraines embattled president said were designed to force him into concessions in Europes largest ground war in generations. With the Kremlin increasingly isolated by tough economic sanctions that have 
Talks aimed at reaching a cease-fire again failed Saturday, and while the U.S. announced plans to provide another $200 million to Ukraine for weapons, a senior Russian diplomat warned that Moscow could attack foreign shipments of military equipment.
Ukraine will stand this test. We need time and strength to break the war machine that has come to our land, Zelenskyy said during his nightly address to the nation Saturday.
NORTH FORT MYERS, Fla. A crash has blocked westbound Pine Island Road, the Florida Highway Patrol says. At least one person was hurt in the wreck near the intersection with Judd Creek Road, according to the FHP. Thats close to the Cape Coral city line. No further information was immediately available.
We have nowhere to go back to, said Yurchuk, 44, a widow who hopes to find work in Germany. Nothing left.
Among them was Anastasiya Erashova, who wept and trembled as she held a sleeping child. Shelling had just killed her other child as well as her brothers child, Erashova said, her scalp crusted with blood.
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
In Mariupol, which has endured some of the worst punishment since Russia invaded, efforts to bring food, water and medicine into the port city of 430,000 and to evacuate civilians,were prevented by unceasing attacks. More than1,500 people have diedin Mariupol during the siege, according to the mayors office, and the shelling has even interrupted efforts to bury the dead in mass graves.
The Russian invaders appear to have struggled far more than expected against determined Ukrainian fighters. Still, Russias stronger military threatens to grind down Ukrainian forces.
Zelenskyy told Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Saturday that he would be open to meeting Putin in Jerusalem to discuss an end to the war, but that there would first have to be a cease-fire. Bennett recently met in Moscow with Putin, who has ignored previous offers of talks from Zelenskyy.
An Associated Press journalist in Mariupol witnessed tanks firing on a nine-story apartment building and was with a group of hospital workers who came under sniper fire on Friday. A worker shot in the hip survived, but conditions in the hospital were deteriorating: Electricity was reserved for operating tables, and people with nowhere else to go lined the hallways.
With the ports electricity, gas and water supplies knocked out, aid workers and Ukrainian authorities described an unfolding humanitarian catastrophe. Aid group Doctors Without Borders said Mariupol residents are dying from a lack of medication and are draining heating pipes for drinking water.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
Zelenskyy said Saturday that Russia would need to carpet-bomb Kyiv and kill its residents to take the city.
