SWFL and the world coming together on Ash Wednesday to pray for peace in Ukraine
20220302
https://www.winknews.com/2022/03/02/swfl-and-the-world-coming-together-on-ash-wednesday-to-pray-for-peace-in-ukraine/
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
This is your chance to help out the community and give the tip that gets these people off the street.
My knees dont work, but I get on my knees every night. And its painful, but its not the pain thats going through in Ukraine. And I hope the prayers reach our good lord, and he can help our people, said Lidia Bilous.
As Ukraine battles a Russian invasion, Ukrainians everywhere have asked people to pray. On Ash Wednesday, the holy day of prayer and fasting, Christians all across the world answered.
This weekly WINK News segment features fugitives from justice right here in Southwest Florida. This is your chance to help out the community and give the tip that gets these people off the street. These suspects need to be found  and you can help. If you have seen them, reach out to Crime Stoppers 
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
Churches in Southwest Florida and around the world on Wednesday prayed for Ukraine. Pope Francis also joined with a prayer for peace in the country.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
As Christians, we dont pray to no effect. We believe God does listen to prayer. And we believe were united very profoundly with the people for one more pray. And so people of Ukraine, I hope to take comfort in it, said Father Kantor.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
Ukrainian people with families in harms way have asked us repeatedly to do one thing for them, pray.
Ukrainians in North Port sure did. Churchgoers at St. Marys Ukrainian church, who are Eastern Orthodox Catholics, dont begin lent until Monday, but they felt the power of the worlds prayer on this Ash Wednesday.
Father Robert Kantor of St. Agnes in Naples joined the rest of the Catholic Diocese of Venice in collecting funds for Ukraine. The parishioners prayed for Ukraine, and there is strength in numbers.
Ash Wednesday is a day of reflection for the worlds Christians. A day of prayer and fast for the worlds Catholics.
WINK News joined the church ladies as they made pierogies and prayed themselves. When I was in elementary school and high school, in college, people didnt even know Ukraine. So to me, this is miraculous! said Ksenia Kuzmycz.
