Trust  Verify What products are made from crude oil
20220311
https://www.winknews.com/2022/03/10/trust-verify-what-products-are-made-from-crude-oil/
More than 6,000 products you use every day are made with petrochemicals that come from oil and natural gas.
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
What about the price of everything else? Mascara, cold and flu capsules, bandaids, shampoo and conditioner, vitamins, even purses and shoes are using chemicals created when crude oil is heated to certain temperatures.
I believe the Biden Administration is at a substantial focal point right now where they may have to give up some of their clean energy goals but postpone a little bit if they really want to make an impact on prices at the pump. Still, releasing strategic reserves, eliminating gas taxes except for possibly in California, for the most part  that is not going to have a substantial impact, says Smythe. What we need is to replace the supply of oil that we are no longer having access to on the global markets.
We are already feeling the pain at the pump after the U.S. ban on Russian oil but that pain may start spreading to the grocery store, the pharmacy  even the makeup aisle.
The Florida Department of Health DOH-Charlotte in Charlotte County has confirmed one Florida case recently infected with Naegleria fowleri, possibly as a result of sinus rinse practices utilizing tap water.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
Governor Ron DeSantis announced his plan to ban diversity, equity and inclusion programs, including critical race theory, at Florida colleges. He made his intentions clear at a press conference on Jan. 31, 2023, in Bradenton, Florida. We are also going to eliminate all DEI and CRT bureaucracies in the state of Florida, he said. No 
More changes could be in the works regarding your vote, and there is a chance it could happen before the next election. The changes wont happen overnight, though.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
We dont have deep pockets but well pay a little more. Yes, says Karen Rauth who fully supports the ban on Russian oil if it means supporting Ukraine.
Dr. Smythe says here in the U.S. we must replace our dependence on foreign oil with oil independence, a task that is difficult under Bidens green energy initiatives and certainly wont drop those gas prices any time soon.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
Smythe says while the United States is not nearly as dependent on Russian oil as European countries  we are still taking a hit as the global markets do cartwheels hour by hour. Some minerals used for microchips in TVs, phones and laptops are found primarily in Russia and Ukraine.
U.S. plastic and other exports made from natural gas are now in high demand overseas as European countries dependent on crude oil from Russia look for other suppliers.
As long as Russia stays in Ukraine and these sanctions stay in place, these things will start bubbling to the surface over the next month or two, says Dr. Tom Smythe, Professor of Finance at FGCU.
Petrochemicals are responsible for things like artificial coloring that can be found in foods, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
Anything we can do, if that means the price goes up in oil and gasoline, so be it, says Rauth.
Governor Ron DeSantis is making COVID headlines again. At a press conference on Jan. 17, 2023, DeSantis claimed that those who had gotten the COVID-19 bivalent boosters are more likely to get infected. Joe Ladapo can talk a little bit more about italmost every study now has said with these new boostersyou are more likely 
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
Weve already got a microchip problem due to the supply chain so this would exacerbate it, says Dr. Smythe.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
