Ukraine war far from over as Russia renews strikes in Kyiv
20220416
https://www.winknews.com/2022/04/16/ukraine-war-far-from-over-as-russia-renews-strikes-in-kyiv/
The strike near an outdoor market along with residential and industrial buildings killed one person and wounded at least 18, according to rescue workers who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to release the information
Consequently, we understand that under the Russian occupation, people were simply executed in the streets, Nebytov said.
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
It was not immediately clear from the ground what was hit in the attack. Darnytskyi is a sprawling district on the southeastern edge of the capital, containing a mixture of Soviet-style apartment blocks, newer shipping centers and big-box retail outlets, industrial areas and railyards.
Mariupol has been blockaded by Russian forces since the early days of the invasion, and dwindling numbers of Ukrainian defenders have held out against a siege that has come at a horrific cost to trapped and starving civilians.
However, Ukrainian officials did strike a key Russian warship with missiles earlier this week, in an important victory for Ukraine and symbolic defeat for Russia.
The Russian military claimed Sunday to have carried out deadly missile strikes on barracks used by Ukrainian troops in retaliation for the deaths of dozens of Russian soldiers in a rocket attack a week ago. Ukrainian officials denied there were any casualties. The Russian Defense Ministry said its missiles hit two temporary bases housing 1,300 
Fighting continued in industrial areas and the port, and Russia for the first time used the Tu-223 long-range bomber to attack the city, said Oleksandr Motuzyanyk, a spokesman for the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense.
WithRussias invasion of Ukraineand the specter of nuclear weapon use, Earth crept its closest to Armageddon, a science-oriented advocacy group said, moving its famous Doomsday Clock up to just 90 seconds before midnight. We are really closer to that doomsday, former Mongolian president Elbegdorj Tsakhia said Tuesday at the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists annual announcement, 
Officials think 2,500 to 3,000 Ukrainian troops have died in the war, Zelenskyy told CNN in an interview. He said about 10,000 have been injured and its hard to say how many will survive.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
The sinking reduces Russias firepower in the Black Sea and seemed to symbolize Moscows fortunes in an eight-week invasion widely seen as a historic blunder following the Russian retreat from the Kyiv region and much of northern Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the governor of the Lviv region in western Ukraine  far from the Russian border and an area long seen as a safe zone  reported airstrikes on the region by Russian Su-35 aircraft that took off from neighboring Belarus. Maksym Kozytskyy didnt provide details about possible casualties or damage.
Russian forces resumed scattered attacks on Kyiv, western Ukraine and beyond Saturday in an explosive reminder to Ukrainians and their Western supporters that the whole country remains under threat despite Russias pivot toward mounting a new offensive in the east.
Fighting continued in the pummeled southern port city of Mariupol, where locals reported seeing Russian troops digging up bodies. In the northeastern city of Kharkiv, the shelling of a residential area killed seven people, including a 7-month-old child, and wounded 34, according to regional Gov. Oleh Sinehubov.
Stung by the loss of its Black Sea flagship and indignant over what it alleged were Ukrainian strikes on Russian territory, Russias military command had warned a day earlier of renewed attacks on Ukraines capital and said it was targeting military sites.
Also Friday, a regional Ukrainian official said seven people were killed and 27 wounded when Russian forces fired on buses carrying civilians in the village of Borovaya, near Kharkiv. The claim could not be independently verified.
Dmytro Chubenko, a spokesman for the regional prosecutors office, told the Suspilne news website that authorities had opened criminal proceedings in connection with a suspected violation of the laws and customs of war, combined with premeditated murder.
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
More bodies are being found every day under rubble and in mass graves, he added, with the largest number found in Bucha, more than 350. According to Nebytov, utility workers gathered and buried bodies in the Kyiv suburb while it remained under Russian control. Russian troops, he added, had been tracking down people who expressed strong pro-Ukrainian views.
Smoke rose early Saturday from eastern Kyiv as Mayor Vitali Klitschko reported a strike on the citys Darnytski district. He said rescuers and paramedics were at the scene, and information about possible deaths would be provided later. The mayor advised residents who fled the city earlier in the war not to return for their safety.
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
Kyiv was not the only target Saturday. In eastern Ukraine, an explosion believed to be caused by a missile struck Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, according to firefighters and AP journalists at the scene.
The spokesman for Russias Defense Ministry said Russian forces used air-launched high-precision long-range weapons to target an armored vehicle plant in Kyiv. He didnt specify where exactly the plant in Kyiv is located, but there is one in the Darnytskyi district.
The United Nations human rights office said it has confirmed the deaths of 1,982 civilians but cautioned that the figure does not include people killed in blockaded cities like Mariupol and the actual number is almost sure to be considerably higher.
Russias warning of stepped-up attacks on the capital came after Russian authorities accused Ukraine on Thursday of wounding seven people and damaging about 100 residential buildings with airstrikes in Bryansk, a region bordering Ukraine. Authorities in another border region of Russia also reported Ukrainian shelling.
The Moskva, named for the Russian capital, sank while being towed to port Thursday after taking heavy damage. Moscow did not acknowledge any attack, saying only that a fire had detonated ammunition on board.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russian troops occupying parts of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions in the south of terrorizing civilians and hunting for anyone who served in Ukraines military or government.
A senior U.S. defense official said the U.S. believes the Moskva was hit by at least one Neptune anti-ship missile. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss an intelligence assessment.
Ukrainian officials have not confirmed striking targets in Russia, and the reports could not be independently verified.
Associated Press reporters documented civilian deaths in strikes this week on the eastern city of Kharkiv, and each day brings new discoveries of civilian victims in a war that has shattered European security. In the Kyiv region alone, Ukrainian authorities have reported finding the bodies of more than 900 civilians, most shot dead, after Russian troops retreated two weeks ago.
Mariupols capture would allow Russian forces in the south, which came up through the annexed Crimean Peninsula, to fully link up with troops in the Donbas region, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland and the target of the looming offensive.
A North Naples man was arrested Thursday after detectives say he operated a phony air conditioning company that defrauded an elderly client out of more than $14,000. On the surface, Kola Cooling looks like a real business. They have photos of air conditioners and an average 4.8 rating review on Google, but the Collier County 
After the withdrawal, bodies were abandoned in the streets of towns around Kyiv or given temporary burials. Andriy Nebytov, who heads the regions police force, cited police data indicating 95 died from gunshot wounds.
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
Why the exhumation is being carried out and where the bodies will be taken is unknown, the council said on the Telegram messaging app.
In Mariupol, the city council said Friday that locals reported seeing Russian troops digging up bodies buried in residential courtyards and not allowing new burials of people killed by them.
The mayor said this week that the citys death toll could surpass 20,000. Other Ukrainian officials have said they expect to find evidence in Mariupol of atrocities like the ones discovered in Bucha and other towns outside Kyiv.
When night falls in Tatiana Trofimenkos villagein southern Ukraine, she pours sunflower oil that aid groups gave her into a jar and seals it with a wick-fitted lid. A flick of a match, and the make-do candle is lit. This is our electricity, Trofimenko, 68, says. It has been over 11 weeks sinceUkrainian forces wrested 
The occupiers think this will make it easier for them to control this territory. But they are very wrong. They are fooling themselves, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address. Russias problem is that it is not accepted  and never will be accepted  by the entire Ukrainian people. Russia has lost Ukraine forever.
It was the second strike in the Kyiv area in two days. Another hit a missile plant on Friday as tentative signs of prewar life began to resurface in the capital after Russian troops failed to capture the city and withdrew to concentrate on launching a full-scale assault in eastern Ukraine.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
