Ukraines leader warns war will cost Russia for generations
20220319
https://www.winknews.com/2022/03/19/ukraines-leader-warns-war-will-cost-russia-for-generations/
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
Taking to the stage where a sign read For a world without Nazism, he railed against his foes in Ukraine with a baseless claim that they are neo-Nazis and insisted his actions were necessary to prevent genocide  an idea flatly rejected by leaders around the globe.
High above the conflict, three Russian cosmonauts arrived Friday at the International Space Station wearing bright yellow flight suits with blue accents matching the colors of the Ukrainian flag.
We have not had unity like this for a long time, Putin told the cheering crowd.
Early morning barrages that hit a residential building in the Podil neighborhood of Kyiv killed at least one person. Emergency services said 98 people were evacuated from the building and Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said 19 were wounded.
Putins appearance at Fridays rally marked a change from his relative isolation of recent weeks when he has been shown meeting with world leaders and his staff either at extraordinarily long tables or via videoconference.
The rally and a concert in Moscow were held to commemorate the anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine on 2014. The event included patriotic songs such as Made in the U.S.S.R., with the opening lines Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
Zelenskyy accused the Kremlin of deliberately creating a humanitarian catastrophe  and appealed for Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet with him, using a huge Moscow stadium rally where Putin lavished praise on Russian forces Friday to illustrate what was at stake.
WithRussias invasion of Ukraineand the specter of nuclear weapon use, Earth crept its closest to Armageddon, a science-oriented advocacy group said, moving its famous Doomsday Clock up to just 90 seconds before midnight. We are really closer to that doomsday, former Mongolian president Elbegdorj Tsakhia said Tuesday at the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists annual announcement, 
In his nightly video address, Zelenskyy said Russian forces are blockading the largest cities with the goal of creating such miserable conditions that Ukrainians will cooperate. He said the Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in central and southeastern Ukraine.
Just picture for yourself that in that stadium in Moscow there are 14,000 dead bodies and tens of thousands more injured and maimed. Those are the Russian costs throughout the invasion, Zelenskyy said in a nightly video address to the nation recorded outside the presidential office in Kyiv.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
Seeking to portray the war as just, Putin paraphrased the Bible to say of Russias troops: There is no greater love than giving up ones soul for ones friends.
Vladimir Medinsky, who has led Russian negotiators in several rounds of talks with Ukraine, said the two sides have moved closer to an agreement on the issue of Ukraine dropping its bid to join NATO and adopting a neutral status. In remarks carried by Russian media, he said the sides are now halfway on issues regarding the demilitarization of Ukraine.
In the wake of the invasion, the Kremlin has clamped down harder on dissent and the flow of information, arresting thousands of antiwar protesters, banning sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and instituting tough prison sentences for what is deemed to be false reporting on the war, which Moscow refers to as a special military operation.
The Russian military reported Saturday that it has used its latest hypersonic missile for the first time in combat. A spokesman for the Russian Defense Ministry, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, said Kinzhal missiles destroyed an underground warehouse storing Ukrainian missiles and aviation ammunition in the western Ivano-Frankivsk region of Ukraine.
Satellite images on Friday from Maxar Technologies showed a long line of cars leaving Mariupol as people tried to evacuate. Zelenskyy said more than 9,000 people were able to leave the city in the past day.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
The rally took place as Russia has faced heavier-than-expected losses on the battlefield and increasingly authoritarian rule at home. The event was surrounded by suspicions it was a Kremlin-manufactured display of patriotism. Russian police have detained thousands of people from protests of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
British Chief of Defense Intelligence Lt. Gen. Jim Hockenhull warned that after failing to take major Ukrainian cities, Russian forces are shifting to a strategy of attrition that will entail reckless and indiscriminate use of firepower, resulting in higher civilian casualties and a worsening humanitarian crisis.
Around Ukraine, hospitals, schools and buildings where people sought safety have been attacked. Ludmyla Denisova, the Ukrainian Parliaments human rights commissioner, said at least 130 people had survived Wednesdays bombing of a Mariupol theater that was being used as shelter.
But cosmonaut Oleg Artemyev said every crew chooses its own suits, and they had a lot of yellow material they needed to use so thats why we had to wear yellow.
Ukrainian officials said a fireman was also killed when Russian forces shelled an area where firefighters were trying to put out a blaze in the village of Nataevka, in the Zaporizhzhia region. Two others were killed when strikes hit residential and administrative buildings in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, according to the regional governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.
Maj. Gen. Oleksandr Pavlyuk, who is leading the defense of the region around Ukraines capital, said his forces are well-positioned to defend the city and vowed: We will never give up. We will fight until the end. To the last breath and to the last bullet.
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
Putins quoting of the Bible and an 18th-century Russian admiral reflected his increasing focus in recent years on history and religion as binding forces in Russias post-Soviet society. His branding of his enemies as Nazis evoked what many Russians consider their countrys finest hour, the defense of the motherland from Germany during World War II.
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi defended what he said was his countrys position of impartialityon the war in Ukraineon Sunday and signaled that China would deepen ties with Russia in the coming year. Wang, speaking by video to a conference in the Chinese capital, also blamed America for the deterioration in relations between the worlds 
She also announced plans to deliver humanitarian aid to the city of Kherson, which is currently under control of the Russian forces.
Since the war started, many people have used the Ukrainian flag and its colors to show solidarity with the country.
Fighting continued on multiple fronts in Ukraine. In the besieged port city of Mariupol, the site of some of the wars greatest suffering, Ukrainian and Russian forces battled over the Azovstal steel plant, one of the biggest in Europe, Vadym Denysenko, adviser to Ukraines interior minister, said Saturday.
Russian authorities rejecteda price capon the countrys oil set by Ukraines Western supporters and threatened Saturday to stop supplying the nations that endorsed it. Australia, Britain, Canada, Japan, the United States, and the 27-nation European Union agreed Fridayto cap what they would pay for Russian oil at $60-per-barrel. The limit is set to take effect 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian forces are blockading his countrys largest cities to wear the population down into submission, but he warned Saturday that the strategy will fail and Moscow will lose in the long run if it doesnt end its war.
I can say that we have lost this economic giant, Denysenko said in televised remarks. In fact, one of the largest metallurgical plants in Europe is actually being destroyed.
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
However, Mikhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelenskyy, said that assessment was intended to provoke tension in the media. He tweeted: Our positions are unchanged. Ceasefire, withdrawal of troops  strong security guarantees with concrete formulas.
The time has come to restore territorial integrity and justice for Ukraine. Otherwise, Russias costs will be so high that you will not be able to rise again for several generations, Zelenskyy said.
Ukrainian and Russian officials agreed to establish 10 humanitarian corridors for bringing aid in and residents out  one from the besieged port city of Mariupol, several in the Kyiv region and several in the Luhansk region, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Saturday.
But according to our data, there are still more than 1,300 people in these basements, in this bomb shelter, Denisova told Ukrainian television. We pray that they will all be alive, but so far there is no information about them.
The U.S. is sending an additional $400 million in ammunition and generators to Ukraine, the White House announced Wednesday, and is pulling the gear from its own stockpiles to get the support to Kyiv as fast as possible as Russia continues to target Ukraines energy sources and winter sets in. Including the latest aid, the 
One person was reported killed in a missile attack near Lviv, the closest strike yet to the citys center. Satellite photos showed the strike destroyed a repair hangar and appeared to damage two other buildings. Ukraine said it shot down two of six missiles in the volley, which came from the Black Sea.
He said the rally held Friday in Moscow to celebrate Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea Peninsula from Ukraine had brought out around 200,000 people, or the same number of Russian military personnel involved in the current invasion of Ukraine.
Konashenkov said Russian forces also used the anti-ship Bastion missile system to strike Ukrainian military facilities near the Black Sea port of Odesa. Russia first used the weapon during its military campaign in Syria in 2016.
Lviv has become a crossroads for people fleeing from other parts of Ukraine and for others entering to deliver aid or join the fight, with its population swelling by some 200,000.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
