US puts thousands of troops on alert to deploy if needed by NATO
20220125
https://www.winknews.com/2022/01/24/us-puts-thousands-of-troops-on-alert-to-deploy-if-needed-by-nato/
A deadly crash involving three vehicles and a motorcycle happened in Lee County Friday evening shortly before 9:30 p.m. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle from Fort Myers died in the three-vehicle and motorcycle crash. A sedan was in the left turning lane going North on Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, 
And these tensions could have significant implications if they arent resolved. Because this is what being part of the global police is all about. We shouldnt be comfortable allowing these types of military strongmen or anybody to invade sovereign territory and think that they can get away with it, Jett said.
Street signs ripped down by Hurricane Ian add to the problems that remain after the storm. Eight thousand stop signs are down in Cape Coral. For months the Cape has been working to replace them. Progress has been made in getting all the signs back to where they belong, but city leaders wanted the stop 
The Biden administration on Wednesday made a formal determination that Russian troops have committed war crimes in Ukraine and said it would work with others to prosecute offenders, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said. Today, I can announce that, based on information currently available, the U.S. government assesses that members of Russias forces have committed 
President Joe Biden visited U.S. troops stationed near Polands border with Ukraine on Friday and was getting a first-hand look at the growing humanitarian response to the millions of Ukrainians who are fleeing to Poland to escape Russias assault on their homeland. Bidens first stop was with members of the U.S. Armys 82nd Airborne Division, 
Jett describes this conflict as a power struggle. Youve got Vladimir Putinand Russia trying to reassert control over Ukraine, or sorry, over Ukraine said Jett.
Drew Stangelo, a 25-year-old man from Louisiana was arrested for DUI after a 67-year-old man died in a crash on I-75 Friday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, a sedan driven by Stangelo was going South on the inside lane of I-75, just South of Tuckers Grade. Meanwhile, a sports car driven by a 67-year-old 
Russia has been applying pressure on the Ukrainian border. Brandon Jett is a Professor of History at Florida SouthWestern University. What looks like it could be an invasion really comes out of it is that historical relationship between Moscow and the government of the Russian Empire and Soviet Union, and now current Russia, and Ukraine, Jett said.
Two homes have been incinerated by the fire in Collier County while crews continue working to contain the blazes on Sunday morning. The evacuation orders that were originally given have since been lifted even though the fires continue to burn. WINK News has been told crews are in mop-up mode. As a result of the 
High temperatures will be slightly warmer than what we experienced on Saturday. We will all reach the 80s and low-90s under partly cloudy skies. A humid afternoon is expected with dew points in the upper 60s and low 70s. After a mostly sunny start, cloud coverage will build in the late afternoon and evening. Stray 
A brush fire was sparked by a rollover crash in Lee County causing a power outage for many Saturday night. According to MatlachaPine Island Fire Control District, the brush fire occurred off Pine Island Road on Little Pine Island. The rolled-over vehicle damaged a power pole and that triggered the power outage many in Lee 
Today, I spoke with European leaders in response to Russias military buildup on Ukraines borders. We discussed our joint efforts to deter further Russian aggression, such as preparations to impose severe economic costs on Russia and reinforce security on the eastern flank. pic.twitter.com2XvTTvdLJl
PRIDE Cape Coral is a tradition that started in 2019, as a way for people of all identities to come together and feel accepted while doing so. This came after studies showed that Cape Coral ranked low in diversity and acceptance  according to organizers of PRIDE Cape Coral. Definitely welcoming. I dont have to 
Because it only encourages other countries to act in that way and really will destabilize this global network of alliances and economic networks, said Jett.
Capitol Hill has a fox problem. And thats not the lead-in to a joke. Rep. Ami Bera, D-Calif., learned firsthand Monday evening while walking to the Capitol for votes. Now hes undergoing a series of four rabies shots out of an abundance of caution. Bera said he felt something lunge at him from behind as 
Saturday morning fires burned in Collier County for more than 12 hours and spanned more than 300 acres is only 25 contained. The fires are in the Golden Gate Estates on Wilson Boulevard and Jung Boulevard. The fire has been called The Jung Fire. Crews have been working overnight to contain the blazes. All roads 
A Port Charlotte woman was involved in a deadly crash with a 20-year-old male motorcyclist in Sarasota County Saturday evening. According to Florida Highway Patrol, the 31-year-old woman from Port Charlotte was driving a Jeep going West on Bee Ridge Road in the left turn lane nearing I-75. The motorcyclist, riding a Harley Davidson, was 
We respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, and we expect that Russia would do the same and any aggressive action taken by VladimirPutin will be met with severe consequences, said Vice President Kamala Harris.
The Pentagon has put about 8,500 troops on high alert as tensions rise with Russia as it builds its presence at the Ukrainian border. Those troops could be deployed as part of NATOs Response Force.
A victim was transported as a trauma alert after a rollover crash on US-41 South off Crystal Drive on Saturday. According to South Trail Fire, crews from Engines 61 and Rescue 61 responded to the brutal scene of the crash. One victim was transported from the scene as a trauma alert while three other victims, 
