All Of Ukraine Rose Up Against Russian Invaders online
20220317
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/3/17/459402/
9:52 Since the beginning of the war, wounded Russian soldiers have been taken to hospitals in Mazyr and Homel, Deutsche Welle reports.
20:49 This afternoon, as a result of the shelling of the Russian invaders, one of the largest markets in Eastern Europe, Barabashovo in the city of Kharkiv caught fire.
10:03 There is not a single building in the long-suffering Mariupol of the Donetsk region without damage, about 80-90 of the city has been destroyed. Deputy Mayor Serhi Orlov spoke about this in an interview with Forbes Ukraine. There is also a humanitarian catastrophe in the city. There is no water and heating.
We are doing this to support the civilian population of Ukraine and our colleagues in the ports of the country, said Erik Helgesson, Vice President of the Union of Dockers.
9:14 Ukrainian soldiers during reconnaissance hammered the full Ural of the invaders in the Kharkiv region.
12:45 A Russian soldier says that he is looking for Ukrainian ammunition to shoot himself in the leg and get to the hospital.
22:14 Oxxxymiron announced the second anti-war concert in support of Ukraine. It will take place in London on March 24, 2022. The musician, who fled the Russian Federation, is thus raising money to help Ukrainian refugees affected by the Kremlins aggression.
17:48 The Russians, who hoped that they could quietly sit out Putin's rule, constantly repeating we are beyond politics, now have to fight for sugar.
14:18 "1 APC and 9 people left. There are 20 men left in the 20th troop and 30 men left in the 1st troop. The Baltic troops were brutally beaten," What the Russian occupiers say about the losses of their troops.
14:03 One and one more with such big stars were dismissed here because we are suffering huge losses. Russian occupiers talk about the catastrophic situation of their army in Ukraine.
8:44 According to BBC News Russian, the United States has created an international group to search for and arrest the assets of the Russian elite in the West.
The enemy continues to carry out missile and bomb strikes against the infrastructure and densely populated areas of Ukrainian cities.
17:09 Another U.S. citizen James Witney Hill was killed in Chernihiv due to artillery shelling of the Russian military.
15:43 American actor and politician Arnold Schwarzenegger addressed Russians and urged them to face the truth.
16:07 The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine published a video about the losses of the Russian occupiers since the beginning of the war against Ukraine.
11:42 The AFU crushed the enemy in the Mykolaiv region. The enemy was forced to retreat. A truck full of ammunition has been seized.
10:20 One of the units of the Ukrainian Volunteer Army seized a tank of the occupiers in the South. Serhiy Bratchuk, the Press Secretary of the Odesa Military Administration, reported that the Ukrainian Volunteer Army transferred the new trophy to the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
During the past 24 hours, the Ukrainian defenders destroyed the command post and support units of the 35th Combined Arms Army of the Eastern Military District of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, the losses of the enemy are being specified.
 the enemy used up almost all Caliber cruise missiles and Iskander missile systems, so now it strikes with indiscriminate weapons
12:46 Burning equipment of the invaders at the airport near Kherson. Outstanding operation by the AFU.
There are patients born in 2003, from poor regions of Russia. They are children indeed, says one of the sources of the publication.
22:47 The Armed Forces of Ukraine destroyed the Russian multi-purpose helicopter along with the crew.
On March 1 the ballerina spoke out against the actions of the Russian authorities in Ukraine and decided to leave the country.
 A column has been moving towards the ferry crossing this morning, it was prohibited to take photos and video.
23:18 Swedish port workers refused to serve Russian ships. The boycott applies to ships heading and arriving in the Russian Federation, as well as to chartered ships.
14:57 Andriy Bohdanov, the ex-player of the Ukrainian National Team, who defended the country in the Territorial Defence, became a soldier of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. He takes the oath in the video.
This was reported in the U.S. Treasury, that the representatives of Australia, Britain, Canada, Japan, Germany, France, Italy and the European Commission constituted the group. The group members were given a list of 50 people to focus their attention on.
23:32 Since the beginning of the Russian invasion, more than 14 thousand invaders have already died in the battles against Ukraine. However, the aggressor state has not yet raised the issue of taking their bodies and remains. Ukraine has already reported this to representatives of the Red Cross. This statement was made on the evening of March 17 by Iryna Vereshchuk, the Minister for the Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories.
The Russian occupiers continue to act insidiously in the information space. They carry out cyber attacks, physically destroy TV and radio signal repeaters, and continue a large information campaign.
12:13 The BMP-1 infantry fighting vehicle and the MT-12 Rapira anti-tank gun. The Armed Forces showed new trophies captured from the troops of the Russian Federation.
00:51 Ukrainian soldiers liquidated Oleg Chervov, the Russian pilot, deputy commander of an air regiment.
8:29 We have lost fton of guys. Definitely fton. The Russian occupiers are complaining about Putin and admitting heavy losses.
22:58 The international electronic payment system PayPal, which provides services in a cross-border mode to any person in the world, has been launched in Ukraine. This was announced by the Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine Mikhail Fedorov.
19:10 Mayor of Velyki Burluky community in the Kharkiv region Viktor Tereschenko was taken prisoner by the occupiers, Head of the Regional Military Administration Oleh Sinehubov reported.
10:36 The opinion of Ukrainians about the help of Belarusians in the war with Russia.
12:30 Russian invaders are getting ripped off by their superiors. There's a new recording of a conversation.
20:16 During the latest, almost two-day curfew in the capital and the Kyiv region, several Russian sabotage groups were detained, said Vadym Denisenko, advisor to the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. All sabotage and reconnaissance groups have been neutralized. The curfew worked well.
15:26 Britain will deploy in Poland the Sky Sabre air defence system and 100 servicemen.
 the moral and psychological state of the aircrew of the Russian troops is extremely unsatisfactory. Cases of filing dismissal reports continue.
00:44 4 tanks of the invaders got stuck in the floodplain dust of a river in the Sumy region.
17:31 The ruling Council of the European Space Agency ESA has refused to continue cooperation with Roscosmos on the ExoMars mission to explore the surface of Mars.
13:16 Sequential aerial images of the Russian troops on the border of Belarus and Ukraine have been published.
11:19 Two enemy aircraft have been destroyed tonight by means of air defence of the Air Forces of Ukraine over the Dnipropetrovsk region.
17:17 Searches were carried out at the villas of Lanfranco Cirillo, known as "Putin's architect", in Italy. He is accused of tax evasion. The helicopter for 2 million euros, paintings of Picasso, Cezanne, Kandinsky, Chagall and others are withdrawn. It is believed that it was Cirillo the architect of the palace in Gelendzhik, apparently, Putin paid him from the funds of the Hermitage.
14:53 Belarusian musician Yury Stylski recorded the song on the verse of one of the volunteers from the Kastus Kalinouski Battalion, who is fighting for the freedom of Ukraine.
19:54 The Armed Forces of Ukraine captured another Russian contract soldier who came to the exercises.
17:54 Swiss banks hold up to $213 billion of Russian capital, and sanctions against Russia provide a rare opportunity to uncover these assets, Reuters reports.
13:56 Flo leaves Belarus: It is one of the most expensive startups in the history of the country.
The channel said they had to "physically pull out the cables" to combat the break-in.
 Ukrainian defenders inflicted significant losses on the units fighting in Kharkiv and Izyum: up to 30 of personnel, weapons and military equipment were lost
12:06 Iron kopecks and small hryvnia bills were found in the pockets of his quilted jacket of the Russian occupier who had been killed in the Kyiv region. He had collected the money at the cash registers of looted stores in Ukraine.
11:38 The bomb shelter, which was in the building of the Drama Theater in Mariupol, withstood the Russian shelling. All people are alive.
14:43 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky addressed German Chancellor Olaf Scholz directly during his speech before the Bundestag with a call for help to a full-blown invasion of Russia.
9:22 Ukrainian hackers hacked the air of the Russian Start sports TV channel. The audience was shown a video about Russian aggression in Ukraine instead of a volleyball.
9:59 The Armed Forces of Ukraine destroyed a lot of military equipment of the Russian occupiers in the southern direction.
15:37 Russian ships are noticed in the Black Sea near Odesa. The AFU believes that this is psychological pressure.
8:24 Pentagon's assessments: Russia lost more than 7,000 soldiers in the war with Ukraine. The Armed Forces of Ukraine give a figure of 14,000. In any case, these are catastrophic losses, which are not even close to the figures that the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation is talking about.
18:41 The Council of Europe has suspended all relations with Belarus. This decision is connected with the participation of Minsk in Russia's attack on Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee of the Council of Europe intends to maintain and strengthen relations with the Belarusian civil society and the opposition in exile.
11:43 The General Staff of the AFU summed up the results of the 22 days of the confrontation. More than 14,000 occupiers were killed.
22:25 The world's largest museums, music and film festivals, leading theatres, book fairs and authoritative auctions have not hesitated to support Ukraine in the fight against Russian invaders.
22:39 The US Senate is discussing a bill against lending to American companies for paying taxes in Russia. The current law allows US companies to receive credit for taxes paid abroad. There are four countries where companies do not use credit  Iran, North Korea, Syria and Sudan. The Democrats propose adding Russia to the list.
13:29 The AFU showed a destroyed convoy of Russian military equipment in the Kharkiv region. It's a pile of scrap metal.
00:57 The defenders of Ukraine recorded shots of the invaders from the Buk anti-aircraft missile system with the help of a drone. This was enough for information about the location of the enemy to be transmitted to the artillery. Artillery, in turn, destroyed the Russian invaders with their military equipment.
19:37 In Kyiv, the Caliber cruise missile was shot down by Ukrainian air defense. When falling, fragments of the missile caught the attic and the upper floors of one of the residential buildings.
10:12 CIT analyst tells why official Minsk is afraid to send its soldiers to Ukraine:
14:46 A tractor tows the Russian military equipment near Mykolaiv. Waste not, want not, for sure.
23:55 The Russian troops continue their attempts to attack Kyiv and its suburbs, but the Armed Forces of Ukraine are taking measures to destroy the enemy in strategic directions around the capital. This was stated by the speaker of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine Oleksandr Motuzyanyk during a briefing.
Charter97.org is broadcasting online the 22nd day of the war. You can see what happened in Ukraine on March 16 in our previous online broadcast.
15:13 The White House said that Biden will talk to Chinese leader Xi Jinping on March 18.
18:58 The Armed Forces of Ukraine eliminated the commander of the 331st parachute infantry regiment of the Russian Federation Colonel Sergey Sukharev.
12:48 Prices for Apple smartphones in Russian online stores increased by 24-34 for the period from February 23 to March 15.
I want to tell you now. Dear Mr Scholz, tear down this Wall! Give Germany the leadership role that you in Germany deserve, and a reason for descendants to be proud of you. Support us, stop the war. Help us to stop it, he said.
8:16 Fragments of a downed rocket fell on a high-rise building in the Darnytskyi District of Kyiv.
11:07 The first message by Ivan Fedorov, the Mayor of Melitopol, after release. He thanked all the residents of Melitopol and Zelensky for their daily fight for Ukraine.
16:27 Svyatoslav Vakarchuk published a video from the hospital in Zaporizhzhia, where wounded children from Mariupol are treated.
13:46 Advisor to the Office of the President of Ukraine Arestovych said that the Ukrainian authorities will never surrender the interests of the country in the negotiations.
15:56 Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad promised to provide Russia with 40,000 fighters for the war in Ukraine. Earlier it was reported that they will be trained on the territory of Belarus.
14:22 Russia threatens Bosnia with the "Ukrainian scenario" due to its possible accession to NATO.
 The Russian troops do not have enough forces for an offensive in the vicinity of Kyiv. Some were destroyed, some withdrew, some were fighting local battles to improve their positions. At the same time, massive shelling of Kyiv has not yet been carried out.
18:23 Canada has introduced sanctions against 22 Belarusian colonels and generals, the country's Foreign Ministry reports.
21:32 The US wants to ban all Russian crypto addresses. Senator Elizabeth Warren introduced a new sanctions bill. Its purpose will be to track all addresses in the crypt associated with Russia and prohibit local companies from interacting with them.
The Russian army changed tactics. In Moscow, they realized that it was stupid to attack in five directions, and they no longer had enough forces. They decided on the main directions - these are Donbas, Mariupol and Mykolaiv. There are battles of local importance In other areas, and they are going on the defensive in order to hold the captured positions in other areas. The Russian army will have enough resources for active combat operations for no more than two-three weeks.
13:41 Ukrainian intelligence reports that Syrian mercenaries, whom Russia is going to use in the war, are going to desert and flee to the EU.
8:50 A school and a cultural center were destroyed, residential buildings were damaged as a result of Russian shelling in Merefa, Kharkiv region.
10:29 During the war against Ukraine, Russia, according to the Ukrainian side, lost a third of its aircraft. Vadim Denisenko, the adviser to the Minister of Internal Affairs, told about it on the air of one of the Ukrainian TV channels.
16:05 Arestovych speaks about the offensive of the Russian Federation on Kyiv, Sumy, Chernihiv and Kharkiv: The enemy's exhausted. The Russian occupation forces have concentrated their offensive forces in the Joint Forces Operation zone and southern Ukraine.
15:08 The Armed Forces of Ukraine freed the village of Posad-Pokrovske in the Kherson region and destroyed a column of occupiers.
10:25 The 10th Mountain Assault Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine showed how it dealt with Russian military equipment.
12:54 The Defence Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine received a list of the servicemen of the 448th Missile Brigade military unit 35525, the village of Kliukva, Kursk region, who committed war crimes against the people of Ukraine.
11:37 Poland does not intend to buy Russian gas after 2022 even on short-term contracts, said the authorized representative of the Polish government on strategic energy infrastructure Piotr Naimski.
10:55 British intelligence says that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has largely stalled on all fronts. This is reported by Sky News.
21:25 In Severodonetsk, Luhansk region, the Russian invaders fired at a shelter for mothers with children.
15:25 Arestovych called for a railroad war in the occupied territories. We are reminded that the Belarusian partisans are already conducting sabotage on the Belarusian Railway.
8:11 Operational information as of 07:00 Minsk time March 17 on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
 from March 20, another wave of mobilization begins in the temporarily occupied territories of the Donetsk region.
22:44 Iryna Vereshchuk spoke about the results of the work of humanitarian corridors on March 17.
23:40 Today, the Odesa defense forces downed an Orlan 10 drone of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation, said Serhiy Bratchuk, spokesman for the Odesa military administration.
22:09 President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky awarded Mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov, who was released from the captivity of the occupiers as a result of a special operation the day before, with the Order For Courage, III degree.
The occupying troops continue to suffer losses. There are serious problems with combat units and support units manning. Personnel of the enemy are demoralized.
15:49 Two Russian missiles were shot down in the Dnipropetrovsk region, and a drone was shot down in the Kharkiv region.
10:41 This is a satellite image of the Mariupol drama theatre, taken by Maxar Technologies on March 14: the inscription "CHILDREN" in Russian is visible from both sides of the building with a red roof. The theatre was destroyed in the bombing. Ukraine accuses the Russian troops of striking.
10:49  In general, our leadership just flaked us, they retreated We only have water we have collected some water The Security Service of Ukraine published an interception of the conversation of a Russian occupier.
9:37 On March 17, Rubizhne, Popasna and Sievierodonetsk survived a hard night because of Russian shelling.
11:17 Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksi Reznikov said that the Kremlin is "the real Hitler of our time".
20:58 An evening situation report from the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine:
10:50 In Russia, the trademark Diadia Vania was submitted for registration. Its logo is very similar to McDonald's.
18:33 Mariupol now. A column of cars is standing in the outskirts of the city, in the background one can see houses destroyed by the invaders.
9:46 More than three million Ukrainian people were forced to leave the country because of the war and to become refugees.
9:15 The city of Volnovakha, which is located in the Donetsk region, lies in ruins.
At least 27 houses were burned in Rubizhne. At least five more ignitions occurred in Popasna, one  in Sievierodonetsk. Information on the victims is being clarified.
11:20 Spanish authorities arrested a 135-meter yacht, which is connected with Sechin, the Russian top official.
00:23 Belarus and Russia have been suspended from the European Championships Munich 2022 united into one European championships in summer sports disciplines.
23:49 British MP Tobias Ellwood called on European companies remaining in the Russian Federation to leave the Russian market so as not to sponsor the war in Ukraine.
16:41 In the video published by the Security Service of Ukraine, the Russian occupier is watching the crimes of the Russian army on the territory of Ukraine.
11:58 Russian prima ballerina Olga Smirnova left the Bolshoi Theatre and joined the troupe of the National Ballet of the Netherlands.
13:45 New York Times explained why the Armed Forces of Ukraine kill Russian generals so easily.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine together with the Territorial Defence have been holding back Russian troops for 22 days now. The main fighting continues in the southern and eastern directions. Russia has failed to attain the main war aims.
11:59 The AFU captured the Russian Farah portable radar station. Its owners are reported to have been killed.
18:05 UK will terminate contracts with Gazprom Marketing  Trading Retail Ltd. The company supplies more than 20 of industrial and commercial gas in the country, according to Bloomberg.
9:08 The French Foreign Ministry does not believe in the effectiveness of the negotiations between Russia and Ukraine. They believe that the aggressor country is only simulating the process of negotiations.
"I believe that Lukashenko, for example, may fear that some Belarusian liberation army may be created from those prisoners, with the help of Belarusian volunteers who are currently fighting for Ukraine."
8:36 Ivan Fedorov, the mayor of Melitopol, who was in the captivity of the Russian Federation, was exchanged for nine Russian conscripts born in 2002-2003.
 For the third day there are fights, we hear explosions, we see smoke from windows. We receive news about wounded people and multiple victims when the connection is available. There were airstrikes, strong airstrikes last night, and there were probably two flights tonight. People sleep in corridors, shelters, cellars. There are problems with the medicines, because of the shelling of the green corridors and humanitarian convoys. There is not enough drinking water. And everything just kind of snowballed.
16:55 A column of enemy military equipment has been crushed near Pryluky in the Chernihiv region.
18:12 Another thousand Chechens will come to Ukraine to die, led by Kadyrov's aide in the power bloc Apti Alaudinov.
13:00 Four tanks of the Russian army were stuck in the mud in the Sumy region.
16:43 The Security Service of Ukraine said that it received information on the tactics of the Russian troops:  First get kicked, then hide. And so on.
8:17 At night, 2 more aircraft of Russian occupiers were shot down over Kyiv. The Head of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Valeri Zaluzhnyi announced this.
If it Bosnia and Herzegovina decides to be a part of something, it is the internal matter. But the other matter is our reaction. We have shown what we are counting on, using the example of Ukraine. If there is a threat, we will respond," the aggressor country said.
Some of the patients went without food for up to five days, they were disoriented, and had no idea where they were. They asked to call their parents.
Over the past 24 hours, ten enemy air targets have been destroyed: two Su-34 fighter-bombers, three Su-34SM fighters, three helicopters and an UAV.
10:15 Ukrainian musician Svyatoslav Vakarchuk appealed to those who support the AFU on the Web.
17:01 The footage of the moment of interception of two Su-25 fighters in the area of Chernihiv.
19:21 Latvia, following Lithuania, calls on UN member states to take immediate action towards a no-fly zone over Ukraine to protect the lives of Ukrainians and ensure security in the airspace over the Ukrainian NPPs.
After that, the Russian troops will stand on the opposition defence, which simplifies the tasks for the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It is an unsolvable task to maintain positions and logistics on the land, where everyone hates you. It will become more convenient for partisans to get close to the enemy through foliage by the end of spring. In some sense, the Russian army is already entering the funnel of disaster. Therefore, the Russian command is now trying to make maximum with the army until it finally loses the ability to attack anywhere.
14:09 Germany wants to import hydrogen from Norway to reduce reliance on Russian natural gas.
22:19 In Khmelnytsky, apartments will be seized from landlords who inflate housing prices for refugees. This was announced by the mayor of the city Oleksandr Simchishin. According to him, refugees will be placed there, volunteer centers will be set up.
9:41 Uzbekistan opposed Russian aggression in Ukraine. Uzbekistan also stated that it would not recognize any puppet republics that the Kremlin had created.
8:12 Since the beginning of the war against Ukraine, the Russian military fired missiles at three ships flying the Panamanian flag in the Black Sea, Reuters writes with reference to the Maritime Administration of Panama.
21:54 The Italian tire manufacturer Pirelli announced the suspension of investments and the restriction of the work of enterprises in Russia.
14:38 Belgiums King Philip and Queen Mathilde have decided to make their homes available for three families of Ukrainian refugees.
20:27 Since the beginning of the open armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, more than 320 thousand Ukrainians have returned to their homeland.
A field hospital was also set up in Naroulia. Our sources told us about the condition of the wounded: often "without arms, legs, ears, eyes". Some servicemen are brought with gangrene from medical battalions due to violation of the terms of evacuation.
