Bayraktars Wiped Out Occupiers Fortifications On Snake Island Satellite Images
20220508
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/5/8/466773/
This is what the island looks like before and after a successful attack by the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
Initially the Tor near the lighthouse was taken out by a TB2 drone strike.This allowed Ukrainian Su-27s to strike the Island safely, leveling the lighthouse complex. I expect this resulted in heavy Russian casualties. pic.twitter.comlasMbitA5g Oliver Alexander OAlexanderDK May 7, 2022
The Associated Press published satellite images of Snake Island in the Black Sea after Ukrainian defenders launched an attack on the positions of the Russian occupiers.
Ukraine: The Ukrainian Air force is still alive- seen here are two Ukrainian Su-27 striking Russian facilities on the famous Snake Island in the Black Sea, in remarkable footage filmed by a TB-2 drone.As we can observe, there is serious damage. pic.twitter.comogN3gOU8uJ  Ukraine Weapons Tracker UAWeapons May 7, 2022
A satellite image taken Saturday by planet showed what appeared to be a Serna-class landing craft against Snake Islands northern beach. That corresponds to another Ukrainian military video released showing a drone strike hitting it, engulfing the vessel in flames. -AP pic.twitter.com9281Aw4VEK Jon Gambrell   jongambrellAP May 7, 2022
Initially the Tor near the lighthouse was taken out by a TB2 drone strike.This allowed Ukrainian Su-27s to strike the Island safely, leveling the lighthouse complex. I expect this resulted in heavy Russian casualties. pic.twitter.comlasMbitA5g
On May 7, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine confirmed that in the area of Snake Island, Bayraktar UAV targeted a landing craft and two Tor anti-aircraft missile systems.
On the morning of May 2, two more Russian Raptor boats were destroyed near Snake Island.
The May 7 image taken by Planet Labs shows black smoke after Ukrainian drone strikes on Russian positions and a Serna-class landing craft near the island, The Associated Press reports.
The Operational Command South reported that the Bayraktars destroyed the landing craft Serna with the Tor air defense system near Snake Island. Two Raptor assault boats were also destroyed and one seriously damaged. 46 people from the enemy crew and landing force were killed.
A satellite image taken Saturday by planet showed what appeared to be a Serna-class landing craft against Snake Islands northern beach. That corresponds to another Ukrainian military video released showing a drone strike hitting it, engulfing the vessel in flames. -AP pic.twitter.com9281Aw4VEK
Ukraine: The Ukrainian Air force is still alive- seen here are two Ukrainian Su-27 striking Russian facilities on the famous Snake Island in the Black Sea, in remarkable footage filmed by a TB-2 drone.As we can observe, there is serious damage. pic.twitter.comogN3gOU8uJ
Earlier on Twitter, Ukraine Weapons Tracker published a video of the strike of Ukrainian fighter jets on Snake Island.
The Operational Command South previously reported that on April 26, the Armed Forces of Ukraine attacked an enemy command post on Snake Island and destroyed a Strela-10 anti-aircraft missile system. Later, Ukrainian defenders smashed three Russian air defense systems and servers with telecommunications equipment.
