Did DPR Leaders Betray Putin
20220827
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/8/27/513038/
On July 28, the war criminals came to the conclusion that even less fat depots should be added to the list. It is noteworthy that, judging by the correspondence, the collaborators do not associate themselves with the Novorossians.
It is highly doubtful that the Ukrainian army needed this information, since the intelligence of Ukraine and Western countries is working extremely efficiently, and the coordinates of the military facilities of the occupiers in our country are known to everyone.
The virtuosic work of the missile forces of Ukraine, which daily destroyed the depots of the invaders, finally convinced Pushilin of the need to look for a new source of income.
After that, the terrorists came to the understanding that sooner or later Moscow would lose, and the only way to change the situation was to use nuclear weapons. Both did not believe in such a development of events due to, in their opinion, the weak character of Putin. The terrorists decided to find a refuge for themselves after the defeat not in the Russian Federation.
According to an unnamed source, Pushilin decided to sell the coordinates of military targets together with one of the deputies of the pseudo-republic, Vladislav Berdichevsky. On July 21, Berdichevsky wrote to Pushilin expressing concern about the military defeats of the occupiers.
Pushilin could have handed over to the Armed Forces of Ukraine data on Russian ammunition depots in the Donbas.
The terrorists feared the punishment of their puppeteers, but decided that they were beyond suspicion.
It is not known whether Pushilin's contacts were actually Ukrainian servicemen, or whether he communicated with figureheads. What is certain is that he was ready to betray the DPR.
The leader of the militants of the so-called DPR Denis Pushilin, probably, handed over to the Armed Forces of Ukraine data on Russian ammunition depots in the occupied territories of our country. The terrorist wanted to get millions of dollars for information, but something went wrong.
The representatives of Ukraine, after receiving data on the depots and bases of the occupiers, no longer got in touch.
