Nova Kakhovka Turns Into Second Chornobaivka For Russian Army
20220818
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/8/18/511791/
"They made a second Chornobaivka out of Nova Kakhovka. There was a very large concentration of weapons, armaments, heavy equipment in Nova Kakhovka recently, which the occupants were bringing up there," he said.
This was followed by the systematic destruction of depots located in the vicinity of Nova Kakhovka. In particular, in Rayske, Tavricheske, the Sokol and Nova Kakhovka industrial zones. They eliminated everything the occupants had brought there.
Khlan specified that the liquidation of the occupants and their supplies began with a very powerful explosion, the detonation of ammunition after which lasted almost a day. More than 1,000 tonnes of ammunition and fuel were destroyed.
The Armed Forces of Ukraine continue strikes against Russian occupiers deep in the rear of the temporarily occupied territories. The invaders are suffering heavy losses, and Nova Kakhovka in Kherson region has already turned into a "second Chornobaivka".
So the invaders decided it would be safer for them to go to Nova Kakhovka, as it was further away from the front line. They started stockpiling supplies there, but Nova Kakhovka became another 'Chornobaivka'.
Khlan reminded that in the first months of the full-scale war, the occupiers created a convenient and large logistics hub in Chornobaivka, where they accumulated their weapons and equipment.
After that, the Ukrainian Armed Forces started to work on transport arteries and bridges to interrupt the logistical supply from the left bank to the right bank of everything they had been accumulating.
For now, the occupiers have decided to place their hardware even further away, but this does not help anyway. For example, 40 wagons with weapons and fuel have been destroyed in Brilovka, as well as warehouses, and strikes on Novoalekseivka actually forced out the railway supplies to Kherson region.
"Therefore, the occupiers started to deconcentrate this hardware and no longer accumulate it at large bases, but make smaller depots in larger quantities," Khlan summarized.
In particular, the occupiers received another dose of explosions there the day before, on August 17. This was reported by the deputy of the Kherson regional council and the military territorial defense Serhiy Khlan in a commentary to the Channel 24.
The Ukrainian defenders started to launch targeted strikes there, gradually destroying the enemy's accumulated reserves. The occupiers then installed air defences there, so Chornobaivka became inaccessible for a period. However, with the arrival of new weapons, AFU hits on Chornobaivka resumed, and all that the Russians had managed to accumulate there was destroyed.
