Putin Bet It All and Lost
20220228
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/2/28/456746/
All he had to do to secure his victory was to recognize the independence of the so-called separatist republics in the Donbas, admit that Ukraine's chances of joining NATO were zero, continue his creeping subversive activities in Ukraine and hope that sooner or later it would return into the Russian orbit.
Ukrainian diaspora has joined the Ukrainian people, who are now busy holding rallies and raising funds for their homeland. All these Ukrainians now consider themselves part of a modern Ukrainian nation that is as different as it is united in its opposition to Putin and everything he stands for: dictatorship and vassalism. Ukrainians have demonstrated that they love their country, despite all its shortcomings, and they are willing to sacrifice a lot for it.
In no time, Russia became a rogue state. The West has already imposed an expansive range of sanctions, and more are expected. International opinion has almost unanimously condemned Putin's aggressive war, and thousands of its citizens have expressed their rejection of the war in demonstrations and petitions.
Putin could still try to set up a puppet Ukrainian regime in Kyiv that would be happy to do his bidding, as intelligence reports have long predicted. However, it would mean the occupation of a vast country for an indefinite time. It would probably require about a million soldiers, all of them would be targets of a Ukrainian resistance movement, which is bound to emerge.
The dramatic demonstration of Ukrainian unity and national strength in wartime is extremely discomforting for Putin. In his increasingly reckless attempts to justify his war, the Russian ruler claimed to be fighting against a diverse gang of "fascists," "nazis," and "drug addicts," who represent nothing and no one but their own interests and their "treasurers" in the West. As it turns out, Putin has declared war on a more than 40 million patriotic nation living in a country the size of France.
That is why Putin lost. Ukraine and the Ukrainians will suffer terribly from his criminal invasion but survive and become a strong modern nation. Putin, on the contrary, will have a much more uncertain future after this senseless war.
Alternatively, Putin could have tried to work out some kind of deal with the current Ukrainian administration, but this would have meant a de facto admission to his inner circle, if not to the Russian people, that his bloody scheme did not really accomplish anything that could have been negotiated and at a much lower cost.
Why did Putin act so stupidly? One answer is that he may have lost touch with reality after hiding from COVID-19 in a bunker for two years. Another version is that Putin is the irreplaceable absolute master of the Kremlin for more than two decades, and his advisers are very reluctant to tell him anything that they fear might upset him.
Until Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in the early morning hours of February 24. He was winning a confrontation with the West. Putin forced the United States and Europe to take his demands seriously. He enjoyed being treated as the leader of great power, the way he managed to intimidate the Ukrainians as well as Russia's other neighbors, and the rest of the world.
Most importantly, the Ukrainians fought back. They fiercely resisted. This was something Putin probably did not expect. In his initial announcement of a "special military operation," Putin urged Ukrainian soldiers to lay down their arms not out of fear for their lives, but because he sincerely believed that they would be happy to do so. But they were not happy at all and did not put down their weapons. Instead, they caused the Russian invasion forces to suffer huge losses and inspired the watching world with their courage.
Now he has only bad options. He could still physically destroy Ukraine and commit mass genocide against its inhabitants, but probably not even the craziest Russian imperialists would accept the idea of what could be the most colossal atrocity in human history.
Now the supposed chess grandmaster Putin has put himself in a losing position. Ukrainians across the country have united around their flag regardless of the language they speak, their religion, or their ethnicity. Tens of thousands volunteered for territorial defense units. Many more began to donate blood. Many unknown people donated their savings to help financially with the defense of their country. A historic wave of patriotic enthusiasm covered Ukraine.
Putin's recent meeting of the Russian Security Council was particularly revealing of the dangerously dysfunctional power dynamics in the Kremlin - with Putin alone sitting enthroned and his minions sitting in a huge hall on wooden chairs, facing him like schoolchildren.
Another possibility is that he fully fell for Russian imperial and Soviet historical propaganda narratives, which traditionally either refused to acknowledge the existence of Ukrainians at all or gave them the status of a subordinate younger brother of Russia. It is quite possible that this ideology blinded Putin and many of his supporters and prevented them from seeing the reality of the Ukrainian nation with its own interests and culture.
