Russian Command Fleeing Kherson Gives Very Bad Sign For All Invaders
20220816
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/8/16/511480/
From the left bank of the Dnieper, it is much more efficient and convenient to do this under the current conditions. At least, an extra ferry there or some kind of pontoon in this case will not have to be occupied by staff goods and equipment. It will be possible to have some kind of extra self-propelled gun, well, or to transport the truck with washing machines stolen in Kherson. It would be more useful this way.
If the information about the evacuation of the Russian command from Kherson is true, albeit partially, then all this smells very bad for all Russian troops operating on the Kherson-Beryslav bridgehead.
And in this context, looking at this today's information about the movements of the command structures of the enemy grouping of troops South, I am oppressed by well-founded suspicions. Doesn't the command of the Russian group South assess the situation in its area of responsibility, in particular at the Kherson-Beryslav bridgehead, as critical?
No, it is, of course, very convenient to slip away in time to the left bank and from there heroically control the defense referendum in Kherson. Again, the need to ensure stability, secrecy, and mobility of control. You can come up with a whole bunch of all kinds of circumstances and reasons, and quite legal ones at that, so as not to fk around in Kherson, risking getting hit in the head with Himars, well, or some kind of Excalibur.
Only here is a nuance. All these movements of the headquarters and command posts of the South grouping on the bridgehead somehow coincided with the fact that critical damage was inflicted on a number of bridge crossings connecting the bridgehead with the left bank due to fire damage from the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Well, pure coincidence.
In addition, the command post of the 22nd Army Corps is also in the process of some kind of local redeployment where exactly and why is still unknown. However, the command posts and mobile command posts of the airborne divisions seem to remain in their old places for the time being.
The tradition of leaving subordinate troops to themselves in a critical situation in the Red Army and its successor, the Russian one, is very rich. Just recall the shameful evacuation of the command and political staff of the Sevastopol garrison in the summer of 1942, or the defeat of the troops of the Western and North-Western fronts in the summer of 1941.
Apparently, some part of the headquarters and command post of the 49th combined-arms army of the southern military district really left the city of Kherson, and moved in a northeast direction.
But hey, what about the troops, you ask. Who will lead them, who will send them on the offensive against Kryvyi Rih and Mykolaiv? Don't worry, Watanoid citizens.
The command of the Soviet army simply abandoned subordinate troops and ran away, saving their own asses, both here and there. Moreover, in some places they demonstrated the phenomenal speed and distance of a one-time retreat it came to the point that on the first day of the German offensive, the headquarters of the Soviet divisions and corps of both fronts were at a distance of 180 - 240 kilometers from their pre-war deployment in the border strip.
