Ukrainian Political Strategist As I Understand It Belarusians Simply Refused To Go and Shoot
20220308
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/3/8/458091/
Because the demands of Ukraine did not change. There is only one  to withdraw the troops completely from the entire territory of Ukraine. The fact is that Russia is unable to provide security in any other way.
"Their rhetoric is really changing. Because Russia lost this stage of the war. Let me emphasize that this is just a stage, not a war. The military equipment is being destroyed, more than 20 of all the troops concentrated around Ukraine have been killed and wounded. Everything is calculated already by tens percent.
There simply cannot be any assault on Kyiv in the coming days due to technical reasons, the political strategist said on the air of the I Grianul Grem channel. "You need to have a group on the way to Kyiv to realize an assault of the city. There is no such group. But Russia tries to form the group on the approaches to Kyiv. That's why there are heavy fights at a distance of 30 km from the capital.
Today everything changed. There can be no neutral status. Today only Ukraine can guarantee Ukraine's security.
"I have only indirect information from different people. According to some details, the first Belarusian tanks immediately turned off the engines and did not move forward after they had come. It is clear that when they are on the territory of Belarus, the decision is made by the General Staff, and when they enter the territory of Ukraine, the commander of the unit decides whether to go further, to shoot or not.
If today Ukraine agrees to leave at least any Russian troops on its territory and a ceasefire, Russians will start to take multiple rocket launchers there at the same time to destroy peaceful cities. Ukraine can't allow it.
This means that the onslaught has already faltered. These forces were not enough. It is impossible to take Kyiv with such forces, about 10,000-20,000 people. It is no longer a question of Russia's victory.
We have a very popular thesis today: Russians miscalculated because they thought that there was no army in Ukraine, and it appeared that there is Ukraine with its army. There are 35 million people in the army of Ukraine, who fight for the country in different ways."
But even if 10,000 Russian soldiers arrive in Kyiv, the Ukrainian army will defeat them in 3-5 days. It won't be like in Kharkiv because systems of multiple rocket launchers can not reach here. Kyiv is a big city, it cannot be destroyed by bombers. There are really terrible things in the suburbs of Kyiv, especially in the city of Irpin, which becomes today a place of terrible catastrophe along with Kharkiv and Mariupol."
Ukrainian political strategist Mikhail Sheitelman, who is in Kyiv these days, explained several important issues today, including the participation of the Belarusian army in the war.
At first, they've given up this, then something else, something else. Well, then they'll say they're just withdrawing the troops. Just like that.
Fortunately, the Ukrainian army has survived for 13 days! And things have changed completely. The first two days when Putin started asking for this and that, the West was still ready to discuss it. Even Zelensky, if you remember, on the first day said that he was ready to discuss neutral status in case of security guarantees.
In this case, it is necessary not to confuse Kyiv and the Kyiv region. When they say "tanks are in Kyiv", the tanks are not in Kyiv but in the Kyiv region. It's really Russian tanks, but they've been there since the first day.
Therefore they will pursue the Russian troops to the last meter. Ukraine yet doesn't demand reparation, doesn't demand to hand over war criminals. This will be done by the West through sanctions.
This is Lukashenko's order or this is the initiative of individual servicemen. We'll find that out later. Even the sanctions that the West imposed against Russia are the sanctions for destruction.
I think because it really cares about the people. It's formed of conscript soldiers. In addition, all university graduates were recruited. In a sense, it is the elite of the nation. They are educated people, including many educated soldiers. There is a completely different level of human potential in the Belarusian army. This explains the position of the army.
They went formally, then stopped, stood, wasted the diesel fuel and came back. Russian soldiers are now also, by the way, draining the diesel fuel intentionally, throwing their tanks and leaving. But this is what most Belarusians do. Therefore, the Russian troops stopped trying to use them.
Accordingly, the Russians now have to crawl on their knees and ask forgiveness, but they will not do it. They'll pretend to keep their face.
But there are no such sanctions against Belarusians. That is, Belarusians are not yet considered such outcasts in the world as Russians. Apparently, because the Belorussian army showed itself in such a way.
The Russians created a bridgehead there, and they are trying to pull armored vehicles, tanks, fuel, missiles there. It is not easy. On the whole, they are trying to put together a force there, up to 10,000 soldiers. It's gonna take a few more days to gather the forces, even if it is possible.
