Ukrainian Intelligence Russians Refuse To Fight En Masse
20220418
https://charter97.org/en/news/2022/4/18/463963/
"Those who they have failed to persuade are given a record in their personal files: 'Refused to take part in the special military operation in the LPR, the DPR and Ukraine'. Those who have not taken part in the war against Ukraine, but have stayed in the so-called "strategic reserve" in the permanent deployment points, are also given the same record. Those who have arrived in a unit during a rotation but refused to take part in combat operations are given a stamp in their military ID: "Committed evasion from performing military service duties and service and combat tasks during the special military operation in Ukraine," the report said.
It is also noted that "specific" methods of persuasion are used: in particular, the promised payment of RUB 3m for an injury or contusion is made only if the serviceman returns to his unit to participate in further combat operations. Otherwise, the Russian servicemen face critical problems with paperwork and even with obtaining proper medical services and certificates confirming the very existence of their injuries.
The number of refusals to take part in the war against Ukraine in the armed forces of the Russian Federation is growing.
This is stated in a post of the Main Directorate of Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on Facebook.
At the same time, deputy commanders for military and political work and officers of the FSB are "working" with the servicemen who have refused to go to Ukraine.
"They are persuading people to take part in the offensive. If they refuse again, they are threatened with reprisals against their relatives," the report says.
"A wave of refusals to participate in the war against Ukraine continues in the Russian army. Thus it is confirmed that among the "contract servicemen" in the units of the 150 motorized rifle division of the 8th army of the southern military district of the Russian Armed Forces the number of refusals has reached 60-70 of the total number of personnel," the message reads.
"At the same time, the Russian command is taking measures to conceal the real number of killed military personnel. Their bodies are being accumulated in morgues in settlements of Rostov region. Lots of bodies have been in morgues for more than a month now," the report reads.
