Barstool Jingoism In Our Time
20220325
https://www.theamericanconservative.com/dreher/antonio-garcia-martinez-ukraine-russia-barstool-jingoism/
But even assuming that AGMs claim here is true, wouldnt the answer be obvious? Russia has nuclear weapons.Russia is not Iraq, Afghanistan, or Libya. One doesnt charge mindlessly into war with a nuclear-armed nation, because the costs could be annihilation of the entire human race.
Everything that happens in the world is the direct result or responsibility of the United States.
Well, I agree. Ukraine is not a holy innocent among the nations, but it is the victim of Russian aggression. Russian troops ought to turn around and go home. But I have always said that, from the first day of the war.Maybe AGM did not read my writing before he slammed me as an America-Hating Putin Lover AHPL. Its no crime not to read what I write, but if you are going to make that kind of slanderous claim about someone, especially a friend, you need to understand what you are talking about. If AGM agrees that there is an absolutely valid debate to be had about to what degree the USWest should aid the Ukrainians, why did he include me in his sweeping denunciations of AHPLs? To repeat, it seems to me that a number of pro-Ukraine partisans are very quick to condemn as Russian stooges people who dont share their rabid enthusiasm for expanding the war. This is not only factually incorrect, its morally wrong.
Oh boy. Once again, I cant speak for everyone who falls under AGMs umbrella of condemnation, but I have repeatedly said that World War III would start if NATO declared a no-fly zone over Ukraine. Why? Because it would involve NATO and Russian aircraft firing on each other. Also, for those who keep bleating, Whats going to be enough for you people to stop Russia? If not in Ukraine, then where?! Well, if Russia attacked a NATO country, that would be a clear red line. Ukraine is not in NATO. Treaties matter. I know war enthusiasts dont like to hear it, but they do.
But AGMs original allegation was not that I call the US foreign policy response deeply flawed. It was this:
Nearly all the information we receive on the military operations is coming from Ukrainian sources. Whatever our sympathy to Ukraine, it should make us prudent in the assessment of the situation.
Oh yeah? said I at the time. Why dont you come down to Ground Zero and say that? Have you ever smelled burning human flesh? I have, coming out of the Hole. I saw the South Tower fall in front of my eyes. You antiwar people have no idea what this is about.
To pick an area where I am vulnerable to being driven by my emotions: if I spent time with survivors of child sexual abuse clerical and otherwise, I would favor raising a vigilante mob to go in, grab the abusers by the scruff of their necks, take them out to a field, and shoot them. This is precisely why you should never put someone like me on a jury judging a case involving the sexual abuse or any abuse of children. I sympathize far too strongly to be able to render a prudent judgment on these cases. This is not to say that abusers of children deserve sympathy I dont believe they do. But it is to say that my passions in these cases  my rage at the abuse and abusers  clouds my judgment. I dont want to live in a society in which vigilante justice overtakes the rule of law, nor do I want to live in a society that has the death penalty despite believing with every fiber of my being that child abusers deserve death. I dont want to live in that kind of society because I know how flawed human judgment can be, especially when it is driven by emotion. AGM should watch Twelve Angry Men, and reflect on how its lesson can be applied to discussions of war and peace.
It was true: I saw 911 happen with my own eyes. I smelled the burning human flesh. I went to firefighters funerals. I did it all as a New Yorker back then. Did it help my judgment about the war? No  if anything, it harmed it, because I didnt have enough emotional distance from the human agony caused by the 911 terrorists to think clearly about what Americas response should be. But boy, I sure did feel satisfied with myself, and dismissive of the arguments of Those Who Werent There Dealing With Reality.
I like Antonio Garcia Martinez personally, and I usually like his writing, but his new piece for Bari Weisss Substack, titled, Why Does Tucker Carlson Sound Like A Berkeley Leftist?, is just shallow and silly, and way beneath the high standards of that blog. It starts like this:
In the Before Times, prior to Twitter and BLM and Critical Race Theory, the one wing of the political spectrum that was reliably America, love it or leave it! levels of patriotic was the right. The most traditional and curmudgeonly conservatives, grumps like William F. Buckley and George F. Will who harrumphed glumly about the world in National Review, were also the most absolutely pie-eyed patriots. America was an exceptional and indispensable nationin the words of Ronald Reagan, the last, best hope of humanity . . . a light unto the nations.
And nobody has held up Russia as a model for America. Where is he getting this? Im a big proponent of Hungary, as you know, but I have said clearly that Hungary is a very different country from the US, demographically and historically, and all the things that work in Hungary arent suited for the United States. I have praised certain aspects of PM Viktor Orbans governance  both in style and in policy  and have said that the GOP should take a look at them and figure out how to make them work in an American context. But its half-ass and inaccurate to claim that I or anyone else wants to create a carbon copy of Hungary in the United States. This is as lazy as conservatives who claim that people on the American Left who find things to admire about Scandinavian social democracy want to import it entirely to America.
AGM goes on to say that he went to the Poland-Ukraine border and stood with refugees, and that convinced him that people like his imaginary New Right America-haters are wrong and ought to shut up.
Situation as of 24 Mar. 2022  -pressure on urban centres in the east and south continues, particularly in Mariupol-the general tactical situation remains static but ?? forces are carrying out localised counter-attacks.ArmeesGouv pic.twitter.comIuPX6dsIcd
UPDATE.2: Thought about this on the flight back to Budapest. When AGM says, tauntingly, I think some reality would do them good, I hear my own voice circa 2002, sniping at people who said America shouldnt go to war with Iraq.
For the record, I dont think one has to live in another country to admire it, its people, and the policies of its government. I am a huge Francophile, for example, but I have never lived in France.
Suddenly so isolationist? Dude, The American Conservative, the magazine for which I write, was founded in opposition to the Iraq War! TAC has been publishing essays for twenty years arguing for realism and restraint in foreign policy. Were not isolationist another smear that neocons and neolibs use to dismiss our arguments, but we do believe that the US has been far too quick to rush into war, and that the interests of the US would be better served by realism and restraint in foreign and defense policy matters. AGM doesnt seem to understand the factions on the Right very well. We on the Realism  Restraint Right cheered when Donald Trump denounced the Iraq War as a mistake from the stage of the 2016 GOP primary debate in South Carolina. The audience booed him, but we thought it was great that a major GOP candidate read: not Ron Paul finally admitted publicly what was obviously true to any but the most diehard neocons.
And heres an interesting map tweeted out by the former French ambassador to the US:
The map was indeed too optimistic from a Russian point of view, but it had been shared with me by a foreign-policy expert who is not pro-Russian. Nevertheless, I wish I hadnt shared it, just as I wish I hadnt shared Ukraine propaganda the Snake Island story. I decided a couple of weeks ago to stop sharing stories that I wasnt confident were true, because I dont want to inadvertently share propaganda. Both sides are engaged in propaganda. It is more pleasant to believe Ukrainian propaganda, but doing so makes the US more vulnerable to making mistakes.
Thats because I believe he went to Ukraine, felt sorry for its people as he should have done!, and now wants to defend them. That is at some level admirable we should in most cases want to defend the weak against the strong. But this Russia-Ukraine situation is not so simple, and mostly but not only because Russia has nuclear weapons. People who diminish this fact are behaving recklessly. No, this doesnt give Russia carte blanche to do what it wants to do to its neighbors, and yes, if Russia attacks a NATO country, we are treaty-bound to defend it, despite the risk of nuclear war. But Ukraine is not in NATO! Russias abuse of Ukraine is wretched, but given the nuclear weapons factor, it is too risky to go to war with Russia to repel its troops. Thats simply an unhappy fact of life.
Who are these Putin fans on the New Right? Certainly not me. As I recall, the only time Ive praised him is for his entirely sensible take on gender ideology. Nearly every time Ive written about Russias war on Ukraine, I have condemned it, and expressed the hope that Ukraine will repel the Russian invaders. It is true that there are some people on the Right who have been more enthusiastic about Putin  Italys Matteo Salvini for one  but I cant come up with any right-wing Americans, with the possible exception of Bannon, who have praised him in general.
AGM seems shocked that Reagan-style conservatism is outdated on the Right. Where has he been the last five years? And what is this business about claiming that the New Right believes these two things?:
Its hard to believe that AGM, who is usually a much better thinker than this, went all the way to Ukraine to write this shoddy piece. He could have just moseyed down to his local barstool. Seems like he traveled over there, came to admire the Ukrainians and to identify with their cause, and now feels entitled to smear anyone who doesnt share his enthusiasm. This longer reported piece of his from Ukraine is truer to his customarily good form. I cant account for why Bari Weiss published such a flimsy piece on her usually-excellent site. The war sure has done a number on a lot of peoples minds.
Oh, come on. You cant falsely call a guy an America-hating Putin lover, and publish it on a huge online platform, then say, Hey, it was just a short piece based on a Twitter thread, whats the big deal?
Second, the point of my snarky remark was that AGM really did travel to Ukraine, but came away with a take that was worthy of a barstool Those people who are against joining this war against Russia are a bunch of America-hating Putin lovers!. Having traveled to the refugee zone is commendable and maybe even brave  but it doesnt make ones judgments correct.
Huh? I praised Putins take on pronouns long before the war started. If Xi Jinping praised mom and apple pie, I would credit him for that too. I only brought the Putinpronouns thing up in the context of war to acknowledge that I have found things about Putin praiseworthy in the past, and dont walk away from those things. The fact that Putin has launched a cruel and unjust war on Ukraine does not negate his common sense about gender ideology. That fact that Putin is right about gender ideology, and Joe Biden say is wrong, does not justify Russias war. Only in the frazzled minds of partisans does any of that make sense.
Where to even start with this? I dont read Vermeule, and I dont know what Steve Bannon believes, but Im pretty sure that Tucker does not believe that the US is incapable of doing good in the world, and historically has been a force for evil worldwide, or that America is at fault for everything that happens in the world. I know I dont. This is college-newspaper and talk-radio level dopiness that doesnt even begin to deal with the actual critiques that some of us on the Right have made of the US in this situation. He went all the way to Ukraine to write that?
Nobody believes either thing. They really dont. This is a low-rent way of dismissing substantive criticism about Americas mistakes in Eastern Europe and elsewhere, and its role in the world today. If AGM thinks that the United States policy towards Ukraine since the fall of Soviet communism has been sensible and correct, fine he should defend it. This seems, though, like a layabouts attempt to shoot down the Mearsheimer argument. It reminds me of an argument I had back in my college days in the 1980s, with the elderly left-wing mother of a friend. The old woman had recently returned from a peace cruise in the Soviet Union, and was full of praise for the Russian regime. At the time I was involved with my campus chapter of Amnesty International, and had been advocating on behalf of Russian political prisoners. When I brought their cases up with her, the old woman became instantly exasperated, and said, I think you just hate the Soviet people. Case closed.
One of the post-woke political realignments thats happened in the United States is the emergence of a New Right. This new movementTrumpian in its isolationist America First attitude and deeply cynical about the countrys ability to act competently in the worldspans everyone from Steve Bannon and Tucker Carlson to religious conservatives like Harvards Adrian Vermeule and the author Rod Dreher. Either more overtly in the case of Bannon, or more implicitly in the case of religious conservatives who hold up countries like Hungary or Russia as aspirational, this emergent ideology breaks with the Reagan-style, small-government conservatism of the past 40 years.
Again, I cant and wont speak for Vermeule or Bannon, and cant really speak for Carlson, because I dont watch him every night, but Ill speak for myself and generally for the viewpoint AGM lazily attempts to criticize here.
UPDATE: AGM has responded via Twitter. Ill reproduce his response below. Let me start out by saying that I dont regard this as a personal dispute. I continue to like and admire AGM! It shouldnt be necessary to say this, but it is, because many people assume that if you fall out on Twitter, you must HATE the other person. Pffft!
UPDATE.3: AGM accused me in that piece of relying on Russia propaganda by retweeting that map. Well, heres a fresh map from the French military, which looks pretty much like that other one:
Words mean things. In fact, I believe the US has been on balance a force for good in the world, but in recent decades  at least since 911  has done bad things, probably inadvertently. Over and over again, in writing in this space about the Ukraine war, I have said that the US and NATO bear some responsibility for what has happened, but that ultimately, it was Russias decision to send Russian forces across the border. Again, it is possible to hold Russia responsible for its criminal action, but at the same time to recognize that strategic foreign policy blunders on our part played a role in bringing this situation about. I could be wrong about that, but surely it is not illegitimate to explore these possibilities, if only so we can learn from our mistakes. This is called thinking, not emoting. I would like to think that AGM doesnt hold the converse to be true: that the US is incapable of doing wrong in the world, and that the US bears no responsibility for events in the world unless, of course, things turn out for the best, and the US gets to take credit.
The Ukraine situation makes this unlikely contradiction even more evident. The Putin fans among the New Rightin temporary retreat, currently sublimating their views as Ukraine skepticismreally think Russia some anti-woke exemplar worthy of imitation. Never mind that the church-attendance rate in Russia is far lower than the U.S., their birth-rate as low as any childless European country, and their abortion rate one of the highest in the world. Seen from the trad conservative perspective at least, Russia suffers from all the ills of post-modernity even more than the supposedly degenerate West.
It shows that this conflict is the West against Russia Japan is Western-aligned. Interesting .
One fascinating aspect of this New Right is that it shares a worldview with, of all things, the old hippie left. Two core tenets of New Right ideology are now:
The Putin fans among the New Rightin temporary retreat, currently sublimating their views as Ukraine skepticism
The cheapest shot in a piece full of cheap shots. This is a classic example of the kind of thing Ive heard lots of people at NatCon Brussels complaining about: that Russia ultra-hawks make it impossible to have any kind of nuanced discussion about the complexities of the Ukraine situation, because they denounce anything short of maximalism as closet pro-Putinism, or, as here, sublimated Putinophilia. I mentioned in an earlier post today a conversation one friend here had with a Pole who said, in all seriousness, that maybe nuclear war would be tolerable if Russia could once and for all be put in its place. Totally serious about this. I havent met a single person at this conference who has taken Russias side in this conflict. Everyone here, as far as I can tell, supports Ukraine. But boy, are people tired of being told that theyre letting down the side because they dont want to expand the war, or get NATO involved.
As others have pointed out, Hungarians were really angry at the West for not coming to their aid when they rebelled against Soviet occupation in 1956. I am quite sure that had I been on the streets of Budapest then, I would have been writing dispatches urging Western military involvement to defend the Hungarian freedom fighters. So it pains me to say that in retrospect, Eisenhower was correct not to risk nuclear war then. Because he didnt, there is a Hungary today, and an America too. Again, there are times when we have no choice but to take that risk the Cuban Missile Crisis was one of those times. But these instances must be rare, exceedingly rare, because of the potential costs to the world. The US had a vital national interest in preventing the Soviets from putting missiles in Cuba. At this point, I do not think we have a vital national interest in entering the war to protect Ukraine from unjust Russian aggression. And it doesnt make me an America-hating Putin lover to say so. In fact, because I love my country, I am sick and tired of seeing her soldiers committed to overseas conflicts by war-loving Washington politicians and the media class that encourage them.
The United States is incapable of doing good in the world, and historically has been a force for evil worldwide.
