Moscow accuses Washington of biological weapons research in Ukraine
20220310
https://www.tellerreport.com/news/2022-03-10-moscow-accuses-washington-of-biological-weapons-research-in-ukraine.rJ-QaKvZ5.html
He assured that the Americans "carry out these activities in the greatest secrecy" by creating laboratories "all along the perimeter of Russia and China".
"In the established and funded laboratories in Ukraine, documents show that experiments were carried out with bat coronavirus samples," the Russian spokesperson said.
The head of Russian diplomacy, Sergei Lavrov also denounced Thursday from Turkey absolutely scandalous facts about what the Pentagon is doing in the biological laboratories created with its money.
He assured that the United States plans to conduct work on pathogens of birds, bats and reptiles in Ukraine in 2022 as well as on the possibility of the spread of African swine fever and anthrax.
Russia claims to have found evidence to this effect in Ukrainian laboratories Compromising discoveries or false revelations? The Russian Defense Ministry said on Thursday that it discovered that the United States had funded a biological weapons program in Ukraine. "The objective of this biological research funded by the Pentagon in Ukraine was to create a mechanism for the stealthy propagation of deadly pathogens", accuses the spokesman of the ministry, Igor Konashenkov. A
War in Ukraine: Moscow justifies the strike against the Mariupol maternity hospital by assuring that it served as a base for Ukrainian nationalists
Igor Konashenkov also cited an American project on the transfer of pathogens by migratory wild birds between Ukraine and Russia and other neighboring countries.
Both the United States and Ukraine have denied the existence of laboratories intended to produce biological weapons in the country.
The Russian Defense Ministry said on Thursday that it discovered that the United States had funded a biological weapons program in Ukraine.
He accused Washington of using "Ukrainian territory to conduct experiments on pathogens that can then be used to create biological weapons."
"The objective of this biological research funded by the Pentagon in Ukraine was to create a mechanism for the stealthy propagation of deadly pathogens", accuses the spokesman of the ministry, Igor Konashenkov.
According to him, Moscow has recovered documents submitted by employees of Ukrainian laboratories, referring to transfers of human bio-materials taken in Ukraine to foreign countries at the request of American representatives.
War in Ukraine: Kiev City Ballet dancers applauded at the end of a show in Paris
