Russias war of aggression Hager criminal court begins investigation into war crimes
20220303
https://www.tellerreport.com/news/2022-03-03-russia-s-war-of-aggression--hager-criminal-court-begins-investigation-into-war-crimes.BkbZAYMAxc.html
According to the information, these now initially relate to possible crimes that were committed before the invasion of Russia.
"What we have already seen from Vladimir Putin's regime, regarding the use of ordnance that they have already dropped on innocent civilians, in my view, already fully constitutes a war crime," Johnson said.
It can be assumed that "both war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed in Ukraine," according to the chief prosecutor. The investigation will start immediately.
In view of the spread of the conflict, however, the investigation should be expanded in his view.
Shortly after the Russian attack on Ukraine began last week, the prosecutor said he was closely monitoring the situation.
However, in statements since November 2013, the country has accepted the court's jurisdiction to try war crimes and crimes against humanity on its territory, according to the prosecution.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson earlier on Tuesday evening in a speech in the House of Commons accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of having committed war crimes in the Russian attacks on Ukraine.
39 contracting states of the court had made a corresponding recommendation, which made the investigations possible.
In light of the investigation, Khan on Thursday reiterated his call to all those involved in hostilities in Ukraine to "strictly abide by the applicable rules of international humanitarian law."
The court had already investigated incidents related to the crackdown on pro-European protests in Kyiv in 20132014, as well as the Russian occupation of Crimea in 2014 and in eastern Ukraine.
There is "sufficient basis for assuming that both war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed in Ukraine," the chief prosecutor said on Monday.
