War in Ukraine LIVE Civilians evacuated from Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol
20220501
https://www.tellerreport.com/news/2022-05-01-war-in-ukraine-live--civilians-evacuated-from-azovstal-steel-plant-in-mariupol%E2%80%A6.SyELKzhsB9.html
They have been transferred to an agreed place and we hope that they will be evacuated to Zaporizhia, in the territory controlled by Ukraine, said Sviatoslav Palamar, deputy commander of the regiment in a video on Telegram.
Follow with us the latest information on the conflict in Eastern Europe Refresh Show highlights only THE ESSENTIAL A first group of around twenty civilians was extracted overnight from Saturday to Sunday from the Azovstal steelworks, the last pocket of Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol. Previous evacuation attempts had failed. On the spot, the bombardments continue. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the organization was doing "everything possible" to evacua
The Azov regiment, which defends this industrial zone, spoke of twenty civilians, women and children.
The balance of power being extremely favorable to the Russians, up to "five times superior in terms of equipment" according to a Ukrainian soldier, kyiv is still counting on an acceleration of arms deliveries from the West.
A few hours earlier, the official Russian agency Tass had announced that a group of 25 civilians, including six children, had been able to get out of Azovstal, where according to kyiv hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians are buried in underground galleries dating from the Soviet era.
War in Ukraine: After the missile fire on kyiv, rain of scuds on the Kremlin
A first group of around twenty civilians was extracted overnight from Saturday to Sunday from the Azovstal steelworks, the last pocket of Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol.
Above all, the exit of twenty civilians from the underground of this immense industrial complex represents a great first, all previous evacuation attempts having failed.
The second largest city in the country is indeed hit daily by Russian rockets, causing the death of civilians.
It is precisely on this eastern flank that the Russian army, numerically superior to its Ukrainian adversary and better endowed with artillery, is nibbling away at ground, seeking to hold it in a vice from the north and the south in order to complete its hold on the Donbass.
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the organization was doing "everything possible" to evacuate civilians stuck in the "apocalypse" of Mariupol, which had half a million people before the war.
The total capture of this city would allow Moscow to make the connection between the conquered territories in the South, in particular the Crimean peninsula, to the pro-Russian separatist republics of Donetsk and Lugansk, in the east.
Welcome to this new live dedicated to the war in Ukraine.While the bombardments continue, a first group of civilians was able to be extracted in the night from Saturday to Sunday from the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol.In Kharkiv, the situation is also still difficult.The second largest city in the country is indeed hit daily by Russian rockets, causing the death of civilians.The balance of power being extremely favorable to the Russians, up to "five times superior in terms of equipment" according to a Ukrainian soldier, kyiv is still counting on an acceleration of arms deliveries from the West.
While the bombardments continue, a first group of civilians was able to be extracted in the night from Saturday to Sunday from the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol.
A first group of civilians was extracted overnight from Saturday to Sunday from the Azovstal steelworks, the last pocket of Ukrainian resistance in the city.
