Russia says its ready to keep talking about Ukraine crisis
20220215
http://thepeninsulaqatar.com/article/15/02/2022/russia-says-its-ready-to-keep-talking-about-ukraine-crisis
Dr. Tamara Ugrich said she stocked up on grains and canned food and prepared an emergency suitcase.
The comments seemed designed to send a message to the world about Putins own position and offered some hope that war could be averted, even as Washington, London and other allies kept up their warnings that troops could move on Ukraine as soon as Wednesday.
Moscow wants guarantees that NATO will not allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join as members. It also wants the alliance to halt weapons deployments to Ukraine and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe.
One possible off-ramp emerged this week. Ukraines ambassador to the U.K., Vadym Prystaiko, pointed at a possibility of Ukraine shelving its NATO bid - an objective that is written into its constitution - if it would avert war with Russia.
In a last-ditch diplomatic effort German Chancellor Olaf Scholz planned to travel to Moscow on Tuesday for talks with Putin.
Lavrov replied that his ministry would not allow the U.S. and its allies to stonewall Russia's main requests.
"The path for diplomacy remains available if Russia chooses to engage constructively, White House principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said. "However, we are clear-eyed about the prospects of that, given the steps Russia is taking on the ground in plain sight.
"It is not the first threat the strong Ukrainian people have faced, Zelenskyy said Monday evening in a video address to the nation. "We're calm. We're strong. We're together.
"I dont believe in war, but on TV the tension is growing every day, and its getting harder and harder to keep calm," she said. "The more we are told not to panic, the more nervous people become.
U.S. officials said the Russian military continued apparent attack preparations along Ukraines borders. A U.S. defense official said small numbers of Russian ground units have been moving out of larger assembly areas for several days, taking up positions closer to the Ukrainian border at what would be departure points if Putin launched an invasion.
Moscow: TheKremlinand the West held out the possibility of a diplomatic path out of the Ukraine crisis, even as Russia appeared to continue preparations for a potential invasion, including moving troops and military hardware closer to its neighbor.
Maxar Technologies, a commercial satellite imagery company that has been monitoring the Russian buildup, reported increased Russian military activity in Belarus, Crimea and western Russia, including the arrival of helicopters, ground-attack aircraft and fighter-bomber jets at forward locations. The photos taken over a 48-hour period also show ground forces leaving their garrisons and combat units moving into convoy formation.
Still, Ukrainian security and defense council chief Oleksiy Danilov downplayed the threat of invasion but warned of the risk of "internal destabilization by unspecified forces.
As if to show defiance, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Wednesday would be a "day of national unity," calling on the country to display the blue-and-yellow flag and sing the national anthem in the face of "hybrid threats.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov attends a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, Russia February 14, 2022. SputnikAleksey NikolskyiKremlin via Reuters
The talks "cant go on indefinitely, but I would suggest to continue and expand them at this stage, Lavrov said, noting that Washington has offered to discuss limits for missile deployments in Europe, restrictions on military drills and other confidence-building measures.
Russia denies it has any plans to invade Ukraine, and Lavrov argued that Moscow should hold more talks, despite the West's refusal to consider Russia's main demands.
The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss information not publicly released. CBS News was first to report on the movement of the units.
The country is preparing nonetheless. Kyiv residents received letters from the mayor urging them "to defend your city, and signs appeared in apartment buildings indicating the nearest bomb shelter. The capital has about 4,500 such sites, including underground parking garages, subway stations and basements, the mayor said.
The fears stem from the fact that Russia has massed more than 130,000 Russian troops on Ukraines borders to the north, south and east. It has also launched massive military drills in Belarus, an ally that also borders Ukraine.
Putin noted that the West could try to draw Russia into "endless talks and questioned whether there is still a chance to reach agreement.
"Today we do not see that a large-scale offensive by the Russian Federation can take place either on Feb. 16th or the 17th, he told reporters. "We are aware of the risks that exist in the territory of our country. But the situation is absolutely under control.
At a made-for-television meeting with President Vladimir Putin, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov signaled Monday that Russia was ready to keep talking about the security grievances that have led to the crisis.
Prystaiko later appeared to back away from the idea, but the fact that it was raised at all suggests it is being discussed behind closed doors.
