Obama touts new Netflix series as a call to action for helping national parks
20220412
https://www.today.com/news/politics/former-president-obama-talks-ukraine-and-vladimir-putin-rcna23997
Obama narrates and serves as executive producer of the five-part series, Our Great National Parks, that drops Wednesday on Netflix, which showcases parks and reminds viewers how to preserve them.
Putin has always been ruthless against his own people, as well as others, he said Tuesday in an exclusive clip of his interview with Al. He has always been somebody whos wrapped up in this twisted, distorted sense of grievance and ethnic nationalism. That part of Putin, I think has always been there.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues, with fighting expected to intensify in the eastern part of the country and reports that Russia possibly used chemical weapons on civilians in the city of Mariupol.
Any time we get out of the city and were among trees and woods and critters I feel better, he said.
National Park Week also takes place from April 16 to April 24, with a focus on honoring the parks. People can visit any of the 423 national parks for free on the first day, April 16, with other events planned throughout the week.
During his conversation with Al, Obama also discussed Russia's invasion of Ukraine, saying that Russian PresidentVladimir Putin has consistently been a threat on the world stage.
What we have seen with the invasion of Ukraine is him being reckless in a way that you might not have anticipated eight, ten years ago, but the danger was always there, he said.
The situations in each of these circumstances are different, but I think that what were seeing consistently is a reminder of why its so important for us to not take our own democracy for granted, why its so important for us to stand for and align ourselves with those who believe in freedom and independence, and I think that the current administrations doing what it needs to be doing, Obama said.
Obama was president when Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. Is there a part of him that wonders if he handled the matter properly?
Im hoping that were going to learn something, not just about how to maintain national parks, but why its so important to deal with issues like climate change that threaten the entire planet, he told TODAYs Al Roker in an interview at Virginia's Great Falls National Park that aired Wednesday.
Obama also said the current military action in Ukraine represents a new approach from Putin that may not necessarily have happened before.
We dont intend to be isolated, he reportedly said during a Tuesday meeting with Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko. It is impossible to severely isolate anyone in the modern world  especially such a vast country as Russia.
Obama emphasized the importance of treating our planet better, which he says younger generations have already picked up on.
The former president is launching the Wild for All initiative, which encourages people to go outside and become educated on nature conservation.
I think that the generation of our kids are more mindful of how we havent always taken care of the planet, he said. And with climate change affecting everything, they are demanding action. Nature is more resilient than we think, if we are intentional about it.
Putin, meanwhile, has reiterated the importance of his country not being taken out of the world stage.
Drew Weisholtz is a reporter for TODAY Digital, focusing on pop culture, nostalgia and trending stories. He has seen every episode of Saved by the Bell at least 50 times, longs to perfect the crane kick from The Karate Kid and performs stand-up comedy, while also cheering on the New York Yankees and New York Giants. A graduate of Rutgers University, he is the married father of two kids who believe he is ridiculous.
Former President Barack Obama hopes his new Netflix series, which he gives viewers a look at some of our national parks, spurs people to help them thrive.
He says his daughters, Sasha and Malia, are part of a demographic that "demands us being better caretakers."
