PM Albania far from war Serbia has united Western Balkans with the west
20220328
https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/pm-albania-far-from-war-serbia-has-united-western-balkans-with-the-west/
As Vui carefully clarified during a press conference, the resolution voted by 141 out of 193 UN member states does not change Serbias previous stance on the matter.
Rama said that it was likely the country will see a reduction in products on shelves, including wheat products.
Since Russias invasion of Ukraine, the Balkans have been somewhat nervous over fears the conflict could spread to the region, in particular considering Serbias allyship with Moscow.
Meanwhile, Rama singled out Serbia to commend it for unifying the Western Balkans with the West after Serbia voted in favour of a UN resolution deploring the Russian aggression against Ukraine.
Albania cannot wait any longer for the two neighbours to resolve their quarrel. Our course in that direction will fully change, Rama said on Thursday in Tirana. EPA-EFEVALDRIN XHEMAJ
On Tuesday, the last Russian grain delivery arrived in Albania. The country currently gets almost 50 of its wheat from Russia and Ukraine, something that is no longer possible. There is about two months of grain left in wholesaler reservers and zero in government reserves.
He hinted there was no need to ready the shelters made by communist dictator Enver Hoxha.
In fact, some essential goods related to the Russian and Ukrainian wheat markets, for example, are no longer available as they were, he said.
Prime Minister Edi Rama has called for calm over the situation in Ukraine, reassuring Albanians that we are far from war or conflict.
As for war in Albania, Rama said we are very far from this kind of imagination. I hope and believe so much more that we are in the place of the military alliance which works on the principle that if one is touched, everyone is affected.
Serbias vote against Russia unifies the Western Balkans with the West, Ramatweetedfrom Tirana, shortly after a press conference in Belgrade by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic.
Ramas praise of Serbia for allegedly aligning the Western Balkans with the West comes amidst increasing pressure for the latter to align itself with EU sanctions and stance against Russia.
The Albanian leaders claim contradicts Serbias stance and statements by the government which has tried to downplay the vote and have stressed that they will not join the EU and US sanctions against Russia.
Serbia kept its position from the previous days. Out of a total of 13 articles, we voted for four, and we could not vote for nine because they concerned the introduction of sanctions or the banking sector or air transport or individuals directly, from Putin, Lavrov, Peskov to everyone else,Vui stated.
