Russian state media denies its military attacked Kyiv and even claims Ukraine shot down its own plane there
20220226
https://www.businessinsider.co.za/russia-state-media-denies-kyiv-attack-says-ukraine-attacking-self-2022-2
The TASS agency, which publishes in both English and Russian, also carried the claim about the plane being shot down.
It wrote instead that Russia said its forces were "not targeting Ukrainian cities, but are limited to surgically striking and incapacitating Ukrainian military infrastructure. There are no threats whatsoever to the civilian population."
Although Russia's system of state media outlets is large and influential, there are many other ways for Russians to find news, including homegrown independent outlets and foreign press.
But the host, Artynom Sheynin, interrupted, telling him that there was in fact no suffering.
Russia's military, on the other hand, was reported to have destroyed 11 Ukrainian air fields and a naval base. Its choice for "photo of the week" was not to do with the war, but a wildlife image of cranes in China at sundown.
On Thursday and into Friday it was clear to most people around the world that Russia had invaded Ukraine, and moved quickly to attack its capital, Kyiv.
It reporteda claim that more than 150 Ukrainian soldiers had surrendered, including 82 on Zmiinyi Island in the Black Sea. Ukraine said that its troops refused to surrender and died fighting. Audio appeared to show the outgunned soldiers telling a warship to "go fuck yourself."
Here is a selection of stories from the front pages of major Russian outlets in the early afternoon of Friday, the second day of hostilities around Kyiv.
Per Scarr's translation, host Vladislav Shurygin began to describe videos of Russian shelling in Kyiv, arguing that it was necessary despite the evident suffering among the people there.
A telling moment on Friday morning on Russia's Channel 1 appeared to show the difficulty of maintaining such a position.
Francis Scarr, a BBC employee in Moscow, described a brief conflict between a guest and host on the news show "Time Will Tell."
The agency also reported on a speech by Zelensky lamenting that Ukraine was left to face Russia by itself  but omitted anything Zelensky said about strikes on Kyiv.
Large protests against the war erupted on Thursday, prompting mass arrests. Celebrities and other public figures also spoke out against the war, despite the risk of censure.
One prominent story was about Kyiv  but claimed that the damage to buildings there was from Ukraine accidentally shooting down one of its own fighter jets. The story cited an unnamed Russian defense source, who also said Russia was not attacking Kyiv.
RIA also noted Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky's request for peace negotiations with Russia, though without the context of attacks on Kyiv. It also aired the outlandish claim that Ukraine was trying to develop nuclear weapons, for which there is no evidence, but which Russia also cited to justify its attack.
"Because Kyiv," he said, "as a city where civilians live, hasn't been bombed by anyone."
But those receiving their news from Russia's vast array of state media outlets were given no sense of this, according to a review by Insider and other monitors.
Explosions were reported in the city of 2.8 million as its residents huddled in bomb shelters.
They had a common theme: Russia is winning, Ukraine is planning atrocities, and there are no Russian attacks on Kyiv.
The Interfax agency had a similar approach. Its top story was an official denial that Russia was attacking Kyiv, which also reported that Ukraine had shot down its own plane by mistake.
