Ukraines postal service announces itll release a commemorative Russian warship go fck yourself stamp
20220309
https://www.businessinsider.co.za/ukraine-to-release-russian-warship-go-fck-yourself-stamp-2022-3
"So let's not waste time! Let's get to work so that in the near future you can already use the brand and send it to someone who needs it," the update continued.
"The sketch by artist Boris Groh received the most votes and will soon be published by Ukraine's state postal company," Dzheppar wrote on Twitter.
"With this stamp, you can send letters and postcards even abroad. And most importantly, they will have a sewn-in message that you already know well: "Russian warship, go fck yourself!" the Ukrposhta wrote in a Facebook update.
Many of the finalist stamps prominently featured the phrase, as well as depictions of the destruction of a Russian ship one showed the warship cracking in half while another featured it getting smashed by a giant fist.
In the video, the voice of someone on a Russian vessel radios the island's 13 defenders and tells them to surrender. One of the troops responds on the radio: "Russian warship, go fuck yourself."
The Ukrainian postal service will release a stamp that says "Russian warship, go fck yourself" to commemorate the soldiers who reportedly cursed out Russian forces attacking Snake Island during the early days of the Russian invasion.
One of the choices showed a Ukrainian soldier flipping off a Russian warship in the distance, which took home the most votes, according to a Saturday announcement from Emine Dzheppar, first deputy minister of foreign affairs in Ukraine.
According to Ukrainian authorities, Russian forces then bombarded the small island. The troops were presumed dead after Ukraine lost contact and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky praised the defenders as heroes.
The postal service said it "did not expect that there would be so many people willing to take part in the competition and that it would go beyond Ukraine."
The stamps reference the purported words of Ukrainian defenders during a back-and-forth with a Russian warship at the start of Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
On Tuesday, military sources told The Times that one of the Russian ships involved in the assault was destroyed by Ukrainian forces.
But the Ukrainian Navy now says the soldiers are alive and were captured after repelling multiple Russian assaults and running out of ammunition, Insider's Erin Snodgrass reported.
Ukrposhta said in a Facebook update that out of 8,000 votes, 1,700 chose Groh's submission. The postal service agency now has to "complete the organizational questions and submit the sketch in print," the update said.
Ukrposhta, the country's postal service agency, held a vote to choose one of 20 finalist designs sent in that feature the phrase, which has become a rallying cry for Ukrainian troops and citizens defending their homeland.
