Ukraines first lady says she personally knew the 4yearold girl who was pictured dead after a Russian missile
20220715
https://www.businessinsider.co.za/ukraine-first-lady-says-knew-girl-killed-by-russia-missile-2022-7
Liza Dmitrieva, who had Down's Syndrome, was among at least 22 people who died in the attack in the Ukrainian city of Vinnytsia on Thursday, Ukraine's defense ministry said.
"Russia ended the girl's life just at the time when a conference on Russian war crimes was taking place in the Netherlands, in The Hague," he said. "Can you think of any other terrorist organization that would allow itself such audacity? To kill just at the moment when its previous crimes are the subject of international discussion."
Surveillance footage of the attack, published by Sky News, showed people falling to the ground and ducking for cover as the missile strikes.
Ukraine's first lady, Olena Zelenska, said she personally knew the four-year-old girl who was killed by a Russian missile strike on Thursday.
Hours before the deadly strike, the girl's mother, Iryna Dmitrieva, had posted a video of her daughter pushing a pink pram, the ministry said.
Zelenska, the wife of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, tweeted that she recognized the girl from a Christmas video she once made to celebrate the holidays.
The attack on Thursday occurred far from the war's front lines and at a time when the streets were full of people, The Guardian reported. The New York Times reported that Vinnytsia was hundreds of miles away from where the fighting was.
After the attack, the State Emergency Service of Ukraine published a graphic photo appearing to show a child wearing the same clothes next to the same pram.
Dmitrieva's mother survived, but was taken to the hospital with her leg torn off, Ukraine's defense ministry said.
"A girl is among the dead today in Vinnytsia, she was four years old, her name was Liza. The child was four years old!" he said.
"Today we were horrified to see a photo of an overturned baby carriage from Vinnytsia. And then, reading the news, I realised that I knew this girl," Zelenska said on Thursday.
In his nightly address on Thursday, Zelenskyy also mentioned the girl's death and called the Vinnytsia attack "an open act of terrorism."
Zelenska also shared a video where she can be seen painting Christmas ornaments with Dmitrieva and other children. It is unclear when this video was taken.
"We met while recording a video for Christmas holidays. The little girl managed to paint with dye not only herself, her dress, but also all the other children, me, the cameramen and the director just in half an hour ... Look at her, alive, please."
