Zelensky calls Russias missile strike on Kharkivs Freedom Square a war crime and state terrorism
20220301
https://www.businessinsider.co.za/zelensky-calls-russia-missile-strike-ukraine-kharkiv-war-crime-2022-3
"The rocket aimed at the central square is an outright terror," Zelensky said. "No one will forgive. No one will forget."
The US State Department on Monday accused Russia of "widespread" human rights abuses in Ukraine, while top human rights groups warned that ongoing bombings against Ukrainian citizens may be considered war crimes.
Meanwhile, the prosecutor for the International Criminal Court said he is seeking approval to investigate Russia for possible "war crimes and crimes against humanity" in Ukraine.
Zelensky said that Freedom Square in Ukraine's second-largest city was hit on Tuesday by a cruise missile strike and that there were "dozens of victims."
Zelensky called on other countries to respond immediately to the "criminal tactic," urging the international community to condemn Russia and demanding that those responsible for the strikes be sent to an international court.
"I am satisfied that there is a reasonable basis to believe that both alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity have been committed in Ukraine," Karim Khan said in astatement on Monday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called Russia's missile strike on Kharkiv's Freedom Square a "war crime" and "state terrorism."
"This attack on Kharkiv is a war crime. This is state terrorism of the Russian Federation," Zelensky said in a video statement posted on Telegram on Tuesday. "After that, Russia is a terrorist state, obviously."
"Russia's invasion has damaged and destroyed schools, hospitals, radio stations, and homes, killing and injuring civilians, including children," Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in astatementduring a United Nations Human Rights Council meeting.
Local authorities told BBC that at least 10 people were killed and dozens more were injured in the strike.
The strike hit an opera house, concert hall, and a local government building in Freedom Square, local officials told the BBC.
The Tuesday attack comes a day after Ukrainian interior ministry adviser Anton Herashchenko said that dozens of people were reportedly killed in Russian strikes in Kharkiv on Monday.
