US and Russia try to lower temperature in Ukraine crisis
20220121
https://www.wcvb.com/article/us-and-russia-try-to-lower-temperature-in-ukraine-crisis/38841183
Washington and its allies have repeatedly promised severe consequences such as biting economic sanctions  though not military action  against Russia if an invasion goes ahead.
The United States and Russia sought to lower the temperature Friday in a heated standoff over Ukraine, even as they said no breakthrough was imminent in the crisis that has raised fears of a possible Russian invasion.
Blinken said the U.S. would be open to a meeting between Putin and U.S. President Joe Biden, if it would be useful and productive.
I cant say whether we are on the right track or not," he told reporters. "We will understand that when we receive the U.S. written response to all of our proposals.
Were looking at what is visible to all, and it is deeds and actions and not words that make all the difference, he said.
The Russian Foreign Ministry mocked those statements, saying they must have been prepared by an Orwellian Ministry of Truth, and Lavrov caustically dismissed them.
Blinken has taken pains to stress U.S. unity with its allies in opposition to a possible Russian invasion, something that took an apparent hit earlier this week when Biden drew widespread criticism for saying retaliation for Russian aggression in Ukraine would depend on the details and that a minor incursion could prompt discord among Western allies.
Blinken repeated that warning Friday before the talks. He said the U.S. and its allies were committed to diplomacy, but also committed "if that proves impossible, and Russia decides to pursue aggression against Ukraine, to a united, swift and severe response."
The State Department, meanwhile, put out three statements  two on Russian disinformation, including specifically on Ukraine, and another entitled Taking Action to Expose and Disrupt Russias Destabilization Campaign in Ukraine. The documents accused Russia and Putin of trying to reconstitute the former Soviet Union through intimidation and force.
The Russian Foreign Ministry also rejected Western claims that Moscow was trying to rebuild the Soviet empire and carve out its zone of influence in eastern Europe, charging that its the West that thinks in categories of zones of influence.
Ukraine is already beset by conflict. Russia's Putin seized control of Ukraines Crimea Peninsula in 2014 and backed a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine, part of a simmering but largely stalemated conflict with Ukrainian forces that has taken more than 14,000 lives. Putin faced limited international consequences for those moves, but the West says a new invasion would be different.
We didnt expect any major breakthroughs to happen today, but I believe we are now on a clearer path to understanding each others positions, Blinken told reporters after the meeting.
The U.S. and its NATO allies have flatly rejected those demands and say that Russian President Vladimir Putin knows they are nonstarters. They have said they're open to less dramatic moves.
With an estimated 100,000 Russian troops massed near Ukraine, many fear Moscow is preparing an invasion although Russia denies that. The U.S. and its allies are scrambling to present a united front to prevent that or coordinate a tough response if they cant.
But he said he also wanted to use the opportunity to share directly with Lavrov some concrete ideas to address some of the concerns that you have raised, as well as the deep concerns that many of us have about Russias actions.
I do hope that not everyone in the State Department was working on those materials and there were some who were working on the essence of our proposals and their substance," he said.
Russia has denied it is planning an invasion and instead accused the West on Thursday of plotting provocations in Ukraine, citing the delivery of weapons to the country by British military transport planes in recent days.
Blinken said Lavrov repeated Russia's insistence that it has no plans to invade Ukraine but stressed that the U.S. and its allies were not convinced of that.
Ahead of his meeting with Lavrov, Blinken met Ukraines president in Kyiv and top diplomats from Britain, France and Germany in Berlin this week.
Ive been absolutely clear with President Putin, Biden said. He has no misunderstanding: Any, any assembled Russian units move across the Ukrainian border, that is an invasion.
Lavrov, meanwhile, called the talks constructive and useful and said that the U.S. agreed to provide written responses to Russian demands on Ukraine and NATO next week. That could at least delay any imminent aggression for a few days.
The Russian Foreign Ministry reaffirmed its demands Friday that NATO not expand into Ukraine, that no alliance weapons be deployed near Russian borders and that alliance forces pull back from Central and Eastern Europe.
Moscow has demanded that the NATO alliance promise that Ukraine  a former Soviet republic  will never be allowed to join. It also wants the allies to remove troops and military equipment from parts of eastern Europe.
Adding to its repeated verbal warnings to Russia, the United States stepped up sanctions on Thursday. The U.S. Treasury Department slapped new measures on four Ukrainian officials. Blinken said the four were at the center of a Kremlin effort begun in 2020 to damage Ukraines ability to independently function.
On Thursday, Biden sought to clarify his comments by cautioning that any Russian troop movements across Ukraines border would constitute an invasion and that Moscow would pay a heavy price for such an action.
Armed with seemingly intractable and diametrically opposed demands, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met in Geneva at what the American said was a critical moment.
