Bidens Ukraine ambassador nominee Bridget Brink calls challenges enormous
20220510
https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/2022/05/10/ukraine-ambassador-bridget-brink-confirmation/9674222002/
There will be a lot of scrutiny from Washington on all of this, Risch warned. He particularly encouraged Brink to not let Ukraine allow the fog of war to keep them from making necessary internal reforms.
If Brink is confirmed, asexpected, her portfolio would include everything from shepherding military and humanitarian aid to coordinating U.S. assistance to the war-crimes documentation effort to, eventually, helping Ukraine rebuild.
Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass, likewise said hes worried that Ukraine will win the war and lose the peace if it doesnt reject what he called an addiction to a corrupt way of operating.
Brink said the serious and difficult internal reforms needed will be the biggest challenge, next step challenge, for the Ukrainian government.
Senators from both parties praised Brinks background and called it urgent to get her on the job.
Brink said she hopes the embassy will be operational in time for her to start her mission in Kyiv.
The day after Russiainvaded, Brink traveled toSlovakias border with Ukraine in a show of support as embassy staff worked to help fleeing refugees.
Before her current ambassadorpost, Brink served as a top adviser in the State Department's Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs.She speaks Russian and has studied Slovak, Serbian, Georgianand French, according to her official biography.
I would assess the challenge to be enormous, Bridget Brink, a veteran foreign service officer, said at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
The U.S. has not had a confirmed U.S. ambassador to Ukraine since 2019, when then-President Donald Trump yanked Marie Yovanovitchfrom the role. The embassy has been run by a series of interim leaders since then.
In the run-up to Russia's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, U.S. diplomats left Kyiv amid security concerns. The embassy staff has been working from Poland temporarily Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said they will reopen the embassy in Kyiv but has not given a specific timeline.
We sure dont want to be last to the party, Risch said. So we need to move along as best we can.
WASHINGTON President Joe Bidens nominee to be U.S. ambassador to Ukraine told senators Tuesday she does not underestimate the task ahead if she is confirmed.
Noting that other countries have re-opened their embassies, Sen. James Risch, R-Idaho, pressed for action.
Brinkhas spent her two-plus decades at the State Department immersed in European and Eurasian affairs, including assignments inUzbekistan and Georgia.
"My heart is with every victim of this senseless war, she said at the time, according to a State Department release.
But Brink, who currently serves asthe U.S. Ambassador to the Slovak Republic, said shes heartened by the remarkable international coalition thats come together to push back against Russias war of choice in a way I don't think I've ever seen in my 25 years in the service.
