Congress comes to deal on bill banning Russian oil Ukraine claims killing Russian general in battle March 7 recap
20220307
https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/2022/03/07/ukraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/9404740002/
This proposal doesnt have any demands about the citizens being sent necessarily to Russia, into Russian territory, Nebenzia said.Theres also evacuation offered towards Ukrainian cities to the west of Kyiv, and ultimately it will be the choice of the people themselves where they want to be evacuated to."
New Zealand's government said Monday that it plans to rush through a new law that will allow it to impose economic sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
Previous efforts to set up safe passage for civilians over the weekend fell apart amid continued shelling. But the Russian Defense Ministry announced a new push Monday, saying civilians would be allowed to leave the capital of Kyiv, Mariupol and the cities of Kharkiv and Sumy.
Ukraine identified him as 45-year-old Maj. Gen. Vitaly Gerasimov, and said he had fought with Russian forces in Syria and Chechnya and had taken part in the seizure of Crimea in 2014. According to the intelligence agency, he was killed around Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city.
Macron's officesaid the Putin call focused primarily on the safety of Ukraines nuclear plants. Macrontold Putin these facilities must not be targeted by a Russian offensive, andPutin said he does not intend to attack the plants, Macron's office said.
Australias prime minister says Russia and Chinas closer relationship is opportunistic rather than strategic.Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday labeled the alliance an Arc of Autocracy and said Russia and China would prefer a new world order to the one that has been in place since World War II.
Many of the almost 2 million Ukrainians who have fled the war have escapedon packed trains with only the possessions they can carry on their backs. Most are women and children. At Poland's Przemyl Gwny train station, Italian photojournalistFrancesco Malavolta captured a photo of special giftsleft by local families for mothers of young children exiting the train a line of donated strollers. Some of the strollers are packed with blankets and other necessities. Malvolta took a similar picture inVyn, Slovakia. He has also photographed many families, some with babies, scrambling to escape the fighting.
The U.S. is among 48 nations whose governments have committed "unfriendly actions" against Russia, the Kremlin says.Russian citizens, companies and government bodies that owe money to those countries can pay debts in rubles, the decree says.
The proposal made Monday by Russia'sU.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia during the U.N.Security Council meeting on thehumanitarian crisis in Ukraine included that fleeing Ukrainians would not have to flee to Russia oror its ally Belarus, a key issueUkrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyy called "just cynicism" and a propaganda effort in the country's favor.
What is going on with gas prices?:Are oil companies price gouging? What does this have to do with Russia? When will gas go down?
Italian Premier Mario Draghi expressed little hope that peace talks will result in an end to the war.Russia will continue to pound Ukraine until the country has surrendered, probably installs a friendly government and defeats the resistance. Thats what the facts demonstrate.
The White House has been reluctant to ban Russian oil imports as gas prices at the pump spike for Americans, but has not ruled out the option.
Russia is recruiting Syrian mercenaries to fight its war in Ukraine, a senior Defense Department official said Monday.The Pentagon did not have an estimate on the number of fighters the Russian military is seeking from Syria, said the official who was not authorized to speak publicly about intelligence findings. There are no indications that Syrians had arrived in Ukraine. Russia intervened in Syrias civil war in 2015, supporting the government of Bashar al Assad.
Top officials in the Congress reached an agreement Monday on legislation that would ban Russian oil imports to the U.S. and end Russias permanent normal trade relation status in response to the intensifying war in Ukraine, according to a Senate aide granted anonymity to discuss private deliberations.
The recruiting effortis noteworthy given what the official described as Russias struggles to overcome significant resistance from Ukrainians. Meanwhile, nearly 100 of the Russian combat forces President Vladimir Putin deployed to Ukraines borders are now inside the country. The official said the main force of Russian troops appears stalled outside Kyiv.Ukrainian airspace remains contested, the official said, with Ukraine able to fly the majority of its warplanes.
United Airlines on Monday said it will indefinitely suspend two of its four routes between the United States and India because ofthe war in Ukraine.The Chicago-based airline will no longer fly between San Francisco and New Delhi and between Newark, New Jersey, and Mumbai because of its decision not to overfly Russian airspace during the conflict.
The airline plans to continue operating flights between Newark and New Delhi and Chicago and New Delhi because it can more efficiently reroute those flights, according to United spokesperson Leslie Scott.
The number of refugees who have fled Ukraine surpassed 1.7 million on Monday, and an EU official warned the number could reach 5 million.
Unlike many countries that have already introduced sanctions, New Zealand's existing laws don't allow it to apply meaningful measures unless they're part of a broader United Nations effort. Because Russia has U.N. Security Council veto power, that has left New Zealand hamstrung.
Its a rare occurrence for such a senior military official to die in action fighting, but Gerasimov marks the second known Russian general killed during the war in Ukraine. Maj. Gen. Andrei Sukhovetsky, the commanding general of the Russian 7th Airborne Division, was killed last week.
GAS PRICES ARE RISING:What can Biden do to lower costs at the pump amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine?
Blinken has begun a tripto the three Baltic states that are increasingly on edge as Russia presses ahead with its invasion of Ukraine.The former Soviet republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia are all members of NATO and Blinken aims to reassure them of the alliances protection. Since the invasion of Ukraine last month, NATO has moved quickly to boost its troop presence in its eastern flank allies.
Since Russian forces took the plant, the IAEA said the Ukrainian regulator has informed it that its not currently possible to deliver spare parts or medicine to the plant.
The Ukrainian military intelligence agency said a Russian general has been killed in battle, a rarity in modern times.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said without elaboration that there were some small positive shifts regarding logistics of humanitarian corridors. He said that consultations will continue on ways to negotiate an end to hostilities.
"We decided who knows what will happen tomorrow we should get married in front of the state, in front of God," said Ivashchenko, the bride.
Morrison has criticized Beijings failure to condemn Russias invasion of Ukraine and Chinas expansion of trade in Russian wheat while other countries are imposing sanctions.Australia last week promised Ukraine $50 million in missiles, ammunition and other military hardware to fight Russian invaders.
American Airlines is still operating its New York-Delhi flights, spokesperson Curtis Blessing said. In late February, before Russia's invasion of Ukraine began, the airline preemptively started rerouting the flight to avoid Ukraine airspace.
Over the weekend, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin ordered an additional 500 U.S. troops based in the United States to Greece, Poland and Romania. The group includes air-refuelers, maintenance and other support troops, the official said.
The announcement came hours after a third round of talks between the two countries. Ukrainian officials had said the talks didn't provide much momentum on a ceasefire or an end to the war but there were slight shifts on humanitarian corridors.
Blinkens Baltic tour opened Monday in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius, where support for Ukraines resistance to the invasion government is palpable with signs of solidarity with Ukrainians in many businesses and on public buildings and buses.
USA TODAY spent 36 hours with a team of overseas nurses, engineers and logistics personnel invited by Ukraine'sauthorities to build a field hospital for emergency and specialized trauma care in Lviv. It is being established to servean expected wave of people military and civilian impacted by Russia's assault on Ukraine as Moscow counters resistance to its invasion with more firepower.The location of theplanned hospital is on the fringes of Lviv in western Ukraine identified as a potential capital if Kyiv falls to the Kremlin.
The number of refugees who have fled Ukraine surpassed 1.7 million on Monday, and an EU official warned the number would likely reach 5 million. More than 1 million have crossed the border into Poland, according to the U.N. refugee agency.
Ending the normal trade relation status could result in steep tariffs on other Russian imports.
OIL FROM RUSSIA:How much oil does the US buy from Russia? Not much, but gas prices are rising amid Ukraine invasion
"I've set up hospitals in war zones, and we've deliberately marked ones that have been bombed and we've left them unmarked and gotten bombed," said Ken Isaacs, the American who is leading the effort to construct the hospital. "When an airplane wants to bomb you, they bomb you." Read more here.
The bill will be specific only to the Ukraine invasion but could allow New Zealand to impose sanctions on countries seen to be helping Russia, such as Belarus.
The national average price for unleaded gasoline hit$4.10 a gallon Monday, compared with $3.61 a week agoand $3.44 a month ago, according to AAA.
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Monday, March 7. Follow here for the latest updates and news from Tuesday, March 8, as Russia's invasion continues.
Hours after the talks, Russia announced a limited ceasefire that would happen on Tuesday morning and the opening of safe corridors for civilians to evacuate the war-torn country, a significantmove that's likely to be met with skepticism after similar efforts failed.
Biden, conferred via video teleconference Mondaywith the leaders of France, Germany and England, has worked for weeks in close consultation with European allies over how to respond to Russias aggression.Macron, pressing ahead with diplomatic efforts to end the war, spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday, their fourth conversation since Russian forces attacked Ukraine on Feb. 24.
Fylymonov, the groom, said,in a video translated by The Guardian that they live in "challenging times... thats why it is betterdo it sooner than later. Read more here.
A decision is expected on the request within days, though that does not mean Russia would abide by any order the court might issue.
"It's time to think about allowing these children to have refugee status in other countries," Nehrbasssaid.
Russia has snubbed a hearing at the United Nations top court into a legal bid by Kyiv to halt Moscows devastating invasion of Ukraine. A row of seats reserved for Russian lawyers at the International Court of Justice was empty Monday morning as the hearing opened.The courts president, American judge Joan E. Donoghue, said Russias ambassador to the Netherlands informed judges that his government did not intend to participate in the oral proceedings. The hearing went ahead without the Russian delegation.
EU foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell called on mobilizing all the resources of the bloc of 27 nations to help countries welcoming the refugee. "If they continue to bomb Ukrainian cities in an indiscriminate manner, we can expect 5 million migrants,"EU foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell said. "Not migrants, we can't call them migrants. These are exiled people."
A third round of talks between Russiaand Ukraineended Monday without any significantbreakthroughs, althoughUkrainian officials saidthere were slight shiftson safe passages for civilians attempting to flee to war-torn country.
However, it adds to a string of concerns the Vienna-based IAEA has over nuclear facilities and material in Ukraine. Last week, Russian shelling started a fire at Europe's largest nuclear plant in Ukraine, causing worldwide fears of another emergency like the 1986 Chernobyl accident, the worlds worst nuclear disaster.
International Adoption Net told USA TODAY that numerousU.S. families hoping to adopt from Ukrainehave seen the process placed on hold because Ukrainian courts are closed.Daniel Nehrbass from Nightlight Christian Adoption said his agency had 11 familieswaiting to adopt 20 children from Ukraine, but that process has now halted. The State Department saysit hasaskedthe Ukrainian government to expedite new birth certificates and passports for all adopted children that require them.
The U.N. nuclear watchdog said Ukraine has informed it that a new research facility producing radioisotopes for medical and industrial uses has been damaged by shelling in Kharkiv.
A Ukrainian couple exchanged vows Sunday near a checkpoint on the outskirts of Kyivamid Russias ongoing invasion of Ukraine.Lesia Ivashchenko and Valerii Fylymonov, Ukrainian territorial defense members, said they havebeen together for more than 20 years. Their18-year-old daughter watched the ceremony on a video call. The bride carried flowers and wore a white veilduring the ceremony.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said the Ukrainian regulator told it that Sundays incident didnt cause any increase in radiation levels at the site. It said the nuclear material at the facility is always subcritical and there is a very low stock of it, so the IAEAs assessment is that the reported damage would have no radiological consequence.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken will go to Paris on Tuesday to hear from Macron, who holds the European Union's rotating presidency.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the new legislation would allow it to target people, companies and assets connected to those in Russia associated with the invasion, including oligarchs. It would allow New Zealand to freeze assets and stop superyachts or planes from arriving.
Russian banks are looking into issuing cards that operate on a Chinese payment system after American Express, Visa and Mastercard cut off services in Russia citing the invasion.
President Joe Biden has been reluctant to ban Russian oil, fearing it could further fuel inflation heading into the midterm elections this November.
President Joe Biden discussed the latest developmentswith French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholzand British Prime Minister Boris Johnson during an 80-minute teleconference, with leaders saying they were determined to continue "raising the costs on Russia for its unprovoked and unjustified" attack on Ukraine.
The International Court of Justice is opening two days of hearings at its headquarters, the Peace Palace, into Ukraine's request for its judges to order Russia to halt its invasion. Ukraine is scheduled to present its arguments Monday morning and Russia has the opportunity to respond on Tuesday.
