Russia wont escalate crisis in Ukraine Macron says What we know
20220208
https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/2022/02/08/europe-diplomacy-ukraine-russia-what-we-know/6701961001/
Litvinova reported from Moscow. Jill Lawless in London, Yuras Karmanau in Kyiv and Ellen Knickmeyer in Washington contributed.
Peskov said withdrawing Russian troops from Belarus after the war games was the plan all along.
In the history of diplomacy, there was never a crisis that has been settled by exchanges of letters which are to be made public afterward, he said, adding that is why he decided to travel to Moscow for direct talks.
Western leaders in recent weeks have engaged inhigh-level talks, and more are planned amid the backdrop of military drills in Russia and Belarus. On Tuesday, Russias Defense Ministry said six large warships were moving from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea for exercises.
Macron said Putin set a collective trap when he initiated the exchange of written documents with the U.S. Moscow submitted its demands to Washington in the form of draft agreements that were released to the public, and insisted on a written response, which was leaked to the press.
KYIV, Ukraine  French President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday that Russian President Vladimir Putin told him he would not further escalate the Ukraine crisis in their marathon talks in the Kremlin a day earlier.
U.S. officials have portrayed the threat of an invasion of Ukraine as imminent  warnings Moscow has scoffed at, accusing Washington of fueling tensions.
Putin said after the meeting that the U.S. and NATO ignored Moscows demands, but signaled his readiness to continue talking.
More than 100 U.S. military personnel have arrived in Romania ahead of a deployment of about 1,000 NATO troops expected in the country in the coming days, Romanias Defense Minister Vasile Dincu said, adding that it wont be long before the rest of the troops arrive.
Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a bitter tug-of-war since 2014, when, following the ouster of Ukraine's Kremlin-friendly president, Moscow annexed Crimea and threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in the east of the country. The fighting between Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the east has since killed over 14,000 people.
He said France was giving $1.3 billionin financial aid to Ukraine and helping restore infrastructure in the war-ravaged east of the country.
Lets not be naive, he said. "Since the beginning of the crisis, France hasnt been inclined to exaggerate, but at the same time, I dont believe this crisis can be settled in a few hours, through discussions
Macron said the presidential advisers of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine will meet Thursday in Berlin to discuss the next steps. Dialogue is the only way to ease tensions, yet It will take time to get results, he said.
On Tuesday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Russia that invading Ukraine will only make NATO stronger, but said he still believes "principled and determined diplomacy" could defuse the crisis.
At a news conference after his meeting with Zelenskyy, Macron said Putin told him during their more than five-hour meeting Monday that he wont be initiating an escalation. I think it is important.
He said the U.K. is ready to bolster NATO forces in Latvia and Estonia as he prepared to meet the Lithuanian prime minister in London on Tuesday to show support for the Baltic nations.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Tuesday that Kyiv was "with interest anticipating the signals" Macron brought from Moscow.
"We're open to dialogue, we're in a constructive mood, we're looking for a diplomatic solution, but we will not cross our 'red lines,'" Kuleba told reporters.
Putin warned that Ukraine membership in NATO could trigger a war between Russia and the alliance should Kyiv move to retake the Crimean Peninsula, which Moscow annexed in 2014. In that case, he said, European countries would be drawn into a military conflict with Russia where "there will be no winners.
President Joe Biden has said that any prospect of Ukraine entering NATO "in the near term is not very likely," but he and other NATO member nations and NATO itself refuse to rule out Ukraine's entry into the alliance at a future date.
According to the French president, Putin also said there wont be any Russian permanent military base or deployment in Belarus, where Russia had sent a large amount of troops for major war games that are about to kick off.
Johnson said he was considering dispatching RAF Typhoon fighters and Royal Navy warships to southeastern Europe. Britain said Monday it is sending 350 troops to Poland to bolster NATO's eastern flank. It already has sent anti-tank weapons to Ukraine.
Western leaders in recent weeks have engaged in multiple rounds of diplomacy in the hope of de-escalating the tensions and preventing an attack. High-level talks have taken place against the backdrop of military drills underway in Russia and about to start in Belarus.
Macron's remarks on a visit to Kyiv came after the Kremlin denied reports that he and Putin struck a deal on de-escalating the crisis. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that in the current situation, Moscow and Paris can't be reaching any deals.
Writing in The Times of London, Johnson urged allies to finalize plans for heavy economic sanctions that would come into effect if Russia crosses the border into Ukraine.
Macron said he did not expect Putin to make any gestures on Monday, saying his objective was to prevent an escalation and open new perspectives. ... That objective is met.
After his meeting with Macron on Monday, Putin said without elaboration that some of the French president's proposals could serve as a basis for a settlement of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, adding that they agreed to have a call after Macron's visit Tuesday to Kyiv.
The Kremlin wants guarantees from the West that NATO will not accept Ukraine and other former Soviet nations as members, that it halt weapon deployments there and roll back its forces from Eastern Europe  demands the U.S. and NATO reject as nonstarters.
Scholz warned Moscow that a lot more could happen than theyve perhaps calculated with themselves in case of an invasion.
Zelenskyy said he would welcome concrete steps from Putin for de-escalation, adding he didnt trust words in general.
Biden met in Washington on Monday with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who also will travel to Kyiv and Moscow on Feb. 14-15. They threatened Russia with grave consequences if it invaded, and Biden vowed that the Nord Stream 2 Russia-to-Germany gas pipeline, which has been completed but is not yet operating, will be blocked. Such a movewould hurt Russia economically but also cause energy supply problems for Germany.
France and Germany in 2015 helped broker a peace deal, known as the Minsk agreements. The Kremlin has repeatedly accused Kyiv of sabotaging implementation of the agreements, and Ukrainian officials in recent weeks said that implementing them would be detrimental for the country.
NATO, U.S. and European leaders flatly reject the demands that they say challenge NATOs core principles, like shutting the door to Ukraine or other countries that might seek membership but they have offered to talk about other Russian security concerns in Europe.
Macron met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy amid mounting fears of a Russian invasion of its southern neighbor. Moscow has massed over 100,000 troops near Ukraine's borders, but insists it has no plans to attack.
Macron said both Putin and Zelenskyy confirmed to him that they were willing to implement the Minsk agreements aimed at ending the separatist conflict in the eastern Ukraine. The 2015 peace deal,which ended large-scale hostilities in the region but has failed to bring about a political settlement of the conflict,is the only path allowing to build peace ... and find a sustainable political solution, he said.
U.S. officials have said that about 1,000 alliance troops will be sent from Germany to Romania, a NATO member since 2004. Romania borders Ukraine to the north. About 1,700 U.S. soldiers from the 82nd Airborne are also going to Poland.
