Russian agent Maria Butina concerned that Ukrainians given guns could kill a child at home by accident
20220227
https://twitchy.com/brettt-3136/2022/02/26/russian-agent-maria-butina-concerned-that-ukrainians-given-guns-could-kill-a-child-at-home-by-accident/
The Ukraine public has been receiving small arms training, so  as we all know  this is mere: "won't someone think of the children" propaganda.
Ukrainians handed out guns and ammo so they could deal with the real threat to their children and homes: Russian soldiers with guns
On top of all the other problems with her statement, most Ukrainian men and an increasing number of women have at least basic military training, due to compulsory military service.
Maybe Butina can volunteer to go door to door collecting guns for the safety of Ukrainians.
Lady spent a few years in America being a walking active shooter drill, but now it's time to think of the children
'A child might be killed at home.' Indeed a child might be killed at home, by a Russian clusterbomb. Equally a child might be killed at a kindergarten, shelled by Russia, or in a hospital, also shelled by Russia.
If they're that worried about children, maybe they'd like to explain why they shelled a kindergarten yesterday?
Butina presented herself as a gun-rights activist as part of her campaign to infiltrate the NRA and other conservative groups. Now she says Ukrainian civilians shouldn't be given guns because they're too dangerous. https:t.cofJIgk3MPpG
On a special Saturday edition of Russian propaganda talk show Vremya Pokazhet, Maria Butina condemns the Kyiv authorities for handing out rifles because "people don't know how to handle them and a child might be killed at home"
Remember Maria Butina, the Russian agent and gun rights activist who used her contacts to infiltrate the National Rifle Association, so she could pursue back channels to American conservatives during the 2016 presidential campaign? She appeared on Russian television Saturday to warn against Ukraine handing out rifles to civilians, noting that they might not know how to handle them and could kill a child at home.
No, I think they are very much concerned their children might be killed at home, hence why they accepted the rifles.
