The Ghost of Kyiv was reportedly shot down and killed last month during an air battle with the Russians Update Ukraine now says the Ghost never existed
20220430
https://twitchy.com/gregp-3534/2022/04/29/the-ghost-of-kyiv-was-reportedly-shot-down-and-killed-last-month-during-an-air-battle-with-the-russians/
A fighter pilot known as the Ghost of Kyiv died in an air battle last month after allegedly shooting down more than 40 Russian aircraft, it can be revealed https:t.coW0J6OwL9Bf
A fighter pilot known as the Ghost of Kyiv died in an air battle last month after allegedly shooting down more than 40 Russian aircraft, it can be revealed.
While the story of the Ghost of Kyiv has been celebrated online as an example of Ukraines fierce defiance in the face of Russian aggression, there so far has been nothing official to substantiate its details. https:t.coVSoufgEgfv
This footage is from DCS, but is nevertheless made out of respect for The Ghost of Kiev, the video description said. If he is real, may God be with him if he is fake, I pray for more like him.
He shot to fame after the Ukrainian government tweeted a video showing an artists impression of the pilot, claiming he shot down six Russian aircraft on . . .
Ghost of Kyiv never existed. Ukraine now admits it was invented to boost morale. Strange how no orgs fighting disinformation interrogated it.
Almost like whole US-UK disinformation programme is actually just another form of information warfare. https:t.coywQGTGfyRz
Major Stepan Tarabalka, 29, a father of one, was killed when the MiG-29 he was flying was shot down on March 13 while fighting overwhelming enemy forces, according to local reports.
But PolitiFact ruled on April 4 that there has been nothing official to substantiate the details on his alleged combat exploits:
The video shared on Facebook is a simulation that was created in the video game Digital Combat Simulator, a free online game. The stated goal is to offer the most authentic and realistic simulation of military aircraft, tanks, ground vehicles and ships possible, according to the DCS World website.
The Ukrainian fighter pilot previously known only as the Ghost of Kyiv reportedly died in combat against Russian forces last month:
A person on YouTube with the username ComradeCorb uploaded the short clip on Feb. 24.
The Times also called the fake viral video of Major Tarabalka shooting down 6 Russian jets an artists impression:
According to reports from Ukrainian media sources, Major Tarabalka shot down almost 50 Russian aircraft. This post is 3 days before his reported death in combat:
