This is the part where we call Biden Putins Puppet right Ted Cruz DECIMATES BidenHarris officials for urging Ukraine to give in to Russia
20211209
https://twitchy.com/samj-3930/2021/12/09/this-is-the-part-where-we-call-biden-putins-puppet-right-ted-cruz-decimates-biden-harris-officials-for-urging-ukraine-to-give-in-to-russia/
But senior State Department officials have told Ukraine that NATO membership is unlikely to be approved in the next decade, according to a person familiar with those private talks who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Forget HO HO HO, THIS is HA HA HA! The Babylon Bee has the PERFECT Christmas gift for those cranky climate scolds on your list watch
Ask folks in Europe how well that worked in the late 30s. People are willingly dismissing history.
President Joe Biden said this week the U.S. would take a more direct role in diplomacy to address Vladimir Putins concerns over Ukraine and Europe, part of a broader effort to dissuade the Russian leader from a destabilizing invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine should urge Biden to just give up a small state, like Delaware. He'd be fine with that, right? LetsGoBrandon pic.twitter.compC06bJ892V
Tom Bevan takes Reuters dishonest, racially inflammatory story about GA GOP purging Black Dems from county election boards APART in detailed thread
Does that make me RACIST? Christina Pushaw DRAAAGS AOC in savage thread for demanding taxpayers pay off her $17k in student debt
Administration officials have suggested that the U.S. will press Ukraine to formally cede a measure of autonomy to eastern Ukrainian lands now controlled by Russia-backed separatists who rose up against Kyiv in 2014. An undefined special status for those areas was laid out in an ambiguous, European-brokered peace deal in 2015, but it has never taken hold.
Joe Biden and Biden-Harris officials are pushing Ukraine to give up territory to Putin in exchange for promises that he won't invade even further, for now. It's the literal definition of appeasement. Utterly disgraceful. https:t.cojhVeCdAsvN
Biden also will have to finesse Ukraines desire to join NATO. The U.S. and NATO reject Putins demands that they guarantee Ukraine wont be admitted to the Western military alliance.
Can you guys imagine if Trump had done this? OOOOMG all wed have heard is collusion and TRUMP IS PUTINS PUPPET. They impeached Trump over a freakin PHONE CALL with Ukraine 
But any negotiations to peacefully resolveEuropes tangled East-West rivalrieswill present minefields for the U.S. president.
How did appeasement work out for Neville Chamberlain? Ukraine already lost Crimea, now Russia wants the entire pie.
