Ukraine has nothing to worry about because Joe Biden made it very clear to Vladimir Putin that he has deep concerns about what Russias up to
20211207
https://twitchy.com/sarahd-313035/2021/12/07/ukraine-has-nothing-to-worry-about-because-joe-biden-made-it-very-clear-to-vladimir-putin-that-he-has-deep-concerns-about-what-russias-up-to/
U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin today, and from the looks of things, it went just great.
"Hey now, don't you go recreating the Iron Curtain, or we'll have to get serious and pass economic sanctions! What? Well, actually gas prices are really hurting this admin, so we probably wouldn't do anything about oil" https:t.cowUHf6zPzad
But its the substance of the call that really matters, and if the above photo doesnt inspire confidence in Joe Bidens decisive leadership  this readout from the call wont, either:
And clearly a deliberate choice to release a photo with Biden in that pose https:t.couSWtvVb9r5
They aced the last one! Biden admin reportedly considering potential strategies to evacuate Americans from Ukraine not that therell be a need
If the last admin was a flaming dumpster rolling down a hill, this one can be defined as an early-model Prius stuck in mud.
Why on earth would Putin be scared of any threats from Joe Biden when he's already bowed to Russia on Nord Stream II? Biden just exudes weakness. https:t.coCZa755eDy5
Are these supposed to be the highlights of the call? Because if so, we shudder to think of what the lowlights were.
Every time the wheels spin, the car sinks deeper and deeper. Eventually the passengers just get out and walk.
Biden's presidency is going to be a mashup of Carter's presidency and Neville Chamberlain's time as the UK's PM, isn't it? https:t.co1qxmmck1D1
WH readout of Biden-Putin call: "Biden voiced the deep concerns of the U.S. and our European Allies about Russias escalation of forces surrounding Ukraine  made clear the U.S.  our Allies would respond with strong economic  other measures in the event of military escalation." pic.twitter.comul50ryBH3T
