Your logic FAILS Vindman tries SO hard to ignore Putin waiting to invade under BIDEN in back and forth blaming Trump for RussiaUkraine
20220301
https://twitchy.com/samj-3930/2022/03/01/your-logic-fails-vindman-tries-so-hard-to-ignore-putin-waiting-to-invade-under-biden-in-back-and-forth-blaming-trump-for-russia-ukraine/
Trump gave defensive weapons to Ukraine and sanctioned Putin when Obama wouldn't. Trump increased funding for NATO and tried to reduce dependance on Russian oil. The idea you know anything about what he would do in his second term is comedy gold.Sit down.https:t.codEvWxNOl1b
What would Alexander Vindman be if he didnt have Trump to hate on and tweet about 247? The Resistance Hero zero has been working overtime to somehow keep the blame on Trump for Putin invading Ukraine, even though there were zero invasions during his actual presidency.
Trump hated Ukraine. He planned to leave NATO in his second term. Why invade while he was in office?
OMG I cant breathe! Stephen King wearing I Stand With Ukraine tee becomes HILARIOUS joke about Tweeps lesbian aunt
It was trump that undermine U.S. national security  froze military assistance to Ukraine, leaving that lion of a nation, vulnerable to attack. It was Trumps attacks on NATO that encouraged Putin to believe NATO was fragile. https:t.colkaPQ875rM
But in Vindmans sad little mind, that is somehow proof that its Trumps fault and not President Piddle Pants.
Trump didn't plan to leave NATO. He used the threat to force them to up their support. He was 100 correct on the NATO members financing Putin's army, pic.twitter.comNM9PKB96tT
The decision was made more urgent when Biden was elected and Ukraine once again made progress in getting closer to the West. https:t.corFZVT4ZMrF
Then why did he arm them while Biden stopped shipments immediately on taking office? The question is are you that ignorant, or are you just shilling for your party?
Cry MORE: Thomas Massie explains in BRUTALLY factual thread why he voted against Democrats trying once again to make lynching a hate crime
What I don't understand is if they thought it was weakest then under a Trump, why did Putin wait until the supposedly stronger Biden was in office to actually invade?
Wicked witch and her flying monkey  Hillary Clinton babbling about dangerous Putin with Rachel Maddow BACKFIRES watch
