Ill never forget the sound of a Russian cruise missile Odessa man returns home from fighting in Ukraine
20220511
https://www.krem.com/article/news/local/odessa-man-returns-home-from-fighting-in-ukraine/293-c04475bf-2c28-4dae-86e2-137cc21c2b3d
Jeremy Smith left his fianc and coffee shop back in March and returned home on May 1. Smith says he's still weak from malnutrition, he lost about 20 pounds in 40 days. The base he was protecting had some close calls with Russian artillery and he has the shrapnel to prove it.
"It was only 45 days but it was way too long for me," he said.
"I contracted COVID and they actually sent me back to Poland because they're like you're too sick, we can't treat you for this here," he said.
"A lot of people were just going about their daily lives even with shelling going on in the middle of the day, Smith explained. "I thought they would be kind of standoff-ish to foreigners but when they find out you are with the foreign legion and you are there to help, the next thing you know, I don't smoke but I'm getting cartons of cigarettes handed to me, you know I'm getting water and hugs and kisses."
He brought home some of the shrapnel to show his fianc. He flew overseas in March and joined the international foreign legion of Ukraine, well aware that he may never come home. His group of roughly 50 men set up a base in an old industrial area.
Before he left for Ukraine, Smith promised his fianc he'd make it home for their wedding in June. It's a promise he's kept.
He spent seven days quarantined in a Warsaw hotel. Smith returned to the base a week later, where he remained for several more weeks under the constant threat of attack. He knew he was heading into a warzone but he didn't expect the Ukrainian people to be so resilient and welcoming.
Smith spent 45 days guarding a makeshift base in northeastern Ukraine. During that time, Russian troops were less than two miles away.
"We had guys from Germany, Poland, Estonia," he said. "We could hear the shrapnel ripping through the trees and bouncing off the concrete wall."
"I'll never forget the sound of a Russian cruise missile," Smith explained. "It makes this weird sound that's indescribable and makes the hair stand on the back of your neck. It sounds like it's bending time and space."
"We had about 30 rounds impact inside our perimeter, Smith said. I had one round impact about 10 meters from me."
ODESSA, Wash.  A man from Odessa who spent more than 40 days on the front lines of THE Ukranian-Russian War is home safe.
Jeremy says he does not regret his decision to go to Ukraine. He said he would go back. However, he promised his soon-to-be wife this would be the one and only trip.
"I'll never eat porridge again, Smith said. Porridge three times a day, we got a small chunk of whatever the meat of the day was and that was about it, three times a day."
