LIVEBLOG Russians set sights on Kyiv 2 weeks into invasion
20220310
https://www.i24news.tv/en/news/ukraine-conflict/1646891669-liveblog-russians-set-sights-on-kyiv-two-weeks-into-invasion
The attack, which killed three people, including a child, came on the eve of discussions on Thursday in Turkey between the Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers, their first face-to-face since the start of the Russian offensive in Ukraine two weeks ago.
Lithuania on Thursday issued a temporary ban on all Russian and Belarusian state TV broadcasts and public events supporting Moscow's invasion in Ukraine, sparking an outcry from free speech activists.
"We will always have slightly different perspectives from one democracy to the next. Vladimir Putin was counting on those slight differences between us to lead to ineffective sanctions," Trudeau said.
The bans were adopted by parliament as the Baltic NATO member extended a state of emergency imposed last month after President Vladimir Putin sent Russian troops into Ukraine.
The government said the new rules were necessary to ensure public order and resilience. - AFP
The International Monetary Fund expects to cut its global growth estimate next month due to the economic damage caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said Thursday.
"There is no such thing as a fast track," Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said as he arrived for an EU summit at the Versailles Palace in France, reflecting the position of several member states.
The G7 club of the most industrialized nations on Thursday urged big energy-producing countries to boost deliveries to blunt the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on prices.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky Thursday said around 100,000 people had evacuated the country's cities in two days, but accused Russian forces of targeting a humanitarian corridor in the city of Mariupol.
"Humanitarian corridors towards the Russian Federation will now be opened, without any agreements, every day from 10:00 am," defense ministry official Mikhail Mizintsev was quoted as saying by Russian agencies. He said evacuation routes in other directions would proceed "in agreement with the Ukrainian side".
The stuff that you're hearing about chemical weapons is straight out of their playbook, the premier said while speaking on a Sky News television program, referring to Western allegations that Moscow could be preparing to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine.
European Union leaders told Ukraine on Thursday there was no fast way for the country to join the bloc, dousing Kyiv's hopes as it faces an onslaught from Russian forces.
"This can neither be explained nor justified," Akhmetov said when asked why Russian troops were targeting civilians and shelling entire residential areas.
Russias incursion into its neighbor prompted countries around the world to impose a slew of United States-led sanctions on Moscow in response, battering the states economy and sending the ruble into a state of free fall.
He said he decided to send a convoy of trucks into the besieged port city with food, water and medicine, but "the occupiers launched a tank attack exactly where this corridor was supposed to be," Zelensky said in a video statement, describing it as "outright terror." - AFP
There will also be a ban on taking photos or videos of strategic energy companies and the movement of national and allied military forces.
Russia's bombing of a maternity hospital in the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol was "a disgraceful act of war," French President Emmanuel Macron said Thursday.
They added it was "necessary to consider effective measures in order to stop the increase in the gas price."
Moscow said Thursday that it will open daily humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians fleeing fighting in Ukraine to Russian territory, despite Kyiv insisting that no evacuation routes should lead to Russia.
"They start saying that there are chemical weapons that are being stored by their opponents or by the Americans, so that when they themselves deploy chemical weapons - as I fear they may - they have a fake story ready to go," Johnson said.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Thursday the "barbaric" Russian regime was indulging in a tried-and-tested ruse as it lays the ground for the possible use of chemical weapons in Ukraine.
France condemned the attack "in the firmest possible terms," Macron told reporters as EU leaders gathered outside Paris to discuss their response to the conflict, saying "the clear objective was to kill civilians, especially women and children." - AFP
On Tuesday, Russia accused the United States of running biological weapons operations in Ukraine, which Washington called laughable.
The shelling of a children's hospital by Russian forces in the besieged city of Mariupol provoked outrage from Ukrainian authorities and Westerners, as the Russian army approached Kyiv on Thursday, according to the Ukrainian general staff.
In its latest report on Wednesday, the UN estimated that 516 civilians have been killed and more than 800 wounded in Ukraine since the start of the invasion, which threw more than two million refugees on the roads of exile.
"What is unfolding here is a war crime and a crime against humanity, against Ukraine and the Ukrainians," Akhmetov told Forbes Ukraine magazine.
Ukraine's richest man Rinat Akhmetov on Thursday accused Russian troops of committing "crimes against humanity against Ukrainians" despite long being considered pro-Moscow.
"The stuff which you are hearing about chemical weapons is straight out of the Russian playbook," he told Sky News, echoing US warnings that President Vladimir Putin could be set on a horrifying escalation.
"You have seen it in Syria, you saw it even in the UK. It is a cynical, barbaric government I'm afraid." - AFP
The United Kingdoms Prime Minister Boris Johnson alleged during an interview on Thursday that Russia could deploy chemical weapons in Ukraine.
"We ask the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations to work closely with Ukrainian authorities on the ground to inform the population about this Russian imitative," he said. - AFP
"I want to focus on what can we do for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tonight, tomorrow, and and EU accession of Ukraine is something for the long term, if at all," he added. - AFP
The Ukrainian General Staff indicated that the Russian forces were continuing their "offensive operation" to encircle Ukraine's capital, while attacking on other fronts the cities of Izium, Petrovske, Hrouchouvakha, Sumy, Okhtyrka, or in the regions of Donetsk and Zaporizhzhia.  AFP
He said victory for Ukraine would mean returning to the borders that existed before Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and backed separatists who seized eastern parts of Ukraine including Donbas. - AFP
The sanctions Western countries have imposed on Moscow in response to the war will lead to a "sharp contraction" of the Russian economy, Georgieva told reporters, adding that a Russian debt default is no longer "an improbable event."
"But we have been strongly, unequivocally united on this," he told reporters alongside Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw.
"Vladimir Putin has made a terrible mistake. He's going to lose this war... because the ferocity and strength and resolve of the Ukrainian people defending their territory is inspiring us all," Trudeau said. - AFP
"We call on oil and gas producing countries to act in a responsible manner and to examine their ability to increase deliveries to international markets particularly where production is not meeting full capacity noting that OPEC has a key role to play," G7 energy ministers said in a joint statement.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday said Russian President Vladimir Putin had made "a terrible mistake" by invading Ukraine and would "lose" the war there.
The UN Security Council is slated to hold an urgent meeting over claims of biological weapons in Ukraine, following accusations by the Kremlin that the US and Ukraine are developing such weapons.
European wholesale gas and crude oil have rocketed to record or near-record prices this week due to supply fears linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision to pour tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on February 24. - AFP
