UN ships bring food aid to hungerstricken Yemen Horn of Africa
20210830
https://www.i24news.tv/en/news/international/1661864829-un-ships-bring-food-aid-to-hunger-stricken-yemen-horn-of-africa
Also on Tuesday, the vessel Brave Commander carrying over 25,000 tons of grain from Ukraine docked in Djibouti.
Ukraine is strengthening the humanitarian part of its grain initiative, with ships on Tuesday bringing wheat to the drought-stricken Horn of Africa and to Yemen, where 17 million people are facing acute hunger.
Grain exports in war-torn Ukraine slumped since Russias invasion in February due to port closures, increasing hunger in some of the poorest parts of the world.
A deal brokered by Turkey and the United Nations in July helped unblock the ports, and Ukraine says that so far some 1.6 million tons of agricultural goods have been exported.Still, with a record 345 million people in 82 countries facing acute food insecurity, only a fraction of the total exports have been humanitarian aid.
The bulk carrier Karteria departed on Tuesday, carrying 41,300 tons of wheat for Yemen in the second humanitarian shipment of food aid to the Gulf Arab state since the war broke out.
According to the World Food Program WFP, the ship left from the Black Sea port of Yuzhny and will stop in Turkey for the grains to be milled into flour.
Last year, Yemen  where thousands have been killed in conflict  received nearly half of its wheat imports from Ukraine and Russia.
A record 345 million people in 82 countries are facing acute food insecurity, the World Food Program says
That barely begins to alleviate the problems of eastern Africa, where the WFP said extreme weather, surging food prices, and conflict mean 82 million people need food aid across nine countries.
Soon to be followed by another ship carrying 7,700 tons and transported to Ethiopia, the total shipment will be enough to feed 1.5 million people for a month.
Russia and Ukraine usually supply 90 percent of wheat imported in the Horn of Africa.
