US condemns Russian bid to recognize Ukraine separatist provinces  Blinken
20220216
https://www.i24news.tv/en/news/international/europe/1645021202-us-condemns-russian-bid-to-recognize-ukraine-separatist-provinces-blinken
The State Duma's non-binding resolution calls for diplomatic recognition of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics, both of which declared independence from Ukraine in 2014.
Kyiv considers Donetsk and Luhansk, along with Crimea and Sevastopol, as temporarily occupied territories because of Russian military intervention.
Under the stalled Minsk Accords, the Donbas People's Republics are to be returned to Ukraine as part of a political settlement allowing for extensive autonomy in the regions.
He added that such a decision would undermine Moscow's "stated commitment to continue to engage in diplomacy to achieve a peaceful resolution of this crisis, and necessitate a swift and firm response from the United States in full coordination with our allies and partners."
The Minsk Agreements are much better for Russia than for Ukraine, but its useful for Moscow to show Kyiv that it could abandon them, if it needs to," he added.
Such a move would "constitute a gross violation of international law," Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement.
Russia's parliament State Duma on Tuesday voted to urge President Vladimir Putin to recognize the two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as "sovereign and independent states" amid soaring tension with the West over Moscow's troop build-up.
As it stands, the Dumas resolution is primarily a propagandistic one, Konstantin Skorkin, a Donbas expert at the Carnegie Moscow Center think tank, told The Moscow Times.
"Kremlin approval of this appeal would amount to the Russian government's wholesale rejection of its commitments under the Minsk agreements," Blinken said, referring to a landmark 2014 deal meant to settle the Ukraine conflict.
The United States on Wednesday strongly condemned a Russian parliament proposal to recognize Ukraine's two separatist republics as independent.
