World leaders condemn Russian decision on Ukraine
20220222
https://www.i24news.tv/en/news/international/1645507310-world-leaders-condemn-russian-decision-on-ukraine
"The immediate priority is de-escalation of tensions, taking into account the legitimate security interests of all countries and aimed towards securing long-term peace and stability in the region and beyond," TS Tirumurti said.
Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel, the EU's two most senior figures, posted identical statements on Twitter.
The leaders of France, Germany, and the United States condemned Putin's move as a "clear breach" of the Minsk peace agreements.
French President Macron, who was still pressing for a diplomatic settlement earlier Monday, called for targeted European Union sanctions against Moscow.
"That is not a peaceful world order that would be achieving that. And so it's important that like-minded countries who denounce this sort of behavior do stick together."
"Moscow continues to fuel the conflict in eastern Ukraine by providing financial and military support to the separatists. It is also trying to stage a pretext to invade Ukraine once again," he added.
"With its decision, Russia is breaking all its promises to the world community," she said.
UN chief Antonio Guterres said Russia's decision amounted to "a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and inconsistent with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations".
France's President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and US President Joe Biden agreed that "this step will not go unanswered," the German chancellery said in a statement published following their conversation.
A "very robust package of sanctions" would be triggered "with the first toecap of a Russian incursion or Russian invasion," he added.
"The current situation in Ukraine is a result of many complex factors," China's UN ambassador Zhang Jun told the UN security council.
"We cannot have threats of violence being used to seek to advantage nation's positions over others," he said.
Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said that Russia's actions violated "Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and cannot be tolerated."
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said that Moscow was breaking the Minsk peace agreements that it signed in 2014.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson denounced Putin's decision as "a flagrant violation of the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine."
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said there are fears that the Ukraine crisis "could spread in other parts of Europe and the world, especially on the Western Balkans."
Condemning Putin's move as "a blatant violation of international law", they added: "The EU and its partners will react with unity, firmness and with determination in solidarity with Ukraine."
"If an invasion occurs, we will coordinate a strong response, including sanctions, coordinating with the G7 and the international community while closely monitoring the situation," he said.
The US announced financial sanctions against the rebel territories freshly recognized by Russia in eastern Ukraine and warned that more were ready if necessary.
Western powers reacted swiftly to Monday's decision by Russia's President Vladimir Putin to recognize the independence of the two self-proclaimed republics in eastern Ukraine, condemning Moscow and calling for sanctions.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said Putin's decision "further undermines Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, erodes efforts towards a resolution of the conflict, and violates the Minsk Agreements, to which Russia is a party.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted that Putin's decision required "a swift and firm response, and we will take appropriate steps in coordination with partners."
Beijing  one of Russia's closest allies  did not take sides, instead calling for all parties to "avoid any action that may fuel tensions."
India's ambassador to the United Nations urged all sides to show "restraint" in the face of rising tensions.
"He is demanding an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council as well as the adoption of targeted European sanctions," said a statement from his office.
Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison slammed as "nonsense" Putin's claims that the troops being sent into eastern Ukraine were peacekeepers.
