East Riding Council chair condemns senseless Ukraine war and pledges to help refugees
20220302
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/hull-east-yorkshire-news/east-riding-council-chair-condemns-6744235
Council Corporate Resources Portfolio Holder Cllr Rosemary Pantelakis said the authority's thoughts were with the people of Ukraine.
The chairman added the council was willing to offer refugees sanctuary in the East Riding and would do everything within its current powers to help.
UN estimates put the number of people displaced by the conflict at around 800,000, with about 7m thought to be under threat of being forced to leave their homes.
"Our collective thoughts and prayers are with the people of Ukraine as they fight through this difficult and unbearable time.
Nigel Wilkinson said East Riding Council wanted to see an end to the bloodshed in Ukraine
The portfolio holder said: "Hull is proud to be a City of Sanctuary, we have a long tradition of supporting people who flee from war and persecution.
It comes as the death toll among civilians is thought to have surpassed 2,000 since Russia launched its invasion on Thursday, February 24, according to Ukrainian emergency services estimates.
He said: "We stand with the Ukrainian people and with our peers in local and regional government in Ukraine, the United Kingdom, throughout Europe and across the world.
"During the current humanitarian crisis we are committed to helping in any way we can, as soon as the government offers further guidance on a resettlement programme."
The chairman said: "East Riding Council is deeply saddened by the act of senseless and unwarranted war being waged by Russia upon Ukraine. We condemn such horrendous acts of war and call for all hostilities and blood shed to cease immediately and for the withdrawal of all invading forces from Ukraine.
East Riding Council Chairman Cllr Nigel Wilkinson said the authority wanted to see an end to the blood shed and for Russian troops to leave Ukraine.
"We are supporting Ukraine and are prepared to offer all the support we can within our current powers, including helping those who may have to leave their home country in order to find safety in our area.
Get the latest news in Hull and East Yorkshire by   signing up for updates here.
East Riding Council's chairman has condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine and said the authority wants to help those fleeing the conflict.
In Hull, council leader Cllr Daren Hale wrote to Home Secretary Priti Patel offering assistance to arrivals fleeing the country.
While the Ukrainian community in our city is relatively small, we want to ensure they are supported at this terrible time."
The chairman's comments come after Russian troops renewed their assault on Ukraine's second largest city Kharkiv.
"We, along with our local government colleagues, condemn the actions of the Russian Federation in the strongest possible terms.
