Hull mum who is half Russian half Ukrainian says Putins war has destroyed all our lives
20220329
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/hull-east-yorkshire-news/hull-mum-who-half-russian-6870283
"I don't see this person reasonable anymore. By now, everything is destroyed for people in Ukraine and in Russia, too. Children are being widely affected by this now. My worry is that they're going to have similar experiences growing up that we had growing up after the Second World War - because I grew up thinking all German people are bad."
"Russian is a widely-taught and spoken language, but now it's like people hear it and make assumptions. There are many people in Russia who do not support this war," she added.
Mum claims her parents are unable to even send money for her son's birthday present because of sanctions
Hull Live spoke to the mum, who has asked not to be identified due to having family in Russia where it's currently illegal to speak out against Putin, as she told of her parents being cut off by sanctions while fearing for her Ukrainian family's safety.
Anna says having grown up in Russia, Putin has been in power for her entire adult life. Now, she described finding his behaviour erratic and disturbing.
For both Ukrainians and Russians, the war right now is an impossibly difficult horror to process, with the former witnessing the invasion of their own country while the latter pay the price through unprecedented sanctions. But for people like Anna - not her real name - the trauma is compounded.
Back at home in Hull, Anna says her neighbours and friends have been extremely supportive to her, but revealed her own daughter had been bullied at school over her Russian heritage as news of the war trickles down into the playgrounds. As a result, she and her husband try not to talk about the war in front of their children.
The mum, who is currently expecting a child with her husband, has both her parents living in Russia while her paternal grandfather refuses to leave his native Ukraine, continuing to reside in Kyiv. Her uncle meanwhile is fighting Russian troops following Putin's invasion last month.
She currently speaks to her grandfather every day on the phone to check he is safe. Meanwhile, her parents aren't able to visit her or even send money ahead of her child being born later this year, due to severe financial sanctions on Russia.
"It's my son's birthday soon and my mother can't send home money for a present because all the bank transfers out of Russia are blocked. They don't hear anything about what's happening in the wider world because all they get is propaganda. It's now a criminal offence to speak against Putin. My family has no freedom of speech, no freedom of movement. Nobody could have ever envisioned this in 2022."
"Those first few weeks I was having panic attacks every day. It got to the point where I just had to turn off the news and focus on my family."
"As I got older we were seeing Putin get re-elected and re-elected every time. Nobody should be in power for so long - it's unhealthy. People who are in power for so long start start to see their country as their own property, not as people."
Efforts are continuing in Hull to collect aid and donations to send over to Ukraine. Vans left the city on Thursday carrying donations organised by Hull 4 Ukraine, which will be taken to Poland and given to refugees crossing the border. Details of how you can help can be found here.
Anna says like much of the world she had already been monitoring the situation for some time as Russian troops assembled at the eastern borders of the country. But the horror sank in that night when she received the phone call and realisation struck.
She is of dual heritage with her mother being Russian and her father Ukrainian. She's lived in Hull for several years and before that had lived in rural Russia. "On the 24th of February, my grandfather woke me up calling to say, 'it's started - they're throwing bombs'. I thought it was a prank," she said.
A Hull mum who is half Ukrainian and half Russian has spoken out on processing the trauma experienced by both countries at the same time amidst the current war.
