Moment brave Ukrainian troops ambush Russian tank convoy sending it into chaos
20220312
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/moment-brave-ukrainian-troops-ambush-6793189
UK defence secretary Ben Wallace said direct cash donations can also be made to the Ukrainian Embassy.
The Ukrainians defenders have been inflicting devastating losses on Russian forces since President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion more than two weeks ago to international outrage.
The Russians are believed to be only 15-miles from the capital Kyiv but their advance is being made with heavy casualties in soldiers, tanks, armour, vehicles and aircraft.
More footage, which appears to be taken from a second drone, then shows fireballs and explosions as further attacks are mounted against a group of Russian tanks trying to escape across fields. The tank targeted in the original attack is seen billowing smoke and trying to drive away before bursting into flames.
Drone footage then shows Russian soldiers running for cover by the side of the road as tanks and armoured personnel carriers try to flee the scene.
The city has been under siege by Russian forces for some 12 days, with brave Ukraine residents and troops creating a blockade to hold back the invasion.
The tank immediately burst into flames as the remainder of the convoy desperately looks to find safety or launch a counter-attack against the Ukrainians.
More than 80 men, women and children had been hiding from the conflict there when the shells reportedly struck.
Other Russian armour further back in the column is then seen firing into the forest towards the Ukrainian positions.
The Ukraine Foreign Ministry claims Russian forces bombed the Mosque of Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent in the south eastern port city.
Elsewhere today, Ukraines government says the Russian military has shelled a mosque sheltering more than 80 people in the city of Mariupol.
The Unicef appeal for Ukraine can be accessed here, while the UN's Ukraine Humanitarian Fund can be donated to via here.
This is the moment a Russian convoy is ambushed by brave Ukrainian forces in a daring attack which sends the invaders into chaos.
As the column of tanks and armoured vehicles heads down a country highway, a missile streaks out from a hidden Ukrainian position just yards away before slamming into a leading tank a second later.
The Disasters Emergency Committee, an umbrella group for 15 of the UK's leading aid charities, is running an appeal which the UK government has pledged to match with extra funding up to a total of 20m. This can be viewed here.
The footage was posted by a Ukrainian war reporter Illia Ponomarenko working for the Kyiv Independent which has close ties with the Ukrainian military and access to regular drone and battlefield footage.
It also appears to show the grisly aftermath of the battle, including what appears to be a dead Russian soldier and wrecked and smoking armoured vehicles.
In the east and south of Ukraine, Russian forces have resorted to devastating shelling of cities, towns and civilian areas in tactics condemned around the world.
They are being supported by the established Hull 4 Heroes charity which has set up a crowdfunding page.
But there are widespread reports of Russian soldiers, some just conscripts, surrendering, disabling their own weapons or refusing to commit to heavy fighting. The advance has also been hampered by poor equipment and lack of food and supplies.
A new charity Hull 4 Ukraine is organising the relief effort from the city for Ukrainian refugees and victims of the war.
