More than 43000 British households offer to take in Ukrainian refugees
20220315
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/more-43000-british-households-offer-6802911
The Russians claimed 20 civilians were killed in Donetsk by a ballistic missile launched by the Ukrainian forces. Ukrainian and Russian officials held further peace talks by video link and discussions are set to continue on Tuesday.
A No 10 spokeswoman said the pair called for the Kremlins indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians to cease. It came after a Russian airstrike in central Kyiv killed one person and wounded six others, Ukrainian officials said, while two people were killed in the northern Obolonskyi district of the capital when artillery fire hit an apartment building.
Previously only Ukrainians with family members already settled in the UK could come. But under the new scheme, sponsors can provide a route for Ukrainians without family ties to come to the UK.
He confirmed that the Homes For Ukraine website temporarily stalled after it went live late on Monday afternoon due to the enormous generosity of the British public in offering to take in those fleeing the conflict with Russia. Communities Secretary Michael Gove earlier announced the Homes for Ukraine scheme as the Government scrambled to make it easier for people to come to the UK following widespread criticism of its response so far.
More than 43,000 households have offered to take in Ukrainian refugees as part of the UK Governments sponsorship scheme, according to the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. A spokesman said that figure was correct as of 9.30pm on Monday but was continuing to rise.
There have been 1,663 civilian casualties since the invasion, the UKs Ministry of Defence said, citing United Nations figures  although the true statistic may be far higher  with indiscriminate Russian shelling and air attacks causing widespread destruction. The UNs refugee agency believes more than 2.8 million people have left Ukraine in search of safety.
Almost three million people have fled Ukraine since Vladimir Putin ordered the Russian invasion and civilians continued to find themselves caught up in the fighting on Monday. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Latvian counterpart Arturs Krisjanis Karins agreed during bilateral discussions in Downing Street that Mr Putin had made a terrible and unforgivable mistake in attacking Ukraine.
In the Commons, Mr Gove said the Ukrainian people were the victims of savage, indiscriminate, unprovoked aggression and their courage under fire and their determination to resist inspires our total admiration.
Mr Gove said in recognition of their generosity a tax-free monthly payment of 350 will be provided to people for each family they look after. Sponsors can be of any nationality as long as they have permission to be in the UK for at least six months.
