Putin has speech mysteriously cut off during rally as he hails Ukraine invasion a success
20220318
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/putin-speech-mysteriously-cut-during-6828042
His speech was later replayed from start to finish before he walked off stage to the cheers of thousands of flag waving spectators in the 80,000-capacity Luzhniki stadium. Russian state TV is tightly controlled and such interruptions are highly unusual.
Vladimir Putin was mysteriously cut off in the middle of a pro-war speech to a huge rally broadcast on Russian state TV today.
Lviv lies not far from the Polish border and well behind the front lines, but it and the surrounding area have not been spared Russias attacks. In the worst, nearly three dozen people were killed last weekend in a strike on a training facility near the city. Lvivs population has swelled by some 200,000 as people from elsewhere in Ukraine have sought shelter there.
Multiple blasts hit in quick succession around 6am, shaking nearby buildings, witnesses said. The missiles were launched from the Black Sea, but the Ukrainian air forces western command said it had shot down two of six missiles in the volley. A bus repair facility was also damaged, Lvivs mayor, Andriy Sadovyi, said.
Seeking to portray the war as just, Putin paraphrased the Bible to say of Russias troops: There is no greater love than giving up ones soul for ones friends. And he continued to insist his actions were necessary to prevent genocide, a claim flatly denied by leaders around the globe.
Ludmyla Denisova, the Ukrainain parliaments human rights commissioner, said on Friday that 130 people had survived the theatre bombing. As of now, we know that 130 people have been evacuated, but according to our data, there are still more than 1,300 people in these basements, in this bomb shelter, Denisova told Ukrainian television. We pray that they will all be alive, but so far there is no information about them.
The speech was later replayed in full and the interruption was blamed on a glitch
His quoting of the Bible and a Russian admiral of the 18th century reflected his increasing focus in recent years on history and religion as binding forces in Russias post-Soviet society.
The Russian president was in the midst of praising his troops on the ground in Ukraine and had earlier hailed the invasion a 'success' when the broadcast unexpectedly switched to a pre-recorded patriotic song. Putin was cut off mid-sentence as he was saying: "It so happened that the beginning of the operation coincided by chance with the birthday of one of our outstanding military..."
Video feeds of the event showed a loudly cheering, flag-waving crowd that broke into chants of Russia! Several Telegram channels critical of the Kremlin reported that students and employees of state institutions in a number of regions were ordered by their superiors to attend rallies and concerts marking the Crimea anniversary.
Early morning barrages also hit a residential building in the Podil neighborhood of Kyiv, killing at least one person, according to emergency services, who said 98 people were evacuated from the building. Kyiv mayor, Vitali Klitschko, said 19 were wounded in the shelling. Two others were killed when strikes hit residential and administrative buildings in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, according to the regional governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.
Shoulder to shoulder, they help and support each other, Putin said of Moscows forces in a rare public appearance since the invasion three weeks ago that made Russia an outcast among nations and triggered anti-war protests at home. We have not had unity like this for a long time, he added to cheers from the crowd.
Russian President Vladimir Putin appeared at a huge, flag-waving rally the stadium in Moscow and praised his countrys troops in biblical terms on Friday as they pressed their lethal attacks on Ukrainian cities with shelling and missiles. The Kremlin claimed a technical glitch was behind the interrupted transmission of Putin's speech to mark the eighth anniversary of Crimea's annexation.
The OVD-Info rights group that monitors political arrests reported that at least seven independent journalists had been detained ahead of or while covering the anniversary events in Moscow and St. Petersburg. Meanwhile, Russian forces continued to pound the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and launched a barrage of missiles on the outskirts of the western city of Lviv.
Get the latest updates from across Hull and East Yorkshire direct to your inbox with the free Hull Live newsletters.
The early morning barrage of missiles on Lvivs edge was the closest strike yet to the centre of the city, which has become a crossroads for people fleeing from other parts of Ukraine and for others entering to deliver aid or fight.
In Kharkiv, a massive fire raged through a local market after shelling on Thursday. One firefighter was killed and another injured when new shelling hit as emergency workers fought the blaze, emergency services said. The World Health Organisation said it has verified 43 attacks on hospitals and health facilities, with 12 people killed and 34 injured.
Standing on stage in a white turtleneck and a blue down jacket, Putin spoke for about five minutes. Some people, including presenters at the event, wore T-shirts or jackets with a Z  a symbol seen on Russian tanks and other military vehicles in Ukraine and embraced by supporters of the war.
Those reports could not be independently verified. In the wake of the invasion, the Kremlin has cracked down harder on dissent and the flow of information, arresting thousands of anti-war protesters, banning sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and instituting tough prison sentences for what is deemed to be false reporting on the war, which Moscow refers to as a special military operation.
At Lviv, black smoke billowed for hours after the explosions, which hit a facility for repairing military aircraft near the citys international airport, only four miles from the centre. One person was wounded, the regional governor, Maksym Kozytsky, said.
In city after city around Ukraine, hospitals, schools and buildings where people sought safety have been attacked. Rescue workers were still searching for survivors in the ruins of a theatre that served as a shelter when it was blasted by a Russian airstrike on Wednesday in the besieged southern city of Mariupol.
Moscow police said more than 200,000 people were in and around the Luzhniki stadium for the celebration marking the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of the Crimean peninsula, seized from Ukraine. The event included patriotic songs, including a performance of Made in the USSR, with the opening line, Ukraine and Crimea, Belarus and Moldova, its all my country.
