Russia vows new strikes on Kyiv as Ukraine reports 900 civilian bodies found
20220416
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russia-vows-new-strikes-kyiv-6961269
According to Mr Nebytov, utility workers gathered and buried bodies in the Kyiv suburb while it remained under Russian control. Russian troops, he added, had been tracking down people who expressed strong pro-Ukrainian views.
The Moskva, named for the Russian capital, sank while being towed to port on Thursday after taking heavy damage. Moscow did not acknowledge any attack, saying only that a fire had detonated ammunition on board. The loss of the ship represents an important victory for Ukraine and a symbolic defeat for Russia.
More violence could be in store for Kyiv after Russian authorities accused Ukraine of wounding seven people and damaging about 100 residential buildings with airstrikes in Bryansk, a region bordering Ukraine. Authorities in another border region of Russia also reported Ukrainian shelling on Thursday.
However, Ukrainian officials said forces did strike a key Russian warship with missiles. A senior US defence official backed up the claim, anonymously saying the US now believes the Moskva was hit by at least one Neptune anti-ship missile and probably two.
The sinking reduces Russias firepower in the Black Sea and seemed to symbolise Moscows fortunes in an eight-week invasion widely seen as a historic blunder following the Russian retreat from the Kyiv region and much of northern Ukraine.
In the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, the shelling of a residential area killed seven people, including a seven-month-old child, and wounded 34, according to regional governor Oleh Sinehubov.
Around Kyiv, Andriy Nebytov, the head of the capitals regional police force, said bodies were abandoned in the streets or given temporary burials. He cited police data indicating 95 died from gunshot wounds.
The occupiers think this will make it easier for them to control this territory. But they are very wrong. They are fooling themselves, Mr Zelensky said in his nightly video address. Russias problem is that it is not accepted  and never will be accepted  by the entire Ukrainian people. Russia has lost Ukraine forever.
Police said most of those found were likely simply executed in the streets by Russian forces
Consequently, we understand that under the Russian occupation, people were simply executed in the streets, Mr Nebytov said. More bodies are being found every day under rubble and in mass graves, he added, with the largest number  35  found in Bucha.
The number and the scale of missile attacks on objects in Kyiv will be ramped up in response to the Kyiv nationalist regime committing any terrorist attacks or diversions on the Russian territory, Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russian troops occupying parts of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions in the south of terrorising civilians and hunting for anyone who served in Ukraines military or government.
Russia used missiles to destroy a facility for the repair and production of missile systems in Kyiv. Ukrainian officials have not confirmed striking targets in Russia, and the reports could not be independently verified.
Moscow has threatened to mount renewed missile attacks on Kyiv, where authorities said the bodies of more than 900 civilians were found outside the capital. Russian forces continued preparations for a renewed offensive in eastern Ukraine, and fighting also went on in the pummelled southern port city of Mariupol, where locals reported seeing Russian troops digging up bodies.
