Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyys Paddington Bear links in his life before politics
20220228
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-president-volodymyr-zelenskyys-paddington-6728609
It was revealed to the rest of the world after actor Hugh Bonneville, who also appeared in the film, tweeted a message.
He said: "Until today I had no idea who provided the voice of Paddington Bear in Ukraine.
Fresh measures to help Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion are also likely to be introduced, as the UK Government came under pressure to act further to assist those escaping the country.
In 2015 he played a schoolteacher catapulted to the Ukrainian presidency by a viral political rant - and it changed his life forever.
Volodymyr Zelensky said 16 children have been killed and another 45 injured during the Russian invasion, adding every crime, every shelling by the occupiers bring our partners and us even closer.
The show became so popular that live on TV on New Year's Eve 2018, Mr Zelenskyy upstaged the country's then-real leader, Petro Poroshenko, by announcing he planned to follow his character's footsteps and run for president himself.
The president, who has remained alongside his people in the capital to fight against the Russian invasion, was a comedian, actor and even appeared on the countrys version of Strictly Come Dancing before he moved into politics.
The tweet included a link to a video where Mr Zelenskyy is seen voicing the part and then speaking in Ukrainian in front of a poster of the film.
Bonneville then tweeted a link to a Unicef appeal "for those across the world who cherish the values of Paddington".
While most Ukrainian film fans will have known about his role in Paddington, the rest of us are only just realising this game-changing information recently.
Meanwhile, the Ukrainian presidents office has confirmed that their diplomats will meet a Russian delegation for peace talks.
Film lovers recently found that the 44-year-old former entertainer was the voice actor for Paddington Bear in the Ukrainian version of the film.
The dad-of-two won the 2019 presidential election with a landslide vote in the second round and was inaugurated in May that year.
In Servant Of The People, Mr Zelenskyy plays the character of Vasyl Petrovych Holoborodko, who unexpectedly becomes leader of his country after an online video of him slating corrupt politicians is viewed by millions of people.
He was a comedian, actor and even appeared on the countrys version of Strictly Come Dancing before moving into politics
