What nuclear weapons does Russia have as Putin puts country on alert
20220227
https://www.hulldailymail.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/what-nuclear-weapons-russia-putin-6726635
In 1945, the Little Boy atomic uranium bomb was dropped on Hiroshima in Japan, killing over 60,000 people.
According to The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons NPT which came into effect in 1970 as a coordinated effort from countries to commit to reducing their nuclear arsenals following the Cold War, Russia currently possesses about 6,257 nuclear weapons.
Russia is thought to have around 20 known missile bases including an intercontinental missile base at Dambarovksiy, one of the nearest to Ukraine.
Russian president Vladimir Putin has put the country's nuclear deterrent forces on alert as tensions rise with the west.
Speaking on state TV, Mr Putin said: "As you can see, not only do Western countries take unfriendly measures against our country in the economic dimension - I mean the illegal sanctions that everyone knows about very well - but also the top officials of leading NATO countries allow themselves to make aggressive statements with regards to our country."
A map created by nuclear historian Alex Wellerstein, from the Stevens Institute of Technology, shows the extent of any nuclear fallout if some of the past bombs were to go off there today.
If the same bomb were to be dropped in the middle of London, it could potentially kill 76,470 people with a further 245,960 injured.
Earlier this week Mr Putin warned the West: "To anyone who would consider interfering from the outside - if you do, you will face consequences greater than any you have faced in history.
If it was to go off in Newcastle-upon-Tyne is could kill around 37,610 and injure 79,900.
And he ordered the Russian defence minister and the chief of the military's General Staff to put the nuclear deterrent forces in a "special regime of combat duty".
President Vladimir Putin has announced he has put Russia's nuclear deterrent forces on alert amid heightened tensions with the West
These are a range of types which can be launched from missiles, aircraft and submarines.
Russia spends billions of dollars on its arsenal of weapons with latest figures showing that in 2020 is spent an estimated US$8 billion to build and maintain its nuclear forces.
ICBMs can get up to a top speed of four miles per second in about 10 minutes after being launched, meaning the weapons could potentially reach the UK from Russia within 20 minutes.
The move comes just days after he made a chilling speech in which he said any attempt to interfere with the Russian incursion into Ukraine would mean "consequences greater than you have ever faced in history".
Most of these are believed to be in the west of the country with the figures including 527 intercontinental ballistic missiles ICBMs, submarine-launched ballistic missiles and strategic bombers.
He accused the West of making "aggressive statements" and condemned the sanctions which are being put in place by countries around the world.
The order means Mr Putin wants Russias nuclear weapons prepared for increased readiness to launch and raises the threat that Moscows invasion of Ukraine and the Wests response to it could boil over into nuclear warfare.
