EU agrees on partial ban of Russian oil imports
20220530
https://www.komu.com/news/nationworld/eu-agrees-on-partial-ban-of-russian-oil-imports/article_dc85d5f3-3a25-557b-a67d-a314eb97e5c2.html
Russian oil delivered by tankers would be banned, while an exemption will be made for the southern segment of the Druzhba pipeline, said Ursula von der Leyen  president of the European Commission  in a press conference. The northern segment of the pipeline serves Poland and Germany  who have agreed to the embargo. The southern part goes to Hungary, Slovakia and Czech republic.
Russia also needs to find new customers. India is expected to import 3.36 million metric tonnes in May, according to estimates from Refinitiv  almost 9 times higher than the 2021 monthly average.
Von der Leyen said an exemption will be made for the southern segment, which accounts for 10 of imports on Russian oil.
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
The EU agreed to ban 90 percent of Russian oil imports by the end of the year, the leaders of the European Council said.
But pipeline deliveries made up a much bigger share of Russian oil shipments to Hungary 86, the Czech Republic 97 and Slovakia 100.
The European Union has agreed on a partial ban on Russian oil imports, according to European Council chief Charles Michel.
"We're not so powerful, but we are the most important client for Russia," he added.
"As we have a clear political statement by Poland and Germany that they will, as the others, wind down Russian oil, until the end of the year. We have covered overall 90 percent of Russian oil being wind down during this time frame. Leftover is the roundabout 10 or 11 percent that is covered by the southern Druzhba. We have agreed for the moment being for an exemption," von der Leyen said.
Michel's announcement followed an extraordinary European Council summit attended by EU leaders in Brussels on Monday to discuss a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.
Officials first proposed joining the US and others in banning Russia's oil a month ago as part of a sixth package of EU sanctions over the country's invasion of Ukraine. But an agreement has been held up by some countries, like Hungary, that are particularly reliant on Russian crude delivered via pipeline.
"Agreement to ban export of Russian oil to the EU. This immediately covers more than 23 of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine," Michel announced in a tweet on Monday evening.
An EU official told CNN earlier that banning all seaborne oil would cover more than two-thirds of imports from Russia.
EU leaders will meet again in Brussels on Tuesday to discuss the bloc's response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Europe now needs to find alternate sources for its crude to help bring down surging fuel prices, which helped push eurozone inflation to another record high of 8.1 on Tuesday.
Europe is the biggest buyer of Russian energy. Russian crude accounted for 27 of the bloc's imports in 2021, according to Eurostat. That's around 2.4 million barrels per day, data from the International Energy Agency shows. About 35 of that was delivered via pipelines to the bloc, according to the IEA.
The price of Brent crude futures, the European benchmark, soared past $124 a barrel on Tuesday morning, its highest level since early March after Russia invaded Ukraine. Prices have since fallen back slightly.
- CNN's Diksha Madhok, Anna Cooban, James Frater, Mitchell McCluskey, Sharon Braithwaite and Hira Humayun contributed to this report
Europe can't prevent Russia from selling oil to non-European countries said Josep Borrell, the bloc's top diplomat, on Tuesday.
"This sanctions package includes other hard-hitting measures: de-Swifting the largest Russian bank Sberbank, banning 3 more Russian state-owned broadcasters, and sanctioning individuals responsible for war crimes in Ukraine," Michel added.
