A Kremlin adviser resigns and Ukrainian territory regained  Ukraines latest war roundup
20220221
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60853547
A US defence spokesman said Ukrainians were also reversing momentum in some parts of the south.
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 10 million people have now fled their homes in Ukraine because of the Russian invasion.
Mr Stoltenberg was speaking at a news conference on the eve of an emergency summit on Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Nato will also agree more support for Ukraine, including greater protection against the use of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
I wish Ukrainians could say the same. After a month reporting from their country, I have just left a nation under brutal attack and I have no idea when it will end.
Despite setbacks on the ground in some regions, Russia continues to shell the capital Kyiv.
I'm writing this in a city where there is no shelling. No Russian missiles slam into homes and there's no air raid siren with a wail that churns your stomach and saps your energy.
I also reported for many years from Russia itself, covering the murder and poisoning of opposition figures, wars in Chechnya and Georgia and horrors like the Beslan school siege, until I was expelled last summer as a "security threat".
Oksana Baulina had been reporting from Kyiv and the western city of Lviv for investigative website The Insider, the outlet said in a statement.
And as uncertainty over this war persists, Ukraine's neighbours, as well as other countries further afield, are faced with the exodus of refugees.
On the diplomatic front, Nato is set to approve big increases in the forces deployed on its eastern flank, its secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg has said.
As well as the 3.6 million who have left for neighbouring countries, another estimated 6.5 million people are thought to be displaced inside the war-torn country itself.
The northern city of Chernihiv is also isolated after a key bridge connecting it to Kyiv was destroyed earlier today, regional authorities say.
And in the Kremlin itself, one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's top advisers has resigned.
The BBC's Anthony Zurcher looks at five of the most pressing concerns as Mr Biden meets European leaders and allies in the days ahead.
Still, I arrived in the capital Kyiv last month convinced that Russia's president would not launch all-out war on Ukraine. The very idea seemed ludicrous, irrational, disastrous - and everyone I spoke to in both countries agreed.
One of his advisers, Anatoly Chubais, has stepped down from his role as an international envoy - the most senior official to resign since the launch of the invasion.
In the battlefield, Ukrainian forces have managed to push back Russian advances around the west of the capital, Kyiv.
Sticking with the Nato summit, US President Joe Biden is on his way to Brussels.
As well as the apparent stalling of Russia's advance on the ground, President Putin seems to have been dealt a blow from within the Kremlin itself.
Russia is facing numerous setbacks as its invasion of Ukraine heads into a second month.
This is his third trip to Europe as US president - and in a real emergency.
Baulina previously worked for Russian opposition figure Alexei Navalny's anti-corruption foundation, and had left Russia.
It's not like I didn't know what Vladimir Putin was capable of. I reported on the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and then the war in eastern Ukraine that was whipped up by Russia's proxies and propaganda.
Local authorities in the town of Makariv, west of Kyiv, said Ukrainian flags were flying there once more.
A UK defence analyst told the BBC the fightback could force Moscow to change its tactics.
