Ukraine conflict Russia trying to starve Mariupol into surrender  MP
20220321
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60816885
Residents spend most of their time in shelters and basements as Russia continues its unrelenting attack on the city, from land, air and sea, officials say.
Previous efforts to evacuate Mariupol's civilians have been blocked by Russian fire, although local authorities say that thousands have been able to leave in private vehicles.
After two hours, Russian forces say they would then have allowed humanitarian convoys with food, medicine and other supplies to enter the city safely, once the de-mining of the roads was complete.
Should Russia capture Mariupol, it would help it create a land corridor between the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, controlled by Russian-backed separatists and Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in 2014. So far though, Mariupol's defenders have stood firm.
"The services cannot clean this rubble because the shelling never stops and bombing never stops. It's really dangerous," he said. He could not give an estimate on how many people had managed to flee the area as "we don't have connection with Mariupol".
Dmytro Gurin was speaking soon after Ukraine rejected a Russian deadline demanding Mariupol's defenders lay down their arms in exchange for safe passage out of the city.
Pictures show a city in ruins, with entire neighbourhoods devastated. The mayor, Vadym Boychenko, estimated that over 80 of residential buildings had either been damaged or destroyed, a third of them beyond repair.
Around 300,000 people are believed to be trapped there with supplies running out and aid blocked from entering.
A Ukrainian MP has accused Russia of trying to starve the besieged port city of Mariupol into surrendering.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
Under the proposal, which Ukraine had until 05:00 Moscow time 02:00 GMT to accept, Russian troops would have opened safe corridors out of Mariupol from 10:00 Moscow time, initially for Ukrainian troops and "foreign mercenaries" to disarm and leave the city.
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSaybbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
There are mounting concerns about the humanitarian situation, with Yaroslav Zhelezniak, a Ukrainian MP from Mariupol, calling it "hell on Earth".
"This is a totally deliberate tactic," he said. "They Russian forces have a clear order to do absolutely everything to make the humanitarian catastrophe in Ukrainian cities an 'argument' for Ukrainians to cooperate with the occupiers".
Bodies are being left in the streets as it is too dangerous to get them.
"Russians don't open humanitarian corridors, they don't let humanitarian convoys enter the city and we clearly see now that the goal of the Russians is to start to create hunger in the city to enforce their position in the diplomatic process," he said.
Mr Gurin said teams were still unable to clean the rubble of a theatre which Ukrainian officials say was bombed by Russia last Wednesday. Hundreds of people are believed to remain trapped in the basement, which withstood the attack. Moscow denies targeting the building.
On Sunday, the Ukrainian deputy prime minister said 3,985 people had fled from Mariupol to Zaporizhzhia, adding that on Monday the government plans on sending about 50 buses to pick up further evacuees from the city.
"If the city does not surrender, and the city will not surrender, they won't let people out. They won't let humanitarian convoys into the city."
Since the war began, authorities say at least 2,500 people have been killed in Mariupol although the true figure may be higher.
