Ukraine roundup Medal sale millions to help refugees and Ben Stiller visits Zelensky
20220621
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-61884212
After weeks of intensive fighting in the area, the loss of Toshkivka gives Russia a further foothold.
But there have been complaints that the rules are too complicated and it takes too long for visas to be issued.
Stiller met President Volodymyr Zelensky in Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, in his role as goodwill ambassador for the United Nations' refugee agency, the UNHCR.
In the Kharkiv region, further west, officials said 15 civilians had been killed by Russian shelling in three separate locations.
Former University of Bath student Nav Sawhney first set up the Washing Machine Project in 2018.
He travelled to the Ukraine border to assess the need for the devices and says he was told some "tragic" stories.
The Ukrainian authorities also confirmed that Russian forces had captured a key frontline village in the eastern region of Luhansk.
Manual washing machines designed to give refugees access to clean clothes are set to be distributed to Ukrainians displaced by the Russian invasion.
"It brings home that this could happen to anyone. You feel helpless but you want to help," said Mr Sawhney.
Kaliningrad - a strategic region where Russia's Baltic Fleet is headquartered - has no border with mainland Russia.
Meanwhile, Russian forces have almost captured the eastern Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk - with Ukrainian troops holding just one factory in the eastern industrial city, according to the regional governor.
The Russian editor-in-chief of the independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta has auctioned off his Nobel Peace Prize medal for $103.5m 84m.
Russia has warned Lithuania of "serious" consequences after it banned the rail transfer of some goods to the Russian territory of Kaliningrad.
In all, more than 13 million people have fled their homes in Ukraine, the United Nations says.
Dmitry Muratov said all the money from the sale would go to help refugees from the war in Ukraine.
Muratov was co-awarded the peace prize in 2021 for defending freedom of expression in Russia.
"It's my first time coming to an area that's in conflict," he told the BBC.
US actor Ben Stiller has described the scenes in war-torn Ukraine as "distressing", "shocking" and on a bigger scale than any movie.
The governor of Luhansk, Sergiy Gaiday, said "every town and village" in Ukrainian hands in the region was "under almost non-stop fire".
Serhiy Haidai said Ukrainian forces had been pushed back into the Azot chemical plant, where hundreds of civilians are also sheltering.
The Hollywood star told Mr Zelensky he was his hero, and complimented his previous acting career.
Some have travelled on family visas, while others have come via a sponsorship scheme which lets unrelated people host individuals and families.
