What are the sanctions on Russia and are they hurting its economy
20220225
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60125659?pinned_post_locator=urn:bbc:cps:curie:asset:a267a9e8-8dfc-4908-8071-7a9afcd90e27&pinned_post_asset_id=60125659&pinned_post_type=share
The US has barred Russia from making debt payments using foreign currency held in US banks.
The US, EU, UK and other countries have sanctioned more than 1,000 Russian individuals and businesses - including so-called oligarchs.
EU countries are also considering further sanctions, to limit Russia's ability to pay for war.
Russia has banned exports of more than 200 goods, including telecoms, medical, vehicle, agricultural, electrical equipment and timber products.
Assets belonging to President Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov have been frozen in the US, EU, UK and Canada.
The US has introduced new sanctions against Russia, after President Putin signed treaties to annex regions of Ukraine.
From December, the EU and G7 also want to cap the price countries pay for Russian oil.
And it has stopped foreign investors who hold billions of dollars worth of Russian investments from selling them.
David Fyfe, chief economist at research organisation Argus Media, says its crude oil revenues rose 41 over the past year.
Major Russian banks have been removed from the international financial messaging system Swift. This has delayed payments to Russia for its oil and gas exports.
They are telling importers of Russian crude oil that western insurers will not cover oil shipments if they pay more than the cap.
However, Mr Fyfe says sanctions are weakening Russia in other ways, "especially by blocking its access to the hi-tech components that its military sector needs".
Sanctions are penalties imposed by one country on another, to stop them acting aggressively or breaking international law.
Russia's ability to fund the war has been helped by high oil and gas prices.
The EU has not imposed sanctions on Russian gas, because it relies on it for about 40 of its gas needs.
The UK has excluded key Russian banks from the UK financial system, frozen the assets of all Russian banks, barred Russian firms from borrowing money and placed limits on deposits Russians can make at UK banks.
The US says it will also target organisations outside Russia which provide support for its military, or its annexation of Ukrainian territory.
The US is imposing sanctions on 278 members of Russia's parliament, for enabling the referendums to annex four regions of Ukraine. It is also targeting 14 people connected with its defence industries.
"Oil sales make up 40 of Russia's total exports, and so they are helping greatly to fund the war," he says.
The UK has stopped the sale of "golden visas", which allowed wealthy Russians to get British residency rights.
It is blocking interest payments to foreign holders of government bonds, and banning Russian firms from paying overseas shareholders.
These are wealthy business leaders who are thought to be close to the Kremlin, such as former Chelsea FC owner Roman Abramovich.
In New York, Russian aluminium magnate Oleg Deripaska has been charged with violating US sanctions.
A new round of sanctions, drawn up by the European Commission, proposes a further ban on Russian imports. It would also ban more hi-tech goods from being exported.
