UkraineRussia Local churches launch brave aid effort in war zone
20220228
https://religionnews.com/2022/02/28/ukraine-russia-local-churches-launch-brave-aid-effort-in-war-zone/
Founded in 1934, Slavic Gospel Association SGA helps forgotten orphans, widows and families in Russia, the former Soviet countries of Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and Russian-speaking immigrants in Israel  caring for their physical needs and sharing the life-transforming Gospel of Jesus Christ. SGA supports an extensive grassroots network of local evangelical missionary pastors and churches in cities and rural villages across this vast region.
IDPs internally displaced people are already on the move, Mock said. In those regions of Russia where IDPs are heading, were supporting the local churches, so they can share the hope of the Gospel along with vital aid.
Supported by U.S.-based Slavic Gospel Association SGA, the church-driven emergency response will provide food, winter clothes, blankets and medicines for thousands of at-risk people, including orphans, abandoned children with special needs, the elderly, those uprooted by the conflict, and marginalized ethnic groups.
Theres great unity and a strong bond between the Russian and Ukrainian pastors and their churches, said SGAs president Michael Johnson. Its a picture of Gods perfect Kingdom versus mans broken one.
The Gospel ministrys Winter Warmth outreach provides shivering families with warm clothes, while its Family Survival Packs  containing blankets, medicines and food  will be a lifesaver for those forced to flee their homes under fire.
Local believers are also visiting orphanages and childrens homes, reassuring frightened and forgotten children, and sharing Gods love with them.
Over decades, SGA has built strong partnerships with evangelical pastors and churches in both Ukraine and Russia  a ready-made relief force in emergencies.
LOVES PARK, Ill.  Unstoppable local churches in Ukraine and Russia are launching a large-scale humanitarian outreach across Ukraine as war erupts around them and many suffer.
There are Russian pastors in Ukraine, and Ukrainian pastors in Russia, Mock said. Its impossible to separate them.
Many families are interconnected, and pastors on both sides of the border talk to each other constantly.
While others are fleeing, local churches are engaging, said Eric Mock, SGAs vice president of ministry operations. Theyre bravely rushing to help those in need right now. Theyre unstoppable in the face of this crisis.
Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of Religion News Service or Religion News Foundation.
Partnering with a network of more than 2,300 Ukrainian and Russian pastors  including 40-plus churches in eastern Ukraine where the fighting is most intense  the Illinois-based organization expects to exceed the 175,000 meals already provided monthly, and the need is only growing.
