Ukraine in emergency urges Russia talks
20220223
https://www.countrynews.com.au/world/ukraine-in-emergency-urges-russia-talks/
The 30-day state of emergency was approved by parliament on Wednesday. It restricts the freedom of movement of conscripted reservists, curbs the media and imposes personal document checks, according to a draft text. The restrictions come into force from Thursday.
Western countries have been warning for weeks about the possibility of the bloodiest war in Europe for decades. That has not materialised yet but the threat remains, leaving policymakers to struggle with calibrating their response.
Ukraine's military said one soldier had been killed and six wounded in increased shelling by pro-Russian separatists using heavy artillery, mortar bombs and Grad rocket systems in the two breakaway areas in the last 24 hours.
The rouble plunged around three per cent as the European Union blacklisted Russian lawmakers, freezing their assets and banning travel.
For months, Russia has presented the crisis mainly as a dispute with the West, demanding security guarantees, including a promise never to allow Ukraine to join NATO.
"Predicting what might be the next step of Russia, the separatists or the personal decisions of the Russian president - I cannot say," Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said.
Washington targeted a major gas pipeline project from Russia, and London aimed for Russian debt.
That uncertainty and growing volley of sanctions on Russian interests by Washington and its allies have jolted financial markets, from oil and shares to wheat.
New satellite imagery showed several fresh troop and equipment deployments in western Russia and more than 100 vehicles at a small airfield in southern Belarus, which borders Ukraine, according to US firm Maxar.
A US defence official said the Russian forces were "as ready as they can be" for an attack.
Moscow denies planning an invasion and has described warnings as anti-Russian hysteria. But it has taken no steps to withdraw the troops deployed along Ukraine's frontiers.
On Wednesday, it took down flags from its embassy in Kyiv, having ordered its diplomats to evacuate for safety reasons.
But the recognition of the separatist regions was accompanied by much stronger language against Ukraine.
Convoys of military equipment including nine tanks moved towards eastern Ukraine's Donetsk from the direction of the Russian border, a Reuters witness reported.
The separatist leader of one breakaway region said on Wednesday that Ukrainian government forces should withdraw from such territory and take their weapons with them.
Western leaders say tougher sanctions than so far unleashed are in reserve in case of a full-scale invasion, for example if Russia helps separatists seize parts of eastern Ukraine they claim but do not currently control.
Shelling intensified at the line of contact in eastern Ukraine, where Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised the independence of two Moscow-backed rebel regions this week and has ordered the deployment of Russian forces as "peacekeepers".
None of the sanctions so far directly targets Putin himself, or are expected to have serious consequences for Moscow, which is sitting on more than $US630 billion $A871 billion in international reserves.
Ukraine has declared a state of emergency and told its citizens in Russia to immediately come home, while Moscow began evacuating its Kyiv embassy.
Putin said he was always open to finding diplomatic solutions but that "the interests of Russia and the security of our citizens are unconditional for us".
In a TV address on Monday, Putin characterised the Ukrainian state as an artificial construct wrongly carved out of Russia by its enemies.
Oil prices reversed their early losses on the day, while Wall Street slipped on news of Ukraine's emergency measures.
But there was still no clear indication of whether Putin will launch a massed assault on Ukraine with the tens of thousands of troops he has gathered near the border.
