Meet Phoenix Ghost the US Air Forces new drone perfect for Ukraines war with Russia
20220421
https://breakingdefense.com/2022/04/meet-phoenix-ghost-the-us-air-forces-new-drone-designed-for-ukraines-war-with-russia/
Understanding the environment is the baseline for successful naval operations. To develop more and better undersea charts, the Navy is combining hydrography with autonomy for the first time.
WASHINGTON: The latest $800 million arms package for Ukraine includes a unique new item  the Phoenix Ghost tactical drone, a never-before revealed system designed by the US Air Force that will now prove its mettle on the battlefields of Ukraine.
It was developed for a set of requirements that very closely match what the Ukrainians need right now in Donbas, he said.
The United States will provide more than 121 Phoenix Ghost Tactical Unmanned Aerial Systems, which are manufactured by AEVEX Aerospace, the Pentagon announced today.
The bespoke new drone is only one part of the latest $800 million arms package announced by President Joe Biden today. Also included are:
AEVEX markets itself as a a recognized leader in full-spectrum airborne intelligence solutions, with experience in operating manned and unmanned intelligence aircraft, exploiting the data they collect, and fabricating drones or mission systems.
The official claimed to have no idea how Phoenix Ghost got its name, but noted that the new system would require minimal training for Ukrainian operators who are already familiar with Switchblade or other unmanned aircraft.
The Air Force declined to comment on the creation of Phoenix Ghost, directing all inquiries to the Pentagon.
That said, there are differences in the scope of capability for the Phoenix Ghost, but Im just not going to be able to get into more detail about those capabilities, the official said, citing the classification of the new system.
IRPIN,UKRAINE  MARCH 6: Ukrainian soldiers on the collapsed bridge that crosses the Irpin River aim for a suspected Russian observation drone on March 6, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Laurent Van der Stockt for Le MondeGetty Images
The Biden administration has provided about $3.4 billion in security assistance for Ukraine since Russias invasion began on Feb. 24. The latest round of Howitzers, combined with an earlier package from April 13, provides enough artillery systems to equip five battalions, the Pentagon said in a statement.
AEVEX Aerospaces role in the design and manufacturing of Phoenix Ghost is also murky, with the defense official providing few details.
On March 4, AEVEX was one of more than 50 companies that received an indefinite-deliveryindefinite-quantity contract from the Navy to meet new and emerging requirements for areas including combat integration and identification systems, ship and air integrated warfare systems, special communications mission solutions, air traffic control and landing systems, airborne systems integration, and integrated command and control and intelligence. However its unclear whether this contract award has anything to do with the Phoenix Ghost.
The Phoenix Ghost is similar to the Switchblade unmanned systems previously delivered to Ukraine, the official said, in that it is a one way drone that is clearly designed to give a punch to a number of different types of targets. This likely means that Phoenix Ghost is a low-cost, single-use suicide drone that behaves like a loitering munition  flying around an airspace before ramming itself into a target.
Breaking Defense talks with Col. Nir Weingold, the head of planning, economics  IT department in the military research department.
Edited 42122 at 4:29 EST to include comments from Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby, who walked back the departments previous characterization of Phoenix Ghost.
Earlier today, a senior defense official said the new drone was rapidly developed by the Air Force in response, specifically, to Ukrainian requirements. However, in a later briefing, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby walked back that characterization, stating that the Phoenix Ghost was developed before Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
Breaking Defense phoned the companys Solana Beach, Calif.-based headquarters hoping to find out more information, but was told We have no comment on the issue you are calling about by the person who answered the phone. Breaking Defense had identified itself as a member of the media but had not specifically inquired on Phoenix Ghost. Asked specifically about Phoenix Ghost, the representative for AEVEX repeated that she had no comment.
