Putin massively misjudged Ukraine Russian troops shoot down own planes GCHQ head
20220331
https://breakingdefense.com/2022/03/putin-massively-misjudged-ukraine-russian-troops-shoot-down-own-planes-gchq-head/
Put simply, Sir Jeremy Fleming, director of GCHQ, said, it increasingly looks like Putin has massively misjudged the situation. Its clear he misjudged the resistance of the Ukrainian people. He underestimated the strength of the coalition his actions would galvanize. He under-played the economic consequences of the sanctions regime. He over-estimated the abilities of his military to secure a rapid victory.
Russias aggression has certainly galvanized NATO. The war has triggered an unprecedented international response  141 countries condemned it at the UN General Assembly. All over Europe countries are overturning decades long approaches to their defense policy investing more too. And further afield, including in this region, countries like Australia and Japan are leaning in. Its also showing, in stark relief, those countries that choose to either support Putin or abstain from making a choice.
Whilst some people look for cyber Pearl Harbors, it was never our understanding that a catastrophic cyber-attack was central to Russians use of offensive cyber or to their military doctrine. To think otherwise misjudges how cyber has an effect in military campaigns, he said.
All in all, Fleming emphasized, Putins actions in Ukraine have triggered reactions that are the opposite of what the Russian leader had hoped to accomplish.
He argued there are risks to both countries in being too closely aligned. Russia understands that long term, China will become increasingly strong militarily and economically. Some of their interests conflict Russia could be squeezed out of the equation.
One point of friction, Fleming believes, is that China wants to supplant the West and set the norms for a new global order, and would not be well served by close alliance with a regime that willfully and illegally ignores them all as Russia has done in invading Ukraine, a sovereign state, and threatening the use of nuclear weapons if it doesnt get its way.
On this and many other subjects, deeply secret intelligence is being released to make sure the truth is heard. At this pace and scale, it really is unprecedented, he added.In my view, intelligence is only worth collecting if we use it, so I unreservedly welcome this development.
Given his Australian audience, Fleming really had to mention China and its relationship with Russia, both of which are Pacific powers. China and Russia have gown increasingly close, cooperating on massive military exercises, and signing trade agreements.
The government of Prime Minister Scott Morrison has made much of its success in boosting Australias defense spending to 2 percent of GDP and has touted spending and jobs at half-a-dozen events hosted by the prime minister or his defense minister. In terms of cyber, Australia announced Tuesday that it would increase spending on cyber by almost $10 billion over the next decade, with $500 million to start in 2023.
More broadly, Fleming said the pandemic, the profile and dominance of technology and cyber, the role of China, the end of the Afghan campaign and now Putins invasion of Ukraine are all part of a generational upheaval across the globe.
GCHQ Director Jeremy Fleming delivers a speech at Watergate House on February 14, 2019 in London, England. Photo by Hannah McKay  WPA PoolGetty Images
It is already a remarkable feature of this conflict just how much intelligence has been so quickly declassified to get ahead of Putins actions, Fleming said.From the warnings of the war, to the intelligence on false flag operations designed to provide a fake premise to the invasion. And more recently, to the Russian plans to falsely claim Ukrainian use of banned chemical weapons.
And those choices will affect the global order and our national securities for decades to come, Fleming said.
On the area closest to his day-to-day work, Fleming offered some insights on the apparent lack of cyber attacks from Russia that many had predicted.
Fleming later added that Weve seen Russian soldiers  short of weapons and morale  refusing to carry out orders, sabotaging their own equipment and even accidentally shooting down their own aircraft.
In the shorter term, Putins invasion of Ukraine has done the opposite of what Putin ostensibly hoped to achieve, Fleming said in his speech at Canberras Australian National University. The great irony is, of course, that through his actions, Putin has brought upon himself exactly what he was trying to avoid  a Ukraine with a renewed sense of nationhood, a NATO that is more united than ever, and a global coalition of nations that condemn his actions.
SYDNEY: In a rare public appearance, the head of Britains GCHQ  their equivalent of Americas National Security Agency  said this morning that Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine is marked by demoralized Russian troops who are making fundamental mistakes.
A key to dealing with that new system is new uses of intelligence.Fleming pointed to Britains new Government Information Cell, created to identify and counter Kremlin disinformation.
The director of the massive but highly secretive GCHQ, who was here in part to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Australian Signals Directorate, praised Australia for beefing up its defense budget in the face of the new array of threats and the changing international picture.
However, Fleming did note that GCHQ has seen sustained intent from Russia to disrupt Ukrainian government and military systems. Weve seen what looks like some spill-over of activity affecting surrounding countries. And weve certainly seen indications which suggests Russias cyber actors are looking for targets in the countries that oppose their actions.
