Caitlin Johnstone Facebook Says Its OK to Kill Russians
20220311
https://consortiumnews.com/2022/03/11/caitlin-johnstone-facebook-says-its-ok-to-kill-russians/
And this is all over a war that the Western empireknowingly provoked,almost certainlyplannedin advance and appears to be doing everything possible toensure that it continues.
I am of course only trying to make a point here. Geopolitical power struggles are not contested by opposing sides of heroes and baddies like a Marvel superhero movie, though youd never know it from all the hero worship of Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky and the self-righteous posturing of mainstream Westerners over this war. Vladimir Putin is no Peter Parker, but neither is Zelensky or Biden or any of the other empire managers overseeing this campaign to overwhelm all challengers to U.S. global domination.
Meta Platforms will allow Facebook and Instagram users in some countries to call for violence against Russians and Russian soldiers in the context of the Ukraine invasion, according to internal emails seen by Reuters on Thursday, in a temporary change to its hate speech policy.
Normally when the U.S. and its allies are involved in a war theyll at least pay lip service to the notion that they have nothing but good will for the people of the enemy nation, claiming they only oppose their oppressive rulers. With Russia its just a complete rejection of the entire culture, the entire ethnicity. Its a widespread promotion of hatred forthe actual peoplebecause ofwho they are.
Antiwars Dave DeCampreportsthat Washington is still to this day not engaging in any serious diplomacy with Moscow over this conflict, preferring to strangle Russia economically and pour weapons into Ukraine to make the war as painful and costly as possible. Both of these preferences just so happen to nicely complement the U.S. empiresgoal of unipolar planetary hegemony.
Last monthwe also learnedthat Facebook is now allowing users to praise the Ukrainian neo-Nazi Azov Battalion because of the war, a move that is arguably the most liberal thing that has ever happened.
Normally when the U.S. and its allies are involved in a war theyll at least pay lip service to the notion that they have nothing but good will for the people of the enemy nation.
As luck would have it, U.S. officials have also selected this precarious nuclear tightrope walk as the perfect time to beginhurling accusationsthat Russia is preparing a biological attack, potentially as a false flag blamed on Ukraine or the United States. This coincides with Victoria Nulandsadmissionbefore the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that Ukraine has biological research facilities that the U.S. is quite concerned might end up falling into the hands of Russian forces.
These are the people who are beingsmashed with crushing economic sanctionswhile Western punditsproclaimthat There are no more innocent neutral Russians anymore andaskAt what point do you hold a people responsible for putting an evil despot in power? This even as the Russian people arebeing arrested by the thousandsin anti-war protests, putting to shame our own Western society that has generally slept through war after war in the years since 911 while our militaries have beenkilling of millions of people.
All of this on top of the unprecedentedwave of authoritarian censorshipthat has beentearing throughthe U.S.-centralized empire as our rulers work toquashdissidentvoicesaround theworld. It certainly is interesting that the fight for freedom and democracy requires so much censorship, warmongering, xenophobia, propaganda and bloodlust.
Reuters reportsthat Facebook and Instagram are now allowing calls for the death of Russians and Russian leaders in exemption from the platforms hate speech terms of service due to the war in Ukraine:
Democrats are braying for Russian blood while Republicans likeTom CottonandMitt Romneyare attacking Democrats for being insufficiently hawkish and escalatory in this conflict, creating a horrifying dynamic where both parties are trying to out-hawk each other to score political points and nobody is calling for de-escalation and detente.
Meanwhile the entire Western politicalmedia class seems to be doing everything it can to turn this from a regional proxy war into a very fast and radioactive World War III.
The power structure loosely centralized around the United States is without question the single most depraved and destructive on earth. No one else has spent the 21st century waging wars that have killed millions and displaced tens of millions. No one else is circling the planet with military bases and working to destroy any nation on earth which disobeys it. Not Russia. Not China. Nobody.
Caitlin Johnstone is a rogue journalist, poet, and utopia prepper who publishes regularlyat Medium. Herwork isentirely reader-supported, so if you enjoyed this piece please consider sharing it around, liking her onFacebook, following her antics onTwitter, checking out her podcast on eitherYoutube,soundcloud,Apple podcastsorSpotify, following her onSteemit, throwing some money into her tip jar onPatreonorPaypal, purchasing some of hersweet merchandise, buying her booksNotes From The Edge Of The Narrative Matrix,Rogue Nation: Psychonautical Adventures With Caitlin JohnstoneandWoke: A Field Guide for Utopia Preppers.
Twitter has also altered its rules against incitement and death threats in the case of Russian leaders and military personnel, as Ben Nortonexplains here for Multipolarista.
Exclusive: Facebook will temporarily allow posts calling for violence against Russians, calls for Putin's death https:t.coZybE2Cn6t6 pic.twitter.comDKMoY3npTA
The hypocrisy, dishonesty and phoniness of this whole song and dance about Ukraine is one of the most distasteful things that I have ever witnessed. Rather than engaging in click-friendly Instagram activism with blue and yellow profile pics making risk-free criticisms of a foreign leader in a far off country who has nothing to do with us, perhaps we would be better served by a bit more introspection, and by a somewhat more difficult stance: intense scrutiny of the corruption and abuses running rampant in our own society.
Callsfor ano-fly zoneoverUkraine, whichwould require directly attacking the Russian militaryand risking anuclear exchangein the resulting escalations, arenow ubiquitous. Claims that more directly confrontational military aggressions against Russia wont start a nuclear war or that itsworththeriskanyway arebecomingmoreandmore commoninWestern punditry.
Western institutions everywhere are rejecting all things Russia with such a savage degree of xenophobia it really ought to shock anyone who was born after the 1800s. Everything fromRussianathletestoRussian musicianstoRussian-made filmstoRussian composerstoRussian Netflix showstolectures about Russian authorstoRussian restaurantstoRussian vodkatoRussian-bred catstoRussian treestodishes that sound a little too much like Putinhave been cancelled to varying degrees around the Western world.
The views expressed are solely those of the author and may or may not reflect those ofConsortium News.
