Slippery Slope New US Advanced Weapons for Ukraine
20220602
https://consortiumnews.com/2022/06/01/slippery-slope-new-u-s-advanced-weapons-for-ukraine/
Peace advocates are warningthat the Biden administrations newly unveiled decision to arm Ukraine with advanced missile systems further heightens the risk of a direct military conflict between the U.S. and Russia, whichaccusedthe White House of adding fuel to the fire deliberately as Moscows deadly invasion of its neighbor rages on.
We do not seek a war between NATO and Russia, the president declared Tuesday. As much as I disagree with Mr. Putin, and find his actions an outrage, the United States will not try to bring about his ouster in Moscow. So long as the United States or our allies are not attacked, we will not be directly engaged in this conflict, either by sending American troops to fight in Ukraine or by attacking Russian forces.
We are not encouraging or enabling Ukraine to strike beyond its borders. We do not want to prolong the war just to inflict pain on Russia, he added, comments that appear to conflict withrecent remarksby Pentagon Secretary Lloyd Austin, who said last month that the U.S. wants to see Russia weakened to the degree that it cant do the kinds of things that it has done in invading Ukraine.
U.S. President Joe Biden, whorecently visiteda Lockheed Martin facility in Alabama, took to thepagesof theNew York Timeson Tuesday to explain his decision to supply Ukraine with high-tech weaponry, despite theriskthat such arms could prolong the war and increase the already ghastly civilian death toll.
We want to see them not have the capability to very quickly reproduce that capability, Austin added.
Moscow has said repeatedly that it views Western arms shipments to Ukraine as legitimate targets, but Biden waved away the idea that such deliveries would lead to a head-to-head military conflict between the U.S. and Russia.
While Biden insisted in hisTimesop-ed that his administration backs Ukraineseffortsto achieve a negotiated end to the conflict, the U.S. and other Western governmentsparticularly theUnited Kingdomhave faced criticism for failing to sufficiently support and even directly undermining peace talks.
According to the Congressional Budget Office, the Pentagon hasspentaround $5.4 billion to buy more than 42,000 HIMARS rockets since 1998.
An unnamed senior Biden administration official told theTimeson Tuesday that the U.S. only agreed to provide Ukraine with the longer-range missile system after the country provided assurances that it would not use the weapons to launch attacks inside Russia.
Compounding the risk of a larger war is the collapse of diplomatic talks between Ukrainian and Russian delegations, leaving the path to a peaceful settlement highly uncertain in the near-term.
The U.S. and U.K. governments show no efforts or desire to achieve peaceful settlement of the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine, Ivan Katchanovski, a Ukrainian professor of political studies at the University of Ottawa,toldJacobin earlier this week.
The U.S.-made High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, also known as HIMARS, will give Ukraine the capability to strike Russian targets roughly 50 miles away with powerful, satellite-guided missiles. The rocket system, the most advanced weaponry the U.S. has sent to Ukraine to date, is manufactured by Lockheed Martin, the worlds largest military contractor.
The slippery slope leading to a direct U.S. confrontation with Russia just got a lot steeper, Medea Benjamin, co-founder of the progressive anti-war group CodePink, wrote in response to the Biden administrations move, which was followed by news that Russian forces areholding nuclear drills northeast of Moscow on Wednesday.The U.S. and U.K. governments show no efforts or desire to achieve peaceful settlement of the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
Biden attending G7 leaders meeting in March at NATO headquarters in Brussels. White House, Adam Schultz
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskovtoldreporters Wednesday that Moscow doesnt trust Ukraines promise not to directly attack Russian territory.
We will continue providing Ukraine with advanced weaponry, including Javelin anti-tank missiles, Stinger antiaircraft missiles, powerful artillery and precision rocket systems, radars, unmanned aerial vehicles, Mi-17 helicopters, and ammunition, Biden wrote, arguing that continued U.S. weapons shipments put Ukraine in the strongest possible position at the negotiating table.
The U.S.-made High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, also known as HIMARS, will give Ukraine the capability to strike Russian targets roughly 50 miles away with powerful, satellite-guided missiles.
But such assurances are unlikely to satisfy analysts and peace activists who argue that Russias assault on Ukraine has devolved into a dangerousproxy warbetween the West and Moscow thats just one deliberate attack or miscalculation away from a broaderand potentially nuclearconflict.
