Johnson considers sanctions on Putins inner circle as air strikes hit Kyiv
20220225
https://www.wiltsglosstandard.co.uk/news/19953314.johnson-considers-sanctions-putins-inner-circle-air-strikes-hit-kyiv/
The Prime Minister is also using an emergency Nato summit on Friday to increase pressure on allies to freeze Russia out of the Swift international payment system amid opposition to the move in the European Union.
Britain, the US and the EU have hit Moscow with a concerted package of economic sanctions, but are facing calls to go further to exclude Russia from Swift, a move strongly backed by Mr Johnson but facing resistance from allies including Germany and the Netherlands.
A spokesman for Mr Johnson could not provide details of what support will be dispatched, but said nothing is off the table.
Mr Zelensky said subversive groups were encroaching on Kyiv, as US secretary of state Antony Blinken said Kyiv could well be under siege.
Boris Johnson is considering sanctioning Vladimir Putins inner circle after Ukraine demanded tougher measures and support fending off the Russian invasion, as Kyiv was hit by air strikes and fighting closed in on the capital.
US officials believe the action is an attempt by Russian president Mr Putin to dismantle Ukraines government and replace it with his own puppet regime.
Uefa stripped St Petersburg of Mays Champions League final and handed it to Paris, while Formula One bosses cancelled the Russian Grand Prix.
With the EU considering an asset freeze against the Russian president and his foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, Mr Johnson and allies from the Joint Expeditionary Force alliance including Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands agreed the need to go further.
Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia ally Belarus, was summoned to the Foreign Office for a dressing down by minister James Cleverly.
And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I wont trigger a European war but what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality.
Among the new UK sanctions introduced were measures to hit five further oligarchs, including the Russian presidents former son-in-law, and to target more than 100 businesses and individuals.
Mr Johnson is facing calls, including from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, to strengthen his package of measures hitting oligarchs supporting the Putin regime and freezing Russian bank assets.
The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putins inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed, Downing Street said, adding that Mr Johnson agrees more support needs to be given to Ukraine as a matter of urgency.
Mr Wallace ruled out Britain helping enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine because the RAF fighting Russian jets would trigger a war across Europe.
After updating Mr Johnson on the terrible developments in Kyiv, the president said Ukraine needs the support of partners more than ever as he demanded effective counteraction and for sanctions to be strengthened.
Was Russia convinced by yesterdays sanctions? We hear in our sky and see on our earth that this was not enough.
The Kremlins long-feared assault began in the early hours of Thursday, but the British Ministry of Defence said a fierce resistance was holding up the Russian advance.
Theyve lost over 450 personnel. One of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetsnaz has failed to be taken. In fact, the Ukrainians have taken it back.
Mr Zelensky said in an address early on Friday that sanctions alone were not doing enough to deter Russia.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said more than 450 Russian troops had been killed, as a fierce resistance meant Moscow failed on the main objective on the first day of fighting.
The assault on Kyiv added to pressure on Mr Johnson to strengthen sanctions the day after unveiling what he called the largest and most severe package of measures Russia has faced.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The spokesman for the Prime Minister said we will continue to work with allies to try and cut Russia off from Swift to deliver a severe blow to the Russian economy and said Mr Johnson would raise the issue at the virtual Nato summit.
The Prime Minister assured Mr Zelensky that the world is united in its horror at what Putin is doing and praised the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people, No 10 said.
Mr Wallace told Sky News: Our assessment as of this morning is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives, in fact it is behind its hoped-for timetable.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said just before 4am on Friday that horrific rocket strikes had hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the citys 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.
So, I think contrary to great Russian claims and indeed President Putins sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause  hes got that completely wrong. The Russian army has failed to deliver on day one its main objective.
This morning we are defending our state alone. Like yesterday, the worlds most powerful forces are watching from afar, he said.
He is trying to invade Ukraine. He wont stop after Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesnt believe the Baltic states are really countries, he told BBC Radio 4s Today programme.
Mr Wallace said Britain will work all day to secure Russias exclusion from the international payment system, telling Today: We want it switched off. Other countries do not. We only have so many options. We are going to work all day to try and get it.
Held talks with  PM BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of s defense and insidious attacks on Kyiv by the aggressor. Today  needs the support of partners more than ever. We demand effective counteraction to the Russian Federation. Sanctions must be further strengthened.
In the early hours, the Prime Minister shared a call with Mr Zelensky as invading forces closed in on Kyiv after a barrage of air strikes on cities and military bases.
Russia retaliated over the ban on Aeroflot flights landing in the UK by banning British flights to and over Russia.
