UK to personally sanction Putin and foreign minister imminently  Johnson
20220225
https://www.wiltsglosstandard.co.uk/news/national/19954065.uk-personally-sanction-putin-foreign-minister-imminently---johnson/
My fear would be that if they dont meet their timescale and objectives, they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence, the official said.
In a further move, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps announced he is extending a ban on Aeroflot flights landing in the UK to cover Russian private jets.
We are facing a new normal in European security where Russia openly contests the European security order and uses force to pursue its objectives, he said.
Meanwhile Mr Johnson issued a direct appeal to the Russian people, posting a video on social media in which he said in Russian: I do not believe this war is in your name.
This crisis, this tragedy, can and must come to an end. Because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine. pic.twitter.comijbAAb8G67
Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia ally Belarus, was summoned to the Foreign Office for a dressing down over its support for Moscows illegal and unprovoked actions.
Uefa stripped St Petersburg of Mays Champions League final and handed it to Paris, while Formula One bosses cancelled the Russian Grand Prix.
One official noted that the Russians were known to have thermobaric weapons in their armoury and that they had used them in previous conflicts.
Despite beginning the attack on Thursday, the Russian forces have yet to take any of the main population centres and officials believe they failed to achieve most of their day one objectives for the invasion.
And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I wont trigger a European war but what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality.
President Joe Biden later announced that the US was freezing the assets ofMr Putin and Mr Lavrov.
The UK will imminently level personal sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin and his foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, Boris Johnson has announced.
He warned the group that the Russian presidents ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences, he said.
The unprovoked and illegal assault on Ukraine is continuing. See below for an update from Defence Intelligence. StandWithUkraine pic.twitter.comTwlnDxLCuV
He said the alliance was deploying thousands more troops to the eastern member states  who fear they could be the next target of Russian aggression  would do what it takes to protect and defend every ally and every inch of Nato territory.
Mr Johnson told allies the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday, according to a No 10 spokesman.
Their objective is to encircle the capital, to secure control of the population and change the regime, he said. Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance.
The Prime Minister told Nato leaders in a virtual meeting on Friday that the UK would echo measures announced by the EU to target the Russian leader.
Earlier Defence Secretary Ben Wallace ruled out calls for Britain to help mount a no-fly zone over Ukraine because the RAF fighting Russian jets would trigger a war across Europe.
To the people of Russia: I do not believe this war is in your name.
Following the Nato meeting, alliance secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said it was clear the Kremlins objectives were not limited to Ukraine.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Britains Chief of Defence Intelligence, Lieutenant General Sir Jim Hockenhull, said Russian forces were continuing to move towards Kyiv on two lines of advance.
With Russian forces continuing to advance towards Kyiv, beleaguered Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said sanctions had so far done nothing to deter the Russian onslaught.
Referring to Mr Putins wish to recover territory which previously fell under the USSR, Mr Johnson said Russia was engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn the post-Cold War order.
He is trying to invade Ukraine. He wont stop after Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesnt believe the Baltic states are really countries, Mr Wallace told BBC Radio 4s Today programme.
BP is under pressure from the Government to cut its ties with Russian oil giant Rosneft, which the British-based company holds a 20 stake in.
Meanwhile Western officials have warned that the Russians could resort to thermobaric weapons  used to generate powerful, high-temperature explosions  if the Ukrainian military resistance continues to hold up their assault.
The move to sanction President Putin and Mr Lavrov comes after the European Union announced it was considering a similar move against the two men as it set out its latest round of measures in concert with the US and the UK.
While there have been reports of sporadic fighting in the northern suburbs, most of the main Russian units were still thought to be more than 50km away.
The Government has faced criticism that it has still not gone far enough despite measures to hit five further oligarchs, and targeting more than 100 businesses and individuals.
Russia retaliated over the ban on Aeroflot flights landing in the UK by banning British flights to and over Russia.
The Prime Minister also used the meeting to urge immediate action over the banning of Russia from the Swift payment systemto inflict maximum pain on the Kremlin.
President Putin stepped up his inflammatory rhetoric, urging Ukrainian troops to lay down their arms saying he would find it easier to negotiate with them, than that gang of drug addicts and neo-Nazis who have holed up in Kyiv and have taken the entire Ukrainian people hostage.
