We feel safe here Ukrainian refugees meet PM at Downing Street
20220513
https://www.wiltsglosstandard.co.uk/news/national/20138758.we-feel-safe-here-ukrainian-refugees-meet-pm-downing-street/
The pair arrived through the Ukraine Family Scheme and are staying with Ms Herasymenkos sister Tatiana Krupenko, 35, who lives in Birmingham.
Speaking to the PA news agency, Natalia Kogut, 40, said her family feel safe and they are thankful to Mr Johnson for the support Ukraine has received.
Ms Krupenko said: They went in hope that they would actually make it somewhere because they were running low on food supplies, there was nothing in the supermarket at that point, no supplies, no nothing.
She said: We have a long list of families waiting to come to homes from Ukraine but the process is very slow.
The 41-year-old said we feel safe here but added that they are worried for her husband, who is still in Ukraine, delivering supplies and food.
Asked how she felt that her sister and nephew were in the UK, the 35-year-old said: Amazing, just so grateful that theyre safe.
She said: I genuinely didnt believe were going to make it through, Ms Krupenko translated.
The Prime Minister greeted a group of around 10 refugees at the official residence in central London.
On her family finding a sponsor, she said: We are very happy and I dont know what to say and we are very thankful and people are very kind really.
Asked about meeting Mr Johnson, she said: It was amazing  even British nationals not always can say they have met the Prime Minister and been to the residence and for us its amazing.
Ukrainian families who have been housed in the UK through refugee schemes have said they feel safe here after meeting Boris Johnson at Downing Street.
Just we can think about how it was difficult crossing the border with this road and this bombing and what we remember, and here were happy but there are people left there who dont have such possibility, and some people we knew  they perished in Bucha.
But to be honest, things are changing every single week and its really speeding up now.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ms Krupenko said: It was a bit touch and go whether they would get there.
We are very thankful to the Prime Minister because he is number one who helps Ukraine now and not just Ukrainian refugees here but Ukraine with weapons and I dont know if Ukraine wouldnt exist maybe any more so we are very thankful for that.
The children are so happy, she said, adding that her daughter Melisa sang the Ukrainian national anthem to the Prime Minister.
Ms Kogut said she fled Kyiv with her mother Malyna, 64, her daughter Melisa, 11, and her son Akim, 18, and arrived in the UK on March 5.
So its mixed feelings because sometimes I even feel some kind of guilt because Im here safe.
She added that her family are very grateful for the opportunity but also for all of Boriss help.
Some of the group had been housed through the Homes for Ukraine Scheme and others had arrived through the Ukraine Family Scheme  both of which were set up by the UK Government in the wake of the Russian invasion.
We worry that there might not be a continuation  theres no reassurances at the moment so everything is very short term.
The family have since been taken in by an elderly woman who lives in a big house in Birmingham, she explained.
She said her sister had described what it was like living in Kherson, saying: You dont know whos going to be next, you cant sleep because constant missiles, constant shooting, you dont know whether its going to hit you or someone else, the places that you loved have gone, the hopes and dreams of 16-year-olds have vanished.
She translated for her sister, who said they had to get in the car with no possessions or clothes and drive through a minefield to escape the region.
Ms Herasymenko then explained how they were forced to drive through a minefield and over a railway bridge as the Russians bombed the roads.
He was really down to earth, chatting to everyone, making jokes, we taught him a few Ukrainian words, Ms Krupenko said.
On the future of the schemes, she said: We dont know what is going to happen after the six months.
Its just been really lovely and an amazing experience, hes just like a normal human being.
Nina Herasymenko, 41, and her son Bohdon, 16, arrived in the UK on April 10 after fleeing the Russian-occupied region of Kherson, near Crimea, three days earlier.
Alicja Kaczmarek, who works for the Polish Expat Association, which supports central and eastern European migrants and helped organise the meeting, said Ukrainians have had mixed experiences getting to the UK.
