North Wales MPs condemn Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220228
https://www.northwaleschronicle.co.uk/news/19953452.north-wales-mps-condemn-russian-invasion-ukraine/
Despite Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys calls for peace and diplomacy to prevail, the whole country is now engulfed by all-out war.
Economic sanctions must deprive Russia of access to Western capital and freeze the assets of the Russian institutions and individuals he is relying on for support in his appalling endeavour.
And with the declarations of independence by the two Russian-backed breakaway regions, the Luhansk Peoples Republic and Donestsk Peoples Republic, the Russian Federation's recognition of these areas has helped to reignite the conflict.
"I welcome the Prime Ministers announcement of a package of sanctions that will squeeze Russiafrom the international economy.
"It shows him to be nothing more than a bloodthirsty tyrant and his country a pariah state.
"Despite concerted diplomacy, Putin has chosen war not peace and this is the biggest crisis Europe has faced since the Balkans exploded into violence more than 30 years ago.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Within living memory Russia herself has faced invasion and the Russian people know all too well the horrors and devastation that military conquest brings.
David Jones, MP for Clwyd West, said the world had to respond strongly to Russias invasion of Ukraine to extinguish its independence, and added: This is arguably the most dangerous moment for the continent of Europe since the end of the Second World War.
MPS representing regions in North Wales have shown their support for Ukraine, after Russias invasion of the country yesterday Thursday, 24 February.
Robin Millar, MP for Aberconwy, condemned Russias military conquest of its neighbour, and said: We must continue to support Ukraine militarily and we must be prepared to provide humanitarian aid to the potential influx of refugees into Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania.
We must all remember that there is great truth in the old adage: the price of freedom is eternal vigilance.
"We cannot flinch in the face of such naked aggression and, today, we are not."
The capital Kyiv, situated near the Belarussian border where Russia have also invaded from, has now been reached by Russian armoured vehicles, while heavy fighting has occurred in Kharkiv, Chernihiv and near the Chernobyl Nuclear Plant.
In a move condemned by NATO and the west, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced his countrys decision to invade neighbouring Ukraine, which he referred to as a special military operation that intended to demilitarise and de-Nazify the country.
And we must continue to reinforce NATO forces in Eastern Europe and particularly in the Baltic States.
Tensions in the region have been high since Russias annexation of Crimea, Ukraines southern peninsula, in 2014.
MP for Vale of Clwyd, Dr James Davies, added: The whole world must vehemently oppose Russias illegal and unprovoked invasion.
