Ukrainians return from abroad to fight Russian invasion
20220227
https://www.northwaleschronicle.co.uk/news/19955713.ukrainians-return-abroad-fight-russian-invasion/
The Czech Republic, which borders Poland to the south west, is planning to support Ukrainian families living in the country whose men decide to return home to fight.
Polands Border Guard said on Sunday that some 22,000 people have crossed into Ukraine since Thursday, when Russia invaded the country.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing bonuses to families who would lose income if the men need to join the Ukrainian army, minister Marian Jurecka said.
Im on my own here in Poland. Why should I be here? So I go, for the homeland, said Denis, with a small Ukrainian blue-and-yellow national flag on his winter jacket.
Lesa, 36, from Lviv, spoke to the AP just before entering the checkpoint building, following her brother into Ukraine.
We have to, we Ukrainians have to take our children away  to allow our boys to fight, she said.
Another young woman, Alina, said she was returning to take her children out of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has stayed in the capital Kyiv, boosting the morale of Ukrainian fighters as Russian troops were closing in on the city and huge explosions lit up the sky early on Sunday.
While hundreds of thousands of refugees are leaving Ukraine amid Russias attack on the country, some Ukrainian men and women are returning home from across Europe to help defend their homeland.
Mr Zelensky has banned men of military age, 18 to 60, from leaving the country.
I am afraid, but I am a mother and want to be with my children. What can you do? Its scary but I have to.
Denis, 28, who has spent six months working at construction sites in Poland, said he was returning to Ukraine where his everything is.
There are about 200,000 Ukrainian workers in the Czech Republic, the majority of them men.
At the checkpoint in Medyka, in south-eastern Poland, many were standing in a line early on Sunday to cross into Ukraine.
Polands Border Guard said some 156,000 people have entered from Ukraine since Thursday, when the invasion started, while some 22,000 have gone in the opposite direction.
On Ukraines side of the border, a man was directing those arriving to a place where cars and buses were waiting to take them onward.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Members of the group declined to give their names, or only gave their first names, citing their security and that of their families.
I want to go back to join the army, to fight. We will see, we hope we will win. I want to go back, thats all, he said.
Before the recent exodus, there were an estimated one million Ukrainians in Poland, working or studying.
Ukrainian authorities have also called on foreign volunteers to come and fight in Ukraines defence.
Czech railways said Ukrainian men travelling back to Ukraine can take any train free of charge.
At least 368,000 people have fled Ukraine into Poland and other neighbouring countries in the wake of the Russian invasion, UN refugee agency the UNHCR said on Sunday.
We have to defend our homeland. Who else if not us? said a moustachioed man in front of a group of some 20 Ukrainian truck drivers walking to the checkpoint to enter Ukraine.
Another man in the group said: The Russians should be afraid. We are not afraid.
