A call for prayer on Ukraines Independence Day
20220822
https://www.reachfm.ca/articles/a-call-for-prayer-on-ukraines-independence-day
On February 24, 2022, the unimaginable happened: Russian troops crossed the border, launching a full-on attack on Ukraine.
The effects at the global level continue to be felt as millions of the world's poorest people are threatened with starvation.
The World Evangelical Alliance WEA and the European Evangelical Alliance EEA call on churches and believers to set aside some time on Wednesday, August 24  Ukraines Independence Day  to pray for an end to the war in Ukraine.
This coming Wednesday, August 24, is Ukraines Independence Day, and at the same time it marks exactly half a year of a war that has caused great loss, pain and suffering. Join us in a special day of prayer for Ukraine!
As of now, there is still no end in sight for this war as the Russian government refuses to withdraw its forces and Ukraine must defend itself.
Although there have been some signs of hope with the recent agreement to allow the export of grain from Ukrainian ports, the situation remains a great concern.
The needs remain great, so let us pray for the hospitality, solidarity and support to continue.
While the world may continue to look for weapons to bring about peace and justice by force, we know that true and lasting peace can only be accomplished through unceasing prayers.
Thousands of soldiers on both sides have been killed, leaving tens of thousands of family members grief-stricken and wondering why their relatives had to lose their lives in a war they did not ask for.
We invite children to join the day of prayer. Families can use the kids-friendly prayer guide. It isavailable for download here.
Let us pray that the grain can make its way to the places where it is needed most, so that the most vulnerable are not suffering further consequences of a war that may be half a world away.
As we look to Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace, let us pray for hearts to be changed and for the weapons to be silenced.
Throughout history, God has changed hopeless and dire situations in surprising ways, and He can do it once again.
Many people open their own homes to those who fled, the majority from Ukraine but also those from Russia and Belarus who reject the war and had to flee to neighboring countries.
The response of the evangelical community within Europe and across the globe has been heartening. There has been an incredible outpouring of support from near and far: sacrificial offering of goods, funds, prayers and hospitality.
Let us pray for an end to the war, an end to the loss of life, an end to destruction and atrocities, and the beginning of healing.
On this day of independence, we want to declare our dependence on God, the One who can bring true peace to the hearts of each individual person, each family and even entire peoples.
Over the past six months, millions of Ukrainians have been displaced within their nation or fled abroad, with many families forced to separate from each other.
And let us also pray for healing and for reconciliation, and that Russia and Ukraine could live in peace as independent, sovereign nations.
