Ukrainian community in Canada hopeful but on edge as tensions escalate with Russia
20220223
https://www.reachfm.ca/articles/ukrainian-community-in-canada-hopeful-but-on-edge-as-tensions-escalate-with-russia
She said she was pleasantly surprised when she first came to Canada and saw how many of her countrys traditions were practised by people whose family had been here for generations.
Last weekend, I actually was pressuring my sister, asking, Do you have an evacuations plan? Matsiuk said. Kyiv is a big city and its not the easiest city to get out of, especially if everyone starts leaving.
Putin has argued that his government is also protecting the minority rights of Russian-speaking Ukrainians in the eastern part of the country.
It doesnt matter what language you speak. Ukraine is a multi-ethnic country and people still want Ukraine to be independent, said Volkov, who has been living in Winnipeg for 16 years.
He said Canada needs to be arming Ukraine and providing humanitarian help to strengthen the country and force Russia into negotiations.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said economic sanctions will ban Canadians from all financial dealings with the regions Putin recognized, Donetsk and Luhansk. The sanctions will also target members of the Russian parliament who voted for the decision to recognize the separatist regions, as well as ban Canadians from engaging in purchases of Russian sovereign debt.
You can speak whatever language you want. Its a free country. Its a democratic country  Russian-speaking Ukrainians have the same rights as everybody else.
Her friends and family in Ukraine have been staying calm as tensions with Russia escalate, but Matsiuk said she cant help but worry for them.
For those who think this conflict is happening somewhere far away from Canada and its not important for us, I would disagree, he said.
Volkov said Canadians should be concerned about Russian expansionism because Canada shares a border over the Arctic.
The threat of an intensifying war and invasion is affecting many across Canada, which is home to more than one million people of Ukrainian descent, census data indicates.
Vitalii Milentyev, president of the Alberta Ukraine Chambers of Commerce, said Ukrainians began settling in Canada more than 120 years ago and each generation had always hoped for an independent Ukraine.
Late Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree recognizing two regions in eastern Ukraine as independent entities and ordered troops into these regions for peacekeeping missions. The move has been seen as the continuation of a Russian invasion of Ukraine. In 2014, Russia invaded and subsequently annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine.
On Tuesday, Canada announced sanctions on Russia in response to the Kremlins deployment of forces into eastern Ukraine.
In 1991 when the U.S.S.R. had collapsed, there was that overwhelming joy and widespread support for Ukraine, because it was for the first time in probably three or four generations that those whose ancestors had come to this country in search for a better life were actually seeing a glimpse of hope for their motherland.
Milentyevs parents still live in Odessa and he said he will look for ways to get them out of Ukraine if the situation worsens.
Matsiuk said growing up in the Soviet Union meant a lot of Ukrainian culture, including dance and music, was not encouraged.
Matsiuk, who has been living in Saskatoon since 2011, has a sister living in the capital city of Kyiv and her mother and grandmother live in the northwestern area of Volyn.
Matsiuk, who volunteers with the Saskatoon chapter of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress of Saskatchewan, has been organizing rallies in the city to bring attention to the Russian aggression in Ukraine.
We still hope that there will be some kind of resolution, maybe not diplomatic because it doesnt seem to be a likely scenario right now, but at least stop where it is now and doesnt escalate further, she said.
Iryna Matsiuk checks the news as soon as she wakes up each morning, hoping the escalating Russian-Ukrainian crisis wont put her family in harms way.
Trudeau also said Canada is sending up to 460 additional Canadian Armed Forces members to Latvia and the surrounding region to bolster NATO.
Ever since the first Ukrainians arrived here, that part of the world and that territory was under somebody elses rule ... and those rare moments of independence were very desired to those who had fled the country, said Milentyev, who lives in Edmonton.
But Milentyev, who grew up speaking Russian, said they are not in need of Russian protection.
