Ukrainian seminary dean among civilians killed by Russians reports
20220404
https://www.reachfm.ca/articles/ukrainian-seminary-dean-among-civilians-killed-by-russians-reports-
The seminary confirmed the news with a post on its own Facebook page, resharing a post by a colleague. "Vitaliy Vinogradov our dear brother and coworker was found dead in Bucha," Natash Kim writes.
There is mounting evidence that Russian troops have carried out war crimes, with Ukrainians claiming that retreating soldiers have shot and killed civilians and left them in the streets. "As Russian troops have begun repositioning and abandoning areas outside Kyiv, hundreds of bodies are being discovered, some buried in makeshift graves and some left littering streets and yards," Baptist News reports.
Ukrainian authorities claim that at least 410 civilians have been found killed on the streets and in mass graves in areas outside the capital city of Kyiv, The Canadian Press reports. Many have been found with bound hands and suffered from close-range gunshot wounds and signs of torture. A growing number of world leaders have voiced outrage and called for tougher sanctions against Russia.
Several social media posts say that Vitaliy Vinogradov is among those killed. Vinogradov was the dean of the Slavic Evangelical Seminary in Kyiv.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said at the start of his talks Monday with U.N. Under-Secretary-General Martin Griffiths that Moscow sees the Ukrainian claim of a massacre of civilians in Bucha outside Kyiv as a provocation that posed a direct threat to global peace and security.
The dean of an Evangelical seminary in Kyiv, Ukraine, is among those reportedly shot and killed by Russian troops.
"There are no words to express the sorrow of our hearts. He will be greatly missed!"
Google translation: "The dean of the Slavic Evangelical Seminary Kyiv, graduate of the Kyiv Bible Institute and Evangel Theological Seminary, Vitaliy Vinogradov, is among the victims shot dead by the Russian army in Bucha
