Ukraine Occupational groups and wealthy businessmen flee the country for fear of Russian invasion
20220216
https://www.chamberlainsun.com/ukraine-occupational-groups-and-wealthy-businessmen-flee-the-country-for-fear-of-russian-invasion/
The oligarchy has long been in the cross chair of the President of Ukraine, whom he considers a threat to the sovereignty of the country. The former comedian, who promised in his 2019 election campaign to seize power from big business in the former Soviet republic, has increased pressure on oligarchy since Russia began deploying large forces on the border in November.
Oligarchy and wealthy merchants Ukraine They have been fleeing their homeland for the past 24 hours for fear of a Russian invasion amid mounting tensions with Moscow.
However, other big businessmen left Ukraine, and ship owner Andrei Stavnitzer, the leader of the metalist football team, Oleksandr Yaroslavsky, Vadim Nestrenko, Vadim Nivinsky, became actively involved in the steel industry and rented aircraft for party members and their families. Flew to Vienna. The news that the airwaves of oligarchy began two weeks ago and peaked over the weekend provoked the reaction of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zhelensky, who tried with melodramatic tones. His sermon On Monday, to force the fugitives to return to their homeland  with trivial results.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Ukraines most influential businessmen have less than three months to dispose of assets classified as oligarchs under a law passed last year.
Its like playing chess against multiple opponents at once, said Volodymyr Fesenko, head of the Penta Research Institute in Kiev. This is the uniqueness of Ukrainian politics. External threats here can never distract the government from fighting internal enemies. Control and his assets.and more than $ 2.4 billion of the Ukrainian currency, or $ 85 million.
According to the Ukrainskaya Pravda newspaper, at least 20 charter flights departed from Kiev on Sunday, more than any other day in the last six years. Among the oligarchs who fled with high patriotism were two rich men in Ukraine: millionaire mediator Victor Pinchuk and Lord of Coal and Donbass Rinat Akhmetov, who owns a villa in Zurich.
However, some oligarchs  so-called fugitives in the Ukrainian media  meanwhile denied that they had left the country, and Stavnitzer said he had gone on a business trip and would return in a few days. Boris Kolsnikov, a businessman and former deputy prime minister of Ukraine, said the plane, which took off from Kiev on Sunday, had gone to Prague to repair his plane and that he was in Ukraine.
