Ukraine takes action in ICJ accuses Russia of genocide
20220228
https://www.britainnews.net/news/272343231/ukraine-takes-action-in-icj-accuses-russia-of-genocide
"There is a reasonable basis to proceed with opening an investigation," a statement from the prosecutor's office said. "In particular, I am satisfied that there is a reasonable basis to believe that both alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity have been committed in Ukraine."
"Russia must be held accountable for manipulating the notion of genocide to justify aggression. We request an urgent decision ordering Russia to cease military activity now and expect trials to start next week," he tweeted.
THE HAGUE, Netherlands - Ukraine on Sunday local time filed an application instituting proceedings against the Russian Federation before the International Court of Justice ICJ, the principal judicial organ of the United Nations.
Ukraine filed an application instituting proceedings against Russia concerning "a dispute . . . relating to the interpretation, application and fulfilment of the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide" the "Genocide Convention", the International Court of Justice said in a statement.
Taking to Twitter, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Ukraine has submitted its application against Russia to the ICJ.
In the Application, Ukraine also accuses the Russian Federation of "planning acts of genocide in Ukraine" and contends that Russia "is intentionally killing and inflicting serious injury on members of the Ukrainian nationality -- the actus reus of genocide under Article II of the Genocide Convention", the statement added.
"Given the expansion of the conflict in recent days, it is my intention that this investigation will also encompass any new alleged crimes falling within the jurisdiction of my Office that is committed by any party to the conflict on any part of the territory of Ukraine," the statement said.
In its Application, which covers the time since 2014 when Russia annexed Crimea, Ukraine contends, "the Russian Federation has falsely claimed that acts of genocide have occurred in the Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts of Ukraine, and on that basis recognized the so-called 'Donetsk People's Republic' and 'Luhansk People's Republic', and then declared and implemented a 'special military operation' against Ukraine".
Late Monday the office of the prosecutor of the court said it would seek court approval to open an investigation.
Ukraine "emphatically denies" that such genocide has occurred and states that it submitted the Application "to establish that Russia has no lawful basis to take action in and against Ukraine for the purpose of preventing and punishing any purported genocide", read the statement.
