A Russian editor protested the war on live TV and was immediately arrested
20220315
https://kuow.org/stories/a-russian-editor-protested-the-war-on-live-tv-and-was-immediately-arrested
Ovsyannikova's protest was quickly hailed as an act of courage, as it immediately led to her arrest.
"I'm embarrassed for letting them tell lies from the TV screen. I'm ashamed that I allowed them to zombify Russian people," Ovsyannikova said, according to a translation by OVD-info.
Ukrainians were never Russia's enemies, she said, stating that her father is Ukrainian and her mother is Russian. She urged more people to protest the invasion.
Ovsyannikova's whereabouts were in question after her arrest, but she later appeared in a district court, sitting next to her lawyer, according to human rights attorney Sergei Badamshin's Telegram channel. The Novaya Gazeta newspaper says she is facing an administrative charge of organizing an uncoordinated event.
"What's happening in Ukraine right now is a true crime. And Russia is the aggressor," she said. "And the responsibility for this crime lies only on the conscience of one person, and that person is Vladimir Putin."
Russia's federal Investigative Committee is now handling her case any charges against her could stem from Russia's newly adopted laws making it a crime to spread what the Russian government deems "fake news" about its military.
The woman, Marina Ovsyannikova, is an editor at Channel One she protested the war by walking behind a news anchor while holding a sign reading "No War" and telling viewers they were being lied to. It also said, "Russians for peace."
NPR's Mary Louise Kelly reports from Donbas region of Ukraine as its residents live under the threat of a Russian incursion and cope with eight years of tensions and fighting along the border.
Badamshin also noted that Russian law bars the arrest of mothers whose children are younger than 14. Ovsyannikova has two children  one is 11 and the other is 17, he said. In court, Ovsyannikova was still wearing the blue, yellow, red and white necklace which she previously said represented her hope that the countries could coexist peacefully.
The website OVD-info, which monitors rights abuses in Russia, shared a video Ovsyannikova recorded before taking action. In it, she said she was ashamed for her role in helping spread Kremlin propaganda.
A Russian woman who burst onto the set of a live TV news broadcast to protest Russia's invasion of Ukraine is under arrest and is the subject of "a pre-investigation check," according to state-run Tass media.
