Ukraine womans appeal helps bombarded hospital
20220313
https://www.monmouthshirebeacon.co.uk/news/ukraine-womans-appeal-helps-bombarded-hospital-515084
With their enormous efforts and hard work we are putting together these desperately needed medical supplies in such short time. Time is running out.
We will be tracking the supplies all the way and will keep you regularly updated on the progress and the safe delivery to the hospital in Ukraine.
A UKRAINIAN woman who lives in the Wye Valley near Monmouth has launched an appeal to raise funds to send vitally-needed medical supplies back home.
She added: There is a critical and desperate need for surgical supplies for casualties in Kharkiv, Kyiv and other parts of Ukraine which are under vicious attacks.
This appeal is different because we will make sure you know what happens and the difference it makes - we will follow and report on the progress of the shipment. But we need your help right now.
I visit home very regularly to see them all. This has now all been taken away from me and my daughter as with so very many of my fellow countrymen and woman.
Speaking before the first consignment started its journey, she added: We are raising money to fund shipments of these supplies, the first of which will leave in the next few days.
The surgeon in Ukraine said if you cant do this please dont give up hope because we are running out of that as well.
Mum-of-one Marina Gawluk launched her Stand with Ukraine appeal last week and enlisted the help of a Wye Valley-based consultant doctor and her surgeon husband, who has previously worked for Medicins Sans Frontiers and as a War Surgeon for the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Nearly 20,000 has been raised in less than a week, with the first 20-tonne consignment of life-saving surgical equipment, wound dressings and medicine for soldiers and civilians already on its way.
We all feel so helpless but we still can make a difference and are still in a position to do so whilst ensuring we can get the medical supplies to exactly where they are most needed.
I have spoken directly both with the hospital and the lead surgeon there and they are so very desperate for supplies - they have staff making their own bandages, she said.
Marina moved to England in 1992 and her mother still lives in Ukraine along with her family.
Marina, who grew up in Ukraine under the Soviet Union, has been in regular contact with the hospital, where surgeons are still carrying out up to 200 operations a day despite constant Russian shelling.
I am working closely with our friends, two consultants, one who specialises in Infectious Diseases  Tropical Medicine and another is a Reconstructive Surgeon
