Japan PM visits India for candid talks on Ukraine
20220319
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2045591/world
Tensions between New Delhi and Beijing have been high since a 2020 clash on their disputed Himalayan border killed at least 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers.
Russia has been Indias main arms supplier since the Soviet era, but today Delhi also needs more support from the Quad and others in the region and beyond in the face of an increasingly assertive China.
NEW DELHI: Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida arrived in India on Saturday, with officials in Tokyo predicting candid discussions about New Delhis unwillingness to condemn Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Asked about Indias stance and its continued purchases of Russian oil, White House press secretary Jen Psaki this week urged all foreign nations to think about where you want to stand when history books are written.
Both have since sent additional military hardware  in Indias case much of it Russian-made  and thousands of extra troops.
A separate Indian readout pointedly underlined that the Quad must remain focused on its core objective of promoting peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region.
Indias foreign ministry said only that the talks aimed to review and strengthen the bilateral cooperation in diverse areas as well as exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest so as to advance their partnership for peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.
But at the same time we share fundamental values and strategic interests so naturally there will be candid discussions about how we view the Ukraine situation, and also expect to hear a similar explanation from Prime Minister Modi, the official told reporters.
He added that Modi, 71, and Kishida, 64, would also discuss issues closer to our region such as a free and open Indo-Pacific  a reference to China  and bilateral issues.
Ahead of Kishidas visit, the first by a Japanese premier since 2017, a foreign ministry official said Tokyo was aware of Delhis geographical location and historical ties to Russia.
A joint statement had said they discussed the ongoing conflict and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and assessed its broader implications  without any condemnation of Moscow.
Modi and Morrison are also due to hold a virtual summit on March 21 focused on trade, when the Australian premier may also press his Indian counterpart to fall more into the Western camp over Ukraine.
Earlier this month in a four-way call of Quad leaders, Kishida, US President Joe Biden and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison failed to convince Indias Narendra Modi to take a tougher line.
In a possible sign of thawing tensions, Chinas Foreign Minister Wang Yi will reportedly travel to India later this month, the senior-most official to visit since the 2020 clash.
Unlike fellow members of the Quad alliance  Japan, Australia and the United States  India has abstained in three UN votes deploring Moscows actions, calling only for a halt to the violence.
That will be more the opportunity to take stock of the bilateral cooperation as well as reaffirming our shared strategic vision and interests rather than emphasising on what our differences are, the official said.
