McDonalds CocaCola Starbucks join global trend of halting Russian operations
20220309
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2039141/business-economy
RIYADH: McDonalds, Coca-Cola, and Starbucks are joining the global trend of halting Russian operations in support of Ukraine, Bloomberg reported.
It was announced later on Wednesday thatDutch brewer Heineken and Universal Music Group would also be halting operations in Russia over Moscows war in Ukraine.
Such a step by major companies paves the way for others to do the same. Among the companies that have recently announced pausing work in Russia are PayPal, Amazon, Rolex, and LOral.
McDonalds and Starbucks said they will monitor the situation closely and may resume operation if tensions cool down.
The worlds second-biggest beer company said it was stopping the production, advertising and sale of the Heineken brand in Russia in response to the continued escalation of the war.
The brewer said it would take immediate steps to ring-fence its Russian business from the rest of its global operations to stop the flow of monies, royalties and dividends out of Russia.
Heineken will no longer accept any net financial benefit derived from our Russian operations, it said.
Following widespreadcriticism for not taking action since the Ukraine-Russia invasion started two weeks ago, the three firms decided to temporarily shut off their stores in Russia.
We are shocked and saddened to watch the tragedy in Ukraine unfold, Heineken chief executive Dolf van den Brink said in a statement.
The Russian governments war against Ukraine is an unprovoked and completely unjustified attack, he said.
Heineken employs 1,800 people in Russia and says it is the third-biggest brewer in the country, where it makes the Zhigulevskoe and Oxota brands for the local market.
While forgoing sales, the two giants will continue paying their staff, which analysts expect to weigh on profitability if the boycott goes on for a long time.
About 300 companies have announced their withdrawal from Russia since it invaded neighboring Ukraine, according to Yale University researchers.
