Russian troops likely to redeploy from Mariupol Britain
20220520
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2085946/world
Ukrainian troops, bolstered by Western weapons, thwarted Russias initial goal of storming the capital, Kyiv, and have put up stiff resistance against Moscows forces in the Donbas, which President Vladimir Putin now has set his sights on capturing.
KYIV: With the number of defenders left holed up in a Mariupol steel factory dwindling, Russian commanders will be coming under increasing pressure to reallocate troops from the strategic southern port city to bolster their offensive in eastern Ukraine, Britains Defense Ministry said Friday.
An unknown number of defenders remain in the sprawling complex, which is the last bastion of Ukrainian resistance in the city  a target from the start of the invasion that has been under effective Russian control for some time.
If the factory falls, Russia will likely use troops from the city to reinforce operations elsewhere in the eastern industrial Donbas region, but the duration of the stiff resistance will complicate or prolong that maneuver, Britains Ministry of Defense said in a daily intelligence report.
How long the remaining troops in the Azovstal factory can still hold out, however, is not clear.
In a brief video message Thursday, the deputy commander of the Azov Regiment, which led the defense of the steel mill, said he and other fighters were still inside.
The Azov Regiments far-right origins have been seized on by the Kremlin as part of an effort to cast Russias invasion as a battle against Nazi influence in Ukraine.
At least some of the fighters were taken by the Russians to a former penal colony in territory controlled by Moscow-backed separatists. Others were hospitalized, according to a separatist official.
Amnesty International said in a tweet that the POW status means that the soldiers must not be subjected to any form of torture or ill-treatment.
Staunch Ukrainian resistance in Mariupol since the start of the war means Russian forces in the area must be re-equipped and refurbished before they can be redeployed effectively, the ministry wrote on Twitter.
While Ukraine expressed hope for a prisoner exchange, Russian authorities have threatened to investigate some of the Azovstal fighters for war crimes and put them on trial, branding them Nazis and criminals.
Russian commanders, however, are under pressure to demonstrably achieve operational objectives. That means that Russia will probably redistribute their forces swiftly without adequate preparation, which risks further force attrition.
Analysts have said it is likely that most of the Russian forces that were tied down by the battle there have already left.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said Thursday that it had gathered personal information from hundreds of the soldiers who had surrendered  name, date of birth, closest relative  and registered them as prisoners as part of its role in ensuring the humane treatment of POWs under the Geneva Conventions.
An operation is underway, the details of which I will not announce, Svyatoslav Palamar said.
More than 1,700 defenders of the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol have surrendered since Monday, Russian authorities said, in what appeared to be the final stage in the nearly three-month siege of the now-pulverized port city.
