Russian forces begin assault on two eastern Ukraine cities
20220806
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2137296/world
Both cities of Bakhmut and Avdiivka have been considered key targets of Russias ongoing offensive across Ukraines east, with analysts saying Moscow needs to take Bakhmut if it is to advance on the regional hubs of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk.
The governor of the eastern Dnipropetrovsk region said three civilians were injured after Russian rockets fell on a residential neighborhood in Nikopol, a city across the Dnieper River from the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station. The nuclear plant has been under Russian control since Moscows troops seized it early in the war.
Russian shelling killed five civilians and injured 14 others in the Donetsk region in the last day, Donetsk governor Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote Saturday on Telegram, saying two people were killed in Poprosny, and one each in Avdiivka, Soledar and Pervomaiskiy.
Another Russian missile attack overnight damaged unspecified infrastructure in the regional capital of Zaporizhzhia. On Thursday, Russia fired 60 rockets at Nikopol, damaging 50 residential buildings in the city of 107,000 and leaving residents without electricity.
Enerhoatom said Friday that Russian rockets had damaged the plants facilities, including a nitrogen-oxygen unit and a high-voltage power line. Local Russian-appointed officials acknowledged the damage, but blamed it on the Ukrainians.
KYIV, Ukraine: Russian forces began an assault Saturday on two key cities in the eastern Donetsk region and kept up rocket and shelling attacks on other Ukrainian cities, including one close to Europes largest nuclear power plant, Ukraines military and local officials said.
In the Donetsk direction, the enemy is conducting an offensive operation, concentrating its main efforts on the Bakhmut and Avdiivka directions. It uses ground attack and army aviation, the Ukrainian General Staff said on Facebook.
Rafael Grossi, head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, warned this week that the situation was becoming more perilous day by day at the Zaporizhzhia plant.
The last Russian strike on Sloviansk was July 30, but Ukrainian forces are fortifying their positions around the city in expectation of new fighting.
Every principle of nuclear safety has been violated at the plant, he said. What is at stake is extremely serious.
I think it wont be calm for long. Eventually, there will be an assault, Col. Yurii Bereza, head of the volunteer national guard regiment, told The Associated Press.
Ukrainian personnel do not yet have access to these premises, so in the event of new shelling, people have no shelter and are in danger, Enerhoatom, a Ukrainian state enterprise, said on its Telegram channel.
The Ukrainian company operating the nuclear power station said Saturday that Russian troops are using the plants basement to hide from Ukrainian shelling and have barred its Ukrainian staff from going there.
After midnight, the Russian army struck the Nikopol area with Soviet-era Grad rockets, and the Kryvyi Rih area from barrel artillery, Valentyn Reznichenko wrote on Telegram.
He expressed concern about the way the plant is being operated and the danger posed by the fighting going on around it. Experts at the US-based Institute for the Study of War said Russia is shelling the area intentionally, putting Ukraine in a difficult position.
