Ukraine Russia sign UN deal to export grain on Black Sea
20220722
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2127591/world
You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all, he said, addressing the Russian and Ukrainian representatives.
Podolyak insisted that no Russian ship would escort vessels and that there would be no Russian representative present at Ukrainian ports. Ukraine also plans an immediate military response in case of provocations, he said.
Last week, Ukrainian and Russian military delegations reached a tentative agreement on a UN plan that would also allow Russia to export its grain and fertilizers.
Ukraine does not sign any documents with Russia, Podolyak wrote on Twitter, adding that his country would sign an agreement with Turkey and the UN, with Russia signing a separate mirror agreement.
ISTANBUL: Russia and Ukraine signed separate agreements Friday with Turkey and the United Nations clearing the way for exporting millions of tons of desperately needed Ukrainian grain  as well as Russian grain and fertilizer.
Guterres first raised the critical need to get Ukraines agricultural production and Russias grain and fertilizer back into world markets in late April during meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv.
He proposed a package deal in early June amid fears that the war was endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, Guterres said. A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever.
The deal makes provisions for the safe passage of ships. It foresees the establishment of a control center in Istanbul, to be staffed by UN, Turkish, Russian and Ukrainian officials, to run and coordinate the process, Turkish officials have said. Ships would undergo inspections to ensure they are not carrying weapons.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraines president, stressed earlier that Ukraine and Russia would sign separate agreements.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russias invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments. Some grain is being transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the prices of vital commodities like wheat and barley have soared during the nearly five-month war.
This came to end a wartime standoff that had threatened food security around the globe.
Russian and Ukrainian officials have blamed each other for the blocked grain shipments. Moscow accused Ukraine of failing to remove sea mines at the ports to allow safe shipping and insisted on its right to check incoming ships for weapons. Ukraine has argued that Russias port blockade and launching of missiles from the Black Sea made any shipments unviable.
Ukraine has sought international guarantees that the Kremlin wouldnt use the safe corridors to attack the Black Sea port of Odesa. Ukrainian authorities have also accused Russia of stealing grain from eastern Ukraine and deliberately shelling Ukrainian fields to set them on fire.
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov signed separate deals with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres and Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar. The ceremony was witnessed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
