What are the hypersonic missiles Russia says it used in Ukraine
20220322
https://www.economist.com/the-economist-explains/2022/03/22/what-are-the-hypersonic-missiles-russia-says-it-used-in-ukraine
Both kinds pose a serious challenge to missile defences. Their speed gives adversaries less time to respond. Their manoeuvrability makes them harder to intercept. And the unpredictable trajectory for most of their flight allows them to hold a huge area at risk. They can even switch target mid-course. It could be mere seconds between the time the target is known for certain and the moment of impact. As well as the Kinzhal, Russia has tested a hypersonic boost-glide weapon called Avangard, most recently at the end of 2018. And it is not the only country experimenting with them. China has been testing HGV prototypes for years America hopes to declare its own hypersonic cruise missile as ready for combat this year though testing setbacks put that in doubt. Australia, France, India and Japan are all working on hypersonic technologies of their own.
More from The Economist explains:Why Z is for PutinWhat are thermobaric weapons, and does Russia have them in Ukraine?Could Vladimir Putin be prosecuted by a Nuremberg-style tribunal?
WHEN VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russias president, unveiled the Kinzhal missile in 2018, he called it an invincible weapon and lauded its hypersonic capabilities. Now Russia claims to have unleashed it in Ukraine. If those claims are true, it would be the first time that hypersonic missiles have been used in a conflict. On March 19th Russian forces said they had used one to destroy a store of ammunition in western Ukraine. A day later they said another such missile had blown up a fuel depot near Mykolaiv, in the south. Ukraine confirmed that the strikes had taken place, but not the type of weapons used. Americas defence department says it cannot refute Russias claim to have used hypersonic weapons, but neither can it verify it. But what are hypersonic weapons, and is Russia really using them in Ukraine?
Even if the missiles are as advanced as Mr Putin says, they are unlikely to change the course of the war. Many of Russias conventional cruise and ballistic missiles are already finding their targets. American defence officials posit that hypersonic boasts are mere propaganda, intended to send a message to the West about Russias capability and superiority. But they may also reveal a Russian weakness. As the war grinds on, Russia may be turning to the Kinzhal because it is running low on other precision-guided munitions.
There is some dispute as to whether the Kinzhal is as revolutionary as Mr Putin would have the West think. Granted, it has a range of around 2,000km and a maximum speed of up to ten times the speed of sound. But when it was revealed to the world in 2018, many analysts pointed out its apparent similarity to an existing Russian short-range ballistic missile, the Iskander. The Kinzhal appears to be a modified version adapted to launch from a fighter jet. On March 21st Britains defence ministry pointed out that Iskander missiles have already been heavily used by Russian forces in their attack on Ukraine. The Iskander can reach hypersonic speeds, but not through a low, flat flight path as a cruise missile can.
Hypersonic weapons travel at around 1.6km per second, or more than five times the speed of sound. However, it is not their maximum speed that separates them from other weapons. Long-range ballistic missiles, which fly in a high arc, reach similar velocities as they re-enter the atmosphere. Hypersonic missiles are distinguished by their ability to sustain those speeds at lower altitudes, and to manoeuvre while they do so. They come in two types. Hypersonic cruise missiles are powered by rockets or jets throughout their flight. They are simply faster versions of existing cruise missiles, like the Tomahawk used primarily by America and Britain. Another kind, hypersonic boost-glide weapons, are different. They are launched into the upper atmosphere atop ballistic missiles, but then release unpowered hypersonic glide vehicles HGVs which fly lower, faster andto an adversarymuch less predictably than old-fashioned re-entry vehicles.
