Why people are buying potassium iodide pills
20220318
https://www.economist.com/the-economist-explains/2022/03/18/why-people-are-buying-potassium-iodide-pills
But they are not a cure-all. Potassium iodide tablets only stop your thyroid from absorbing radioactive iodine. They do not protect other parts of the body, and they do not protect you from other radioactive elements in the fallout, such as caesium, americium and strontium. Nor can the pills protect you from the many other more immediate dangers posed by a nuclear blast. Russias most destructive missiles are thought to have a maximum explosive yield of around eight megatonnes 8,000 kilotonnes, though that figure is only a rough estimate. The thermal blast of such a bomb would have a radius of roughly 30km from ground zero. If detonated over Trafalgar Square it would encompass almost all of Greater London, inflicting severe burns on the people it touched. The air blast that would follow it would obliterate buildings.
AS HIS INVASION of Ukraine has gone awry, Vladimir Putin has resorted to unsettling threats, including putting Russias nuclear weapons on a higher state of readiness. The chance of an escalating confrontation leading to the use of nuclear weapons in Europe remains very low. But the risk of nuclear war is now greater than it has been in decades. Many people are spooked. The price of potassium iodide pills, a potential survival aid, has increased on Amazon by about 50 since the invasion began. But why are people buying the pills, and would they actually help in a blast?
One of the most insidious dangers of a strategic nuclear weapon as the city-destroying ones mounted on intercontinental ballistic missiles are known is the copious amount of radiation it would release. After an attack, radioactive fallout would rain down from the sky, poisoning those exposed to it. That can lead to severe illness and death. Potassium iodide can help, but only up to a point. It stops the thyroid, a gland in the neck, from absorbing radioactive iodine. The pills have been distributed in the aftermath of nuclear power-plant meltdowns, and there is evidence to suggest they work: studies after the Chernobyl disaster found that local residents who took the pills had lower levels of radioactive iodine in their thyroids than would otherwise have been expected. Some countries, including America and Britain, have stockpiles of the pills for this reason.
To survive all of that would be difficult, though not impossiblearound half of Hiroshimas residents survived its 1945 attack, although the bomb was much less powerful than those in todays arsenals. Shelter, ideally underground, offers some protection from a blast. A supply of food and water and first-aid kits are useful for any emergency. And if you were to be exposed to fallout, wiping yourself down would reduce your chances of becoming sick. But even if you did survive a nuclear blast, you may wish you hadnt. Studies in the 1980s suggested that a nuclear exchange between Russia and America would lead to a nuclear winter in which smoke and soot block the suns rays, lowering global temperatures and making it harder to grow food. Researchers disagree on how bad such a winter would be. It would be better never to find out. 
