Why Russian forces cant match Ukraines nightvision equipment
20220414
https://www.economist.com/the-economist-explains/2022/04/14/why-russian-forces-cant-match-ukraines-night-vision-equipment
More from The Economist explains:What is genocide, and is Russia committing it in Ukraine?Why are so many Russian generals dying in Ukraine?What are MANPADS, the portable missiles bringing down Russian aircraft?
RUSSIAN FORCES in Ukraine are falling victim to things that go bang in the night. There have been several accounts of Aerorozvidka, a tactical drone unit in Ukraines army with the Latin motto Non dormies You will not sleep, striking Russian units under the cover of darkness. Small drones equipped with thermal imagers are able to locate Russian vehicles from their heat signalsengines are often kept running in freezing conditionsand bomb them with Soviet-era anti-tank grenades. Videos of such attacks suggest the Russians are unable to detect them. But modern armies have long used night-vision technology. Why is Russias invasion force struggling to see in the dark?
The first military night-vision systems, from the second world war, used infra-red searchlights whose sweep could be seen only by special detectors. These worked well unless the enemy also had infra-red sensors, in which case the user stood out like a beacon. Modern armies have two types of night-vision gear that avoid this problem. Thermal imagers, as used by Aerorozvidka, detect the infra-red radiation given off by warm objects and display it using bright colours. Others use a device called a photomultiplier to turn light into electrical signals, in effect amplifying what little light is available. These turn the world an eerie monochrome green.
Although Russias army vastly outspends Ukraines, it does not have the money to issue every soldier with the latest equipment. Russian military equipment for the ground forces is not particularly well equipped for fighting at night, noted a Western official on day two of the war, and it's not something that they've done a lot of on recent operations. Some Russian commanders are fighting the old-fashioned way, lighting up the battlefield with flares and star shells. But once the darkness returns, invisible opponents will continue to snipe at Russian soldiers.
Samuel Cranny-Evans of RUSI, a defence think-tank, says that armies mainly use night-vision gear in the form of personal units, such as goggles or weapon sights, and devices fitted to vehicles. Exactly how many Russian military vehicles are fitted with night-vision technology is unclear, although newer Russian tanks come with thermal imagers derived from a design by Thales, a French defence supplier, which Russia imported.
When Ukrainian forces battled Russian-backed separatists in 2014 their lack of night-vision hampered them. Since then they have been stocking up. America provided a batch of 2,500 military systems in 2018, and others have been donating hardware. On April 9th Britain promised to send more night-vision equipment to Ukraine. And although America attempted to strictly control the export of night-vision technology for years, today there are many systems available on the open market. Come Back Alive, a fundraiser for Ukraines military, has supplied more than 1,000 thermal imagers since 2014. Other systems may be adapted to see through the gloom too. The firing unit of the portable Javelin missile includes a thermal imager that can magnify objects nine-fold. Even when all the missiles are expended the unit is still useful for night observation, and Ukraine has them in large numbers.
The advantage of night-vision was evident in Operation Desert Storm in 1991. American forces boasted that we own the night as they outmanoeuvred and outfought an Iraqi army which lacked modern night-vision gear. John Lehman, a former secretary of the navy, later told Congress that it was the ability to operate when all of the rest of the worlds defences are at 10 of what they are in daytime that gave American forces their edge.
But unlike Western armies, Russia does not routinely issue night-vision gear to dismounted troops. Only a select few special forces and reconnaissance units get the equipment, says Mr Cranny-Evans. This is borne out by images of captured Russian soldiers. So far only Spetsnaz special forces units have been pictured with night-fighting equipment. This may be because the technology is expensive and delicate, and inexperienced or conscripted soldiers are not trusted with it. High-end units can cost tens of thousands of dollars each.
