China joins call for US to provide full account of its bioweapons research activities in Ukraine
20220315
https://www.naturalnews.com/2022-03-15-china-us-full-account-bioweapons-research-ukraine.html
The United Nations Biological Weapons Convention prohibits the development, production, acquisition, transfer, stockpiling and use of biological and toxin weapons. The U.S. ratified the treaty in 1975. Russia, as the Soviet Union, and Ukraine, as the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, also ratified the treaty in 1975.
Listen to this episode of the Health Ranger Report as host Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, talks about the confirmation of U.S. bioweapons labs in Ukraine, and how the Deep State is preparing to use them to stage false flag events.
Zhao said Beijing is calling on relevant sides to ensure the safety of these labs.
During a news conference in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian echoed Russian allegations regarding U.S. involvement in developing bioweapons in laboratories in Ukraine.
According to her testimony: Ukraine has biological research facilities, which in fact we are now quite concerned Russian troops, Russian forces may be seeking to gain control of. So we are working with the Ukrainians on how they can prevent any of those research materials from falling into the hands of Russian forces should they approach.
According to the data released by the U.S. itself, the U.S. has 26 biological laboratories and other related facilities in Ukraine which has indeed attracted great attention, said Zhao. All dangerous pathogens in Ukraine must be stored in these labs and all research activities are led by the U.S. side. Without U.S. approval, no information shall be released to the public.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki called Russia and Chinas claims of the U.S. having a global network of research facilities for biological weapons preposterous.
Tags: badscience, big government, biolabs, biological warfare, biological weapons, bioterrorism, China, conspiracy, deception, jen psaki, medical experiments, national security, Russia, Russo-Ukrainian War, Ukraine, weapons technology, World War III, Zhao Lijian
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Maria Vladimirovna Zakharovaearlier said the Kremlin has discovered that Ukrainian forces are attempting to cover up evidence of military biological programs.
China is demanding that the United States provide a full accounting of all U.S.-backed bio-military activities in Ukraine.
Now that Russia has made these false claims, and China has seemingly endorsed this propaganda, we should all be on the lookout for Russia to possibly use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, or to create a false flag operation using them, said Psaki. Its a clear pattern, and no one should fall for it.
After denying existence of US bio labs in Ukraine, Biden regime warns that Russia could release the bioweapons they contain.
Zhao added that the U.S. has a total of 336 biological research laboratories in 30 countries, including Ukraine. The U.S. should give a full account of its biological military activities at home and abroad and subject itself to multilateral verification, he said. Related: US bioweapons labs CONFIRMED as deep state sets stage for biowar false flag event to be blamed on Russia.
Russia presents compelling new evidence of U.S.-backed bioweapons labs in Ukraine after document proves their existence.
But Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland recently testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that there are biolabs in Ukraine.
John Kirby, press secretary for the Pentagon, called Russia and Chinas claims malarkey and classic Russian propaganda.
We are not developing biological or chemical weapons inside Ukraine, said Kirby. Its not happening.
Zhao has called the White House and the Pentagons denials of the existence of the biolabs in Ukraine an attempt to stonewall any proper investigation.
Nulands testimony proves that both the White House and the Pentagon are lying about the bioweapons research facilities in Ukraine.
The U.S., in particular, as the party that knows the labs the best, should disclose specific information as soon as possible, including which viruses are stored and what research has been conducted, added Zhao.
According to reports, a large quantity of dangerous viruses are stored in these facilities, said Zhao. Russia has found during its military operations that the U.S. uses these facilities to conduct bio-military plans.
Its exactly the kind of disinformation operation weve seen repeatedly from the Russians over the years in Ukraine and in other countries around the world, which have been debunked conclusively, and an example of the types of false pretexts we have been warning the Russians would invent, continued Psaki. The United States is in full compliance with its obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological Weapons Convention and does not develop or possess such weapons anywhere.
