PUSHING FOR WWIII US militaryindustrial complex continues to escalate conflict with economic sanctions
20220314
https://www.naturalnews.com/2022-03-14-us-escalates-conflict-economic-sanctions-pushing-wwiii.html
NATOs relentless push for anti-Russian hatred across the global economy could force China to retaliate if its own businesses end up getting punished in all the fray.
Tags: Collapse, escalation, military-industrial complex, NATO, Politicians, risk, Russia, sanctions, Ukraine, War, world war, World War III
It is no surprise that Yoo repeated many of the same western lies that Putin is an aggressor, and that NATO and its proxy government in Ukraine are innocent victims in this whole crisis.
China also warned that the U.S. is operating dangerous biolabs in Ukraine, calling the corporate-controlled media machine in the U.S. an Empire of Lies.
The U.S. could learn a thing or two from Putin about the importance of protecting ones own borders, it turns out, but I digress.
Just another daily distraction, said someone else. Meanwhile, in less than 200 days, the Dominion-dominated, ballot-harvesting, no-ID-required, vote-early-and-often, nobody-arrested, corrupt election system will still be in place to steal the midterm elections.
This is not to say that China is any better when it comes to spreading propaganda. The conflict we are now seeing appears to be a fight of evil against evil, perhaps, and not good versus evil.
That would be nice, but D.C. doesnt produce anything except bullst, joked another in response.
CNBCs Eunice Yoon joined the Squawk Box the other day to talk about how China is being backed into a corner amid escalating sanctions against Russia, which are also impacting other nations that do business with Russia.
Either way, the military-industrial complex that controls the U.S. and other NATO countries is anything but trustworthy. Whatever it is saying about Putin is more than likely true about itself, because this is what these deranged psychopaths do: blame others for the things they are doing themselves.
I think we should sanction D.C. with a boycott on exports and an embargo, someone else wrote.
The CNBC perspective is of course anti-Russia as well, seeing as how it is just another corporate-controlled propaganda outlet run by the military-industrial complex.
Someone else also pointed out that if the U.S. did not sanction China for the Wuhan coronavirus Covid-19, why would it suddenly do it for Ukraine?
Another pointed out that those who rely on pharmaceutical drugs as part of their routine might be in for a shocker should China retaliate against this Western aggression.
They make 90 of antibiotics and other things like blood thinners, this person explained. China is Americas drug store.
More of the latest news about the degrading global situation can be found at Collapse.news.
Our politicians and businesses do not understand human history at all, wrote someone in response to the clip. This is how wars are started!
The Chinese foreign ministry said that if the U.S. sanctions Chinese companies that China would respond firmly and forcefully,' Yoo explained during the CNBC segment.
Unfortunately for CNBC and its puppet masters, the emperor has no clothes. It is becoming painfully obviously that the anti-Putin, anti-Russia agenda has nothing to do with human rights for the people of Ukraine, and everything to do with disrupting the deep states military and biological weapons presence in Eastern Europe.
The United States military-industrial complex, which includes media, religion, the technology sector, and of course the government, are all now engaging in open xenophobia against Russia in response to the Ukraine invasion  almost like they are all reading from the same script.
Despite the presence of Pentagon-run bioweapons laboratories throughout Ukraine, and the constant encroachment of NATO towards the Russian border over the past several decades, we are all somehow supposed to believe that Vladimir Putin is the bad guy in all this for basically protecting his own borders.
