Russia to strengthen economic ties with China amid sanctions imposed by western countries
20220528
https://www.naturalnews.com/2022-05-27-russia-to-strengthen-economic-ties-with-china.html
They continue to develop the means to deny others the use of space through the employment of malicious cyberspace activities, including cyber attacks, against ground sites supporting space operations.
Outer space is one specific area of Sino-Russian cooperation that has major effects on U.S. national security.
Lavrov cited that Russia and China have common interests in international affairs and both sides can gain the benefits of working jointly on technology.
Russia aimsto strengthen its economic ties with China aside from sharing common interests and making technological developments together.
Three weeks before Russias invasion of Ukraine, Beijing and Moscow renewed their bilateral relationship to a no limits partnership after a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping. The two leaders also announced that there would be no forbidden areas of cooperation between the two countries.
China, Russia sign agreement to build space station on the moon, the high ground above planet Earth.
This is an opportunity for us to realize our potential in the field of high technology, including nuclear energy, but also in a number of other areas,he said.
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy John Plumb warned about Russian and Chinese space capabilities during a congressional hearing held last May 11.Related:China, Russia, working on weapons that can kill US GPS satellites
Now that the West has taken the position of a dictator, our economic ties with China will grow even faster, Russian Foreign MinisterSergei Lavrov said in a press release Monday, May 23. Lavrov made the statement while speaking to students at a high school in Moscow.
Tags: big government, chaos, China, conspiracy, Dangerous, DIA, military tech, national security, Roscosmos, Russia, Sergei Lavrov, Space, space exploration, United States, Vladimir Putin, weapons technology, World War III, Xi Jinping
Both sides are presently in the last year of a five-year space cooperation program that began in 2018. Chinas state-run media Global Times reported last December that the program was likely to be extended for another five years concluding in 2027.
Lavrov rejected the notion that Russia would be willing to enhance ties with Western nations soon.
In March 2021, the Russian space agency Roscosmosapproveda memorandum of understanding with Chinas National Space Administration agreeing to work closely on an international lunar research station. Roscosmos head Dmitry RogozintoldRussian state-run media Tass in April that hes planning to discuss with Chinese partners about collaboration on the moon before the end of May.
China has not criticized Russia over its invasion of Ukraine but has been critical of the sanctions made by Western nations against Moscow.
Both nations seek to broaden their space exploration initiatives, together and individually, with plans to explore the moon and Mars during the next 30 years. ??If successful, these efforts will likely lead to attempts by Beijing and Moscow to exploit the moons natural resources, DIA defense intelligence officer John Huthsaid at a briefingstating the report.
Russia and China have developed directed energy weapons to blind intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellites, and they continue the development, testing and proliferation of direct-ascent and on-orbit anti-satellite weapons to hold at risk U.S. and allied space assets, Plumb said.
If they the West want to offer something in terms of resuming relations, then we will seriously consider whether we will need it or not. We must stop being dependent in any way on the supply of anything from the West, Lavrov said. Headded that China hasinformation and communications technologies that are in no way inferior to the West and a great deal will ensure mutual benefits.
Meanwhile, Chinas energy imports from Russia have expanded in the current months. The communist governments buying of Russian oil, gas and coal increased 75 percent in April to over $6 billion,Bloomberg said in a recent report that cited Chinese customs data. Imports of Russias liquefied natural gas surpassed 463,000 tons in April, an increase of 80 percent from the previous year.
Chinas and Russias interests in the moon were emphasized in a Defense Intelligence Agency DIA report titled Challenges to Security in Space 2022 issued in April.
The moon could possibly turn out to be a crucialsource of rare earth metals, which are scarce on Earth, but are required to produce common electronics such as computers and lithium batteries, as well asdefense products utilized by the U.S. military like night-vision goggles and armored vehicles.
Russia, China building powerful, exotic, new weapons capable of destroying American coastlines and entire cities by stealth.
Last May 4, Sen.Dick Durbin, who is the co-chairman of the Senate Ukraine Caucus,told Chinas ambassador to the United States Qin Gang that he was extremely concerned about Chinas denial to clearly condemn Putins unjustified and unprovoked war.
