Ukraine abusing US facial recognition technology by sending grotesque photos of dead Russian soldiers to their families
20220421
https://www.naturalnews.com/2022-04-21-ukraine-facial-recognition-terrorism-photos-russian-soldiers.html
The technology is so powerful and efficient that Ukrainian officials are apparently experiencing oh, wow moments when shown the tool because of the sheer amount of data produced when looking up individuals with the system, TGP adds.
Tags: big government, Clearview AI, computing, conspiracy, dead soldiers, deception, extremism, Facial recognition, Hoan Ton-That, information technology, insanity, lunatics, Russia, terrorism, Twisted, Ukraine, US technology, World War III
It is also being reported that Clearview has been deployed on the battlefield as a mobile app to scan the faces of soldiers live while they fight. Company CEO Hoan Ton-That recently bragged that his company is now holding daily training calls with new police and military officials who are interested in using the technology themselves for similar purposes.
According to the Post, there are more than 20 billion images in said database that can be used to compare and contrast for investigatory purposes  or in the case of the Ukraine war, to terrorize the mothers and other family members of dead or injured Russian soldiers.
If Russia is successful at its mission, every Pentagon-run bioweapons laboratory on Ukrainian soil will be dismantled, along with every other deep state operation taking place on the Ukrainian playground of biological terrorism.
Anyone trained in how to use the system can access it 24 hours a day, seven days a week, free of charge.
They say the goal is to hasten an end to a devastating war, but the truth is that the U.S., Germany and NATO at large do not want their dirty secrets in Ukraine blown wide open for the world to see.
The technology that Ukraine is using to terrorize Russian mothers was developed by an American tech firm called Clearview AI. According to the Post, it is brutal but effective at stirring the pot and discouraging other Russian soldiers from fighting.
Everything from family photos and social media posts, to relationship details and personal information, can be found using a single photo of someones face.
There are now more than 340 officials across five Ukrainian government agencies who are accessing Clearviews facial recognition technology to terrorize Russian families  and more are being added daily.
Despite what the corporate-controlled media is claiming, Ukraine is not the good guy in this conflict. The country is an outsourcing destination for deep state criminality, and that is why the West wants the war to stop.
More than 8,600 facial recognition scans on dead or captured Russian soldiers have been used for such purposes since the invasion occurred back in February. The operation is being carried out by Ukraines IT Army, which is made up of a volunteer force of hackers and activists that takes its direction from the Ukrainian government.
According to reports, the Ukrainian government under Volodymyr Zelenskyy is identifying the faces of dead Russian soldiers and sending images of their mangled bodies specifically to their mothers in order to fuel anti-war sentiment among Russian citizens.
More news coverage about the war crime atrocities being committed by the Ukrainian government can be found at WWIII.news.
If you support Ukraine, then you support a new psychological warfare tactic in which U.S.-created facial recognition technology is being used to terrorize the family members of dead Russian soldiers.
The clandestine group says it has used the positive identifications obtained from the U.S.-based technology to harass the families of 582 Russian soldiers, reported The Gateway Pundit TGP.
The Ukrainian communications to the horrified family members included sending them photos of the abandoned corpses.
Clearview AI, by the way, is primarily used in the U.S. by both federal and local law enforcement entities to conduct investigations. It compares photos of suspects or witnesses, or really anyone, with other photos already in the Clearview database.
