US scrambles to cover up bioweapons labs in Ukraine
20220316
https://www.naturalnews.com/2022-03-15-us-covers-up-ukraine-bioweapons-labs.html
And then we have things like these U.S.-funded biolabs in Ukraine conducting research into bat coronaviruses, and now we have the WHO World Health Organization telling Ukraine to destroy high-threat pathogens in labs to prevent disease spread.
Sigurdson also mentioned the tense back and forth jabs between U.S. and Russian officials over the dangerous biolabs.Related:FACT CHECK: The Ukrainian bioweapons labs are REAL.
Sigurdson cited a Zero Hedge articletitled WHO told Ukraine to destroy high-threat pathogens in labs to prevent disease. He noted that the WHO had strongly recommended to the Ministry of Health in Ukraine and other responsible bodies to destroy high-threat pathogens to prevent any potential spills which, according to the World Alternative Media reporter, is already being done by the Ukrainian government. Alldocuments related to the biolabs are also being destroyed.
China accuses USA of having bioweapons research program in strategic retaliation against accusations of coronavirus origins.
So Putin isnt right. But Ukraines wrong as well. Theres obvious evidence of Ukrainian government killing Ukrainians and then blaming it on Russia. And then theres evidence obviously of Russia bombing Ukrainians and then blaming Ukraine, Sigurdson said.
The U.S., according to Sigurdson, is a genius at scheming but bad at lying. How can they get away with saying, We dont have them. Actually, we do. But theyare not ours, theyare the Russians from 31 years ago. And then we have them, but we dont have them. Thats insane, truly insane, Sigurdson said.
USA admits there are biolabs in Ukraine and now says if a biological attack happens, its Russias fault. Of course, everything is Russias fault,Sigurdson said.
Some of the worlds most dangerous bioweapons are made at a lab in Maryland not just in China and Ukraine.
Henoted that he is totally against what Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukraine are doing. He said both sides are absolutely false and wrong.
He noted that Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said documents recovered by Russian forces in Ukraine showed an emergency attempt to erase evidence of military biological programs by destroying lab samples.
The United States is nowscramblingto cover up the confirmed biological weapons labs in Ukraine, according to Josh Sigurdson of World Alternative Media.
After admitting that there are indeed biolabs in Ukraine, the U.S. government is now trying to weasel its way around the issue.
The U.S. denied the allegations by issuing a statement on March 10, saying that it does not have a chemical or biological weapons lab in Ukraine while adding that America does not develop or possess chemical and biological weapons anywhere.
Sigurdsonsaid the Departmentof Statetechnically admitted that the biolabs do exist after U.S. Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland acknowledged on March 8 that Ukraine has biological research facilities. Nuland also said the U.S. is concerned that Russia may be seeking to gain control of these biolabs and that America was working with Ukraine on how they can prevent those research materials from falling into the hands of Russian forces.
Tags: big government, biolabs, biological weapons, bioterrorism, biowar, chaos, conspiracy, coverup, deception, lies, Maria Zakharova, medical experiments, pathogens, Russia, traitors, Ukraine, United States, Victoria Nuland, Vladimir Putin, weapons technology, WHO, World War III
The World Alternative Media reporter pointed out that admitting the biolabs exist proves that conspiracy theorists were right all along. He added that the U.S. will cover this up once again.
Pentagon ran bioweapons labs in 25 countries, including Ukraine yet no global outcry against the USA for funding covid gain-of-function crimes against humanity.
Sigurdson also talked about the Soviet or Russian biolabs in Ukraine that the U.S. has held since 1991 and should have cleaned up, converted orshut down. He said claims that the U.S. has biolabs in Ukraine is wrong they are Soviet biolabs that the U.S. now controls.
