World War III will be nuclear and destructive warns Russian foreign minister
20220303
https://www.naturalnews.com/2022-03-03-wwiii-nuclear-destructive-warns-russian-foreign-minister.html
Russian forces capture Chernobyl power plant media expresses concern over possibility of radioactive leak from site.
Learn more about how the conflict in Ukraine could lead to a global  and potentially nuclear  war at WWIII.news.
Psaki added that the U.S. will not fight back against Putin by attempting to escalate the rhetoric. We think provocative rhetoric like this regarding nuclear weapons is dangerous, adds to the risk of miscalculation, should be avoided and we will not indulge in it.
Putin demands Ukraine surrender so as to spare the country bloodshed as Kyiv mayor calls on citizens to hold the capital.
There is no clear evidence that Ukraine is trying to acquire nuclear weapons. The country used to have a nuclear arsenal since the Soviet Union placed nuclear missiles in the country. But when the Soviet Union dissolved, Ukraine voluntarily gave up its nuclear weapons in exchange for certain guarantees from both the West and Russia. Related: Russian ambassador to the UN claims his country does not plan to occupy Ukraine.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov warned Wednesday, March 2, that World War III would be nuclear and destructive.
Listen to this episode of the Health Ranger Report as Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, talks about how the West is committing economic suicide with its severe sanctions against Russia.
Putin earlier warned the world against attempting to intervene in Ukraine and hindering the invasion. He said those that do will see consequences you have never seen in your history. The mobilization of Russias nuclear forces implies that Putin is willing to fire nuclear weapons at countries that intervene militarily to protect Ukraine.
Putin puts his nuclear forces on high alert in response to NATO actions, sanctions, amid ongoing Ukraine war.
The foreign minister made this claim a day after alleging that Ukraine had been seeking nuclear weaponsduringa speech he made at a conference on disarmament with the United Nations Human Rights Council.
Speaking after the conference, Ukraines ambassador to the UN in Geneva, Yevheniia Filipenko, said: They cannot attack our freedom. We will fight until the end and we will win.
The third world war will be nuclear and destructive, said Lavrov during an interview. He claimed that Russia would be in real danger if Ukraine ever became a nuclear-armed nation.
For his part, President Joe Biden and his administration claimed that Americans should not be worried about the threat of a nuclear war.
NATO may have just declared war on Russia with latest move to counter Putins invasion of Ukraine.
Tags: chaos, conflict, Dangerous, Joe Biden, lies, nuclear, nuclear war, nuclear weapons, nukes, propaganda, Russia, Sergey Lavrov, Ukraine, Vladimir Putin, War, White House, World War III
The risk of a nuclear conflict breaking out increased last week when Putin ordered Russias nuclear deterrent forces on high alert. Putin claimed he was doing this defensively and in reaction to aggressive statements by theNorth Atlantic Treaty Organization, as well as the severe economic sanctions from the West.
It should be noted that Russia has more nuclear weapons than any other nation on the planet. It has an estimated 6,255 nuclear warheads, withmore than 1,500currently deployed on strategic long-range systems and the rest in reserve. Russia has more nuclear weapons than the rest of the world combined, excluding the United States which, by comparison, has approximately 5,500 nuclear weapons.
Lavrov, 71, came to prominence when the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, and he immediately gained a reputation as President Vladimir Putins brutal, no-nonsense messenger.
Ukraine still has Soviet nuclear technologies and the means of delivery of such weapons, said Lavrov.
He also used his speech to attack the European Union for participating in a Russophobic frenzy in the conflict in Ukraine by supplying Kyiv with thousands of tons of weaponry to fight against the invasion.
Ben Armstrong warns Biden administration: Acting tough now against Russia could put the world on the brink of a nuclear war.
We feel your support, we greatly appreciate all of your support and the steps we have taken today in international Geneva send a very strong signal to the Russian Federation that such actions are not acceptable and not tolerated in the 21st century.
We are assessing President Putins directive and at this time, we see no reason to change our own alert levels in response to the mobilization, said White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Monday, Feb.28.
