SHAFFE expects difficult conditions for fresh fruit exports to Russia and Ukraine
20220228
https://www.freshplaza.com/article/9404859/shaffe-expects-difficult-conditions-for-fresh-fruit-exports-to-russia-and-ukraine/
In 2020, exports of fresh fruit from SHAFFE member countries to Russia reached 643.084 tons, which represented 17 of the total fresh produce import market During the same period, the main species of fruits exported by SHAFFE member countries to Russia included apples, pears, and citrus, which together represented 80 of the total exports of SHAFFE member countries to this market. The exports of fresh produce from SHAFFE member countries have been on upward trend, registering a 29 volume growth, between the period 2017 to 2020. South Africa and Argentina are the main suppliers of fresh produce to Russia and represent 69 of the total volume exported by SHAFFE member countries in 2020.
According to SHAFFE, foreseeable negative impacts could include reduced exports to the Russian and Ukrainian market and hence the redirection and oversupply of citrus, apples, and pears to other destinations such as the EU, U.S.A. or others. This could lead to oversupply of those markets with resultant financial losses for exporters. Additionally, the entity foresees that this situation could compound even further the negative impact of the current rise of production and logistical costs facing the Southern Hemisphere exporters and growers. Sanctions by some Western countries against Russian banks as well as SWIFT payments will lead to add to the risks faced by exporters. It is hoped that the situation will be resolved soon.
The Southern Hemisphere Association of Fresh Fruit Exporters SHAFFE has reviewed the Russian and the Ukrainian fresh fruit import markets and expects increasingly difficult conditions to maintain supply to both markets.
In 2020, Ukraine imported 795 million USD of fresh fruit with over 48 originating from suppliers like Turkey citrus, Ecuador and Costa Rica bananas and pineapples. Total exports of fresh fruit from SHAFFE member countries  reached USD$54 million in 2020, representing 7 of total fruit imports market in the Ukraine. The main suppliers to Ukraine from SHAFFE member countries included South Africa, which exported mainly citrus with a value of USD$16 million and which represented 30 of the total value of exports registered by SHAFFE member countries in 2020.
