Russian soldier pleads guilty in first war crimes trial of Ukraine conflict
20220519
http://www.businessghana.com/site/news/politics/262894/Russian-soldier-pleads-guilty-in-first-war-crimes-trial-of-Ukraine-conflict
Moscow has denied its troops have targeted civilians, but investigators have been collecting evidence of possible war crimes to bring before the International Criminal Court ICC in The Hague.
The widow of the man killed was sitting just a couple of metres from him.
She wiped tears from her eyes as the soldier entered court, then sat with hands clasped as the prosecutor set out his case, describing the moment Kateryna's husband, Oleksandr Shelipov, was shot in the head.
Prosecutors say Shishimarin was commanding a unit in a tank division when his convoy came under attack.
A 21-year-old Russian soldier has pleaded guilty to killing an unarmed civilian, in the first war crimes trial in Ukraine since the war started.
Shishimarin's trial was adjourned shortly after the civilian's widow heard for the first time the Russian soldier admit to the murder. This high profile hearing will restart on Thursday in a larger courtroom.
The ICC is sending a team of 42 investigators, forensics experts and support staff to Ukraine. Meanwhile, Ukraine has also set up a team to preserve evidence to enable future prosecutions.
The country's chief prosecutor Iryna Venediktova tweeted: "By this first trial, we are sending a clear signal that every perpetrator, every person who ordered or assisted in the commission of crimes in Ukraine shall not avoid responsibility,"
Vadim Shishimarin admitted shooting a 62-year-old man a few days after the invasion began. He faces life in jail.
According to prosecutors, Shishimarin was ordered to kill the civilian and used a Kalashnikov assault rifle to do so.
"I feel very sorry for him Shishimarin," she said. "But for a crime like that - I can't forgive him."
He and four other soldiers stole a car, and as they travelled near Chupakhivka, they encountered the 62-year-old on a bicycle, they said.
The prisoner was brought into the tiny Kyiv courtroom in handcuffs, flanked by heavily armed guards. He looked nervous, and kept his head bowed.
Oleksandr's widow told the BBC how she was coping, before she left the court for the day.
