Ukraine war US to send longerrange rockets in latest aid package
20220502
http://www.businessghana.com/site/news/politics/263854/Ukraine-war:-US-to-send-longer-range-rockets-in-latest-aid-package
As they face overwhelming Russian firepower in a grinding, attritional battle for the Donbas, Ukrainian forces complain that they lack firepower.
The systems can launch multiple precision-guided missiles at targets as far as 70km 45 miles away - far further than the artillery that Ukraine currently has. They are also believed to be more accurate than their Russian equivalents.
"We are not going to send to Ukraine rocket systems that can strike into Russia," Mr Biden wrote on Wednesday.
Ukraine will be looking to hit targets well beyond its current reach - command and control centres, logistics hubs, and the Russian batteries that have Ukrainian troops pinned down in the Donbas.
Its GPS-guided rockets are much more accurate than the equivalent Russian systems. It's also much quicker to reload and, as the name suggests, the launch vehicles can move quickly from one location to another.
"It is obvious that the US, at the head of a group of countries, is pumping weapons directly to the Kyiv regime. And the juggling and manipulation of some particular aspects of what is happening do not change the overall picture for us."
White House officials agreed to provide the rockets, they said, only after gaining assurances from President Volodomyr Zelensky that the weapons would not be used to attack targets inside Russia.
He blamed Russia's continued aggression for the stalling of peace efforts, adding that the US would never put pressure on Ukraine to concede any of its territory in return for an end to the conflict.
The US expects Ukraine to deploy the weapons in the eastern Donbas region, where the fighting is most intense, and where they can be used to strike Russian artillery units and forces targeting Ukrainian towns.
This announcement has been a long time coming and represents one of the most significant military commitments so far.
Directly addressing the risk of nuclear weapons being used in Ukraine, Mr Biden said "we currently see no indication" of this being Russia's intention - but warned that doing so would be unacceptable and bring with it "severe consequences".
He added that he would provide tracking radar capable of detecting enemy artillery, and multiple rocket launchers.
Moscow said it viewed the latest US weapons package to Ukraine including the new systems "extremely negatively".
This is a fine balancing act for Mr Biden, as providing more powerful weapons could provoke a reaction from Russia, risking direct conflict between the US and its Nato allies and Moscow.
The latest rockets will be the centrepiece of a $700m 556m support package for Ukraine that will be formally unveiled on Wednesday, White House officials said.
In Wednesday's article, Mr Biden wrote that the US's goal was simply to see a "democratic, independent, sovereign" Ukraine, not to oust Mr Putin from his role as Russian president or to seek broader conflict with Moscow.
Helicopters, anti-tank weapons, tactical vehicles and spare parts are to be included in what will be the 11th package of military aid approved by the US for Ukraine since the invasion began in February.
"We view this extremely negatively, because attempts to present the decision as containing elements of 'self-restraint' are useless," he said, quoted by Ria news agency.
The weapons, long requested by Ukraine, are to help it strike enemy forces more precisely from a longer distance.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz told MPs that the IRIS-T system was the most modern Germany possessed and would enable Ukraine to defend an entire city against Russian air attacks.
Soon after Mr Biden's piece was published, Russian military officials announced that the country's nuclear forces were holding drills in Ivanovo province near Moscow.
Until now, the US had refused the request out of fear the weapons could be used against targets in Russia.
"We're not interested in what is happening in Russia," he said. "We're only interested in our own territory in Ukraine."
he US will send Ukraine more advanced rocket systems to help it defend itself, President Biden has announced.
US and Ukrainian officials will already be having detailed conversations about how and where to use the HIMARS when they arrive.
New weaponry will include the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System HIMARS, a senior White House official said - although he did not specify how many of them would be supplied.
Writing in the New York Times, he said: "That is why I've decided that we will provide the Ukrainians with more advanced rocket systems and munitions that will enable them to more precisely strike key targets on the battlefield in Ukraine."
On Wednesday, Mr Biden said the lethal aid would strengthen Kyiv's negotiating position against Russia and make a diplomatic solution more likely.
Last month, Ukraine's army chief said that getting the HIMARS units would be "crucial" in allowing it to counter Russian missile attacks.
