Ukraine war Russia hits Kyiv area as Ukraine seeks to retake south
20220729
http://www.businessghana.com/site/news/politics/267591/Ukraine-war:-Russia-hits-Kyiv-area-as-Ukraine-seeks-to-retake-south
Control over Kherson is important for Russia, as it provides a land corridor to Crimea - Ukraine's southern peninsula annexed by the Kremlin in 2014.
Near Kyiv, 15 people were hurt at a military base. Ukraine's northern and southern regions were also hit.
Five people were killed and 26 injured when missiles struck the central city of Kropyvnytskyi, officials said. Three people died in Bakhmut, in the east.
On Thursday the US, Canada and 36 European nations said they were establishing an expert mission to review the human rights situation inside Russia - which they said had deteriorated since the invasion began,
Five months since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched an invasion of Ukraine, Western allies continue to condemn Moscow's aggression.
A key bridge into the city of Kherson is out of action after Ukrainian forces struck it with long-range rockets supplied by the US. This makes it impossible for Russia to send deployments and weaponry over the Antonivsky Bridge.
Russia has carried out deadly strikes across Ukraine, as Kyiv stepped up its efforts to retake the occupied southern Kherson region.
Pictures have emerged purportedly showing Russian troops trying to set up a pontoon crossing near the damaged bridge.
Elsewhere, one person was killed and two injured in Russian shelling of Ukraine's central-eastern Dnipropetrovsk region, local officials said.
Separately, 15 people were hurt when six Russian Kalibr missiles hit a military base in Liutizh, about 10km six miles north of the capital Kyiv, senior Ukrainian military official Oleksiy Hromov said. He did not specify whether there were any deaths.
However, the Ukrainian military has warned that Moscow is now redeploying its forces from eastern Ukraine to defend the Kherson region.
In September its experts will publish a report and offer recommendations on how Russian authorities can address the situation.
Acting through the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE, the nations accuse Moscow of increasing the suppression of dissenting voices inside the country.
As a longstanding participant member of the OSCE, Russia has previously agreed to honour commitments to human rights and other democratic principles.
UK defence officials say the only Ukrainian regional capital seized since the start of the Russian invasion on 24 February is now "virtually cut off from other occupied territories".
In a statement, the group also expressed concern at reports of torture in detention centres.
In Kropyvnytskyi - the capital of the Kirovohrad region - a flight school was hit by two Russian missiles at about 12:20 local time on Tuesday 09:20 GMT, regional head Andriy Raikovych said at a briefing.
In Bakhmut, which lies in the eastern Donetsk region, at least three people were killed and another three injured in Russian shelling, regional head Pavlo Kyrylenko said. Twelve residential buildings were damaged.
