Ukraine war Large Russian convoy redeploys near Kyiv  satellite images
20220311
http://www.businessghana.com/site/news/politics/258411/Ukraine-war:-Large-Russian-convoy-redeploys-near-Kyiv-satellite-images
The apparent redeployment came as Russian forces in Ukraine began attacking new targets in different areas of the country:
Russia has requested an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council on Friday to discuss the alleged manufacture of biological weapons in Ukraine.
The convoy was earlier seen stalled not far from the capital, where US officials said it was targeted by Ukrainian troops with anti-tank missiles. It is not clear how many of the vehicles currently seen on the move may have been an initial part of that first group.
The US said earlier that Russia's claims of Ukraine hosting US-backed chemical weapons facilities was a "false flag", intended to justify Russia's possible use of such weapons.
Russian state media reported that the Ukrainian city of Volnovakha had been captured by Russian-backed separatist forces.
The convoy was last seen near Antonov Airport, north-west of Kyiv, and its movement could signal a renewed push towards the city.
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko says that half the population of the city of about three million has already fled, adding that Kyiv "has been transformed into a fortress".
President Volodymyr Zelensky has rejected Russian claims that chemical weapons or weapons of mass destruction were developed in Ukraine. In a video address, he also warned that Russia would get "the most severe sanctions response" if it were to use such weapons against Ukraine.
There is no independent confirmation of the capture of the city, which is a northern gateway to the besieged port city of Mariupol.
Russian forces moved three miles 5km closer to Kyiv in the past 24 hours, a senior US defence official said on Thursday.
"Ukrainian big cities are again subjected to devastating blows," said Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhaylo Podolyak.
Satellite images taken by a US firm of a large Russian military convoy near Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, show it has "largely dispersed and redeployed".
The air raid sirens went off at 04:30 and wailed for more than three hours. We now know the danger was real.
Dnipro has been bracing for this since the war began. All the bridges and main roads here are heavily guarded. Residents have got used to scrambling to underground shelters when the sirens sound.
This city is full of heavy industry, including a rocket factory. There is a metalworks nearby the site that was hit, but no obvious military target.
On Thursday, footage emerged apparently showing a Russian military column being hit by Ukrainian forces near the city of Brovary, just outside the capital.
Officials here say there were three air strikes, hitting a small shoe factory, an apartment block and a kindergarten.
Russian forces were also trying to close in on the city from the north-east, and were now about 25 miles 40km away, the official said.
Even so, the city has been something of a safe haven, for people fleeing cities under sustained Russian attack. In the past few days, residents here had begun leaving: we saw giant queues for evacuation trains and the roads west out of town have been heavily congested. Now the city has been directly hit, I suspect more will be thinking of getting out.
That meant Russian troops advancing from the north-west were now just nine miles from the city centre, the official - who spoke on condition of anonymity - told reporters.
The firm that took the photos, Maxar Technologies, said parts of the convoy were in positions in surrounding towns.
Tens of thousands of civilians have formed Territorial Defence units to help the Ukrainian armed forces defend the capital.
Fierce battles have been raging in recent days in Irpin and Bucha, satellite towns just a few kilometres north-west of Kyiv. Thousands of civilians have been forced to flee their homes.
