All eyes are on the battle for the east But the south might hold the key to Ukraines fate
20220630
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/russia-withdraws-snake-island-ukraine-counteroffensive-south-kherson-rcna35874
For now, Russia is still dictating the pace of the war and where battles are waged, Horowitz said.
Kherson is really the gateway to Ukraines success, said Neil Melvin, director of international security studies at the Royal United Services Institute, a think tank in London. If Ukrainians can push through Kherson, then that raises the prospect that they can begin to turn the tables on the Russian invasion in a much bigger sense.
More than 130 miles southwest of Kherson in the Black Sea, Ukraine claimed a victory Thursday after Russia pulled out from a key strategic outpost that became symbolic of Ukrainian resistance early in the war.
For weeks, the worlds attention has been fixed on the battle for Ukraines east, where Russian forces have been pressing a painstaking advance. But in the south, recent developments suggest Russias hold on territory it seized there may be increasingly fragile.
Despite occupying Kherson for months, Russia has been struggling to find enough collaborators to comfortably establish full administrative control over the area, Fesenko said.
The question then is  can Ukraine turn the momentum that they are building up in the south into something bigger? Melvin said. This is what we are going to see play out over the summer months.
Meanwhile, Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the new administration, said Wednesday that the region is preparing for a referendum to join Russia.
But as we enter a longer war of attrition, an economically significant region like Kherson might become far more important, and so is Ukraines ability to challenge Russia in the Black Sea and bypass the Russian blockade, he said, adding that the Snake Island retreat was evidence of this.
Kherson is a strategically important city of almost 300,000 that serves as a gateway to broader control of the south. It was the first major city captured by Russia after the invasion four months ago.
While Ukraine is threatening Russias hold on the south with conventional military forces, Kherson is also becoming a center for partisan warfare, Melvin said.
It has left observers wondering if Ukraine is laying the groundwork for a major counteroffensive in the south to open a new front and potentially tip the war in its favor.
Last week, a senior official in the Russian-installed administration was killed in an apparent assassination, Reuters reported. Ukraines military also reported last week that two Russian soldiers had been killed when a gunman opened fire at a waterside cafe in Kherson. NBC News could not independently verify either report.
Russia has controlled large chunks of Ukraines south  including the entire Kherson region  since the early days of the war.
They, at least partially, divert Russias attention and resources from the Donbas, he said, referring to the industrial region in Ukraines east which has seen the most intense fighting in recent months. They also allow Kyiv to create footholds for a future counteroffensive there.
The possibility of a sham vote has raised fears the area might be turned into a peoples republic, akin to the eastern breakaway territories Russia already controls, or even annexed directly.
Moscow said its forces withdrew from Zmiyinyy Snake Island as a goodwill gesture. Ukraine, however, said the Russians hastily evacuated after successful missile and artillery strikes, and Kyiv thanked its Western partners for their assistance after a flurry of recent heavy weapons shipments.
Located at the confluence of the Dnieper River and the Black Sea, just a two-hour drive from Crimea, annexed by Moscow in 2014, it is critical to establishing a land corridor from Russian-controlled areas in the east all the way to Odesa in Ukraines southwest  which analysts have said may be one of the goals of the Kremlins invasion.
But Russias military is relatively thinly deployed in the area at the moment, Melvin said, while it focuses on the Donbas  another reason why Ukraine is looking to push through.
Since late May, however, the Ukrainian army has been reporting counteroffensive operations against Russian forces, with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy saying last week his military was gradually liberating the region.
The citys elected mayor, Igor Kolykhaev, has refused to work with the Russians since they took control. He was arrested Tuesday, according to his adviser, Galina Lyashevskaya, who told NBC News they had not heard from Kolykhaev since his detention and she was concerned for his life.
The island sits off Odesa, the crucial port that is one of many shipping routes the United States and others have accused Moscow of blockading in order to cut off grain exports and worsen the growing global food crisis. Russia has denied the accusation and said its withdrawal was evidence it didnt want to hamper agricultural shipments.
Moscow's troops withdrew from a key strategic outpost off Ukraines southern Black Sea coast Thursday, the latest blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin in the area. It comes amid a nascent Ukrainian counteroffensive around Kherson as well as growing signs of partisan activity and the Kremlin straining to exert control: The south may be flying under the radar for now, but analysts say it could ultimately prove decisive in the struggle for Ukraines future.
While Ukraines gains are moderate at the moment, they serve an important purpose, Volodymyr Fesenko, a political analyst at the Kyiv-based Penta Center think tank, said.
The ultimate objective of such an offensive would be the recapture of Kherson, said Michael A. Horowitz, a geopolitical and security analyst and the head of intelligence at the consultancy Le Beck. The city sits on the west bank of the Dnieper River, in an area thats critical to the Ukrainian economy. In the longer run, pushing Russian forces out of southern Ukraine, and off the coast of the Black Sea, is far more critical to Kyiv than the battle in the east, he added.
