Blinken to visit Ukraine as USRussia tensions escalate
20220118
https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/blinken-visit-ukraine-u-s-russia-tensions-escalate-n1287623
Blinken will meet with Zelenskyy and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Wednesday to reinforce the United States commitment to Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity, the State Department said.
Instead, those meetings appear to have increased fears of a Russian invasion, and the Biden administration has accused Russia of preparing a false flag operation to use as a pretext for intervention. Russia has angrily denied the charge.
Our bipartisan congressional delegation sends a clear message to the global community: the United States stands in unwavering support of our Ukrainian partners to defend their sovereignty and in the face of persistent Russian aggression, Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said in a statement.
WASHINGTON  Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit Ukraine this week and meet with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as tensions between the U.S. and Russia escalate over a possible Russian invasion of its neighbor, the State Department said Tuesday.
The White House said Friday that U.S. intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had already deployed operatives to rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine to carry out acts of sabotage there and blame them on Ukraine to create a pretext for possible invasion.
On Monday, Russias top diplomat rejected the U.S. allegations that it was preparing a pretext to invade Ukraine. Speaking to reporters, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov dismissed the U.S. claim as total disinformation.
Lavrov reaffirmed that Russia expects a written response this week from the U.S. and its allies to Moscows request for binding guarantees that NATO will not embrace Ukraine or any other ex-Soviet nations or station its forces and weapons there.
Blinken will be in Kyiv on the hastily arranged trip to show U.S. support following inconclusive diplomatic talks between Moscow and the West in Europe last week that failed to resolve stark disagreements over Ukraine and other security matters.
Ahead of Blinkens visit to Kyiv, a delegation of U.S. senators was visiting Ukraine to emphasize congressional support for the country.
Blinkens travel and consultations are part of the diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the tension caused by Russias military build-up and continued aggression against Ukraine, the State Department said in a statement.
Speaking Monday on a visit to Kyiv, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock warned that any further escalation would carry a high price for the Russian regime  economic, political and strategic, and she emphasized the need to continue negotiations.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that Moscow will take unspecified military-technical measures if the West stonewalls its demands.
From Kyiv, Blinken will travel to Berlin, where he will meet with his German, British and French counterparts to discuss a possible response to any Russian military action. Russia has massed some 100,000 troops with tanks and other heavy weapons on its own soil near the Ukrainian border in what many observers believe may be preparation for an invasion.
We are prepared to have a serious dialogue with Russia, because diplomacy is the only way to defuse this highly dangerous situation at the moment, she said.
Washington and its allies firmly rejected Moscows demands during last weeks Russia-U.S. negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels.
The trip follows extensive diplomacy with our European Allies and partners about a united approach to address the threat Russia poses to Ukraine and our joint efforts to encourage it to choose diplomacy and de-escalation in the interests of security and stability, the department said.
Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula after the ouster of Ukraines Moscow-friendly leader and in 2014 also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting between the Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the countrys industrial heartland called Donbas.
