Fighting rages near Kyiv Moscow threatens weapons shipments
20220312
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/ukraine-russia-war-news-updates-fighting-rages-around-kyiv-russian-n1291714
Now it seems like all of Ukraine wants to buy weapons to keep at weapons home in order to defend their families and themselves, Zakhar Sluzhalyy, who runs a gun shop and firing range in Lviv told NBC News Friday.
I am proud to stand with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle with our friend and ally Poland,added Klobuchar, D-Minn. "We will make clear our commitment to stand with the Ukrainian and Polish people against Vladimir Putin.
Russian oligarchs in the past days have sought to move their superyachts to safe locations to avoid confiscation because of the sanctions. Authorities in Italy, France and other countries have impounded several luxury vessels.
Former President Donald Trump, who has stood apart from most American politicians by refusing to criticize Russian President Vladimir Putin, shifted his message a little during a political rally in Florence, S.C., Saturday night.
A night after the president said Russiantroops did not allow the shipment of food, water and medicine into the city, he announced Saturday that the cargo was expected to arrive Sunday afternoon.
It happens to be a man that is just driven, hes driven to put it together, Trump said of Putin. If he respected our president, it never ever would have happened.
Ukrainian and Western officials earlier accused Russia of shelling a maternity hospital in the southern city of Mariupol on Wednesday. Three people died in that attack.
Humanitarian aid that has been delayed in reaching the besieged southern port city of Mariupol is expected to arrive Sunday, Zelenskyy said.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says about 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed in fighting since the start of the Russian invasion.
Less than two months into retirement from his professional tennis career, Sergiy Stakhovsky left his wife and three young children in Hungary and went back to his birthplace to help however he could.
SAVANNAH, Ga.  U.S. soldiers are continuing to deploy to Europe, joining thousands already sent overseas to support NATO allies amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
House Democrats gathered in Philadelphia this week to revive their flagging domestic agenda. They held closed-door strategy sessions about how to talk to voters about rising inflation, tackle the climate crisis and move forward on immigration reform and voting rights.
Earlier this month, Russian news reports claimed that Aeroflots CEO Mikhail Poluboyarinov also has left the country. Aeroflot has denied that.
Biden plans to sign the spending bill with the additional aid when he receives it next week.
The routes included one between Mariupol and Zaporizhzhia, with authorities once again hoping to get thousands of people out and aid intothe strategic port city.
The soldiers are in addition to the estimated 3,800 soldiers from the Armys 3rd Infantry Division who deployed recently from nearby Fort Stewart.
During an attempt to evacuate from the village of Peremoha Baryshivskyi district, Kyiv oblast to the village of Gostroluchcha along an agreed "green" corridor, the occupiers shot a column of civilians, consisting exclusively of women and children. pic.twitter.comqylFqqGMnp
The agency said in a tweet Saturday that the convoy of women and children were traveling to thevillage of Gostroluchcha along an agreed "green" route when Russian forces began shooting at them.
He added that the U.S. is committed to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and will continue to provide support, including humanitarian assistance.
Russian troops and equipment were moving through a number of districts,Governor Oleksiy Kuleba said in a post on the Telegrammessaging app.
"The result of this brutal act - seven dead. One of them is a child. The exact number of wounded is currently unknown," SSSCIP wrote. "After the shooting, the occupiers forced the remnants of the column to return to the village of Peremoha and did not let them out of the village."
It's unclear whetherPutin's appetite for expansion would extend beyond Ukraine, should the country fall into Russian hands.
He said he still has family who live, and have remained, in Kyiv, including his grandmother, father and a brother.
Fighting and shelling have worsened thehumanitarian situation in the Kyiv region outside Ukraine's capital city, its governor said Saturday.
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkovalso warned that the Kremlin had prepared retaliatory sanctions against the United States and its allies that would be made public soon.
Britain will pay people 350 pounds, or $456, a month if they can offer refugees a spare room or property for a minimum period of six months.
Anyone offering a room or home will have to show that the accommodation meets standards and they may have to undergo criminal record checks.
"Ill be bringing a message of strong solidarity and support from Connecticuts people  particularly from our Ukrainian-American community  and Ill be learning how best we can help,"Blumenthal said. "The Ukrainian people are inspiring the world in their bold, brave fight for freedom."
Russia intensified its assault around Ukraine's capital Saturday, while continuing to bombard cities already under siege across the country and issuing new threats against the West.
The U.S. must make clear to Putin that he has two choices: to negotiate peace right now or else face blistering consequences, Trump said, contending that could include a long-term ban on Russian energy.
Foreign Minister Ann Linde told Swedish news agency TT on Saturday that Russia has nothing to do with our independent decisions, referring to the Stockholms possible move to join NATO.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has backed protestersin the southern city ofMelitopol who took the streets to demand the release of the city's mayor.
"The mosque of Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent and his wife Roxolana Hurrem Sultan in Mariupol was shelled by Russian invaders," Ukraine's foreign ministry said on Twitter Saturday.
Never war! Think first about the children, about those who are deprived of the hope for a dignified life: dead or wounded children, orphans, children who play with the remnants of war," he wrote in a translated tweet.In the name of God, stop!
The 55-year-old Abramovich is among several wealthy Russians sanctioned by Britain over their close links to the Kremlin following Russias attack on Ukraine.
Since the start of Russias invasion into Ukraine, polls in both Finland and Sweden have shown a substantially increased support for NATO membership.
Some citizens who are not enlisted in the military have been looking to get their hands on their own firearms in the western city of Lyiv.
Russian troopsencircled the capitaland were closer to the center of Kyiv on Saturday as fighting and shelling intensified, making the humanitarian response to those in need of care, shelter or help fleeing a more difficult job, officials said.
"I ask my partners to help in releasing the captive mayor of Melitopol,"Zelenskyy tweeted early Saturday after talks with leaders in Germany and France. "Prospects for peace talks also discussed. We must stop the aggressor together."
Closing out his remarks, Zelenskyy awarded eight members of his military with government recognition that includes the designation of Hero of Ukraine. Six of the eight were recognized posthumously.
Local officials have warned of a humanitarian catastrophe in the city, which has been left without water, food, heat and medical supplies for more than a week while encircled and bombarded by Russian troops.
Portman,R-Ohio, said the trip to Poland was important whileBlumenthal,D-Conn., said it will give them a first-hand look at the "heartbreaking, exploding humanitarian crisis" and how the U.S. can help.
SSSCIP said it had not been able to make contact with the survivors to provide aid.
I dont have the words to describe it. I would never imagine in my life that it would come to this  that I would be in my home city ... with a gun in my hands, Stakhovsky, 36, said Saturday during a video interview with The Associated Press from what he said was a residential building in Ukraine's capital Kyiv.
Zelenskyy added that he was "grateful to every Melitopol citizen for this rebellion." More than 2,000 people had joined the protest, he said.
Ukrainian officials continued to try to evacuate civilians who are just outside the city.WhileRussia has said it is not targeting civilians,the U.N. Human Rights office has said at least 579 civilians have been killed, including 42 children, as of Friday. Another 1,002 civilians were injured, the agency said.
Zelenskyy said that if they carry out carpet bombings and wipe off the historic memory of the entire region, the history of Kyivan Rus, the history of Europe, they could enter Kyiv.
He thanked both the Polish government and Polish society. Poland has accepted more refugees than any other country since the war began on Feb. 24.
The hospitals head doctor, Maksim Beznosenko, said several hundred patients were in the hospital during the attack but that no one was killed. The assault damaged the building and blew out windows.
TheSan Jose-based e-commerce company said its actions would include waiving seller fees, protecting sellers from late shipment penalties and matching employee donations to organizations that support Ukraine.
Roman Abramovichs superyacht Solaris has been spotted in the small Adriatic Sea state of Montenegro.
While she lay there seriously hurt, she recalls him saying, Im sorry for doing this but we have an order to shoot everything that is moving, and you cannot imagine how many cars like this we have full of Nazis who are trying to bomb us, Tetyana, 42, told NBC News on Wednesday from her bed in Kyiv City Hospital 17.
The Kremlin said that Putin briefed the two European leaders on the status of talks between Kyiv and Moscow.
HELSINKI  Swedens foreign minister is dismissing fresh warnings from Russia that the Nordic countrys joining NATO would lead to retaliatory measures from Moscow.
Russias Interfax news agency on Saturday quoted a Russian Foreign Ministry official saying the possible accession of Sweden and neighboring Finland to NATO would have serious military and political consequences.
The funds would cover weapons as well as military services, education and training as Ukrainians seek to repel a Russian invasion.
Proposals on security guarantees Russia demanded from the U.S. and NATO before its forces invaded Ukraine last month were no longer valid since the situation had changed completely, he added.
Its tough to call with kids, because every time they ask, When are you coming? or What are you doing? Im just, I dont know, honestly. For me, its not a right decision to be here and it was not the right decision to stay home. Any of this is not right, Stakhovsky said. But I am here because I believe that the future of my country  and the future of my kids, and the future of Europe as we know it  is under great danger. And if theres anything I can do to change the outcome, I will try to do it.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has sought to portray Britain as helping lead the global response to the Russian invasion but his government has faced criticism over delays in accepting refugees.
WARSAW, Poland  The Ukrainian ambassador to Poland says he is grateful to Poland for its support as his county is under an invasion from Russia.
A resident passes by cars burnt in the Russian shellfire in the town of Irpin as he flees on Saturday on the road toward Kyiv.
Ukraine has accused Russian forces of shelling a mosque that was sheltering more than 80 civilians in Mariupol, the besieged southern port city.
One customer,Vasyl Slotylo, 32, said he wanted "to feel safe" and protect his family. "I want to have the ability protect them from other people that are invading our country and our cities, he said.
There was no immediate comment from the Montenegrin authorities on the arrival of the $600-million vessel. The NATO country has joined Western sanctions imposed on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.
A division commander said that soldiers are being told to prepare for about six months overseas. The Pentagon has ordered roughly 12,000 total service members from various U.S. bases to Europe.
Now, Russias war in Ukraine  between two top wheat producers and in a region known as Europes breadbasket  has sent wheat prices soaring, raising the risk of severe food shortages and hunger in some regions of the globe and threatening to further ratchet up food prices in the United States.
He illustrated the appeal with a map showing the flight path of the ISS  and a potential fall zone that straddled much of the world but barely touched upon Russia.
"We salute the armed forces of Ukraine and all Ukrainian citizens who are defending their country with great skill, iron will, and profound courage," Blinken said. "America and its Allies support their efforts to defend their country and protect their fellow citizens, and urge Russia to recognize that force will never defeat Ukraines spirit."
The 533-foot Solaris was seen on Saturday outside the Porto Montenegro marina in the coastal town of Tivat. Montenegrin Vijesti daily reported it has arrived from Barcelona.
In a tweet Saturday, the head of Roscosmos, Dmitry Rogozin, said the letter appealed to the space agencies of the United States, Canada and Europe to keep the space station operational.
Ukraine relaxed its gun lawsafter the Russian invasion,giving civilians the right to use weapons to resist Russian aggression.
"The UK stands behind Ukraine in their darkest hour and the British public understand the need to get as many people to safety as quickly as we can," Michael Gove, the minister for housing, said in a statement.
The city council said Friday that at least 1.582 people had died in 12 days under siege.
But he said that the Kremlin was prepared to resume arms control talks with Washington.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is calling for the release ofMelitopol's mayor, who was abducted by Russian forces.
It said the French and German leaders called on Putin to begin the process of finding a diplomatic solution to the conflict.Scholz spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy earlier Saturday, his office added.
Russian forces have stepped up their attacks on Mykolaiv, located 292 miles south of Kyiv, in an attempt to encircle the city.
Elsewhere, the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol remained encircled and continue to be shelled by Russian forces, the U.K. said.
Russian forces northwest of Ukraine's capital Kyiv were around 15 miles from the city center and fighting was continuing, the United Kingdom's defense ministry said Saturday.
The British assessment said that a larger Russian column north of the city had dispersed, which might be part of an attempt to encircle it. It could also be an attempt to reduce vulnerability to counterattacks, the ministry said.
Sergei Belyayev, the head of department for Nordic countries at the Russian Foreign Ministry, said such a situation would require Russia to take retaliatory measures but didnt specify what those measures could include.
Ukraine's deputy prime minister, Iryna Vereshchuk, said in a video posted to Telegram that she hoped civilians could be evacuated from several cities, towns and villages that have faced heavy Russian bombardment.
The U.S. and its Western allies have imposed a series of harsh economic and diplomatic sanctions on Russia in recent weeks that do not have end dates.
The latest aid package brings the total U.S. security assistance to Ukraine to more than $1.2 billion, Blinken said.
Deshchytsia said he was really very, very grateful to the Polish people for such strong support of Ukraine.
Everyoneis a soldier right now, said the 26-year-old.I am a civil soldier I would say, so I do what I can. I support my family. We are actually hosting people in my apartment from Kyiv and Kharkiv. We are all united, thats what we should do.
We decided ourselves that we should leave, Ovais Choudhary, a medical student at Odessa National University, said in an interview translated from Hindi. The more you wait, the more critical and tense the situation becomes.
PARIS  The office of French President Emmanuel Macron said his three-way call with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Russian President Vladimir Putin was very frank and also difficult."
Ambassador Andrii Deshchytsia expressed his thanks Saturday at an anti-Russia rally in Warsaw organized by a right-wing newspaper, Gazeta Polska, where Poles waved Ukrainian and Polish flags and chanted anti-Russian slogans.
The funding will include additional anti-armor and air defense weapons, according to a White House official.
Ukraine launched a fresh effort to open humanitarian corridors from several areas, including the besieged city of Mariupol where residents are trapped without water or food.
Russian metals and petroleum magnate Roman Abramovich is believed to have bought or built at least seven of the worlds largest yachts, some of which he has since sold off to other oligarchs.
Seven people, including a child, were killed after Russian forces fired on an evacuation convoy attempting to flee the Ukrainian village ofPeremoha, said the country's State Service of Special Communications and Information Protection.
In addition, eBay removed all products related to Russian PresidentVladimir Putin "that are not clearly anti-Putin." The company said in a separate statement that merchandise expressing support for Putin violates its policy that prohibits items that promote or glorify hatred or violence.
"On every occasion, I constantly repeat to our friends and partners abroad that they should do more for Ukraine, for Ukrainians," Zelenskyy said in the English transcript of remarks he made on Telegram."Because it is not only for Ukraine. This is for everyone in Europe."
The call lasted 75 minutes and was part of ongoing international efforts to end the war in Ukraine, Scholz's office said in a statement Saturday.
But Russias bloody, televised war in Ukraine  and the humanitarian disaster that has followed  overshadowed Democrats annual winter conference. And the burgeoning crisis is threatening to upend the partys midterm agenda as President Joe Biden and the Democrats seek to defend razor-thin majorities in the House and Senate.
Earlier Saturday,U.S. President Joe Biden authorized the State Department to provide an additional $200 million in military aid to Ukraine in its defense against a Russian takeover. Zelenskyy was repeatedly askedUkraine's partners to create a no-fly zone to "close the sky" over the country.
Russia has consistently denied targeting civilians and NBC News has not verified the death toll.
Zelenskyy said Bennett informed him about his talks with Putin, adding that he cant share details.
Russian forces have encircled Mariupol, and the city has been without food, water, heat and medical supplies for more than a week as it has endured heavy shelling, officials have said.
Aeroflot has been badly hit by Western sanctions against Russia over its war in Ukraine. Western allies have barred Aeroflot planes from their skies and banned the supply of spare parts, among other measures taken against the airline. Aeroflot responded to the sanctions by cutting all flights abroad.
Andrei Panov, Aeroflots deputy director in charge of marketing, wrote on Facebook on Saturday that the old life is over.
Hundreds of Indian students have made it home from Ukraine after beingstranded at their schools for days with little food or water. Students from universities in Sumy and Odessa told NBC News that inaction from the Indian Embassy led them to take matters into their own hands.
The soldiers mission is to train alongside military units of NATO allies in a display of force aimed at deterring further aggression by Russia. The Pentagon has stressed U.S. forces are not being deployed to fight in Ukraine.
Russia has suggested it could try to destroy foreign shipments of weapons to Ukraine, branding them "legitimate targets."
EBay on Saturday said transactions involving Russian addresses were temporarily suspended due to "service interruptions by payment vendors and major shipping carriers."
About 130 soldiers from the 87th Division Sustainment Support Battalion, 3rd Division Sustainment Brigade gathered Friday at Hunter Airfield in Savannah, Georgia and departed on a chartered flight.
In a written statement, Blinken saidhe authorized the fourth presidential drawdown package, which will include further defensive assistance to meet "armored, airborne and other threats."
Wicker said in a statement that he was glad to visit Poland as the delegation works to stop Putin.
The ongoing warfare has led to additional support with Congress this week approving $13.6 billion in additional aid, a sum that includes $6.5 billion for the costs of sending troops and weapons to Eastern Europe and $6.8 billion for refugees and economic aid.
"I urge people across the country to join the national effort and offer support to our Ukrainian friends. Together we can give a safe home to those who so desperately need it."
Her husband, Roman, 50, and their daughter, Katherina, 16, were also hit in their legs.
A defiant Zelenskyy again requested enhanced response and support from the West for Ukraine as Russian attacks continue across the embattled country.
Zelenskyywarned about what he describes as a ruthless government that could continue its destruction beyond Ukraine if unchecked.
"Due to the complexity of the route they had to spend the night in Berdyansk," Zelenskyy said in an English transcript of his video address.
On Feb. 24, Russia began attacking Ukraine. In the wee hours of Feb. 28, Stakhovsky arrived in Kyiv.
A deputy head of Russias flagship carrier Aeroflot says he has resigned and left the country.
Russias space agency has sent NASA and other international partners a letter demanding an end to sanctions, saying they could threaten the International Space Station.
The raging war and Bidens decision to ban all Russian oil imports have driven U.S. gas prices to record highs, leaving Democrats struggling to craft a response to voters paying more at the pump and to Republicans seizing it as a wedge issue to hammer opponents.
French officials said the Russian leader gave no indication during the call Saturday, which lasted more than an hour, that he intended to stop the fighting in Ukraine. European leaders were working on what they described as a punishing new set of massive economic sanctions against Moscow in the hope of getting Putin to change his mind.
She said that eight "enemy missiles" hit the airbase, as well as a nearby ammunition depot, as explosions and fighting raged around the capital.
Ukrainian officials accused Russia damaging a cancer hospital and several residential buildings in the southern city of Mykolaiv with shelling from heavy artillery.
He estimated 70 to 80 percent of the stock at his store has been sold.
Kuleba'scomments came asUkrainian officials continued to try to evacuate civilians from a number of areas around the capital as Russian forces press towards the city.
Four NASA astronauts, two Russian cosmonauts and one European astronaut are currently on the space station.
Youre one second safe. The next second, something flies in, and no one is safe, he said.
Pope Francis on Saturday renewed calls to end the war in Ukraine, writing in a tweet that it was depriving children "of the hope for a dignified life."
U.S. senators Roger Wicker, Rob Portman,Richard Blumenthal and Amy Klobuchar arrived in Poland on Saturday to meet with senior government officials and to visit refugee sites "to reaffirm the United States commitment to Poland, Ukraine, and other allies," according to a news release.
"Russian dictator Vladimir Putins unprovoked assault on Ukraine has threatened to plunge Europe into the deadliest conflict since 1945,said Wicker, R-Miss. "I also look forward to meeting with senior Polish officials to find new avenues for cooperation in supporting our brave Ukrainian friends.
Speaking at a news conference Saturday, Zelenskyy said it would take Russia to carpet-bomb the Ukrainian capital and kill its residents to take the city.
Stakhovsky turned pro in 2003 and pulled off one of the biggest upsets in the sports history whenhe ended Roger Federers record streak of 36 consecutive major quarterfinal appearancesby beating him in the second round at Wimbledon in 2013. Hewalked away from the sport in January after losing in the first round of qualifying for the Australian Open.
We will continue to evaluate and make necessary changes to our policies and service availability as this situation evolves and hope for a rapid, lasting, and diplomatic solution to this crisis," the company said.
It also said that Putin responded to concerns raised by Macron and Scholz about the humanitarian situation by informing them "about the real state of affairs," accusing Ukraine of being to blame for growing civilian suffering.
Earlier Saturday, U.S. President Joe Biden authorized the State Department to provide an additional $200 million in military assistance to Ukraine to aid in its defense against invading troops. The package brings the total U.S. security assistance to Ukraine to more than $1.2 billion, according to Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
Choudhary traveled with a group of 50 students who left their school housing on foot Feb. 24 as tanks rolled through Odessa. They all moved into a set of three apartments where they spent two sleepless nights trying to figure out what to do.
They also included a number of areas around Kyiv, where heavy fighting has been taking place as Russian forces step up their attempts to encircle the capital.
As the shelling continued, Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says hes open for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Israel, but only if there is a cease-fire in place.
U.S. President Joe Biden is authorizing the State Department to provide additional aid to Ukraine of up to $200 million.
Lawmakers from all the main political parties have attacked the government's insistence that Ukrainians seek visas and biometric tests before arriving in Britain, saying this prioritized bureaucracy over the welfare of those fleeing war.
The instability leaves many U.S. farmers, particularly those in the drought-stricken West, scrambling as costs soar for fuel, fertilizer and other key agricultural components.
"We have warned the United States that pumping Ukraine with weapons from a number of countries orchestrated by them is not just a dangerous move, but an action that turns the respective convoys into legitimate targets,"Ryabkov toldRussia's Channel 1 TV station.
He accused some NATO members, particularly the United States, of deliberately trying to drag the the two non-aligned Nordic countries into the military bloc.
Britain will pay people to open their homes to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion as the government moves to deflect anger over its response to the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War Two.
A lot of people are saying that theyre waking up and hoping ... it was just a bad dream. But, you know, on Day 16, that doesnt work anymore, he said.
The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine could rise to more than 4 million, double the current estimates of about 2 million, the UN's Refugee Agency said last week.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin and urged him to agree to an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine.
Under the new scheme, members of the public, charities, businesses and community groups should be able to offer accommodation via a web page by the end of next week, the government said.
He added that two people were killed by heavy shelling which also destroyed a military airfield and set an ammunition depot on fire overnight.NBC News has not verified the report of people killed.
Ivan Fedorov was captured by Russian forces on Friday,Zelenskyy said in a video posted to his Telegram channel.NBC News has not verified this claim.
"The airport in Vasylkiv in the Kyiv region has been completely destroyed," Mayor Natalia Balasynovych said in a Facebook post early Saturday.
The aid is part of broader U.S. support in the form of aid and sanctions. When Russia invaded Ukraine in late February, Secretary of State Antony Blinken noted that $1 billion in aid had been provided to Ukraine.
Speaking at a news conference, Zelenskyy said the Russians could take the Ukrainian capital "only if they kill us all.
While Trump praised Putin again  a man who is driven  and continued to blame President Joe Biden for Russias invasion of Ukraine, he inched closer to suggesting Putin is in the wrong.
One of his aides alsoposted video of the protest outside the Melitopol District State Administration building.
"More than 80 adults and children are hiding there from the shelling, including citizens of Turkey," it said.
The United States will provide up to $200 million in additional military assistance to aid Ukraine in its defense against the Russian invasion, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Saturday.
Moscow has repeatedly warned both Finland and Sweden that their possible joining NATO would be seen as a hostile act from Moscow. Both countries have brushed off those warnings.
Fighting raged and missile strikes hit outside Kyiv, with Russian forces appearing to make fresh progress in their slow advance on the capital.
Zelenskyy said Saturday he told Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett that he would be ready to meet Putin in Jerusalem. Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin and spoke repeatedly with Zelenskyy and the leaders of France and Germany as he sought to help mediate an end to the war.
We stand with Ukraine and are taking a number of steps to support the Ukrainian people and our sellers in the region," an eBay spokesperson said.
The new scheme called "Homes for Ukraine" will let refugees from the war come to Britain even if they do not have family ties, the government said on Sunday.
KYIV, Ukraine  Tetyana Vlasenko was bleeding from 12 bullet wounds to her legs when she begged a Russian military officer nearby for help. His soldiers had opened fire on her familys car, yet the officer was apologetic as the soldiers gave them first aid.
The French and German leaders have maintained contact with their Russian counterpart in the weeks since the invasion, hoping to keep diplomatic efforts going in spite of the escalating conflict.
LVIV, Ukraine Mounting fears after the Russian invasion are evident in the long lines outside gun stores, even in parts of Ukraine that have not been directly attacked.
On Friday, Ukraine officials accused the Russian military of abducting MayorIvan Fedorov after "cynically accusing" him of "terrorism." Video footage from the city of approximately 150,000 showed citizens blocking Russian forces from entering the city while yelling at them to,"Go home!"
Customers in the U.S., U.K., Canada and Australia can also support Ukraine through an on-site banner or through the"Give at Checkout" option. The company said it would match a portion of customer donations.
I hope I dont have to kill the Russian soldiers but if it will be needed, Ill do it," Slotylo, a programmer, added.
"Evil that purposefully bombs peaceful cities, evil that fires even at ambulances and blows up hospitals will not be able to stop at one country  If it has the strength to go further," Zelenskyy said.
