For all of Bidens troubles hes still more popular than Trump in the NBC News poll
20220401
https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/meet-the-press/bidens-troubles-s-still-popular-trump-nbc-news-poll-rcna22531
Which raises this question for 2024: Is the GOP really better with Trump? Or without him?
The ad comes just a week after Senate Republicans attacked Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson during her Supreme Court confirmation hearings for being soft on crime as a public defender, while Democrats backed her, saying attorneys have a duty to represent clientsno matter whatcrimes they may have committed.
And its all coming with Biden in office and Trump out of it  when an ex-presidents numbers usually start improving. But Trump isnt the typical ex-president who goes quietly into retirement.
Thats why this ad raises eyebrows  Democrats are putting their name on an ad attacking a conservative candidate from the right, picking a lane usually reserved for Republicans. Some sawit as a ploy to meddle in the GOP primary and ultimately bolster Democratic Gov. J.B. Pritzker, whos running for re-election. Pritzker donated $250,000 to the DGA last year, according to Politico, but his campaign downplayed the donation.
But environmental groups also see a unique opportunity to make the case for independence from fossil fuels on national security grounds. Theysee signs in pollingthat Americans blame gas companies in part for high prices, a message President Biden has tried to run with by accusing companies of not using existing permits to increase production and lower prices. Astrategy memofrom Democratic pollster Geoff Garin, commissioned by LCV and Climate Power, urges Democrats to go on offense on the issue.
$7 million:Thats how much energy executive and Arizona GOP Senate hopeful Jim Lamonwill report raisingin the first fundraising quarter of 2022, per the Washington Examiner, which includes a $5 million contribution from Lamon himself.
The League of Conservation Voters is launching a new $100,000 digital and TV ad buy in four districts, targeting GOP incumbents Mike Garcia and Michelle Steel in California and Maria Salazar and Carlos Gimenez in Florida, while Climate Power is spending $200,000 on a national and DC ad hitting similar themes.
It doesnt appear that Americans have buyers remorse after 2020. Whether Bidens election was fueled more by voters who supported him, or those who wanted to cast a ballot against Trump, is debatable. But these numbers certainly suggest many were voting against Trump.
Theres this notion that Republicans are on safe footing around gas prices and that theres only a price to pay for Democrats, and its wrong, Lori Lodes, Executive Director of Climate Power, told NBC News. There really is a special place in gas price hell for Republicans who are taking contributions from fossil fuel companies.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.,plans to vote againstconfirming Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court, despite his vote just last year to elevate her to a D.C. appeals court.
Meta, formerly known as Facebook,hired a Republican firmto spread negative stories smearing rival platform TikTok, The Washington Post reports.
A federal judgeblockedmuch of Floridas new restrictive voting law Thursday, but the ruling will likely be appealed, NBCs Jane C. Timm reports.
As Vladimir Putin wages war, oil companies are making billions by price gouging us at the pump and Republicans are helping them do it, thenational ad, Higher Profits, begins. They took millions from big oil and blocked a clean energy plan that will lower costs for families. Theyre leaving us dependent on oil and at the mercy of foreign dictators.
But first: For all of Bidens problems in this weeksNBC News poll,he has one important thing going for him.
Hes still active on the campaign trail hell be rallying supporters in Michigan tomorrow. And, even without a social media megaphone, hes making controversial statements about the news of the day.
The Democratic Governors Association is hitting Illinois Republican candidate for governor, Richard Irvin  but not from where you might expect.
Wisconsin Governor:Former Wisconsin GOP Gov. Tommy Thompsonmet with former President Donald Trumpat Trumps Mar-a-Lago club as Thompson weighs another run for governor, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported. Former Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch, who is running for governor, also met with Trump earlier in March.
80,303,966:The number of confirmed cases of coronavirus in the United States, per themost recent datafrom NBC News and health officials.
Heasked Putinto dig up dirt on Bidens son. In time, Russia may be willing to give that information, he said.
6:The number of hours the House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the CapitolinterviewedTrumps son-in-law Jared Kushner yesterday.
He said SCOTUS nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson was hateful to GOP senators. She had total disdain and even hatred for them.
Michigan Attorney General:An outside groupdropped a new adin the Palm Beach, Fla., media market pushing Trump to abandon his preferred candidate for Michigan attorney general, Matt DePerno, per the Washington Examiner.
Michigan 10:Trump endorsed Army veteran John James, who is running in Michigans open 10th District after two unsuccessful runs for Senate.
$10 million:The amount of money the super PAC Protect Our Future, which is backed by cryptocurrency executives,plans to spendon Democratic primaries this year.
In anew adout Thursday, the DGA hits Irvin for being soft on crime, an attack usually used by Republicans. The ad highlights Irvins career as a defense attorney, with a narrator saying he profited by defending some of the most violent and heinous criminals, domestic abusers and sexual assault, a kidnapper who molested a child, reckless homicide, even accused child pornographers. Irwintold Politicothe ad was part of a smear campaign against him.
Thats the net positive rating for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the latest NBC News poll  67 percent had positive views of Zelenskyy, while 7 percent viewed him negatively.
Florida Governor:Agriculture Commissioner Nikki Frieds campaignis signalingthat she plans to question Rep. Charlie Crists past relationship with Trump in the Democratic primary for governor, NBCs Marc Caputo reports.
Just as President Biden is trying to reframe rising gas prices as a story of private companies gouging workers, environmental groups are looking to make the message stick in congressional races.
The poll also shows more voters say theyre less likely to vote for a candidate endorsed by Trump 47 percent say this than a candidate endorsed by Biden 42 percent.
Secretaries of State:Secretary of State raceshave drawn candidateswho embrace conspiracies about the 2020 election,per the Associated Press, with seven of the eight GOP secretaries running for re-election drawing such primary challengers.
A surge of migrants could createyet another headache for Biden, but also for senators like Kelly, who are top GOP targets. Republicans have long been hammering Kelly and other vulnerable Democrats on immigration, and a surge of migrants could provide another opening for GOP attacks.
Pennsylvania Senate:Democratic Lt. Gov. John Fetterman announced yesterday hed participate in three Senate primary debates. But Rep. Conor Lamb stillcriticizedFetterman for skipping a debate this weekend, claiming Fetterman is afraid to answer questions about a 2013 incident where he pulled a gun on a Black man who was jogging. Fetterman has said he pursued the man after hearing gunshots, and he didnt know what race that individual was.
WASHINGTON If its Friday ... Peace talks between Russia and Ukraineare expectedto resume. ... President Biden delivers remarks on the March jobs report. ... A Climate group goes on offense, per NBCs Benjy Sarlin. .... Sen. Mark Kelly, D-Ariz., pushes Biden not to end Title 42. ... NBC News poll shows Ukraines Zelenskyy with favorableunfavorable numbers that rival Pope John Paul IIs. ... Vladimir Putin has numbers that match Saddam Husseins. ... And none of that is an April Fools joke.
A dozen House Republicans joined Democrats topass a billcapping the out-of-pocket cost of insulin at $35 per month. Now, the bill heads to the Senate.
Thewar in Ukraine continuesas Russia abandons the highly contaminated Chernobyl nuclear power plant and Ukranians brace for renewed attacks, according to AP
Republicans have highlighted gas price issues with gusto, arguing it shows the need to empower a party thats traditionally more supportive of domestic oil production, even if there may not be any onesimple policy fix. The latestNBC News pollfound voters favored politicians who backed more drilling.
But it has accrued to the GOPs  with the Democratic Partys favorableunfavorable worse than the Republican Partys for the first time in our poll since 2004.
Sen. Mark Kelly, D-Ariz.,encouraged Bidennot to end the order known as Title 42 thatsprevented immigrants from crossing the U.S.-Mexico border during the pandemic, amid fears that rescinding the authoritywould cause a surge of migrantsat the southern border. Kelly and Sen. Krysten Sinema, D-Ariz., stressed that the Department of Homeland Security doesnt appear to have a plan to maintain a humane and orderly process at the border.
Trumps favorableunfavorable rating in the poll 36 percent positive, 50 percent negative is slightlyworse than Bidens 37 percent positive, 46 percent negative.
At the other end of the spectrum, Russian President Vladimir Putins net negative rating was minus 87 percentage points, with 88 percent of Americans viewing Putin negatively and just 1 percent viewing him positively. That rating put Putin just behind Saddam Hussein, who had a net negative rating of minus 91 percentage points.
He dissed NATO  again: Look Im not particularly thrilled with it. I figure when you need it, it wont be there, or maybe it will, but we can get together pretty fast, he said in Georgia.
For comparison, the late Princess Diana, had a net positive rating of 75 percentage points in a survey conducted shortly after her death. Zelenskys rating is also on par with Pope John Paul II, who had a 58 percent net positive rating.
New York redistricting:A state judgestruck downNew Yorks congressional and state legislative maps as unconstitutional gerrymanders, giving legislators until April 11 to draw new district lines.
Georgia Senate:Two super PACs backing GOP Senate candidates Gary Black and Latham Saddlerare planning seven-figure ad buysattacking Republican frontrunner Herschel Walker ahead of the May 24 primary, in an attempt to force Walker into a primary runoff, Politico reports.
