How the war with Ukraine could color Victory Day in Russia this year
20220416
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/war-ukraine-color-victory-day-russia-year-rcna23650
The Russian military is facing pressure to deliver results in time for Putins Victory Day speech because there are serious implications surrounding the key word victory, Soodavar said.
For Putin, he said, it was a way of communicating to the Russian people that he is the person to lead this country through adversity, as was the case in 1945 when Russia overcame Nazism.
In some former Soviet republics where Victory Day is also held on May 9, they will do everything to celebrate but keep it away from Russian success, Gordadze said. Thats also true of countries with large Russian-speaking populations like Estonia, Latvia and Moldova, he added.
It will also be a big day in Ukraine and for President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, he said.
This, he said, raised questions about whether Putin would be able to truly project the powerful image he has presented on Victory Day.
For the former Soviet Union, the victory parade that followed was very important because it gave it the status of world power, so they were celebrating that glory, said Thornike Gordadze, a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, a think tank based in London.
Russias annual Victory Day, celebrated on May 9, arrives this year with the shadow of war in Ukraine looming over it.
They have been fighting on the front line for the last eight years. They are battle hardened, they know who their adversary is, theyre entrenched and theyre only emboldened by the Russian retreat from Kyiv, he added.
Putin now uses his annual speech at the parade to talk about contemporary security issues, said Ben Soodavar, a political scientist in the war studies department at Kings College London. It speaks to Russias purpose in world politics.
Writing in 2015 about his personal experiences of the war, Putin said his infant brother Viktor was killed and his parents were seriously injured during the siege of Leningrad, which lasted from 1941 to 1944 in the city now known as St. Petersburg.
As a result Putin will need to sell this shambolic military campaign in some way, Soodavar said, adding that the most immediate way to do this would be to take firm control of Ukraines Donbas region and other parts of the countrys east.
The tactical retreat by Russian forces from the areas surrounding Ukraines capital, Kyiv, and the northern city of Chernihiv in early April make it look like theyre defeated, like they couldnt take over the key strategic objective that they were looking for, he said.
The holiday commemorates Russias World War II triumph with a patriotic display of raw military power: Troops parade through Moscows Red Square alongside military hardware including intercontinental ballistic missile launchers. President Vladimir Putin has stood at the center of celebrations since 1999, either as president or prime minister, and has been joined by Soviet war veterans.
But he added that it would be very easy for Putin to lie in his speech because the chances of dissent are small.
Some Ukrainians believed when Zelenskky was elected that he was a pro-Russian candidate," Gordadze said. "Now they dont think so, because hes the guy who represents the whole of Ukrainian society, including Russian speakers."
After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the subsequent economic hardship in Russia, Putin took office and tried to make the defeat of Nazism the countrys founding myth to cement the population together and create a Russian identity, Gordadze said.
On Victory Day itself, Putin cant line up his soldiers and say theyre winning, Soodavar said. They have lost thousands.
However, he cautioned that Ukraines best fighters are stationed there, and have been fighting Moscow-backed separatist forces since 2014 when Russia threw its weight behind an insurgency in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions after annexing Ukraines Crimean Peninsula.
Members of Russias armed forces may disagree with their leaders but they dont do it publicly," Soodavar he said. Its not just fear of retribution, its also a fear of being accused of disloyalty. Its to do with keeping Russias pride intact.
But as this years parade approaches, the military pomp and pageantry will contrast starkly with the hard-fought battles and setbacks the Russian military is reportedly experiencing in Ukraine  leaving some experts wondering how Putin will be able to present Russias stalled invasion as a success on Victory Day.
So it is unlikely we will see Russian flags, but people will mark the occasion and commemorate the dead, he said.
What that will mean is more bombing, a much more prolific bombing campaign, Soodavar said, adding that the besieged southern city of Mariupol and Kharkiv in Ukraines northeast would likely be subjected to sustained attacks again.
Although Nazi Germany ended all its military operations at 23:01 Central European Time 5:01 p.m. ET on May 8, 1945, Russia celebrated victory on May 9 because the change in time zone meant it came early that morning for them. Other former Soviet nations and some Eastern European nations do likewise.
