Kremlin rejects US claims Putin is being misled by advisers
20220331
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-biden-could-announce-major-release-n1293717/ncrd1293724
Russian shelling over the past two days set fire to a school, an oil depot, and dozens of houses in Ukraine's eastern Luhansk region, the regional state administration has said. The shelling killed at least two people and injured two children, it said.
The Biden administration announced a plan to release around 1 million barrels of oil a day from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for as long as six months.
In Ukraine, an evacuation convoy of 17 buses was able to leave the besieged port city of Mariupol Thursday morning, according to its city council, with further evacuations anticipated for Friday. Meanwhile, the Pentagon said it had seen Russian forces near Kyiv move north or into Belarus, with both the U.S. and U.K. saying it appeared troops were looking to resupply and reorganize.
Payne said this move attempts to further condemn Russias actions and is aligned with other like-minded members of the World Trade Organization.
Foreign Affairs minister Marise Payne said in a statement that the government will draft a formal notification withdrawing entitlement to the Most-Favoured-Nation MFN tariff treatment to apply the additional fee on imports from Russia and Belarus.
The ministrys statement came as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy delivered a virtual address to the Australian parliament Thursday.
At least 45 buses have already been sent for the planned evacuation from Mariupol, while the approved link from Enerhodar to Zaporizhzhiawill have to be undertaken by ones own transportation, the deputy prime minister said.
The Australian government is imposing an additional 35 increase in imports from Russia and Belarus, its foreign and trade ministry announced Thursday.
Vereshchuk said officials had "received a message from the International Committee of the Red Cross about Russia's confirmation of its readiness to open a humanitarian corridor from Mariupol with transit through Berdyansk" in a televised statement. NBC News was not able to independently confirm the agreement.
"They just dont understand whats going on in the Kremlin," he said, warning that "such a complete misunderstanding leads to erroneous and rash decisions that cause very bad consequences."
He specifically warned about the threat of the use of nuclear weapons and the risk of radioactive contamination of nuclear weapons are used.
In a daily news briefing on Thursday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that "neither the State Department nor the Pentagon have real information about what is happening in the Kremlin."
Meanwhile, heavy fighting continued in the besieged city of Mariupol with Ukrainian forces controlling the citys center, it said.
Along with the planned evacuation routes, humanitarian aid will also be delivered to those in Melitopol,Vereshchuk said.
Meanwhile, Russian forces continue to hold positions around Kyiv, it said in its latestintelligence update Thursday.
"Several injured and dead residents could not be taken from the streets for hours," Serhiy Haidai, governor of Luhansk region, said in a statement shared on the administration's Telegram page. "The final number of victims is still being determined."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed Australia's parliament via video link Thursday, warning that global security could be at risk if Russia does not end its invasion of Ukraine.
The regional state administration said the Ukrainian army had rebuffed several Russian attacks in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions on Wednesday.
Russia has agreed to open a humanitarian corridor for evacuation from the besieged cities Mariupol and Melitopol toZaporizhzhia, Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has said, citing confirmation from the Red Cross.
Despite a vow to reduce military activity around Ukraine's capital andChernihiv, Russia has continued significant shelling and missile strikes around the latter northern city, Britain's defense ministry has said.
Russian forces continue to hold positions to the east and west of Kyiv despite the withdrawal of a limited number of units, it said.
It comes after declassified U.S. intelligence claimed that Putin's senior advisers have been "too afraid to tell him the truth" about the situation on the ground.
Corridors have further been approved for evacuees fleeing the city of Enerhodar, home to the largest nuclear power plant in Europe that caught fire earlier in March, Vereshchuk added.
The Kremlin rejected U.S. claims that Russian President Vladimir Putin is being misled by his advisers about Russia's failures on the battlefield.
