Mariupol on the brink as surrender deadline passes
20220417
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-mariupol-brink-surrender-deadline-pass-rcna24716
The E.U. has so far spared Russias largest bank from previous sanctions rounds because it, along with Gazprombank, is one of the main channels for payments for Russian oil and gas, which E.U. countries have been buying despite the conflict in Ukraine.
We will fight absolutely to the end, to the win, in this war, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal vowed on ABCs This Week. He said Ukraine is prepared to end the war through diplomacy if possible, but we do not have intention to surrender.
The money will go toward emergency medical services, providing access to safe drinking water and hygiene, and support against gender-based violence, the E.U. said.
This is nothing but deliberate terror: mortars, artillery against ordinary residential quarters, against ordinary civilians, he said.
BUCHA, Ukraine  The Ukrainian general prosecutors office says numerous women have accusedoccupying Russian soldiers of rape. This is one of their stories.
Biden didnt say which war he had in mind. He has been deeply involved in trying to force an end to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
I didnt even try screaming, because there was no one around, Olena said, shaking her head. I thought whatever happens, happens.
Russian forces are continuing to redeploy combat and support equipment from Belarus toward Ukraines east, where a renewed offensive is expected, the U.K.s defense ministry said.
He said the Ukrainians continue their struggle but that the city effectively doesnt exist anymore because of massive destruction.
WASHINGTON  Ukraines prime minister said Sunday the besieged city of Mariupol hasnt yet fallen to Russia and that the Ukrainian forces there will fight to the end.
WASHINGTON  Ukraines foreign minister described the situation in Mariupol as dire and heartbreaking Sunday and said Russias continued attacks could be a red line that ends all efforts to reach peace through negotiations.
NBC News could not verify his claim. Russia has repeatedly denied that it is targeting civilians.
The European Union is allocating a further 50 million $52 million to support humanitarian projects in Ukraine and Moldova, it said in a statement Sunday.
With millions of people on the move or trapped in active war zones, the needs in Ukraine are already massive, said Janez Lenari, the European commissioner for crisis management. Now, we need to be prepared for a further increase in Russias ruthless attacks on Ukraine, notably in the east.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy repeated a request for President Joe Biden to visit his war-ravaged country, but White House officials have said such a trip is highly unlikely to occur in the near future.
Olena told NBC News about her experience first being injured by shrapnel and later getting kidnapped by Russia soldiers who assaulted her.
Kuleba said Ukraine has been keeping up expert level talks with Russia in recent weeks in hope of reaching a political solution for peace. But citing the significance of Mariupol, he echoed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in saying the elimination of Ukrainian forces there could be a red line that stops peace efforts.
Mariupol appeared on the brink of falling to Russian forces Sunday after seven weeks under siege. The Russian military gave a deadline for surrender to a few thousand Ukrainian fighters who were the last pocket of resistance in Mariupol, but the Ukrainians didnt submit.
I think he will, Zelenskyy said on CNN's "State of the Union." Its his decision, of course, about the safety situation. It depends. But I think hes the leader of the United States, and he should come here to see.
WASHINGTON  President Joe Biden said hes praying on Easter for those living in the dark shadow of war, persecution and poverty.
We are looking further at the banking sector, especially Sberbank, which accounts for 37 percent of the Russian banking sector. And, of course, there are energy issues, she said.
Four high-rise buildings were shelled overnight in the city of Severodonetsk, according to the regions governor.
He said some regions of Mariupol remain under Ukrainian control and that Russia doesnt have full dominance over the city.
Moscow gave the citys defenders a surrender-or-die ultimatum with a midday deadline, saying those who laid down their arms were guaranteed to keep their lives. But the fighters ignored it, just as they rejected previous ultimatums.
The offer, made out of purely humane principles, gave Ukrainian forces still fighting in the city until 6 a.m. Moscow time 11 p.m. ET to surrender, the Russian military said in a statement reported by the news agency Tass.
At least two people were killed and four others were wounded by Russian shelling on the eastern Ukrainian town of Zolote, the governor of Luhansk said Sunday.
Ukraine has asked members of the Group of Seven leading nations for $50 billion in financial support and is considering issuing zero percent coupon bonds to help it cover a war-linked budget deficit over the next six months, the presidents economic adviser, Oleh Ustenko, said Sunday.
Despite a shift in operational focus to the east, Russias ultimate objective has remained unchanged, the ministry said in its daily update.
On Sunday, five people were killed and 20 injured when a missile and artillery fire hit the city center and the Saltivka suburb, regional Gov. Oleh Synyehubov said earlier.
We did talk about it, national security adviser Jake Sullivan said last week at the Economic Club of Washington. The president would love the opportunity to go into Ukraine, but it was not under any serious planning.
He expressed hope that the war in Europe will also make us more concerned about other situations of conflict, suffering and sorrow in situations that we cannot overlook and do not want to forget. Among the places he cited were Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. He singled out Yemen, which is suffering from a conflict forgotten by all, with continuous victims.
The European Council is to meet June 23-24, according to the schedule on its website.
There were no immediate reports of activity from Ukrainian forces in Mariupol. If it falls, it would be the first major city to be taken by Russian forces since the Feb. 24 invasion.
Today, I can say that the document has been completed by the Ukrainian side, Zhovkva told the Ukrainian public broadcaster Sunday evening.
The European Unions coming sanctions on Russia will target banks, in particular Sberbank, as well as oil, the head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, told a German newspaper.
Ukraine has completed a questionnaire that will form a starting point for the European Union to decide on membership, said Ihor Zhovkva, the deputy head of President Volodymyr Zelenskyys office.
Ukraine has asked G7 nations for $50 billion in financial support and is also considering issuing 0 percent coupon bonds to help it cover a war-linked budget deficit over the next six months, the presidents economic adviser Oleh Ustenko said on Sunday.
A missile attack in early hours of Sunday damaged infrastructure in the city of Brovary, near Ukraines capital of Kyiv, Igor Sapozhko, mayor of Brovary said in an online post.
In a video posted to social media sites, WCK chief Nate Mook said the four were expected to be OK, and that he was going to visit them at a hospital later in the day. At least one person unaffiliated with the kitchen was killed in the strike, he said.
In recent days, missile strikes and shelling  some of which have reportedly been deadly  have hit regions including Donetsk, Luhansk and Kharkiv in the east, Dnipropetrovsk, Poltava and Kirovohrad in the central Ukraine and Mykolaiv and Kherson in the south.
Next, we will need to start accession talks. And once we hold those talks, we can already talk about Ukraines full membership in the E.U., Zhovkva said
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen handed the questionnaire to Zelenskyy during her visit to Kyiv on April 8, pledging a speedier start to Ukraines bid to become a member of the E.U. following Russias invasion.
He said he is grateful that the easing of the Covid-19 pandemic has allowed many people around the world to celebrate by attending religious services and in-person family gatherings. He also acknowledged that the holiest day on the Christian calendar falls on heavy hearts for those who have lost loved ones and those among us living in the dark shadow of war, persecution and poverty.
Discussed with IMF Managing Director Georgieva the issue of ensuring Ukraines financial stability  preparations for post-war reconstruction. We have clear plans for now, as well as a vision of prospects. Im sure cooperation between the IMF  Ukraine will continue to be fruitful, he said in a tweet.
Eighteen people have been killed and more than 100 wounded in shelling in the past four days in the northeastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said late Sunday.
Russia estimated 2,500 Ukrainian fighters were holding out at a hulking steel plant in the last pocket of resistance in Mariupol, much of which has been reduced to a smoking ruin during a merciless seven-week siege.
Zelenskyy invited Biden to visit in a phone call in February, citing the strong signal of solidarity his presence would send.
Speaking with mangled structures in the background, Mook said a Russian missile struck the kitchen area of a local restaurant WCK was using as part of a partnership.
The European Commission will need to issue a recommendation on Ukraines compliance with the necessary membership criteria, he added.
The organization has been preparing an estimated 250,000 meals a day for Ukrainians in liberated areas and at border crossings. The effort is part of celebrity chef and WCK founder Jos Andrs ongoing mission to bring food to areas of the world struck by tragedy, disaster and war.
Four staffers at a World Central Kitchen operation in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv were injured in a Russian attack on a partner restaurant, the not-for-profit organizations CEO said Saturday.
She also said the E.U. was working on clever mechanisms so oil could be included in the next sanctions.
It is committed to compelling Ukraine to abandon its Euro-Atlantic orientation and asserting its own regional dominance, the ministry said.
According to The Associated Press, Kharkiv Mayor Ihor Terekhov said three people were killed and 34 wounded by missile strikes in his city Saturday. NBC News has not independently confirmed the WCK missile strike.
Mook described the injured workers in heroic terms, saying, Coming to work, cooking, for people that are hungry, is an immense act of bravery.
Bild am Sonntag asked her to name the key points of a planned sixth round of sanctions in an interview published Sunday.
Early Sunday, Russian forces shelled four high-rise buildings in the eastern city of Severodonetsk, according to regional leadership, one of several attacks in the region in recent days.
In a speech from the balcony of St. Peters Basilica, the pope quoted a declaration in the 1950s in which scientists posed the question: Shall we put an end to the human race, or shall mankind renounce war?
WASHINGTON   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Sunday that he  had spoken with International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva about Ukraines financial stability and the countrys post-war reconstruction.
Dmytro Kuleba said on CBS Face the Nation that the remaining Ukrainian military personnel and civilians in the port city are basically encircled by Russian forces.
In addition to the four buildings shelled, one house was destroyed in Novodruzhesk, Serhiy Haidai, the governor of the eastern Ukrainian region of Luhansk, said Sunday.
The pope has repeatedly made pleas for a cease-fire and negotiations to end the war in Ukraine. In his Easter message, Francis lamented that so many of our brothers and sisters have had to lock themselves away in order to be safe from bombing.
Russia offered to spare the lives of Ukrainian soldiers fighting in Mariupol if they laid down their arms Sunday as the weekslong resistance in the besieged port city appeared to finally be coming to an end.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said earlier that he will attend the IMF and World Bank meetings in Washington this week and will seek more financial assistance for Ukraine.
We expect the recommendation ... to be positive, and then the ball will be on the side of the E.U. member states.
While Russia withdrew troops from positions around Kyiv in recent days, it appears to be on the brink of taking Mariupol, a key strategic stronghold on the Black Sea, as President Vladimir Putin refocuses on conquering eastern and southern regions closer to his border.
Zhovkva added that Ukraine expects to attain the status of a candidate country for E.U. accession in June during a scheduled meeting of the European Council.
KYIV, Ukraine   The shattered port city of Mariupol appeared on the brink of falling to Russia on Sunday in what would give Moscow its biggest victory of the war yet and free up troops to take part in a potentially climactic battle for control of Ukraines industrial east.
Shmyhal said Ukraine is prepared to end the war through diplomacy, if possible. He said surrender isnt an option, adding that we will not leave our country, our families, our lands, so we will fight absolutely to the end, to the win, in this war.
There is nothing nearby except residential buildings, Gov. Serhiy Haidai said in a statement posted to his Telegram channel and translated by NBC News. The Russians purposefully hit the population.
In an appearance on ABCs This Week, Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal appealed for help for the approximately 100,000 Ukrainians who remain trapped in the eastern city without food, water, heat and electricity.
Shmyhal said Ukrainian forces are still fighting, including in the Donbas region, and that we do not have intention to surrender.
He added that the funding would help people in hard-to-reach areas who are cut off from access to healthcare, water and electricity, and those, who have been forced to flee and leave everything behind.
The latest attack in Severodonetsk comes after two senior U.S. defense officials said Russia could soon begin the next phase of its military campaign.
VATICAN CITY  In an Easter Sunday message aimed at the world but heavily focused on Ukraine, Pope Francis raised two worries  the risk of nuclear warfare and the possibility that other armed conflicts around the world will go unnoticed.
Biden said in an Easter message Sunday that he is also praying for peace, freedom, basic dignity and respect for all of Gods children.
