No chance at moment for ceasefire UN official says
20220413
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-russian-troops-massing-east-biden-accu-rcna24175
The Foreign Ministry said the diplomats have returned to Kyiv and that the Czech flag is flying again at the embassy.
Twelve members of the Luhansk orchestra have made it to the relative safety of Lviv. But 10 of their musicians stayed behind  an ongoing concern for all those musicians who did get out.
A priest and the relative of a civilian man, whose body was exhumed from his yard, react in Gostomel village in Kyiv region Tuesday.
An aerial view captured on Tuesday shows the besieged city of Mariupol during Russias invasion of Ukraine.
We have evidence, even recent evidence, that they have been disillusioned by this  by this war, werent properly informed, werent properly trained, werent ready, the U.S. official said of conscripts at a briefing.
Chinas overall trade with Russia grew more than 12 percent from a year before, outpacing overall growth in Chinas exports and imports even as it slowed down from February since the invasion.
Major Gen. Igor Konashenkov, a spokesman for the Russian defense ministry, said 1,026 marines from the 36th Marine Brigadehad surrendered to Russian forces at a metal plant in the city.
"We cannot rest now. As I assured President Zelenskyy, the American people will continue to stand with the brave Ukrainian people in their fight for freedom," Biden added.
Both Egypt and Lebanon are highly dependent on Ukraine for their wheat and fertilizer imports, which have been disrupted by the ongoing conflict. Prices for wheat have also skyrocketed since the beginning of Russia's invasion.
Dvornikov, who has previous led operations in Syria, has commanded Russias southern district which borders Ukraines Donbas region since 2016, it said.
The ICC is independently investigating potential war crimes committed by Russian forces during the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
The report said experts found a pattern of abuses. The U.S. ambassador to the organization said it includes evidence of the direct targeting of civilians, rape, executions and attacks on hospitals. Biden accused Russia of "genocide" Tuesday.
The video, mocked up with a BBC News logo and using a similar graphics style to the U.K.'s national broadcaster, pushes baseless claims that Ukraine was behind the recent attack on the Kramatorsk railway station.
Russia has committed human rights abuses and broken international humanitarian law during its invasion of Ukraine, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe has found.
The governor of the Odesa region in Ukraine, Maksym Marchenko, said on Telegram that Neptune missiles, which are a type of cruise missile, caused serious damage to the warship.
The U.K.'s Foreign, Commonwealth  Development Office announced the development in an update to its sanctions list on Wednesday.
As for Russian President Vladimir Putins reported comment Tuesday that negotiations with Ukraine are at a dead end, Guterres said, I will remind you that we are in an Easter period and the Easter period is about resurrection.
Her comments came shortly after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy delivered an address before Estonia's Parliament, during which he accused Russia of using phosphorus bombs in its attacks on Ukraine, a claim for which he did not provide evidence and which NBC News has been unable to independently verify.
In his latest update on the situation in Mariupol, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych did not mention any mass surrender, instead saying the brigade had managed to link up with other Ukrainian troops in the city.
As a result of a fire, ammunition detonated on the Moskva missile cruiser. The ship was seriously damaged. The crew was completely evacuated, TASS quoted the Defense Ministry as saying.
"Looking at the Kremlin's words and deeds, it's becoming clear that Russia's crimes committed in Ukraine can amount to genocide," Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said in a tweet Wednesday.
I think because the music helps people and it helps for feeling good things for people, Shapovalov said. To be happy, we listen to music. We have a trauma, we listen to music. Every time, it help for people.
It is too early to return, including to the capital, she said in an interview with Ukraine's Parliamentary TV channel on Wednesday. And we must not forget that today in the country, there is a high risk of the use of chemical weapons by Russia, because they are considering such scenarios.
Thirty-six countries rely on Russia and Ukraine for more than half their wheat imports, including some of the worlds poorest countries, Guterres said, and wheat and corn prices have risen 30 percent just since the start of the year.
The European leaders  Nausda, Egils Levits of Latvia, Alar Karis of Estonia and Andrzej Duda of Poland  reiterated their commitments to supporting Ukraine politically and with transfers of military aid.
The new aid comes as the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europefound that Russia has committed human rights abuses and broken international humanitarian law in its invasion of Ukraine.
A woman walks as firefighters try to extinguish a fire after a missile hit a building on the outskirts of Kharkiv on Tuesday.
They traveled by train to the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, to meet Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy and visited Borodyanka, one of the towns near Kyiv where evidence of atrocities was found after Russian troops withdrew to focus on the countrys east.
Her speech at the Atlantic Council, a nonpartisan U.S. think tank, comes one week before the worlds finance ministers and central bank governors convene in Washington for the International Monetary Fund-World Bank Group Spring Meetings.
"Ukraine and Russia are historically close for objective reasons, but the myth of two fraternal nations of Russia and Ukraine began to collapse after the occupation of Crimea and aggression in Donbas in 2014," he said. "This myth was finally destroyed when the first Russian missiles flew to Ukrainian cities in February."
U.S. and U.K. officials have said they're investigating unconfirmed reports of chemical weapons being used in an attack on the port city of Mariupol. NBC News has not been able to verify the reports.
Switzerland had already lined up with previous EU sanctions. The fifth and latest package of measures focuses on finance, transport and trade  notably bans on imports of coal, wood, cement, seafood and vodka that serve as important sources of revenue for Russia, the government said.
When it comes to Russian oil, gas and coal, we will be able to increase their consumption on the domestic market, stimulate the deep processing of raw materials,Putinsaid in a televised meeting to discuss the development of the Russian Arctic, Reuters reported. We will also increase the supply of energy resources to other regions of the world where they are really needed," he added.
He said Ukrainian armed forces were constantly fighting in the southeast direction of Izyum in the Kharkiv region to prevent the enemy from passing to Donetsk and Luhansk regions."
"Now is the time to accelerate the transition to an independent and a clean energy future. President Putin cannot control the power of the wind or the sun," Kerry said in his opening speech at a climate conference in Palau on Wednesday.
Ukrainian officials say they damaged a Russian warship in the Black Sea with cruise missiles.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has suggested Moscow can easily redirect exports of its energy resources away from the West to countries "where they are really needed" and boost domestic consumption of oil, gas and coal.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen is warning that countries that undermine the sanctions the United States and its allies have imposed on Russia will face consequences for their actions.
Zelenskyy added that he spoke to President Biden Joe on Wednesday. They discussed "bringing to justice all of the Russian soldiers and their commanders who committed war crimes," as well as seeking "international cooperation" around that goal.
Russias deputy foreign minister said Wednesday that Western weapons transports in Ukraine would be considered "legitimate military targets" by Moscow.
BBC News said it is trying to have the fake videos removed from social media.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres says there is no chance at the moment for a humanitarian cease-fire in Ukraine, as the United Nations was seeking.
The report said experts had found credible evidence suggesting that violations concerned even the "most fundamental human rights," including the "right to life, prohibition of torture and other inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment."
Russias Defense Ministry said the missile cruiser was damaged by a fire, according to the Russian state news agency TASS.
But he told reporters Wednesday that the U.N. has made a number of proposals to Russia on the possibility of local cease-fires, humanitarian corridors, and the evacuation of civilians, and we are waiting for an answer.
Today, a law firm representing the interests of Netflix users filed a class action lawsuit against the American Netflix service with the Khamovnichesky District Court of Moscow, RIA Novosti said, citing the law firm Chernyshov, Lukoyanov  Partners.
"This includes evidence of direct targeting of civilians, attacks on medical facilities, rape, executions, looting, and forced deportation of civilians to Russia," he said.
He said the U.N. proposals to Russia are aimed at minimizing the dramatic impact of Russias war against Ukraine on civilians and include creating a mechanism involving Russia, Ukraine, the United Nations and eventually other humanitarian bodies to permanently manage local cease-fires, humanitarian access and evacuations to avoid incidents and failures.
Ukraines Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko decried French President Emmanuel Macron's Wednesday assertion that Russia's actions in Ukraine did not amount to "genocide" because Russians and Ukrainians are "brothers."
Zelenskyy made the comments in a daily video address, in which he also said Russian forces are increasing activity in the east and the south of the country.
The images, captured by Maxar Technologies, a U.S. defense contractor, show Russian forces continuing to move into eastern Ukraine on Monday.
President Joe Biden on Wednesday announced an additional $800 million in weapons and other assistance for Ukraine as officials warned that Russian forces are preparing to intensify attacks in the east.
Biden said Tuesday that he considers Russias actions in Ukraine to be genocide, going a step further rhetorically than he has in the past.
The Federal Council on Wednesday adopted new measures against Russia and Belarus, a key ally of Moscow, that mirror similar measures adopted last week by the European Union. Switzerland, which has long prided itself on its neutrality, is not among the EUs 27 member states.
Now, those who were able to flee are picking up their instruments and doing what they do best, playing concerts again, in Lviv.
Both Egypt and Lebanon are facing severe wheat shortages as the conflict in Ukraine disrupts its wheat exports.
Seven people have died in the past 24 hours from heavy shelling in Kharkiv, leaving 22 civilians injured, including three children, Gov. Oleh Sinegubov announced Wednesday.
A U.N. task force is warning in a new report that Russias war against Ukraine threatens to devastate the economies of many developing countries that face even higher food and energy costs and increasingly difficult financial conditions.
He said the U.N. proposals are aimed at minimizing the dramatic impact of Russias war on civilians and that they include creating a mechanism involving Russia, Ukraine, the United Nations and eventually other humanitarian bodies to permanently manage local cease-fires, humanitarian access and evacuations to avoid incidents and failures.
Zelenskyy said in a tweet following the call that the leaders had discussed "Russian war crimes" and "additional package of defensive and possible macro-financial aid," and "agreed to enhance sanctions."
Similar claims seeking to pin violence on Ukraine have circulated on social media from profiles that have routinely trafficked in Russian talking points, though the fake BBC video appears to be among the most advanced disinformation released in relation to the war.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukraines eastern Luhansk region has been one of the hardest hit during this war, with casualties estimated in the hundreds and evacuees estimated in the thousands.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said the ship, Moskva, is the same one that demanded the surrender of Ukrainian forces on Snake Island early in the February attack and invasion.
The reason for the lawsuit was a violation of Russian users rights due to Netflixs unilateral refusal to provide services in Russia, it said.
U.S. climate envoy John Kerry has urged countries to boost renewable energy production amid Russia's war in Ukraine.
The White House said the authorized $800 million in military aid includes weapons, ammunition and other assistance.
Boychenko said residents in two settlements on the outskirts of the city had complained of "bad taste and deteriorating health" and were forced to leave their homes.
Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar has warned that the risk of Russia using chemical weapons in the war remains high.
He said would be up to international lawyers to decide whether what was happening in Ukraine qualified as genocide, but it sure seems that way to me.
Putin said those moves had "provoked a real energy crisis" in Europe. Of course we are also facing problems but this opens up new opportunities, he said.
Russia is also the worlds top natural gas exporter and its second-largest oil exporter, and Russia and neighboring Belarus export about 20 percent of the worlds fertilizers. Guterres said oil prices have increased by more than 60 percent over the past year, natural gas prices have jumped 50 percent in recent months, and fertilizer prices have doubled.
The report urges countries to ensure a steady flow of food and energy through open markets, and it calls on international financial institutions to do everything possible to ensure more liquidity immediately.
"In Mariupol, units of the 36th Marine Brigade, as a result of a complex and very risky maneuver, broke through to join the Azov regiment," he wrote in a statement on Facebook. "In general, the city's defense system has grown and strengthened," he wrote.
Russian Netflix users have sued the streaming giant for exiting the market, demanding $726,000 in compensation, the state news agency RIA Novosti reported Wednesday.
Anti-Ukraine disinformation in the form of a fake BBC News video spread across social media on Wednesday.
Defense Department press secretary John Kirby said it is tailored to Ukraine's needs as Russia shifts its attacks to eastern Ukraine. The drawdown includes Javelin missiles, Switchblade drones, howitzers, radar systems, armored personnel carriers and helicopters, among other equipment.
And we do have indications, we continue to get them, of frustration not only at the enlisted level with what theyre being asked to do, but with their officers, their leadership, frustrated with  with their troops performance, frustrated with their colleagues performance, the U.S. official said, according to a transcript.
As for Russian President Vladimir Putins reported comment Tuesday that negotiations with Ukraine are at a dead end, Guterres said, I will remind you that we are in an Easter period, and the Easter period is about resurrection.
Biden announced the package after a call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the White House said. Zelenskyy said in a video address that he was grateful for the support.
For us its very, very dangerous, very hard life for our heart, Shapovalov said. Its this aggression from Russia. Its like, for me, I dont understand. I think its Putin. Its really crazy.
NBC News has not verified the claims about what occurred to the ship. Russia has been cracking down on the media, limiting what can be said under threat of imprisonment.
Over 100,000 people are still awaiting to be evacuated to safety from the besieged city of Mariupol, its mayor said in a televised interview on Wednesday.
The presidents of the four NATO countries on Russias doorstep saw heavily damaged buildings and demanded accountability for what they said were war crimes carried out by Russian forces. The visit was a strong show of solidarity by the leaders of the countries on NATOs eastern flank, three of which, like Ukraine, were part of the Soviet Union.
"We bring the Americans and other Westerners to the understanding that attempts to slow down our special operation, inflict maximum damage to Russian contingents and formations of the DPRLPR Donetsk Peoples Republicand Luhansk People's Republic will be severely suppressed," he said.
Mariupol has been under siege for weeks since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine in February, which has caused severe shortages of food, water, heat and electricity within the city.
In the same interview, Vadym Boychenko said Russian forces had deployed an unconfirmed "substance" on the city on Tuesday.
Bakeries in Lebanon have begun to shutter while others have seen long queues as the country's national trade union warned businesses may only have wheat supplies to last for the next 10 days.
PRAGUE  The Czech Republic has reopened its embassy in the Ukrainian capital, which was closed after Russian troops invaded the country.
Russia claimed Wednesday that more than 1,000 Ukrainian marines had surrendered in the besieged city of Mariupol.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday called on European Union member nations to stop importing oil and other energy resources from Russia.
The unified coalition of sanctioning countries will not be indifferent to actions that undermine the sanctions weve put in place, Yellen says in prepared remarks to be delivered at the Atlantic Council on Wednesday.
Finlands parliament is set to debate joining NATO as soon as next week, Prime Minister Sanna Marin announced in a joint press conference with Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, as both countries weigh security guarantees in light of Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Russia's recent appointment of Army Gen. Alexander Dvornikov as the commander of the war in Ukrainerepresents a bid to centralize "command and control"after a lack of coordination hampered Moscow's invasion, the British defense ministry has said.
"In the context of Washingtons reckless support for the militant aspirations of the Kyiv regime with its large-scale pumping of modern weapons, any full-scale contacts with the U.S. administration on the situation around Ukraine seem meaningless," Sergei Ryabkov said in an interview with TASS. "We warn you that the U.S.-NATO transports with weapons following the Ukrainian territory are considered by us as legitimate military targets."
In an intelligence update published Wednesday, it said that ineffective pre-war planning and Ukrainian resistance have forced Russia to reassess its operations, refocusing its offensive in the eastern region of Donbas.
Guterres sent U.N. humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths to Moscow and Kyiv as his special envoy to seek a humanitarian cease-fire, but, he said, at the present moment, a global cease-fire in Ukraine doesnt seem possible.
The Nordic country shares a 832-mile border with Russia and has been a NATO partner since 1994. The difference between being a partner and being a member is very clear and will remain so, Marin said.
There is anecdotal evidence that Russian forces are suffering from poor morale, particularly with conscript soldiers who are poorly trained and not ready for a war in Ukraine, a U.S. defense official said Wednesday.
GENEVA  Switzerland is joining a raft of new sanctions targeting people and companies in Russia over President Vladimir Putins military campaign in Ukraine, including his two adult daughters.
Beijing, a major importer of Russian oil, gas, coal and agricultural commodities, has refused to call Russias attack on Ukraine an invasion and has rebuked the West for imposing sanctions on Moscow.
A prosecutor for the International Criminal Court met with Ukraine's prosecutor general in Kyiv on Wednesday.
"We need an oil embargo and a concrete readiness from Europe to reject all of the energy sources from Russia," Zelenskyy said in his daily video message. "The European Union has to stop sponsoring the Russian war machine."
The government will deliver a report to the parliament outlining various security options for Finland, which will be deliberated upon after the Easter break, she said on Wednesday. Joining NATO would open Finland to potential risks from Russia, including cyberattacks, but the country is prepared and it must not let fear influence our choices," she said.
Guterres sent U.N. humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths to Moscow and Kyiv as his special envoy to seek a humanitarian cease-fire, but he said, at the present moment, a global cease-fire in Ukraine doesnt seem possible.
As many as 1.4 million people in eastern Ukraine do not have access to piped water, and another 4.6 million people across the country are at risk of losing their water supply, UNICEF has warned.
Military deployments were observed along the 14K-34 highway and a corridor leading from Soloti and Valuyki in western Russia toward the border with Ukraine, the company said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Wednesday he is sincerely grateful for $800 million in more military assistance announced by President Joe Biden.
An extra 200 people or entities were also sanctioned including Russian oligarchs and their families, as well as Putins adult daughters, Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova.
Russians continue to terrorize civilians. Over the past 24 hours, the occupying forces have struck approximately 53 artillery and MLRS strikes, he said in a Telegram post, referring to multiple launch rocket system missiles. NBC News was not able to independently verify the attacks or the reported death toll.
Russian forces have suffered setbacks in the attack and invasion, which began Feb. 24, but officials have warned that Russian troops appear to be preparing for intensified attacks in eastern Ukraine.
It did not immediately outline which individuals or entities were specifically targeted in the new listings.
The presidents of Poland and the Baltic states are headed to Kyiv in a show of support for Ukraine, the latest leaders to visit the Ukrainian capital amid Russias attack and invasion of the country.
In a report released Wednesday by the security organization, the OSCE said independent experts had found clear patterns of International Humanitarian Law violations by Russian forces in Ukraine.
Netflix had suspended all its services and future projects in March following Moscows invasion of Ukraine. Scores of foreign companies, from streaming to retail, have either suspended their services or barred sales in Russia.
The use of explosive weapons and fighting has caused at least 20 separate incidents of damage to water infrastructure and threatens to cause more to a water network that was already in peril, according to UNICEF.
Kallas said that "all those guilty must face justice and be punished accordingly," adding that "Estonia will support investigations every way we can." In a separate post, she thanked Zelenskyy for his appearance and appeared to address his calls for tougher sanctions,  saying "tough energy sanctions" against Russia were essential to stop "funding Russias aggression."
All this creates such a level of danger on the routes that we have to refrain from opening humanitarian corridors today, she said.
Ryabkov had issued a similar warning back in March, saying the U.S. had been warned that Russia would see the deliveries of Western weapons to Ukraine as targets.
He told reporters Wednesday that the U.N. has made a number of proposals to Russia about the possibility of local cease-fires, humanitarian corridors and the evacuation of civilians and that we are waiting for an answer.
Rebeca Grynspan, the secretary-general of the U.N. agency promoting trade and development, who coordinated the task force, said 107 countries have severe exposure to at least one dimension of the food, energy and finance crisis and that 69 countries are severely exposed to all three and face very difficult financial conditions with no fiscal space, and with no external financing to cushion the blow.
It was the first time he had leveledthe accusation of genocideagainst his Russian counterpart,President Vladimir Putin, for the atrocities committed by his forces inUkraine. ButPresident Joe Bidenwas clear about why he did so.
We know this history, Duda said. We know what Russian occupation means. We know what Russian terrorism means.
"I am grateful to all our defenders, men and women, who hold their positions and accustom Russian soldiers to the idea that this war against Ukraine can only end in Russia's strategic loss  sooner or later," Zelenskyy said. "Either the Russian leadership will truly seek peace, or, as a result of this war, Russia will leave the international arena forever."
Ukrainian officials have repeatedly accused Russia of hampering humanitarian efforts, especially out of the besieged port city of Mariupol, where thousands of residents remain without access to food, water, electricity and other essentials.
PresidentJoe Bidensaid he spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday to share that he was authorizing an additional $800 million in weapons.
One of those evacuees is Igor Shapovalov, the musical director of the Luhansk Philharmonic Orchestra. Hes now in Lviv, living in a dormitory for musicians with his wife and daughter.
The ICC said in a tweet that Chief ProsecutorKarim Khan and Ukraine's Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova had agreed that "deepening engagement and further strengthening partnerships" was "crucial to delivering accountability" for possible international crimes committed in Ukraine.
Russia's claim came hours after Ukrainian local media reported troops holding out against Russian attacks. NBC was not able to independently verify Russia's claims.
Humanitarian corridors will not open Wednesday in Ukraine after Russia violated a cease-fire and blocked evacuation efforts, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Wednesday.
The fight for Europes future is happening here, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nausdasaid, calling for tougher sanctions, including sanctions against Russias oil and gas shipments and all of the countrys banks.
Thousands of people in Mariupol have been forced to use dirty water sources, UNICEF reported. Major cities across Donetsk and Luhansk are also cut off from water supplies, and an additional 340,000 people will lose water if a reservoir in Horlivka runs dry.
It said Wednesdays move is one of the steps to show our support for Ukraine.
"This new package of assistance will contain many of the highly effective weapons systems we have already provided and new capabilities tailored to the wider assault we expect Russia to launch in eastern Ukraine," Biden said in a statement.
He added that "brotherly people" do not kill children, shoot civilians or destroy the houses of their brothers.
Chinese customs data Wednesday showed that the growth in shipments to and from Russia dipped to 12.76 percent in March, worth $11.67 billion, compared to 25.7 percent in February, according to Reuters. It still beat China's total growth in March of 7.75 percent in its trade with all countries and regions, the news agency said.
Russian forces had occupied areas around Kyiv and attacked the city after launching an invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, but after facing setbacks have since withdrawn from around the city.
"Taken as a whole, the report documents the catalog of inhumanity perpetrated by Russias forces in Ukraine," Michael Carpenter, the United States ambassador to the OSCE, said in a separate statement.
Estonian President Alar Karis tweeted Wednesday that they will meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. The visit comes days after European Union officials and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited Kyiv in separate trips.
There is no chance at the moment for a humanitarian cease-fire, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said. He said the U.N. has made a number of proposals to Russia about the possibility of local cease-fires, humanitarian corridors and the evacuation of civilians, and we are waiting for an answer.
"Yesterday they flew unmanned aircraft into our territory... and dropped a small amount of this substance, which struck our boys, the mayor said. "Unfortunately, we cannot take samples to prove what it was," he said.
Meanwhile, Egypt said earlier this month that local wheat supplies were expected to last for around two and a half more months as it awaits supply from local harvests.
Yellen, leaving open the question of what the consequences could be, says Russias ongoing war inUkrainehas redrawn the contours of the global economy, which includes our conception of international cooperation going forward.
There is no other way to have security guarantees than under NATOs deterrence and common defense as guaranteed by NATOs Article Five, added Marin.
Pentagon officials have said they expect those forces to be resupplied, and possibly used elsewhere in the country. Zelenskyy has warned of a ramped-up Russian offensive in Ukraine's east.
KYIV, Ukraine  The presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia visited Ukraine on Wednesday and underscored their support for the embattled country.
In a post on Telegram, she said that the Russian military had blocked evacuation buses in Zaphorizhzhia and violated a cease-fire in the eastern region of Luhansk.
It comes after the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia imposed bans on Russian oil imports in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Estonia's prime minister has said it is "becoming clear" that atrocities carried out by Russian forces in Ukraine amount to "genocide."
Sinegubov said a 2-year-old boy who had been injured in shelling a few days ago had also died in a hospital.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres launched the report Wednesday stressing that the war is supercharging a crisis in food, energy and finance in poorer countries that were already struggling to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and a lack of access to adequate funding for their economic recovery.
New satellite images appear to show Russian troops advancing on Ukraine's east this week, as British and European officials warn Moscow is preparing to mount a fresh offensive in the region.
Water is essential for life and a right for everyone, said Osnat Lubrani, United Nations resident coordinator in Ukraine. The health risks, particularly for children and the elderly, caused by water stoppages are severe, as people are forced to use dirty water sources, resulting in diarrhea and other deadly infectious diseases.
