Putin appears committed to longlasting war as Ukraine also digs in
20220511
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/putin-appears-committed-long-lasting-war-ukraine-also-digs-rcna28274
Zubov said that Kyivs victory aims, at least in public, needed to be commensurate with the loss and suffering the public has so far had to bear.
With Russian President Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine entering its twelfth week, experts agree with Western officials that he is committed to a long-lasting and widespread war with Kyiv.
Its now more complex than just two sides killing each other, he said. The war is regional but the complexity is European and international, and the U.S. essentially poses as a senior patron of Ukraine, determined not to let it lose.
The cruel reality is that the Russian separatist entities had about a third of the Donbas under control as of Feb. 24. The Russians now control about 80 percent, he said.
Hamilton said that neither side would likely accept a political settlement that included conceding Ukrainian territory seized by Russia, meaning both armies were compelled to dig in and fight.
I dont see the Ukrainians at the moment having the capacity without much more serious support, and that will take some time, he said. So perhaps the best we can hope for is a cease-fire and a disputed line of control.
While he didnt mention the Crimean Peninsula specifically, the chief diplomat did express his desire to defeat Russias Black Sea fleet and unblock the passage.
If the Ukrainians were to push this message about retaking Crimea, that for Russia would be impermissible, he said. It would be a cause for Putin to announce a mobilization and further escalate the war.
The conflict has already killed thousands of Ukrainian civilians and forced nearly 13 million people from their homes.
But he warned that expanding territorial goals beyond regions seized since Feb. 24 could have the adverse effect of galvanizing Russian support for an even deadlier conflict.
On Tuesday, the House authorized an additional $40 billion in aid, which Speaker Nancy Pelosi said would help Ukraine defend not only its nation, but democracy for the world.
Now, if we are strong enough on the military front and we win the battle for Donbas  of course, the victory for us in this war will be the liberation of the rest of our territories, Kuleba told The Financial Times.
In his most strident communication so far, Kuleba suggested that Kyivs military goals had changed from seeking to reclaim territory seized by Russia this year to reclaiming all territory Russia has occupied since 2014.
Vladislav Zubok, a professor of international history at the London School of Economics, said that after being convinced of Ukraines defensive capabilities, NATO allies were determined to help it hold out and put an end to Russian incursions in Eastern Europe.
Dan Hamilton, senior nonresident fellow at the Washington-based Brookings Institution, said it was premature to talk of a wide-ranging Ukrainian counteroffensive, despite recent localized gains.
As Ukrainian troops retook several villages around the city of Kharkiv, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba issued a defiant warning to Moscow that his countrys war aims had grown since the outbreak of hostilities.
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines said Tuesday that Putin was ready for a prolonged conflict in Ukraine that would stretch well beyond the eastern Donbas region, where Russias advances have stalled in recent weeks.
And, backed by billions in aid and weaponry from NATO allies, Ukrainian officials are increasingly confident they will be able to withstand and perhaps even counterattack against persistent Russian onslaughts.
