US warns of Russian chemical weapons attack Mariupol buries dead in mass graves
20220309
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/ukraine-russia-war-live-updates-u-s-blocks-poland-s-n1291270
"Putin is trying to bait the trap so that we go in  and that could be the beginning of World War III," she added.
IRPIN, Ukraine  Hundreds of Ukrainians living in towns occupied by Russian troops on the outskirts of Kyiv fled Wednesday.
"There seems to be this impression out there that we can conclude this conflict with no risk," he said. "And we're already at risk."
The Ukrainian air defense system has also held up against Russia's aerial forces, preventing them from achieving "any degree of control of the air," the ministry said.
Zelenskyy also tweeted a video showing damage and said "children are under the wreckage." His claims could not immediately be verified Russia has repeatedly denied targeting civilians.
Diesel generators are being used to power the plant, but UkrainianForeign MinisterDmytro Kuleba said the generators only have a 48-hour capacity. After that, he warned that cooling systems for spent nuclear fuel would stop, "making radiation leaks imminent."
Ukrainian officials on Wednesday accused Russia of destroying a childrens hospital in the besieged southern port city of Mariupol, as efforts continue to evacuate civilians from areas worst hit by Russias almost two-week-old invasion.
There are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless. The UK is exploring more support for Ukraine to defend against airstrikes and we will hold Putin to account for his terrible crimes. PutinMustFail https:t.coJBuvB78HVC
"First, the European Union should immediately cut off all import of oil and gas from Russia. We must deprive Russia of the revenues that are financing Putin's brutal war,"Rasmussen said in a video posted on Twitter. "This will have an economic cost, but this is small compared to the suffering of the Ukrainian people and tiny compared to the loss of freedom all of us will face if we don't act now."
House and Senate appropriators struck a bipartisan deal early Wednesday on amassive billto fund the federal government through September and provide nearly $14 billionin aid for Ukraine.
On Wednesday, theBiden administration rejected a proposal from Polandthat would have made its old Russian-made MiG fighters available to a U.S. base in Germany for potential handover to Ukraine, because it would be a high risk step that could ratchet up tensions withRussia, the Defense Department said.
Ukraine previously informed the IAEA that Chernobyl has been disconnected from the electricity grid and that it lost external power. Grossi said the disconnection would not have a critical impact on essential functions, but both developments raise concerns about the safety and security of the country's nuclear facilities.
Attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure  including hospitals, water and sanitation systems and schools  are unconscionable and must stop immediately," she said. "UNICEF renews its call for an immediate cease-fire and urges all parties to respect their obligations under international humanitarian law to protect children from harm."
WASHINGTON  The House passed amassive spending billWednesday night to fund the federal government through September and provide nearly $14 billionin aid for Ukraine.
Diners at a McDonald's restaurant in Moscow on Wednesday as some major brands continue to pull out of Russia.
Many other commercial power players, including Microsoft, Apple and PayPal, have also decided to suspend their business operations in Russia.
Harris is scheduled to sit down with Duda on Thursday, andwill also meet with U.S. and Polish soldiers to thank them for their service. On Friday, she's scheduled to travel toRomania, another NATO ally that borders Ukraine, where she will meet with President Klaus Iohannis.
On a Kyiv square where recent popular uprisings have scuppered Moscow's ambitions in Ukraine, an orchestra assembled before a small crowd Wednesday to play the national anthem as Russian forces advanced on the city.
Poland had offered to donate Soviet-era MiG-29 aircraft to Ukraine via a U.S. air base in Germany, but Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told his Polish counterpart,Mariusz Baszczak, that the U.S. opposed the proposal, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters.
The attack wounded 17 people, including staff members and mothers in the maternity ward, according to the head of Ukraine's Donetsk region. Russell said the airstrike underscores the "horrific toll" of the war, especially as it affects Ukrainian children and families.
My name is Tatyana in Russian and Tetyana in Ukrainian, she said. Call me Tetyana.
The Kyiv-Classic Symphony Orchestra also performed an excerpt from Beethoven's "Ode to Joy," on which the European Union's anthem is based a nod to the Ukraine government's desire to move closer to Europe and away from Russia's orbit.
However, the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol remain encircled and are suffering heavy Russian shelling, it said.
"Third, even without putting boots on the ground, NATO allies can do far more to help Ukrainians defend themselves," he said. This means supplying higher-caliber weapons and better air defense systems. Yes, these ideas carry economic and political risks, but these are worth taking because peace is precious and freedom is priceless."
The e-commerce giant also suspended Russian access to its streaming service, Prime Video, and will not accept any additional AWS customers or third-party sellers based in Russia or Belarus.
We have sent to our executive board a proposal they will consider for approval tomorrow for $1.4 billion in support for Ukraine, to help it cope with the shock caused by this war,Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said Tuesday.
After three months, Tesla plans to reassessRussia's war in Ukraineand their employees situations to decide if more needs to be done.
Ukrainian officials said Wednesday that the Chernobyl nuclear plant was disconnected from the national power grid due to Russia's military actions.
Russia has said it will temporarily stop military advances to allow evacuations, Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in a briefing Wednesday.
The U.S. ambassador to NATO, Julianne Smith, said in an interview Wednesday on MSNBC's "Andrea Mitchell Reports" that the Biden administration will continue to provide lethal support to Ukraine.
People fled via humanitarian corridors from three locations  Sumy, Enerhodar and several towns in the Kyiv region. Zelenskyy said he prayed that civilians in three other cities authorities had sought to evacuate  Mariupol, Izyum and Volnovaha  would be rescued Thursday.
A deep trench about 25 meters 27 yards long dug in an old cemetery in the heart of the city is filling up with bodies collected from morgues and private homes by municipal social service workers.
The Defense Ministry said Wednesday that in the northwest of Kharkiv, Ukrainian nationalists brought in over 80 tons of ammonia and are teaching those in the area how to correctly act after a chemical attack.
Across the country, thousands of people are thought to have been killed, both civilians and soldiers, in nearly two weeks of fighting. Russian forces have seen their advances stopped in certain areas  including around Kyiv, the capital,  by fiercer resistance than expected from the Ukrainians.
The head of Ukraine's Donetsk region said 17 people were wounded in the attack, including staff and mothers in the maternity ward. There were no immediate reports of injured children or deaths.
The report said Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, has called on on all parties of the conflict to "allow the safe passage of civilians out of hardest-hit areas and safe delivery of humanitarian supplies into those areas"
We were very scared, said Aglaia, a student and activist who managed to get a rare plane ticket Thursday with her family to the Armenian capital, Yerevan, one of the few nearby places where Russian flights arent banned. We just had this feeling of deep, deep sadness  but also mixed with anger.
Paula Reed, Trevor's mother, said during the interview their son said of his new injury that "something fell on him from a shelf and he immediately felt pain after it occurred."
John Spencer, the chair of urban warfare studies at the Madison Policy Forum in New York City, said that eliminating communications infrastructure is often a first objective for an invading army.
The U.S. still assesses that Russia has greater than 90 percent of its combat power ready for use and intact, the official said.
The play, Ivan Kotlyarevskiys Eneida, was performed by Ivano-Frankivsk's Drama Theater, the countrys Culture Ministrysaid on Instagram.
The U.S. and the rest of NATO cannot leave Ukrainians to their fate, he added, because "their fight is our fight." Rasmussen served as the head of NATO from 2009 to 2014 and, before that, as prime minister of Denmark.
"The wind can transfer the radioactive cloud to other regions of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and Europe," it warned in a Telegram post.
In Wednesday's interview, Zelenskyy countered that failing to impose a no-fly zone or imposing one later would result in more casualties.
U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said Wednesday that his government would send anti-aircraft weapons and Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine. The Russians are "changing their tactics, and so the Ukrainians need to, too," he told British lawmakers.
Ukraine accused Russian forces of violating a cease-fire agreement on Tuesday by shelling a humanitarian corridor fromZaporizhzhia to Mariupol as buses waited to collect evacuees.
The Chernihiv Regional Administration said last week that 38 men and nine women were killed in the strike.
The $1.5 trillion bipartisan bill, which now heads to the Senate, is the culmination of months of negotiations on Capitol Hill that included a prolonged stalemate between Democrats and Republicans.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said Ukraine's allies will "share the responsibility" for the "humanitarian catastrophe" unfolding in his country if they do not "close the skies" over the nation.
Halushchenk called on Ukraine's international partners "to take all measures to withdraw Russian occupation forces from captured nuclear objects and close the sky over Ukraine."
Ike Gazaryan, the owner of the Pushkin restaurant in downtown San Diego, said in a phone interview that people have twice threatened to blow it up and that the threats started shortly after the invasion began.
UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell condemned a reportedattack on a Ukrainian maternity hospital in the port city of Mariupol on Wednesday.
The Russian MoD has confirmed the use of the TOS-1A weapon system in Ukraine. The TOS-1A uses thermobaric rockets, creating incendiary and blast effects.Watch the video below for more information about this weapon and its devastating impact.  StandWithUkraine pic.twitter.comd8PLQ0PhQD
Trevor's father also said his son has "been sounding horrible," suffering from constant coughing and coughing up blood throughout the day. He has also had a fever of over 100 degrees and pain in his chest, which Joey said are "all the signs of tuberculosis."
Energoatom, Ukraine's nuclear power operator, warned that the situation could lead to the release of radioactive substances because the plant cannot cool spent nuclear fuel without a power connection.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday that thebombing of aMariupol children's hospital was "horrifying."
It said that the possibility of gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse were among those risks "as the majority of people on the move are women and children."
With Russia cracking down on dissent and being hit withmore international sanctions than Iran and North Korea, some fear a new Iron Curtain may be closing as Putin leaves his country deeply isolated both culturally and economically from a scornful world.
Though Breedlove said the widely-imposed sanctions on Russia were an appropriate step, he encouraged NATO allies to look at "all the other instruments of a nation's power" to stop the country's invasion of Ukraine.
Oksana Markarova, Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S.,alleged Feb. 28that the Russian military had used the weapons in the conflict.Also known as vacuum bombs, the explosives suck oxygen from the air to produce large explosions that cause immense destruction.
The United Kingdom said Wednesday that Russia's Defense Ministryconfirmed the use of thermobaric weapons in Ukraine, creating "incendiary and blast effects."
WASHINGTON  The International Monetary Fund's executive board on Wednesday approved $1.4 billion in emergency financing for Ukraine to help meet urgent spending needs and mitigate the economic impact of Russia's military invasion, the IMF said.
Former NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said Wednesday that the alliance needs to do more to respond to Russia's invasion into Ukraine.
Three Belarusian banks will be excluded from the SWIFT payment clearing system and cryptocurrencies will also be affected by the new measures, it said in a tweet.
A no-fly zone to stop Russia from using warplanes to attack ground military targets or civilians would require NATO to patrol the airspace, firing at enemy planes when necessary.NATO leaders have said they are againsttaking that step, arguing it could put the military alliance in direct conflict with Russia.
Officials at the world's largest particle physics lab condemned Russia for invading Ukraine and will halt any new collaborations with the country and its research institutions.
IMF said it was increasing contact with Ukraine and said talks were ongoing despite the sirens that can be heard even as discussions go on".
Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday questioned Poland's proposal to transfer MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine, saying, "It's not simply clear to us that there's a substantive rationale for doing it in the way that was put forward yesterday."
Officials in the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol said Wednesday that a children's hospital was "completely destroyed" in Russian airstrikes.
The remote transmission of data from IAEA safeguards equipment located at nuclear sites around the world is an important component of our safeguards implementation, in Ukraine and globally,IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi said in a statement Wednesday.Such systems are installed in several facilities in Ukraine, including all nuclear power plants, and enable us to monitor nuclear material and activities at these sites when our inspectors are not present.
Joey Reed, the father of Trevor Reed, said that he and his wife spoke to their son for the first time Friday in 232 days. Trevor also called his parents on Monday and early Wednesday morning.
The head of Ukraine's Donetsk region,Pavlo Kyrylenko,said in an interview posted on YouTube that staff and mothers in the maternity ward were among the wounded, but no deaths were immediately reported.
"Poland's proposal shows that there are some complexities that the issue presents when it comes to providing security assistance. We have to make sure that we're doing it the right way," Blinken said from the State Department.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted that his government was exploring more support for Ukraine to defend against Russian airstrikes. The moves came after Ukrainian officials said Russians had destroyed a children's hospital in the port city of Mariupol.
They work around the clock, and even in the shelter create conditions for those for whom our troops every day defend the Ukrainian land from the aggressor, the ministry said.
Video captured actors from a Kyiv theater company performing an updated version of a classic Ukrainian literary work inside a bomb shelter.
"Financing needs are large, urgent, and could rise significantly as the war continues," she said. Once the war was over, Ukraine was likely to need additional "large support."
"While there is no near-term risk to public health, these latest developments are another example of Russias extraordinarily reckless and dangerous actions," tweeted Granholm, who said that her department will continue to coordinate with federal and international partners.
Ukraine has warned of dangerous radiation leaks from the Chernobyl power station unless Russia allows anurgent cease-fire for crews to reconnect it to the national power grid.
It said there was no possibility of restoring the lines due to ongoing fighting and said the city ofSlavutich was also disconnected from the power supply.
In addition to the rising number of deaths, the office said in a report Tuesday night that the "destruction of civilian objects continues to be reported."
Amazon halted retail shipments to customers in Russia and Belarus on Tuesday as part of its opposition to the invasion of Ukraine.
"Russia has been using missiles, helicopters, aviation against us, civilians, cities, infrastructure," Zelenskyy said. "This is a humanitarian obligation for the whole world to react  but there is no decision."
The energy minister also warned that "abreakdown at a nuclear power plant due to the use of weapons by Russian troops will lead to a disaster for the whole of Europe. The responsibility for this will be entirely on Russia."
In Mariupol, where people have been without water and electricity for days in frigid temperatures, 17 people were injured when a maternity ward at a childrens hospital was destroyed in a Russian airstrike, Zelenskyy said.
However, he said this was only a temporary solution and warned that a failure to fully reconnect the site could lead to the release of radioactive substances.
On Tuesday night alone, theState Border Guard Service of Ukraine said as many as 14,500 people had arrived in the country.
I forgot when I ate last, said an Irpin resident who gave only her first name, Olena. Im so scared. I need to keep walking.
Ukraine wants warplanes. Its allies have plenty. But gettingfighter jets to Ukraineismuch more complicatedthan it might seem.
"CERN was established in the aftermath of World War II to bring nations and people together for the peaceful pursuit of science: this aggression runs against everything for which the Organization stands," CERN's council said in a statement."CERN will continue to uphold its core values of scientific collaboration across borders as a driver for peace."
Russian restaurants across the U.S. have been vandalized and some owners have received bomb threats as part of the domestic fallout from Russia's escalating war in Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said he was grateful to Poland for its willingness to supply Ukraine with Soviet-era fighter jets in a plan that would see Poland offer up old Russian-made MiG fighters, with the U.S. replacing them by sending F-16 jets to Warsaw.
For days, as Moscows forces have laid siege to Ukrainian cities, attempts to create corridors to safely evacuate civilians have stumbled amid continuing fighting.
The trip comes shortly after the U.S. rejected an offer by Polandto transfer custody of Soviet-era fighter jets that would then be sent on to Ukraine, a topic that's sure to be discussed by Harris and Duda. The administration official said the White House doesn't consider the plan "tenable," but "we want and certainly are encouraging all allies to bring ideas forward, and for us to stay in very close coordination across the board.
Dozens of buses were unable to reach the city,Synegubov said, adding that only about 250 people were evacuated.Preliminary data shows more than 5,000 people need to be evacuated, he said.
A senior administration official said Harris will meet people who've fled the violence, as well as the displaced staff from the U.S. embassy in Kyiv.
It also said that if the situation continued, "all personnel there will receive a dangerous dose of radiation."
Russia has made progress around the two Ukrainian cities of Kharkiv and Mykolayiv, a senior U.S. defense official said Wednesday.
The difficulties are legal, logistical and political.Top leaders of NATO  the alliance of 30 countries that includes the U.S. and Germany  want to help Ukraine but have resisted actions that could drag it directly into Moscows war against its neighbor.
U.S. intelligence has repeatedly warned that it was Russia, not Ukraine, that is considering using a false flag attack to justify its unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. There has been no evidence of Ukrainian attacks on Russian soil or that the Ukrainians were engaged in false flags.
CERN straddles the border between France and Switzerland, near Geneva. The lab is home to the Large Hadron Collider, the world's highest-energy particle collider, which was used to discover the famed Higgs boson particle in 2012.
Russians are outside Kharkiv, a city in the northeast of the country, and appear to have gained about 12 miles in the past 24 hours, the official said, adding that there is still heavy, heavy fighting and they havent taken the city but have closed in on it.
People from around the world, including U.S. veterans, however, have vowed to join the country's fight against Russia's attack.Ukraine has also put out the call for foreign fighters to join the effort, with the country establishing theInternational Legion of Territorial Defense of Ukraine.
"According to the Government of Ukraine, relentless shelling across the country has damaged or destroyed more than 210 schools, at least 34 hospitals and more than 1,500 residential buildings, figures that continue to climb with each passing day," itsreportsaid.
Kyiv region  air alert. Threat of a missile attack. Everyone immediately to shelters, regional administration head Oleksiy Kuleba said on Telegram.
Workers at a nuclear power plant that was attacked and taken over by Russian forces have been left "physically and psychologically exhausted" after being held hostage for four days, Ukraine's energy minister has said.
The Biden Administration also said it would not participate in a Polish offer to provide jets to Ukraine by way of a U.S. base in Germany. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the proposal would give the country little increased capabilities at a high risk.
Chernobyl, which was the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster in 1986, was overtaken by Russian forces about two weeks ago. Russian forces occupied the Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant, which also stopped data transmission, five days ago.
The IAEA said Ukraine had informed it that the power plant had been cut off from access to the national power grid Wednesday, with officials blaming Russian military actions.
The European Union has approved new sanctions against more Russian oligarchs and their families, the E.U. Councils French presidency announced on Wednesday.
This aid is in addition to a separate $700 million payment agreed in December. Georgieva said the IMF had also provided a $2.7 billion Special Drawing Rights allocation  a supplement to its official reserves  that has come in very handy to Ukraine.
Zelenskyy said Ukraine had asked its partners to create a no-fly zone over Ukraine "from the first day" of the conflict.
Ukraine  Approbation par le COREPER II de nouvelles sanctions  lencontre de dirigeants et oligarques russes et de membres de leurs familles impliqus dans lagression russe contre lUkraine.  15 PFUE2022 pic.twitter.comSHatb7ZD4z
Residents in the besieged southern port city of Mariupol once again saw their hopes dashed after Ukrainian officials accused Russia of shelling the evacuation route.
Ukraine really needs anti-tank capabilities, as well as more assets like Stingers, Javelins and air defense,Smith added.
The shelling also prevented a humanitarian convoy with food, water, warm clothes and other necessities from arriving in the city, he said.
Retired Army Col. David Johnson, a Rand Corp. researcher, has said the bomb is called "a poor man's nuclear weapon" because of its ability to obliterate any people in the area.Victims can be killed by the blast or the accompanying shock wave, and the subsequent vacuum can rupture peoples lungs.
Step one of invading a country is to take out the enemys ability to talk to each other, he said.
The IAEA said, however, that "due to time elapsed since the 1986 Chernobyl accident, the heat load of the spent fuel storage pool and the volume of cooling water contained in the pool is sufficient to maintain effective heat removal without the need for electrical supply."
In a situation report on the humanitarian impact of Russia's invasion in Ukraine, theUnited Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said that with more than two million people forced to flee Ukraine, the situation was "generating evergrowing protection risks."
In the United States, officials warned that Russia could try to justify the invasion by launching a chemical or biological weapons attack  and blaming it on Ukraine. The warning came after a Russian official said the country was preparing to use poisonous substances in the war, a claim White House press secretary Jen Psaki called preposterous.
Ukraine's National Security and Defense Council said there would be aspecial operation to allow children and staff members from an orphanage in the village of Vorzel to leave the area..
In the southeastern port city of Mariupol, meanwhile, workers began burying scores of Ukrainian civilians and soldiers in a mass grave after days of bombardment.
Nearly two weeks into the invasion, Russian troops have advanced deep along Ukraines coastline. The city of Mariupol, which sits on the Azov Sea, has been surrounded by Russian soldiers for days and a humanitarian crisis is unfolding in the encircled city of 430,000
The Russian Defense Ministry claims Ukraine is preparing a provocation using poisonous substances to blame Russia for the use of chemical weapons, said the official representative of the Defense Ministry, Igor Konashenkov.
About 35,000 civilians were able to evacuate from some Ukrainian cities and towns Wednesday during what was supposed to be a daylong cease-fire in six areas around the country, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.
WASHINGTON  U.S. gasoline prices hit another record on Wednesday, with the national average rising to $4.25 a gallon, an overnight increase of eight cents, according to AAA.
Amnesty International has accused Russia of killing 47 civilians in the Ukrainian city of Chernihiv last week, an act it said "may constitute a war crime."
He added Trevor said he was told he would be sent to a hospital prison on Friday.
Vice President Kamala Harris was en route Wednesday morning to Poland, where she'll meet with President Andrzej Duda and some of the Ukrainian citizens who've been forced to flee their homeland.
"Reserve diesel generators have a 48-hour capacity to power" the plant, Kuleba said in a tweet. "After that, cooling systems of the storage facility for spent nuclear fuel will stop, making radiation leaks imminent."
In Warsaw, Harris is scheduled to hold bilateral meetings with Duda and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who's also in Poland. A NATO ally, Poland shares a 300-mile border with Ukraine and has welcomed over a million Ukrainian refugees since the Russian invasion.
"The Russian military invasion of Ukraine has been responsible for a massive humanitarian and economic crisis," IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said in a statement after the meeting, predicting a deep recession in Ukraine this year.
They took away our house, our car, they took away our documents. So we need to start our life from the beginning. We survived things that I never experienced in my life, Bushinska said.
Second, he said, Ukraine should be given a "clear and realistic path to E.U. membership." Ukraine applied to be a member of the European Union on Feb. 28, several days after Russia launched its war on the country.
"We would like to support our president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who called, calls and will call to all governments of the world to stop the war in Ukraine."
Russian forces are also about nine miles away to the north of Mykolayiv, increasing shelling on the city, the official said. The city is located in the south of the country near the Black Sea in between the major cities of Kherson and Odessa.
The House is expected to vote on the $1.5 trillion package Wednesday, with a possible vote in the Senate by the end of the week. The bipartisan agreement is the culmination of months of negotiations on Capitol Hill that resulted in a prolonged stalemate between Democrats and Republicans.
It further warned that "thewind can transfer the radioactive cloud to other regions of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and Europe."
The nearly $13.6 billion devoted to Ukraine includes $6.5 billion for the Defense Department, with $3.5 billion to replenish equipment sent to Ukraine and $3 billion for U.S. troops who are helping to defend NATO in Europe. The bill would also provide money for humanitarian aid, to support Ukraine's energy grid and to combat disinformation.
Russian forces have besieged Ukrainian cities but struggled to make progress in their military offensive after nearly two weeks of anincreasingly devastating war. Hundreds of civilians have died and more than 2 million people have fled to neighboring countries in the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
"They will close the sky, but we will lose millions of people," he said. "The third world war will start, and only then you will make a no-fly zone, but it will be too late."
That proposal appeared to hit a snag on the U.S. side, however, with three U.S. officials telling NBC News that the Biden administration was reviewing whether the plan is feasible.The officials cautioned that such a plan was unlikely to be enacted any time soon.
The European Unionsaid it was imposing additional sanctions that would target 160 Russian leaders and prominent figures in addition to banks in Belarus as punishment for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Russia has not commented on the incident and maintains that its invasion of Ukraine is a limited military operation.
Motorists in California continue to pay the highest prices, with the statewide average at $5.57 a gallon. Prices topped $4.50 in Illinois, Oregon, Washington, Nevada, Alaska and Hawaii.
The International Monetary Fund will consider approving $1.4 billion in emergency aid to Ukraine on Wednesday.
Trevor's parents spoke to President Biden Tuesday after he saw them holding signs about their son as the president's motorcade passed them in Fort Worth, Texas. A White House official said Biden reiterated "his commitment to doing everything he can to bring their son home, to staying in close touch with them through his national security team, and to finding a time to meet in person."
U.S. officials say they are concernedRussiacould be preparing to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine after theRussian Defense Ministryaccused Ukraine of possibly planning a false-flag chemical weapon attack.
As millions flee Ukraine, thousands of people are also entering the country, with many determined to join the fight against Russia's invasion.
But I want to come back to Ukraine and rebuild and make a new Ukraine, she said, declining to give her full name because she is nervous about being tracked by Russia.
NBC News has contacted the International Atomic Energy Agency for comment but has not yet gotten a response. We are also attempting to get comment from the Russian government.
An administration official said the U.S. is worried that the Russians are making the claim to justify a false-flag operation or them using chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine themselves.
Ukraine's parliament, known as theVerkhovna Rada,also announced the development on its official Telegram channel, warning that the nuclear plant had been cut off from the power supply.
Amnesty said that satellite imagery shows people were likely waiting in line for food at the time. The group also said it couldn't find a legitimate military target at or near the scene of the attack.
Europeans: You won't be able to say that you did not see what was happening to Ukrainians, what was happening in Mariupol, he said. You saw it. You know it. You need to continue to impose sanctions on Russia so that they would not be able to continue this genocide, so that they would sit at the negotiation table and stop this atrocious war.
At first I thought it was just isolated incidents," he said. "But Ive had about 20 calls and people leaving messages on our doorstep.
"If you are united against the Nazis and this terror, you have to close. Don't wait for me to ask you several times, a million times. Close the sky," he told Alex Crawford of Sky News in an interview.
The parents of a former U.S. Marine who was sentenced in 2020 to nine years in a Russian prison said that they spoke to him by phone Wednesday morning and said he's displaying symptoms of tuberculosis and now has a new injury.
Zelenskyy claimed the strike and other similar attacks in other cities were evidence of a Ukrainian genocide carried out by Russian forces.
The airstrike that hit the streets of Chernihiv shocks the conscience. This was a merciless, indiscriminate attack on people as they went about their daily business in their homes, streets and shops, said Joanne Mariner, Amnesty Internationals crisis response director.
Ukrainian biathlete Anastasiia Laletina was forced to pull out of the middle distance sitting event at the Beijing Winter Paralympics on Tuesday after her father was captured by Russian forces, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian paralympic committee told Reuters.
"Persistent challenges in accessing basic goods and services and lack of access to safe shelter leave women and girls extremely vulnerable to abuse, exploitation and violence," OCHA said in its situation report.
His family has been called disgusting Russian pigs, he said.People are just ignorant, said Gazaryan, who is Armenian and lived in Russia for four years. The restaurateur has lived in the U.S. for 24 years and said he supports Ukraine in the war effort.
While war zones are inherently hectic, the British ministry of defensewarned Mondaythat Russia is probably targeting Ukraines communications infrastructure in order to reduce Ukrainian Citizens access to reliable news and information.
Iuliia Bushinska, a Vorzel resident, said: Occupiers came to our house and they were ready to shoot us.
An air alert was declared Wednesday morning in and around Kyiv, with residents urged to get to bomb shelters as quickly as possible.
As fighting continues across Ukraine "relentless shelling" is causing major damage and destruction across the country, theUnited Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has warned.
"As a mother  I know a number of you are mothers yourself  it is horrifying to see the type of barbaric use of military force to go after innocent civilians in a sovereign country," Psaki said at her daily news briefing.
In a tweet accompanying video of the wreckage, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called the attack an "atrocity" and claimed that children are under the wreckage. Russia has repeatedly denied targeting civilians and had said it would allow civilians to leave Mariupol.
Since Russia went to war with Ukraine nearly two weeks ago, more than 100 companies across nearly every industry have severed their business relationships with the country or scaled them back in significant ways.
With morgues overflowing and more corpses uncollected in homes, city officials decided they could not wait to hold individual burials.
Russian forces continued to shell major Ukrainian cities but have yet to make significant breakthroughs in the capital of Kyiv,according to the British defense ministry.
In a phone call with the Polish defense minister, Austin stressed that we do not support the transfer of additional fighter aircraft to the Ukrainian air force at this time, and therefore have no desire to see them in our custody, either, Kirby said.
Under steady Russian bombardment, workers in Ukraines besieged southern port city of Mariupol are hastily and unceremoniously burying scores of Ukrainian civilians and soldiers in a mass grave.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine last month, which Moscow describes as a "special operation" to disarm the country, prompted the International Paralympic Committee to ban Russian and Belarusian athletes from the Games
On Wednesday, the city council said Russian airstrikes there destroyed a children's hospital. The destruction is enormous, it said in a Telegram post. Video on the post showed a charred building missing windows and surrounded by piles of debris. Zelenskyy also tweeted a video of what he said was a maternity ward hit by the strikes.
Energoatom, Ukraine's nuclear power operator, had warned earlier Wednesday that the situation could lead to the release of radioactive substances because the plant cannot cool spent nuclear fuel without a power connection.
UkrainianTeslaemployees who are asked to return to defend their country will receive pay for at least three months, according to an e-mail the company sent Monday to employees in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
The Interior Ministry said about 700 people were evacuated from Vorzel and Irpin. People from three other Kyiv suburbs were unable to leave. Some who managed to get out said they hadnt eaten in days.
Eneida, published in 1798, is considered the country's first literary work published entirely in Ukrainian. The poem parodies Virgil's epic "Aeneid," about the foundation of Rome.
The national average for gas has spiked 60 cents in just the past week, which analysts say is almost entirely due to Russias invasion of Ukraine, which led President Joe Biden to announce Tuesday that the U.S. will ban the import of Russian oil.
We do believe that we should be on the lookout for Russia to possibly use chemical or biological weapons, the official said. The U.S. is also concerned that Russia could be making the claim to justify its continued invasion of Ukraine.
He also reiterated a message from the Defense Department that the idea of transferring fighter jets from Poland to Ukraine by having them depart from a U.S. base in Germany "raises some serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance."
"He called and he could barely talk. He had some sort of accident," his father said in an interview on CNN about their phone conversation Wednesday. "He believes he might have broken a rib. So now as he's coughing, he has shooting, stabbing pains in his chest...he just seems to be getting worse and worse."
"BECAUSE OF MILITARY ACTIONS OF RUSSIAN OCCUPIERS NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IN CHERNOBYL WAS FULLY DISCONNECTED FROM THE POWER GRID," theUkrainian Mining and Energy Ministry said on its Facebook page.
Im going to go to Denmark. There were too many rockets falling in Kyiv, said Tetyana, 66, a retired teacher originally from the now separatist-controlled city of Donetsk, Ukraine, at the Hrebenne border in Poland on Wednesday.
Russia has committed to observe the ceasefire from 09:00 to 21:00 local time 2 a.m. to 2 p.m. ET along several humanitarian corridors, including Enerhodar to Zaporizhia, Sumy to Poltava and Mariupol to Zaporizhia,Vereshchuk said.
Streams of cars  some fixed with white flags  filed down the road, joined by lines of yellow buses marked with red crosses.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., told reporters Wednesday that she spoke withUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy earlier in the day for more than 45 minutes as Congress prepares to approve almost $14 billion in emergency aid for Ukraine.
Trevor had been detained in 2019 on charges of assaulting a police officer after a heavy night of drinking in Moscow. His family and his Russian girlfriend denied the charges.
He said he managed to gather around 20 musicians for the performance, instead of the 65-70 who normally make up the ensemble.
A lion, which was in an animal shelter in Kyiv, is seen in a cage at the Natuurhulpcentrum nature center in Oudsbergen, Belgium, on Wednesday.
My husband is in Crimea. Weve been apart for 10 years. He likes Russia. The TV and radio there have made him a different man. I wouldnt have married him as he is now.
The United Nations' humanitarian affairs office has warned of the risk of gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse as hundreds of thousands of people flee Ukraine.
Mariupol. Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital. People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity! How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror? Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity. pic.twitter.comFoaNdbKH5k
The city has been without electricity, heat, water or food for many days and Ukrainian officials have called the situation there catastrophic. Ukraine Foreign Minister DmytroKuleba accused Russia of holding 400,000 residents hostage by continuing to shell the city.
In a false-flag operation, one side of a conflict commits an act and tries to make it appear that the other side committed it, often in order to justify an attack on that other side.
"Putins barbaric war puts entire Europe in danger," Kuleba continued. "He must stop it immediately!"
Some are brought wrapped in carpets or plastic bags. As many as 40 came Tuesday, another 30 so far Wednesday. They include civilian victims of shelling on the city and soldiers, as well as civilians who died of disease or natural causes.
The lyrics of the anthem include the lines, "Ukraine has not yet perished ... our enemies will vanish like dew in the sun."
The Chernobyl nuclear power plant losing access to Ukraine's national power grid should not pose a "critical impact on safety," the International Atomic Energy Agency has said.
Laletina's father is a soldier in the Ukrainian army. The spokesperson said they had no further details on his capture.
Gasoline prices have been rising for nearly two years, following the trend in oil prices. Production fell at the outset of the pandemic, and producers have not pumped enough oil since then to meet rising demand.
The agency said the development violates a "key safety pillar" but posed no critical impact.
Britain's defense ministry said that Ukraine appears "to have enjoyed considerable success against Russias modern combat aircraft, probably preventing them achieving any degree of control of the air."
"We are at war, we have no time for these signals. It's not a ping pong game  it's human lives we are talking about," he said. "We ask again  don't toss responsibility, just send us the planes."
NBC News has contacted the International Atomic Energy Agency for comment but has not yet had a response. We are also attempting to get comment from the Russian government.
Its a lot easier to give hand-held weapons than it is to transfer a plane, a source familiar with the discussions said on Monday.The U.S. also does not have a surplus of F-16s, officials said.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Wednesday the power plant would be connected to back-up diesel generators after officials said it was disconnected from the national power grid due to Russia's military actions.
Ukrainians cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Wednesday.
Almost 12,000 of them were Ukrainians, mostly men planning to join the country's defense. It is unclear which nationalities were represented among the outstanding 2,500 or why they had entered Ukraine.
UNICEF has said that of the more than two million people who have already fled Ukraine, around half are believed to be children.
The efforts were scuttled after Ukrainian officials said Russian forces were continuing to shell the escape routes or block them with buses.
Gen. Philip Breedlove, NATO's former Supreme Allied Commander Europe, called for the consideration of more extensive global interference in the Russia-Ukraine conflict during an interview with MSNBC on Wednesday.
Though the decision stops any new collaborations from getting underway, the council will not remove Russian universities and research institutions from ongoing experiments at the lab. Russian scientists make up around 8 percent of the 12,000 researchers who collaborate on experiments at the European lab, according to Science.
It wasnt clear from the email whether this benefit would be extended to employees in North America and elsewhere.
Dozens of people gathered to watch on the central Maidan Square, some waving Ukrainian flags. They applauded when the national anthem was finished and a woman cried out "To Ukraine!"
Representatives from the 23 member nations that make up theEuropean Organization for Nuclear Research CERN voted Tuesday to suspend Russia's "observer" status, which allowed the country to participate in deliberations and contribute to the organization's various facilities.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday again called for Western countries to impose a no-fly zone over parts of his country to stop Russian air attacks.
"The EU stands united in its solidarity with Ukraine and will continue to support Ukraine and its people together with its international partners, including through additional political, financial and humanitarian support," it added.
In a Facebook post Tuesday, Ukrainian Energy MinisterHerman Halushchenk accused Russian forces of torturing the staff at theZaporizhzhia plant.
"There are about 500 Russian soldiers and 50 units of heavy equipment inside the station," he said.
The city is practically destroyed. No electricity, gas, heat, water. Mobile, Internet, radio and TV do not work in Izyum. All are in shelters,Synegubov said.
Ukraine launched a fresh effort to evacuate residents from battered areas across the country Wednesday, a day afterthousands escapedthe Russian assault through the war's first successful safe corridor.
Pelosi said the call involved discussion of a Russian airstrike thatravaged a maternity hospitalin the southern city of Mariupol.This is the beast that Putin is, she said, referring to Russia's president.
The new sanctions extending to Belarus, which include reduced access to the SWIFT banking system, came in response to the country's role in Russia's aggression, the European Commission said in a news release.
The Biden administration has ruled out transferring fighterjetstoUkrainebecause it would be a high risk step that could ratchet up tensions withRussia, the Defense Department said Wednesday.
Asked about Zelenskyy's call for a no-fly zone, Pelosi responded:They know that we cant go there."
The International Atomic Energy Agency said it has lost data transmission from its systems to monitor nuclear material at Chernobyl and another Ukrainian power plant that is now under the control of Russian troops.
The global lender said Ukrainian authorities had canceled an existing stand-by lending arrangement with the IMF, but would work with the fund to design an appropriate economic program focused on rehabilitation and growth when conditions permit.
At least 17 people were reported injured after a Ukrainianchildren's hospital in the southern city of Mariupol was severely damaged by a Russian airstrike, a regional official said.
Thousands of civilians were prevented from evacuating the Ukrainian town ofIzyum in the eastern Kharkiv region due to Russian shelling, the region's governor, Oleh Synegubov, said in a statement on Telegram.
The U.N. body said that while specialized services, including gender-based violence hotlines, had been reported to remain partially functional, it said access was "extremely limited for both staff and survivors due to the ongoing hostilities and movement restrictions."
The E.U. also announced sanctions against 160 Russian oligarchs and prominent business leaders, as well as members of theRussian Federation Council. The European Commission said it would ban exports of maritime navigation technology to Russia and added that its financial restrictions against the country would include crypto-assets.
Internet outages in Ukraine are becoming more common  with at least one city almost completely offline for a week  as Russia continues its advance on the country, cutting off civilians connections with the rest of the world.
Whether required by sanctions or simply as matters of choice, their actions include suspending operations in Russia, cutting ties with Russian clients, shutting down online and in-person sales to Russian consumers and freezing financial transactions.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said Wednesday it had confirmed the humanitarian corridor routes from the Russian side, Vereshchuk said.
The call came as Zelenskyy increased his pleasfor NATO to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
The Culture Ministrylauded the group, saying it was creating a strong movement of relief and resistance by collecting aid and providing psychological support.
The use of the bombs adds to concerns from human rights organizations that Russia has carried out indiscriminate attacks in populated civilian areas that could be considered war crimes.
She called the process of supplying fighter jets to Ukraine "complicated" and said: Poland could get the MiGs over to Ukraine directly. They proposed a different path. The United States, the Pentagon specifically, said they thought that particular proposal was untenable, but again, it comes from the best of intentions.
The human rights group said Wednesday that multiple bombs hit a small public square at about 12.15 p.m. local time March 3, citing its own investigation, based on interviews and video footage.
Officials so far have deemed Ukraine's appeals for additional fighter jets, as well as requests to impose ano-fly zone, as moves that would risk direct conflict with Russia.
Some global leaders are worried about sparking a war with the imposition of a no-fly zone over Russia, he said. But Putin has already said he considers external actions including sanctions as an act of war. As a result, Breedlove said countries should be open to all methods of opposition to Russia.
