Zelenskyy gets standing ovation after speech to European Parliament Nobody is going to break us
20220301
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/zelenskyy-gets-standing-ovation-speech-european-parliament-rcna18179
The European Parliament was nonetheless moved by Zelenskyy's words, standing and applauding for nearly a full minute after he concluded his remarks.
But an E.U. spokeswoman said Tuesday that joining "is a complex and quite lengthy process which usually takes years."
"As of today we neither accepted Ukraines application to join the E.U. nor do we have any special admission process underway," she said.
The speech came hours after Zelenskyy submitted an application to the European Union to grant Ukraine immediate membership into the bloc.
"Our people are very much motivated, very much so, we are fighting for our rights, for our freedoms, for our life," Zelenskyy said. "And now we are fighting for survival, and this isthe highest of our motivation."
"Believe you me," Zelenskyy continued. "Every square of today, no matter what its called, is going to be called 'freedom square' in every city of our country. Nobody is going to break us. We are strong. We are Ukrainians."
A translator was overcome with emotion during this point of the speech. His voice cracked repeatedly, and he took a deep breath in before gathering himself.
"We have proven our strength we have proven that as at a minimum we are exactly the same as you are," he said. "So do prove that you are with us, do prove that you wont let us go... and then life will win over death and light will win over darkness."
"But we are fighting also to be equal members of Europe. I believe that today we are showing everybody thats exactly what we are. The European Union is going to be much stronger withus  thats for sure."
He said the city houses more than 20 universities. Students and residents of Kharkiv often gather in Ukraine's largest square  Freedom Square  for celebrations, he said.
"Were dealing with reality, were dealing with killed people, real life you know," he said.
"Can you imagine, this morning two cruise missiles hit this freedom square, dozens of killed ones," Zelenskyy lamented. "This is the price of freedom."
The E.U. on Sunday announced new measures designed to bolster Ukraine in itsfight against Russia, while imposing bans on Russian aircraft and state-owned media outlets.
An impassioned speech by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy highlighting his countrys determination and worth received a standing ovation from the European Parliament and choked up a translator.
