Is a Russian invasion of Ukraine inevitable Former soldier and West Point professor gives insight
20220126
https://www.wkyc.com/article/news/nation-world/russian-invasion-ukraine-former-soldier-west-point-professor-insight/95-623ceb6e-81d5-4c8d-bdea-29986228ba91
Ukraine wanted to dissolve their agreement to continue allowing Russia to station the Black Sea Fleet in Crimea, but the Kremlin decided to take the peninsula and annex it before that could happen. The military invaded with little meaningful resistance.
CLEVELAND  To understand the current tensions between Ukraine and Russia, you have to go back to the beginning.
"I don't think Russia's deal is to make Ukraine Russia," Oluic said. "I think their goal it to keep it out of NATO. They see it as a buffer between Russia and what are quickly becoming enemies to the west. I believe that is their main goal: To keep that separation."
"Crimea has the black sea fleet for Russia," he explained. "It's a deep-water port where the Russian Navy was stationed."
A separation that will keep the U.S. and NATO from having bases in Ukraine, possibly stationing strategic weaponry facing Russia
"We cannot stop a Russian invasion of Ukraine," Retired United States Army Lt. Col. Steven Oluic told 3News. "It's impossible."
Ukraine has typically been part of the Russian empire, and remained as such with the rise of the U.S.S.R. in 1917. It and other Eastern European republics provided the cover of the "Iron Curtain" that split the continent in two.
"Based on a long military history  visiting Russia, working with Russian units in the Balkans  given the rhetoric, how they are poised, how they are bringing troops right now, I think they will invade," Oluic said. "Whether or not they want to occupy the country? I don't know."
Oluic previously served as a professor and assistant dean at West Point and is a military expert on Eastern Europe and the Middle East. He believes its Ukraine's geography that will make them fall victim to Russia, just like Crimea back in 2014.
When the Soviet Union dissolved in the early 1990s, Ukraine and other smaller Republicans became their own independent nations. However, unlike other Russian border countries like Estonia and Latvia, Ukraine is not a part of NATO, mostly because is has historically been one of the most corrupt countries in the region.
Oluic says an invasion will be quick and occur during the winter months. The same thing happened during World War II because the frozen terrain allowed Russian mechanized units to easily traverse the landscape.
The former soldier also admits Ukraine is in for a fight if Russia invades, one they could very well lose without external military support.
Ukraine does not want to be a part of Russia again, with Oluic confirming the country "wants to be an independent state that controls its own destiny." But while invading Ukraine has always been an option for Russia, that doesn't necessarily mean they're trying to reunite the U.S.S.R., either.
