 Sweden SVT Calls on EBU to Rethink Whether Russia Should Compete in Eurovision
20220224
https://eurovoix.com/2022/02/24/svt-ebu-rethink-russia-compete-eurovision/
The Eurovision Song Contest is a non-political cultural event that unites countries and celebrates differences through music. EBU members in both Russia and Ukraine have committed to participating in this years event in Turin and we intend to welcome and let artists from both countries participate in May. Of course, we continue to follow developments closely.
Separately this morning the Ukrainian public broadcaster has called on the EBU to suspend the membership of Russian broadcasters in the organisation:
The EBU needs to rethink. I sympathise with the basic idea of Eurovision as an apolitical event. But the situation in Europe is extremely serious, with Russias invasion of Ukraine. It crosses all boundaries. We have called on the EBU to change and will follow developments closely.
Update as of 17:45 CET on February 25: The EBU has announced Russia will not compete in Eurovision 2022.
The European Broadcasting Union has stated this morning that Russia remains welcome to compete in Eurovision 2022.
Since launching Eurovoix in April 2011, it has been a pleasure to find out more about this amazing continent through the Eurovision Family of Events. From starting out as a small site, it's been brilliant to see the site grow and flourish and continue to bring our readers everything from the world of Eurovision.
Speaking to GP, Hanna Stjrne the CEO of SVT shared her thoughts on the EBU statement, remarking:
Following a statement from the European Broadcasting Union that Russia remains welcome in the Eurovision Song Contest 2022, the CEO of SVT the Swedish public broadcaster has called on the EBU to reconsider. In a statement released to multiple outlets, the EBU stated this morning that:
SVT is the first broadcaster to publicly comment on whether Russia should be able to compete in Eurovision 2022, following the invasion of Ukraine this morning.
