Tonight  Iceland  Sweden   Portugal Select For Eurovision 2022
20220312
https://eurovoix.com/2022/03/12/tonight-iceland-sweden-portugal-select-eurovision-2022/
The Swedish selection for the Eurovision Song Contest 2022 comes to its climax this evening. Ten acts have secured a place in the final following five weeks of shows, among the acts are three past Eurovision participants Anna Bergendahl 2010, Robin Bengtsson 2017 and John Lundvik 2019.
Three presenters will be hosting this evenings show Bjrg Magnsdttir, Jn Jnsson and Ragnhildur Steinunn Jnsdttir.You can watch the Icelandic selection livehere.
Melodifestivalen 2022 comes to a close this evening with ten acts competing to represent Sweden in Turin this May.
The winner of Melodifestivalen 2022 will be determined by 50 public vote and 50 international jury vote. Eight international juries that will have a 50 say in the results of Melodifestivalen 2022, The line-up features the three most recent winning nations Italy, the Netherlands and Israel. The juries are:
Five acts will compete this evening in Reykjavik to represent Iceland in Turin. Following the semi-finals each act had to decide on the language in which they would perform, three have opted for Icelandic with the remaining two performing in English. The finalists are:
During the show, there will be guest performances from Dai og Gagnamagni Iceland 2021 and Tusse Sweden 2021. Tusse willreplaceGoA Ukraine 2021, who are not able to travel to Iceland due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The winner will be determined by 50 public televote and 50 jury voting. The voting will be broken down into seven regions for both the televote and jury they are:
Tonight the final national selections for the Eurovision Song Contest 2022 come to a close with three nations selecting for Turin.
In the event of a tie the act that receive the most points from the public will be the Portuguese representative.
The final this evening is being hosted by Filomena Cautela and Vasco Palmeirim. A number of performers will be making guest appearances during the show, they are:
Since launching Eurovoix in April 2011, it has been a pleasure to find out more about this amazing continent through the Eurovision Family of Events. From starting out as a small site, it's been brilliant to see the site grow and flourish and continue to bring our readers everything from the world of Eurovision.
The winner of Sngvakeppnin 2022 will be determined across two rounds of voting. In the first round of voting a jury and the public will vote with the two acts that receive the highest numbers of votes progressing to the Super Final. In the Super Final the Icelandic public will determine the winner.
From each semi-final five artists have qualified for the Grand Final and will now compete to represent Portugal in Turin, Italy this May. The running order is as follows:
Following two Semi-Finals this evening the final of the Icelandic selection for Eurovision 2022 takes place.
After two shows in the past week, the final of Festival da Cano 2022 takes place live this evening in Lisbon.
