A historical era of digital warfare in the Ukraine invasion
20220304
https://www.stuff.co.nz/business/opinion-analysis/300531617/a-historical-era-of-digital-warfare-in-the-ukraine-invasion
This saw Russia undertake a range of cyberattacks on Ukrainian infrastructure for months in advance. An investigation by the Wall Street Journal found that Russia launched a destabilisation campaign based around cyberattacks on the Ukraine state, business and citizens.
And with the likes of Britains Lancaster and Germanys Junker 88s bombers, warring countries were able to take the battle from the front line to the homes and workplaces of the populace.
Standing back a bit, the really interesting piece is how the web has allowed anyone, anywhere to become participants in the war.
Last week the Ukrainian digital transformation minister declared that he was forming a global IT army to battle with Russian internet assets and called for cyber specialists to join up and continue the fight.
READ MORE:  Why has Russia invaded Ukraine? The crisis explained   Russian threat to Ukraine: Kiwi firms advised to prepare for 'cyber' fall-out  Microsoft discovers malware on dozens of Ukraine networks  How Russia's military remade itself into a modern, efficient  deadly fighting machine  Russia attacks Ukraine, peace in Europe 'shattered'
And in something that is so bizarre it must be true, patriotic Ukrainian women are using Tinder to connect with invading Russian men.
For the next 10 weeks the battle for air raged, a battle narrowly won by the British with the result that Operation Sealion as the invasion was codenamed was postponed indefinitely.
And rather than a phoney war with little happening, its clear now that Russia was busily involved in cyber warfare in the time leading up to the actual physical crossing of the border.
Wired reports that over 175,000 people have subscribed to the service, and many are being assigned missions. These missions include denial of service attacks on 31 named Russian government websites, as well as targeting websites in neighbouring Belarus.
The social media networks have pushed back. Facebook refused the Russian governments request to stop fact checking and labelling of content by the state-backed media, and then removed their accounts altogether. Twitter gave advice to Ukrainians on how to protect their privacy.
Volunteer editors on Wikipedia have been documenting the Russian invasion of Ukraine as it happens in real time.
If that is right, then in the future rather than being phoney, the pre-physical digital fight will increasingly become as vicious as any wars that follow.
Meanwhile, observers are using Google maps harnessing satellites and cellphone signals to identify Russian troop movements in real time and posting them on social media. Google Street View is being used by invaders and defenders alike to direct troops.
Such potential underlined the import of the aerial Battle of Britain fought in autumn 1940. Hitler realised that to invade Britain, he needed air superiority. He launched a series of massive sorties sending more than 1000 planes a day across the English Channel, targeting airstrips and bombing the hell out of London and Coventry.
Looking at Russias invasion of Ukraine, a lot of parallels come to mind. Except that rather than air superiority, much of the battle to date has been about internet superiority.
Taken in total, it's likely that history will note the Ukrainian war as the moment in time when internet invasion became a prerequisite to ground invasion.
Last week it was reported that Russias biggest state-backed media outlets had used social media to claim the Ukrainian army had led unprovoked attacks and that Nato was planning chemical weapon attacks, in order to divide United Nations responses.
Meanwhile, messaging app Telegram has started removing channels that are being used for disinformation or state-sponsored counterintelligence.
The increase of Russian military men appearing on Ukrainian womens Tinder feeds is reportedly used for intel on soldiers  whereabouts and routing which they then supply to Ukrainian intelligence.
Never before has history been told as it happens and then shared globally. And never before have virtual global militias been assembled.
Mike MOD ODonnell is a professional director, writer and facilitator, and a regular opinion contributor.
This activity included Ddos and data wiping attacks on significant government and financial institutions websites, as well as disinformation and SMS panic attacks on citizens suggesting ATM networks were down and groceries had run out.
Post invasion, they pushed into social media with false claims that the Ukrainian government was conducting genocide of civilians. Likewise, unverified TikTok videos sourced to Russian agencies alleged to be real time triumphant battles were instead historical footage with doctored images and soundtracks.
All of this happened under the vengeful eye of the German Luftwaffe. World War II was the first war fought when the import of air cover was fully understood. Those that controlled the skies necessarily didnt control the land, but they did have the ability to paralyse it during daylight hours.
Other examples of the digitisation of warfare abound, from the US military using gaming on Amazon-owed Twitch as a recruitment device, to the likes of Apple and Google turning off their payment engines in Russia.
Think about this for a moment A cabinet minister of an invaded country doing global recruitment for digital soldiers of fortune to give him a hand.
OPINION: Eighty-two years ago this month, the so-called phoney war finished and World War II began in earnest with Germany invading Norway, then pushing into Western Europe with its blitzkrieg tactics.
