After a 90minute call with Putin Macron convinced that the worst is yet to come
20220303
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300532418/after-a-90minute-call-with-putin-macron-convinced-that-the-worst-is-yet-to-come
"Attempts to gain time by dragging negotiations will only lead to additional requirements for Kyiv in our negotiating position," Putin told Macron, according to the readout.
READ MORE:  War in Ukraine: Western businesses pull out of Russia  Winter Paralympics: Ukraine's sporting frontline is in Beijing after Russian athletes banned  Newlyweds join Ukraine territorial forces after reality of war with Russia hits home on the steps of the church
Macron is the only Western leader who has been in consistent public contact with Putin since the invasion of Ukraine, in an effort the French presidency has described as an attempt to keep the doors to meaningful negotiations open. Putin and Macron also spoke on Monday, and last Thursday.
Responding directly to those comments on Thursday, the Kremlin news service said Putin disagreed "with many points" raised in Macron's address, and he denied that Russia was behind the shelling of major Ukrainian cities - despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary.
According to the Kremlin's news service, Putin also took issue with an address to the nation Macron had given on Wednesday evening, in which he had condemned Putin's "brutal attack" on Ukraine and said "Putin chose the war".
Before the invasion, Macron had led Western efforts to prevent an escalation of the crisis through diplomatic channels, travelling to Moscow last month to keep Putin engaged. Since mid-December, the two leaders have spoken over a dozen times, according to the French presidency.
Russian President Vladimir Putin called French President Emmanuel Macron, in what appeared to have been a markedly more tense exchange than past conversations between the two leaders.
A senior French official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because it is French government practice, said Putin's remarks reflected a "determination to continue the military operation, and to continue it to the end".
In his speech, Macron had also said Putin's claims that he wants to "denazify" Ukraine are "a lie" and "an insult to the history of Russia and Ukraine, to the memory of our elders who fought side by side against Nazism".
The Kremlin's news service cited Putin as having told Macron that the objectives "of the special military operation" - the term the Kremlin has used to refer to Russia's invasion of Ukraine - "will be fulfilled in any case".
The 90-minute call on Thursday local time failed to deliver a diplomatic breakthrough, and a senior French official said it left Macron convinced that "the worst is yet to come" and that Putin aims to take control of all of Ukraine.
"Your country will pay dearly because it will end up as an isolated country, weakened and under sanctions for a very long time," Macron told Putin, according to a French official, who added that Macron "called on Vladimir Putin to not lie to himself".
The conversation, which the French said was initiated by Putin, came as Ukrainian officials were set to hold talks with a Russian delegation, according to Russian and Ukrainian officials. But based on the two leaders' exchange, there was no indication that a diplomatic solution could be in sight, according to French officials.
Macron has also been in frequent contact with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy  the last time on Thursday, following his call with Putin.
