Biden Russia war a genocide Putin trying to wipe out Ukraine
20220413
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/us-canada/300565736/biden-russia-war-a-genocide-putin-trying-to-wipe-out-ukraine
Yes, I called it genocide," he told reporters in Iowa on Tuesday local time shortly before boarding Air Force One to return to Washington. Its become clearer and clearer that Putin is just trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian."
Biden's comments drew praise from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who had encouraged Western leaders to use the term to describe Russia's invasion of his country.
A United Nations treaty, to which the US is a party, defines genocide as actions taken with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group.
That obligation was seen as blocking President Bill Clinton from declaring Rwandan Hutus killing of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis in 1994 as genocide, for example.
Past American leaders often have dodged formally declaring bloody campaigns such as Russias in Ukraine as genocide, hesitating to trigger an obligation that under international convention requires signing countries to intervene once genocide is formally identified.
During a trip to Europe last month, Biden faced controversy for a nine-word statement seemingly supporting regime change in Moscow, which would have represented a dramatic shift towards direct confrontation with another nuclear-armed country.
Biden said it would be up to lawyers to decide if Russia's conduct met the international standard for genocide, as Ukrainian officials have claimed, but said it sure seems that way to me.
At an earlier event in Menlo, Iowa, addressing spiking energy prices resulting from the war, Biden had implied that he thought Putin was carrying out genocide against Ukraine, but offered no details. Neither he nor his administration announced new consequences for Russia or assistance to Ukraine following Biden's public assessment.
READ MORE:  Biden calls for Putin to face war crimes trial over atrocities in Bucha, Ukraine  Russia's Vladimir Putin defends Ukraine war as possible use of chemical weapons is investigated  Twice-poisoned Kremlin critic Vladimir Kara-Murza arrested hours after calling Putin's government a 'regime of murderers'  Ukraine invasion: Putin says Russian attack will continue during rare public appearance
US President Joe Biden says Russia's war in Ukraine amounts to "genocide, accusing President Vladimir Putin of trying to wipe out the idea of even being a Ukrainian".
"Calling things by their names is essential to stand up to evil. We are grateful for US assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities.
Just last week Biden said he did not believe Russia's actions amounted to genocide, just that they constituted war crimes.
He clarified the comments days later, saying: I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt toward this man. I wasnt articulating a policy change.
More evidence is coming out literally of the horrible things that the Russians have done in Ukraine, and were only going to learn more and more about the devastation and let the lawyers decide internationally whether or not it qualifies, he said.
