Biden calls for Putin to face war crimes trial over atrocities in Bucha Ukraine
20220404
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300558303/biden-calls-for-putin-to-face-war-crimes-trial-over-atrocities-in-bucha-ukraine
The US and more than 40 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, after the passage of a resolution by the United Nations Human Rights Council to establish a commission of inquiry. There is another probe by the International Criminal Court, an independent body based in the Netherlands.
This guy is brutal and whats happening to Bucha is outrageous, and everyones seen it," Biden said.
READ MORE:  'Scenes from a horror movie' in body-strewn streets of Ukraine town, Bucha  Life in Ukraine: Four weeks ago, we had a normal life, now we just hope to live through the day  'Two Russian soldiers dead and 28 in hospital' after eating poisoned pastries from Ukrainian villagers  Jacinda Ardern: Reports of war atrocities in Ukraine 'beyond reprehensible'
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general, Iryna Venediktova, said. Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of the capital.
You saw what happened in Bucha, Biden said. He added that Putin is a war criminal.
Russia and the other four permanent members of the UN Security Council  Britain, China, France and the United States  all currently have seats on the 47-member-state rights council, which is based in Geneva.
Biden noted that he faced push back last month when he described Putin as a war criminal for the unfolding onslaught in Ukraine after hospitals and maternity wards were bombed. In his remarks on Monday, Biden made clear that label still applied.
Meanwhile, Biden's chief envoy to the United Nations, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, announced Monday that the US plans to seek a suspension of Russia from its seat on the UNs top human rights body in the wake of more indications Russian forces may have committed war crimes in Ukraine.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, tweeted Monday that the European Union will send investigators to Ukraine to help the local prosecutor general document war crimes.
We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue the fight. And we have to gather all the detail so this can be an actual -- have a war crimes trial, Biden said.
Bidens comments to reporters came after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Bucha, one of the towns surrounding Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found. Zelenskyy called the Russian actions genocide and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
US President Joe Biden on Monday local time called for a war crimes trial against Russia President Vladimir Putin and said hed seek more sanctions after reported atrocities in Ukraine.
