Bread porridge guns and radiation Chernobyl workers still on the clock 12 days after invasion
20220308
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300535834/bread-porridge-guns-and-radiation-chernobyl-workers-still-on-the-clock-12-days-after-invasion
Chernobyl, the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster in 1986, was never fully abandoned because even though it is no longer a working power station it still requires constant management from more than 1000 employees, who usually work in shifts.
A relative of one of the workers stuck at the plant told the BBC that the Russian side was willing to let them swap shifts, but that they could not guarantee their safety on the journey home, nor of workers travelling to take their place.
More than 100 workers at the plant in Ukraine are effectively still on the clock, sleeping at the site they went to work at as normal almost two weeks ago, BBC reports.
Russia has offered food, but it has been turned down as Ukraine believes that it was a propaganda stunt.
Russian troops swarmed into the plant's exclusion zone on day one of the invasion. It claimed to have secured the site jointly with the Ukrainian national guard, but Ukraine has disputed this and said Russian troops have full control.
Under these conditions, the workers' concentration gets worse and worse, and that is a threat to safety, Fomichev said.
The reality of what has been unfolding at the Chernobyl nuclear plant is becoming clearer, 12 days after invading Russian forces captured it.
Temporary sleeping quarters have been created with workers sleeping on camp stretchers, tables, or on the floor.
The workers, who are surrounded by armed Russian guards, remain stuck inside the plant they have to keep running smoothly, or risk minor to moderate nuclear fallout.
Fomichev said workers were limiting themselves to one meal a day - mainly bread and porridge  prepared by cooks who are also stuck inside the plant as they had no idea how long they would be there.
The atmosphere among the workers, and another 200 captured Ukrainians who were guarding the site was said to be calm, but conditions inside are difficult, with food and medicine limited, BBC reports.
READ MORE:  Assassination plot against Zelenskyy was foiled, unit sent to kill him was 'destroyed,' Ukraine says  Ukrainian border guards may have survived last stand against Russian forces on Snake Island  Russian forces take Chernobyl zone, Ukraine says, raising fears of 'ecological disaster'  Giant arch slides over Chernobyl site to block radiation for a century
Experts say radiation levels have been known to spike at Chernobyl, including a brief spike on the day of the invasion, but the risk of nuclear catastrophe from it is low, even if workers were to abandon it.
The situation is complicated and tense, Yuri Fomichev, Mayor of nearby town Slavutych, told the BBC. It is difficult for them morally, psychologically and physically.
