Condemn Russia but dont romanticise war
20220306
https://www.stuff.co.nz/opinion/127958027/condemn-russia-but-dont-romanticise-war
It's all empty words  spoken when convenient, ignored when not. This is why Condoleezza Rice, who was Secretary of State when the US invaded Iraq, has no shame to now appear on TV and agree that invading a sovereign nation is a war crime. Wasn't Iraq a sovereign nation? Don't international laws and norms apply to people of colour? Some Western TV anchors actually reminded their audiences that Ukraine was not some country in the Middle East or Africa, and that Ukrainians were prosperous, middle-class and fleeing from a civilised country. Never mind that Iraq and Syria are in fact known to be the cradle of civilization  that is not the point. The point is that we should not divide refugees into deserving and undeserving human beings.
Much has been said about the benevolence of the Eastern European countries for opening their doors to Ukrainian refugees. But, let's not forget that Hungary, for instance, erected a 180-kilometre long, 4 metre-high razor wire fence on its border with Serbia to keep desperate Syrian refugees out.
READ MORE:  Hamilton's river city refuge for Ukrainian refugees   368,000 Ukrainians flee to European countries, including some that previously spurned refugees  Refugee fear mongering must stop
Also let's not forget about the war crimes of the US-led Nato forces in Serbia and Montenegro, where many civilians were killed as internationally banned cluster bombs were dropped on a crowded outdoor market and hospital  and where a passenger train, TV station and the Chinese embassy were targeted and bombed, killing journalists and ordinary civilians.
When it comes to coverage of the Ukraine war, I have been amazed at the lack of serious discussion about the historical context, the role of broken promises on Nato expansion, and possible diplomatic solutions. Much of the current war commentary on social media seems frivolous, racist, hypocritical and unverified.
And that is not all they did. Together with the rest of the international community, the US looked the other way, when Iraq used nerve gas and mustard agents against Iranians and their own population too despite a ban under the 1925 Geneva Protocol. About a million Iranians were exposed to chemical agents during the war and about 75,000 victims still receive treatment for their injuries.
So, please excuse my cynicism if I don't believe in the international communitys crocodile tears for Ukraine or if I don't trust the Western powers' respect for international and humanitarian laws.
I lived through most of the Iran-Iraq war and experienced its nightmare. Warfare demands heroes and the Iran-Iraq war was no exception. Young men, some barely teenagers, filled with religious fervour, and allegedly with paradise keys hung over their necks, walked over Iraqi landmines to clear them for the Iranian army. They did this for the glory and love of their country  at least, that is what they believed. In reality, they were victims of geopolitical games in which the Americans sold weapons to both sides to prolong the war and safeguard their own oil interests.
OPINION: Let me be crystal clear: Russia is the aggressor, and it is absolutely right that we should stand united to condemn its war crimes in Ukraine.
Wars have unintended consequences think Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria etc. If we are to save Ukraine from an endless civil war, and ourselves from the possibility of being vaporised in a nuclear attack, we need to advocate more for consistency and diplomacy  and cheer less for war-glorifying propaganda.
Needless to say, a strong nation striking against a weaker one to impose its ideology, increase power, or gain control of valuable resources, is nothing new. The US, in particular, has a century-long history of overt and covert regime changes around the world and is currently conducting drone strikes in Somalia and supporting Saudi Arabia in their military intervention in Yemen where, shockingly, a child dies every 10 minutes.
Hopefully, by now, most people know that the 13 Ukrainian defenders of the Snake Island who told Russian navy go f yourself are likely all alive despite President Zelensky saying the troops died heroically. The story of Ghost of Kyiv, the lone pilot responsible for shooting down six Russian planes, has also been debunked. These stories, along with an avalanche of other miscaptioned photos and manipulated videos are designed to romanticise the war and gloss over its hellish aspects.
This is not to say that we should excuse or tolerate Putin's actions in Ukraine  we should not. But, if we truly care about living in a peaceful world, then we must be honest about the hypocrisy and militarism of the US and its Nato allies, and ask for accountability, no matter where atrocities and aggressions take place and which country bears responsibility for it.
I end with the words of great Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish. The war will end. The leaders will shake hands. The old woman will keep waiting for her martyred son. That girl will wait for her beloved husband. And those children will wait for their heroic father. I don't know who sold our homeland. But I saw who paid the price.
