Cut Russian Kiwis some slack they are us as well
20220315
https://www.stuff.co.nz/opinion/128057122/cut-russian-kiwis-some-slack-they-are-us-as-well
OPINION: Anyone who was in Aotearoa New Zealand on March 15, 2019 and was old enough to remember will know exactly where they were when they heard the news. It was certainly a day I will never forget. Immediately before I found out about it, I had seen my daughter with some of her friends. They and many others  participated in a global youth strike that day to make a stand on climate change. Their actions gave me great hope for the future. But little did we know what carnage was unfolding at that very moment about 300km away.
We must not buy into the hate speech and target, abuse and harass Russians for things that are not their fault. They have more than enough to worry about right now. So cut them some slack. Because they are us as well.
I vividly remember the USA and UK starting a war against Iraq, despite the UN's Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission failing to find weapons of mass destruction after carrying out 700 inspections in that country.But I dont remember Americans and Britons living here being abused and harassed for George W Bushs and Tony Blair's decisions. I never read of American or British children being bullied at school in sympathy for Iraq. I dont recall icons of Americana like McDonald's or British tea merchants being attacked. There were no liquor stores taking American bourbon or English gin off their shelves.
It is now time to think of our Russian  and Ukrainian  communities, who are going through a terrible time. They have families back home who are likely to be caught up in the conflict, even though it was none of their making.
Of course, I am referring to the Christchurch mosque shootings, which resulted in the deaths of 51 of our Muslim brothers and sisters, and physical and psychological injuries to many more. The events of that day horrified us as a nation, and rightly so.
The vast majority of us rejected this message of hate that was behind the massacre. We were disgusted by people being targeted because of their race or religion. We said we must never let it happen again. And we said, They are us.
In a recent story, veteran protestor John Minto quoted a friend, who spoke of: the blue-eyed response to wars and refugees. If the victims have blue eyes, well shout from the rooftops. If theyve got brown eyes, too bad. We look the other way.
Minto makes a very valid point. The fact that we see Ukrainians as looking like most of us either consciously or subconsciously makes us more empathetic to them than we were to browner-skinned Iraqis. And it probably doesnt help that the latter were predominantly Muslims.
Russians here are being targeted and harassed. Just last week, my wife, who is ethnically Russian although not from Russia itself, was publicly abused, even though she has been here for more than 20 years. Russian-owned businesses are being attacked. Russian products like vodka are being taken off shelves. Russian children are being bullied at school. I have lost count of the number of anti-Russian racist memes and jokes I have seen circulating recently. I have even seen videos and posts on social media where people are calling for Russians to be killed and even subjected to nuclear attacks, while social media censors, who are usually quick to respond to the slightest infringement, seem to be completely ignoring them.
It would not be until quite a few years later that we would finally acknowledge, They are us, and embrace our Muslim brothers and sisters after the Christchurch mosque shootings.
It should therefore come as no surprise that many Russians, some of whom have been here for decades, are now living in genuine fear. They are being targeted for their heritage. Being blamed for events on the other side of the world. And being made accountable for decisions they played no part in.
READ MORE:  Parliament unanimously passes Russia sanctions law, first step in 'significant' change for NZ's foreign policy  Terrified and trapped: Kiwi Ukrainians fear for parents' safety amid missile attacks  Russian Kiwis copping abuse and harassment in wake of Ukraine invasion
But to dismiss the plight of Russians here as being trivial compared with what is happening there is missing the point. The sheer vitriol that has been directed at all Russians has surprised me.
Yet with the benefit of hindsight, we can now identify some disturbing precursors. Notwithstanding the extreme views of the perpetrator and the factors that led to his radicalisation, the ugly face of Islamophobia had been present here for some time. Muslims were frequently demonised, misrepresented, and equated with terrorists by far-right commentators. So is it any great surprise that some people consciously and subconsciously developed Islamophobic views?
But it would seem we have very short memories. While I grieve for what is happening in Ukraine, I am distressed by the rapid rise of persecution of Russians in our country.
