Desperate Kiwi Ukranians say lack of urgency on special visas could cost lives
20220317
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/128070598/desperate-kiwi-ukranians-say-lack-of-urgency-on-special-visas-could-cost-lives
They also confirmed Ukranian nationals approved for the visa will be exempt from vaccination and pre-departure testing requirements and will be eligible for publicly-funded healthcare while in New Zealand.
And none of it can be planned until they get the go ahead from the Government.
Sellar said the ongoing stress is affecting her work. Shes unable to concentrate and spends most waking moments planning how she will help her parents get out of hellish conditions they are living under.
Hogg said they were expecting a surge in applications but expected to get back to people within three working days of receiving the initial sponsorship form.
Tired, distressed, and staying with an acquaintance of a friend, she is safe, but Bidney wants to bring her to his home in Pegasus, North Canterbury, as soon as possible.
Leaving their animals and their livelihood behind, the couple, who are in their mid-50s, will have to undertake a dangerous journey to reach neighbouring Moldova.
Strategically located on the Dnieper River, Nova Kakhovka supplies the Crimean Peninsula with 85 per cent of its water via a channel.
They stay on their farm faced with only two choices, knowing that both could end their lives.
Its a situation where every minute, hour and day could be the bridge between life and death which is why Alina Sellars wants the New Zealand Government to move at a faster pace.
Now the fresh water supply was restored by Russian forces when they overtook the city.
While the couple have more food supplies than most, the staples have been depleted and Sellars father tries to deliver anything he can to starving villagers.
INZ border and visa operations general manager Nicola Hogg said a dedicated team was working as quickly as possible, and she expected most visas would be issued within three weeks of the applicants receiving an invitation to apply.
With parents Anatolii and Svatlana Hrab trapped and frightened and the chilling sounds of bombing growing louder, every moment has become critical.
READ MORE:  'We have been ignored': Non-visa waiver families react to border announcement  Return of working holidaymakers will ease hospitality and horticulture labour woes, but 'too late' for harvest  Terrified and trapped: Kiwi Ukrainians fear for parents' safety amid missile attacks
Immigration New Zealand INZ said if a visa was granted it could take up to three weeks.
Bidneys grateful for special visas, but weary about what criteria might be applied and how long it could take to be granted.
An hour east in Nova Kakhovka, Victoria Uluis parents and her brother are slowly being assimilated into Russia and fear Putin intends to carve off southern Ukraine permanently.
Minister of Immigration Kris Faafoi rejected criticism of the visas, saying the Government had implemented an unprecedented scale of assistance.
Food supplies remain low, and as battles continue nearby, mines have been planted just outside the city, as Russian soldiers continue to occupy the valuable region.
But neither can they trust the promise of a green corridor at the end of March, or its guarantee of safety.
At the moment they know they must stay where they are, after friends and their children were shot when they tried to flee the capital in a car.
There is nothing I can do, Sellar said of her parents from her home in Invercargill.
But three days later she still hasnt received an acknowledgement of the first step in the process, leaving her and other anxious New Zealand-based relatives fearful a lack of urgency could cost their loved ones their lives.
From Invercargill, Uluis husband Cory said they had stopped watching the news because it was too distressing.
While their friends survived their injuries, the shooting was a reminder of how unstable the situation is.
Its no mans land, under a hostile Russian occupation in Kherson where starvation and desperation meet in the eyes of those who are unable to leave.
However, unlike Sellar, the Uluis believe their parents have a safe route out via a bus service that will take them to Crimea, but getting them out of Russia may prove to be a complex process.
Sponsors would be responsible for arranging and funding travel as well as accommodation and living costs.
Sellar knows being turned back at a checkpoint by Russian soldiers is the best they can hope for if theyre stopped, but with daily reports of civilians being randomly shot, she doesnt want them to take that risk.
A letter headed with a Russian Federation emblem was delivered to their apartment, asking for volunteers to form a police patrol to stop looting and riots on the streets.
The channel, taking water from the Dnieper to arid areas of Ukraines Kerson region and the Crimea during the Soviet era, was cut off by the Ukraine after Russia annexed the peninsula in 2014.
With the city encircled and Russian soldiers reigning bombs down on major buildings, Liudmyla endured much before she left.
As soon as Sellar gets the visa she will fly to Moldova to wait for her parents, but she worries that could be weeks away.
She said there would be no income threshold for those applying, but applicants would have to meet health and character requirements.
As soon as the Government announced a special Ukraine temporary visa would be allowed for up to 4000 family members of Ukrainian-born Kiwis, Sellars registered online.
Should they escape and risk being shot like their friends in Kyiv, or do they wait for a green corridor where they could face the same fate?
Eugene Bidneys mother Liudmyla, 67, managed to flee Kyiv and get to Poland by car two days ago.
