Everything is on fire Ukraine region weathers bombardment
20220621
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300618953/everything-is-on-fire-ukraine-region-weathers-bombardment
The Russian military currently controls about 95 of the Luhansk region. But Moscow has struggled for weeks to overrun it completely, despite deploying additional troops and possessing a massive advantage in military assets.
Geopolitical tensions stemming from Russias invasion returned to Lithuania. Due to European Union sanctions on Moscow, the Baltic country earlier this month banned rail traffic from crossing its territory from Russia to the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad.
Today everything that can burn is on fire, said Serhiy Haidai, the governor of Ukraines eastern Luhansk region.
The defence of the chemical plant recalled the besieged Azovstal steel mill in the brutalised city of Mariupol, where Ukrainian troops were pinned down for weeks.
READ MORE:  Russian journalist auctioning off his Nobel Peace Prize to help Ukraine's displaced children  By the numbers: What New Zealand does, or says it will do, to help refugees  Hundreds of civilians missing, taken or simply gone: The untold toll of the Ukraine war  Ukraine 'likely' seeing desertions, says UK as Nato chief warns war could last 'years'
Russias war has caused alarm over food supplies from Ukraine to the rest of the world and gas supplies from Russia, as well as raising questions about security in Western Europe.
It is a sheer catastrophe, Haidai told the AP in written comments about the plant. Our positions are being fired at from howitzers, multiple rocket launchers, large-calibre artillery, missile strikes.
The relevant measures are being drawn up in an inter-agency format and will be adopted shortly, Patrushev said, without elaborating.
In the city of Sievierodonetsk, the hotspot of the fighting, Ukrainian defenders held on to the Azot chemical plant in the industrial outskirts. About 500 civilians are sheltering at the plant, and Haidai said the Russian forces are turning the area into ruins.
Neighbouring Lysychansk, the only city in the Luhansk region that is still fully under Ukrainian control, is also the target of multiple air strikes.
Air strikes on Sievierodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk have ruined more than 10 residential buildings and a police station. In the city of Avdiivka in the Donetsk region, a school burned down as the result of the shelling, the presidents office said.
Russian attacks laid down a curtain of fire on Tuesday across areas of eastern Ukraine where pockets of resistance are denying Moscow full military control of the region, almost four months after the Kremlin unleashed an invasion.
Kaliningrad, with a population of around 430,000 people, is wedged between Lithuania and Poland, both EU countries, and is isolated from the rest of Russia.
According to its daily update, Russian forces over the day shelled the northern Chernihiv region, and intensified their shelling of Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city. Explosions also occurred on Tuesday morning in the southern city of Mykolaiv.
Meanwhile, Russian authorities blocked the website of British newspaper The Telegraph over an article it published, the internet rights group Roskomsvoboda reported on Tuesday.
He added: Their consequences will have a significant negative impact on the population of Lithuania.
The Telegraph story alleged that Russian forces had prepared a mobile crematorium for use in its war with Ukraine, possibly to hide its military casualties.
The group said in an online statement that Russias media and internet regulator, Roskomnadzor, blocked Russian access to a story Moscow described as fake news. The move made the entire Telegraph website inaccessible for some Russians.
International support for Ukraines plight was showed once more when a Nobel Peace Prize medal auctioned off by Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov sold Monday night for US$103.5 million, shattering the old record for a Nobel. The auction aimed to raise money for Ukrainian child refugees.
The two planned to discuss US and international efforts to help Ukraine identify, apprehend and prosecute anyone involved in war crimes and other atrocities there, a US Justice Department official said. The official could not discuss details of the trip publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
Separately, US Attorney General Merrick Garland was making an unannounced visit to Ukraine on Tuesday to meet with Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova.
Nikolai Patrushev, the powerful secretary of the Kremlins Security Council and a hardliner, visited Kaliningrad on Tuesday and vowed to respond to the ban.
The Ukrainian presidents office said on Tuesday that at least six civilians had been killed over the previous 24 hours, and 16 others were wounded.
