Getting old is a drag but being youngs no picnic either
20220721
https://www.stuff.co.nz/opinion/129339975/getting-old-is-a-drag-but-being-youngs-no-picnic-either
It's a drag getting old. The Rolling Stones, aged 500, got that right. Being a baby boomer is to be loathed by young people for owning houses, making house prices too high, and for making them pay for their tertiary education, which was a lousy idea and should be reversed.
Like Germaine Greer, who gave a town hall address in Auckland back then, he offended the police by using the word bulls..t at a protest. We were still a young and innocent country and had yet to learn shorter words.
If Sir Tim were to win office again it would be for the tenth time, which Biden could never dream of, though Donald Trump, an ambitious contemporary of both, probably could.
I thought of Shadbolt this week when American President Joe Biden was said to be under pressure from the Democrats not to run for office again.
We didnt expect pandemics, but we now have Covid, and it looks to be around for years to come. We have too few doctors and nurses, and too little money to look after the vulnerable. Mental health problems never seem to get solved, and midwives, having swooped childbirth services away from GPs, now claim that they dont get paid enough, and there arent enough of them anyway.
READ MORE:  Do TV bosses know something? Life's spooky mirroring of TV dramas  We need to look at the world were making for our children   When the news is grim, only icecream and Wordle can help  Rosemary McLeod: New life and old deaths - both inevitable and both scary  Rosemary McLeod: Disaster or success, it's every man and woman for themselves
Market forces predicted none of this, to no-ones surprise. We must be the least intelligent and the filthiest species on the planet, and were wiping out the rest.
The impertinence of others is one of the many annoyances of age, to which Id add arthritis, a sudden interest in reading about royalty, the expectation that youll wear maroon velvet slippers with fluffy linings, and people talking too quietly.
Being young isnt all its cracked up to be. Thats true too. The world is in a mess. With furious fires in France, heat waves are making life miserable across Europe, North America, China, India, and Pakistan. Random wildfires strike even in the Arctic. Polar bears are as bewildered as I am.
Enjoy attractive returns from retirement village assets, read one chirpy ad this week. Time was when we were called people.
None of them is a patch on American politician Nancy Pelosi, 82-year-old Speaker of the US House of Representatives. Just saying.
I get that I was in the world that made this mess, but I resent being blamed, and Im not mad keen on the current growth business thats all about shunting older people out of sight and mind, in intergenerational disgrace.
I can see that Invercargill Mayor Sir Tim Shadbolt, then, suffers from the passing of time, though in my mind hes really the ebullient, long-haired author of Bulls..t and Jellybeans, a media darling of the 1970s.
OPINION: When people youve known for years start to look like blurry versions of their former selves, you congratulate yourself. Luckily you are unchanged. Youthful.
Scientists predicted climate change long ago if we didnt alter our habits, the biggest polluting countries were the least interested in cleaning up their act, and now, with microplastics integrated into the food we eat and water we drink, and with the oceans full of plastic junk, it seems action is almost too late.
A bit later you realise that the person you see in the mirror is yourself. You had assumed they were an imposter. Having to wear glasses clinches it. People you know really are getting old.
The Ukraine war contributes to human misery, including the fate of its wheat crop, believed to be in Russian hands, and the inevitable starvation of people who depend on it for food.
