Is the Russian economy headed for collapse
20220315
https://www.stuff.co.nz/business/world/300542372/is-the-russian-economy-headed-for-collapse
READ MORE:  Russias war driving up wheat prices and threatening global supplies of bread, meat and eggs  Fonterra should walk away from Russia, says Federated Farmers  What is Vladimir Putins endgame in Ukraine?  Russian sanctions are biting harder than it could have imagined, and it will get worse
At the time, Russias market-value GDP had bottomed out at US$210 billion, making it the worlds 24th largest economy, behind Austria. All contemporary GDP figures are from the October 2021 World Economic Outlook published by the International Monetary Fund.
Russian stocks traded on the UK market have fallen by 98 per cent, wiping out US$572 billion of wealth, while stocks on Russian exchanges remain suspended.
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons licence. Read the original article here.
A countrys market-rate GDP is its GDP converted to a global currency like the US dollar. While there are other ways to measure GDP, when it comes to global trade and investment  and economic power  the market rate is what matters.
Russias market-rate GDP in 2021 was US$1.65 trillion, enough to make it the worlds 11th largest economy, behind South Korea. If we crudely convert Russias 2021 estimated GDP by March 7, 2022, currency rates, rather than the average exchange rate used last year, and place it against the 2021 market-rate GDP table, the rankings change and Russia slides to 22nd place, falling between Taiwan and Poland.
This drop is likely an underestimate. While a falling ruble lowers Russias exchange rate of its GDP to US dollars, its weakening economy lowers its ruble GDP directly. And Russias isolation will erode its economic competitiveness, widening the economic gap further in the medium term.
ANALYSIS: To justify invading Ukraine, Vladimir Putin has painted Russia as a hegemonic power reasserting its rightful claim to imperial greatness. Yet even before the invasion, Russias economic capabilities were hardly capable of sustaining an empire.
Thats a far cry from the past, when Russia was a true world power. According to data assembled by the late economic historian Angus Maddison, it was the fifth largest economy in the world in 1913, behind the United States, China, Germany and Britain. By 1957, when the USSR outpaced the United States to launch the first satellite into space, the Soviet economy was the worlds second largest after Americas.
Russias invasion of Ukraine, against the backdrop of Russias market-rate GDP losing a third of its value between 2013 and 2020, represents a doubling down of Putins strategy to seek legitimacy from great power status rather than economic performance.
Putin was elected president following the chaotic disintegration of the Soviet Union and the 1998 financial crisis in which Russia defaulted on its debt and abandoned its fixed exchange rate.
The Russian currency has fallen to 155 rubles per dollar  a drop of more than 50 per cent from 75 rubles per US dollar before the invasion. If not for recent capital controls and the rising prices of commodities  brought about by the sanctions themselves  that make up the majority of Russias exports, it would fall even further.
But what these figures do make clear is that Putins claim to legitimacy through economic performance is all but destroyed. With great power status tied closely to economic power, Putins back-door source of legitimacy from stirring up nationalist pride now seems closed as well.
Now, with foreign sanctions presiding over a plummeting Russian ruble, Russias economic standing has fallen further still. If measured at todays exchange rates, Russias economy would be the 22nd largest in the world, with a gross domestic product GDP not much larger than the state of Ohios.
Putin established an informal social contract with the Russian people based on his ability to deliver strong economic growth. Under Putins rule, and buoyed by a commodity price supercycle that would stretch well into the 21st century, Russias GDP in market exchange rates rose tenfold, returning Russia to global relevance and providing purchasing power to its middle class.
Robert F. Kennedy famously observed that GDP failed to account for many things that we care about  like health and education. The fall in Russias market-rate GDP cannot begin to describe the human tragedy playing out in both Ukraine and Russia.
Putin may have led Russia from one Times of Troubles, but he has delivered it to another one. Thats cold comfort to the Ukrainians, and indeed to the rest of the world, who are wondering Putins next move.
However, Russia researchers argued that as Russias economy began to flag, from a peak in 2013, Putin sought new legitimacy to govern through foreign policy actions to re-establish Russias status as a great power. These efforts were epitomised by the Crimean annexation of 2014.
Ukrainians confronted with the oncoming Russian army were wise to Putins chimeric strategy. Dont you have problems in your country to solve? Are you all rich there, as in the Emirates? one elderly man heckled Russian soldiers.
