It was tearjerking  emotional support for Ukraine in Christchurch march
20220227
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/127902132/it-was-tearjerking--emotional-support-for-ukraine-in-christchurch-march
Many carried the same slogan: Stop Putin  a reference to Russian president Vladimir Putin, who is driving the invasion.
The pair have not evacuated to a bomb shelter or subway due to the risk of contracting Covid-19 from the crowds of people. Khorozova said her grandfather, Vova, is immunocompromised.
The protesters marched through central Christchurch, carrying Ukrainian flags and various placards, painted in the country's signature blue and yellow colours.
Still, Khorozova said they know what it is like to leave home. In 1986, her grandparents were forced to leave everything behind in the city of Pripyat, as a nuclear disaster unfolded at nearby Chernobyl.  Pripyat remains abandoned today.
Every phone call that you get, its a bit of hope, she said, But then also it could be the last phone call you get.
Until the bombs start flying next to them and shattering stuff next to them, theyre not going to leave.
I just want people to know that they shouldn't be in the mind of sitting back and relaxing because it does affect us, and even if they dont have direct ties to Ukraine or Ukrainian community, its a big thing.
It was just amazing because I got to talk to a few people and they dont necessarily have ties to the Ukrainian community, but theyre just showing their support and trying to spread awareness, she said.
The 21-year-old was born in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, but emigrated to New Zealand when she was 18 months old. On Saturday, she joined about 150 people in Christchurch on a march protesting Russias invasion of the eastern European nation. The conflict has already killed nearly 200 people and caused some 120,000 Ukrainians to flee. A curfew is in place in Kyiv until at least Monday.
Her grandparents live in Kyiv and are remaining in their apartment for now. They have two bags packed and waiting by the door: one with emergency evacuation equipment and the other with valuables.
READ MORE:  'Its just not nice': Russian goods shop in Christchurch defaced with graffiti  Ukraine's President refuses to flee, urges the country to stand firm  Stark image shows no planes above Ukraine as Russia mounts invasion
