Jacinda Ardern Reports of war atrocities in Ukraine beyond reprehensible
20220404
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/politics/128262248/jacinda-ardern-reports-of-war-atrocities-in-ukraine-beyond-reprehensible
Human Rights Watch on Sunday also published a report documenting apparent war crimes perpetrated by Russian forces, including rape, summary executions, and other unlawful violence against civilians.
Russian military forces have in recent days withdrawn from areas surrounding Ukraines capital, Kyiv, changing strategy six weeks into a full scale invasion of the country.
We are very actively supporting the gathering of evidence for an International Criminal Court process.
Others included were billionaire businessman Alexander Ponomarenko, steel and mining magnate Alexei Mordashov, and numerous members of the wealthy Rotenburg family, which including the wifes and sons of oligarchs Boris and Arkady Rotenburg.
They will not be able to travel to Aotearoa New Zealand, move assets here, or use our financial systems to hide from sanctions imposed by other countries, Mahuta said.
There's more things that we are looking to do in short-order around sanctions, there's more that we're looking to do around importation controls, and there's more that we're looking to do around our people supporting some of the efforts ... were considering whether theres anything more we can do in that space, Ardern said.
But every piece of evidence points to the fact that there are war crimes being committed by Russia, in Ukraine, at the hands of the president, Vladimir Putin.
Ardern said New Zealand had already joined other countries in referring Russias actions to the International Criminal Court, and it was for the court to determine whether the crimes made Putin a war criminal.
Russia must answer to the world for what it has done. It goes without saying that these atrocities are against international law, Ardern said.
Ardern, speaking at a news conference on Monday afternoon, promised to escalate the Governments response to Russia invasion of Ukraine after the beyond reprehensible reports of rapes, killings, and woundings of Ukrainian civilians emerged.
As the Russian forces target the countrys east, numerous reports and images of mass graves and bodies on streets have emerged. The Associated Press reported that the bodies of 410 civilians were found in reclaimed towns near Kyiv.
The Government last week sent nine intelligence analysts to the UK and Belgium to help gather intelligence on the war.
Ardern said Cabinet had on Monday considered further measures that would send a strong message to Russia, including further deployments of soldiers that may assist the international effort to bolster Ukraines defence.
READ MORE:  PM Jacinda Ardern conveys New Zealand's support during call with Ukrainian counterpart  A Russian gymnast wore a 'Z' on his chest - Why has it become the symbol of war?  Marlborough winemaker 'stays calm' and stands strong as homeland Ukraine attacked
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says reported atrocities in Ukraine are evidence of war crimes at the hands Russia, as New Zealand places further sanctions on Russian oligarchs and their families.
On Monday night, the Government announced a second round of sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin and what Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta called some of Russias richest businesspeople who support him.
Among the 36 Russians sanctioned was Roman Abramovich, the former owner of the Chelsea football team who has been helping to negotiate a peace agreement between Ukraine and Russia.
