Just how war is Life on the Ukrainian frontline where Kiwi soldier died
20220825
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/129689272/just-how-war-is-life-on-the-ukrainian-frontline-where-kiwi-soldier-died
Former NZDF rifleman Aaron Wood, spokesperson for the No Duff veterans trust, said this was the type of full noise fighting not seen since WWII.
Those with Abelen at the time, and others supporting his family back home, wont disclose the exact spot where the corporal from Blenheim fell.
Those working behind the frontlines are trying to secure supplies: Toyota Hiluxes, buses, tourniquets. Ukrainian civilians have swapped out knitting baby booties for ghillie suits tech experts are making drones to integrate with the military response.
Abelen exchanged fire with the enemy, before the order to disengage and fall back was given.
It is understood another Kiwi involved in the operation was hit, but his chest plate saved him from serious injury. Another US-born counterpart fighting as part of Ukraines foreign legion was injured and died shortly after. Two others were injured and are recovering in hospital.
They moved in on the trenches dug into the rolling grassy fields, working on the assumption that Russian soldiers were present, they just didnt know where or how many.
Ukrainian journalist Tanya Kozyreva put it best when she said: war can sound tidy when its described with words like phases, offensives and territory, but its not tidy ... It has no clean edges where it ends and normal life resumes.
The situation on the front isnt only complicated, its unlike any other war effort in modern memory. The intensity of the warfare, the high casualty rate and the variation of skills and backgrounds of those fighting for Ukraine present a range of obstacles.
Drones used to gather intelligence didnt show any enemy presence, but another Kiwi who was with Abelen at the time said that was not uncommon. Russian soldiers likely heard the drones and hid.
Its not the counter-insurgency work many modern militaries are used to its not the close-range conflict of Timor-Lestes jungles its not the steep hills and cavernous ravines of Afghanistan. There is technology, like drones and long-range precision rockets, but the primary approach is one well-worn.
The terrain where the fighting takes place can be likened to that of Waikato or Canterbury  rolling hills and open expanses. Throughout the front there are areas covered in trees that act as shelter belts for fighting and often rubble-strewn towns used strategically as fortress villages, to hold the enemy at bay.
In the early 1800s Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz wrote the book, Vom Kriege, or On War. It became a manual for virtually every military in the world. And historically speaking, the type of strategy he outlines is an armys bread and butter  they all train for high-intensity warfare, it just hasnt been used in a sustained conflict in modern memory.
Add to this the dangers that come with unskilled soldiers on the frontline, and relying on foreign fighters to remain committed to another nations war effort.
Ukraine has professionalised its army since 2014, but it wasnt ready for this. Ukraine is building an army while fighting a war, Wood said.
Then there are the safety issues facing those who remain, including Kiwi soldiers and support staff.
Six months in, military losses have been heavy on both sides, with about 9000 Ukrainians and as many as 25,000 Russians said to be killed.
Under the cover of night, just before first light, Dominic Abelen was one of a group of soldiers that moved on a Russian trench system along the Eastern Ukraine front.
Those whove spoken to Stuff about the situation on the ground in Ukraine say its this all-of-country effort the dogged determination that has drawn veterans from around the world, including a young infantryman from Aotearoa, to Ukraines frontlines.
Its hard to know exactly how many Kiwis are there. The Defence Force says it does not know how many serving New Zealand soldiers may be fighting in Ukraine, without permission, and it doesnt track former personnel. But best estimates put the number around 100, with about 10 at the front.
Kiwis on the frontline say their technical and communication skills have been welcomed in the legion  a force made up of tens of thousands of foreigners whove left the safety of their home countries to join the Ukraine war effort. Many for the same reasons as Abelen.
The objective for those part of the joint operation, carried out under the Ukraine flag, was to retake the trenches.
The veteran estimates Ukraines sections, platoons, companies and battalions are operating somewhere between 50 and 70 of standard military capacity.
Partly, its tricky to talk in specifics because those fighting on the frontline are engaging in operations in one spot, before withdrawing to regroup and recover, and popping up in another position. Rinse and repeat.
This type of topography lends itself to the high-intensity, trench-style warfare employed by Ukrainian and Russian forces for the past six months.
The question is whether there are enough people coming on-stream, and being trained to the required level, to hold Russian forces at bay. So far, they have done well against one of the worlds largest military powers, but in recent months havent had the forces to push the enemy back.
At the moment, its warm on the front. But as the weather turns, and temperatures plummet, the reality of trench warfare in the winter will be harsh.
READ MORE:  'Always thinking of helping others': Father of soldier killed in Ukraine gives heartfelt tribute  Defence Force unsure how many NZ soldiers are fighting in Ukraine  Where does the Ukraine war stand after six months?
Meanwhile, the foreign legion isnt without its issues. Earlier this month, reports emerged of alleged abuse, leadership issues and so-called suicide missions in certain wings.
It wasnt bad intelligence, it was just how war is, said a Kiwi soldier, who was part of the operation. Its a complicated situation of course. Stuff has chosen to withhold his name for his safety while in Ukraine.
