Macron leads French presidential race despite barely campaigning
20220310
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300544081/macron-leads-french-presidential-race-despite-barely-campaigning
Polls see Macron about 10 percentage points ahead of far-right contender Marine Le Pen, placing them both in a position to reach the runoff and replay the 2017 election. They show that in that case the French president is widely expected to win.
Therefore, we can see that Macrons adversaries have no experience equivalent to the presidential function, or even as key ministers, and are de facto in a situation of inferiority, he noted.
Even though he formally announced he is running for a second term at the beginning of the month, Macron has not held any rallies yet.
He promised to answer at length journalists' questions in a news conference on Thursday afternoon  an effort to show hes not avoiding difficult issues, his entourage said.
Before him, France's greatest figures have proven their leadership in situations of war  from Napoleon to Charles de Gaulle. French public opinion is very much rooted in that history, Garrigues told the AP.
Rivals have accused Macron of focusing on the situation in Ukraine to avoid speaking about domestic issues which may prove more tricky for him.
Tired-looking. Unshaven. Wearing jeans and a hoodie. As he runs for re-election next month, French President Emmanuel Macron released unusual pictures of himself working nights and weekends at the Elysee palace, where he is spending most of his time focusing on the war in Ukraine  while avoiding traditional campaign activities.
In recent days, he pushed for a cease-fire in phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and spoke on an almost daily basis with Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The centrist is expected to unveil his proposals for the next five years, including a controversial pension reform to raise the retirement age from 62 to 65.
Macron himself acknowledged the risk in a behind-the-scenes video posted on his campaign's Youtube channel. That's what I'm going to tell the French, and also my supporters: If they think it's done, it means we have lost, he said.
Political history expert Jean Garrigues stressed the unifying impact around the head of state in a war-related situation. He recalled that the same effect was noticeable when Macrons predecessor, Francois Hollande, launched a military operation in Mali to drive Islamic extremists from power.
"It gives the impression that Macron in 2017 has been elected on a promise to renew politics and that Macron in 2022 wants to be elected on the promise of having experience, he said in an interview with French newspaper LOpinion. Polls show a majority of French people, whether they intend to vote for him or not, consider he is up to the job, he stressed.
Macron was criticised by other candidates for refusing to take part in any televised debate before the first round, scheduled on April 10.
A government official involved in Macrons campaign said the president wants to respond to criticism. He will fully be campaigning in the coming days.
Pollster Bernard Sananes, president of poll institute Elabe, said that obviously the international situation is reinforcing his stature.
Another far-right candidate, Eric Zemmour, far-left figure Jean-Luc Mlenchon, and conservative contender Valrie Pcresse are amid other key challengers.
Next week, he is expected to be seen alongside US President Joe Biden, who is to come to Brussels for a NATO summit.
Advocates for Macron argue that the situation in Ukraine involves key domestic issues that are being fully debated in the campaign, like energy and defence policies.
Le Pen said Macron is using the war in Ukraine to scare French people, because he thinks scaring can benefit him.
When theres a war, theres a reflex to be legitimist," Pcresse said. "People think: theres a captain leading the operation ... We must not be afraid to change the captain on April 11," she added.
READ MORE:  'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair  Europe's plan to ditch Russian energy could lead to price shocks and political blowback  France bans outside heaters, air conditioners at eateries to help the environment
Last week, he gathered EU leaders at the Versailles palace, west of Paris, to discuss sanctions against Russia. France holds the rotating presidency of the European Union Council, which gives Macron a key role in coordinating the bloc of 27s response.
Pollsters said Macron's greatest challenge as the frontrunner may be a low turnout, with sympathisers not going to polling stations because they think he will win, while those angry at his policies would further mobilise.
If it's a campaign strategy it seems to be paying off, reinforcing his position of frontrunner in the presidential race while making it difficult for other contenders to challenge him.
