Marlborough winemaker stays calm and stands strong as homeland Ukraine attacked
20220226
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300526900/marlborough-winemaker-stays-calm-and-stands-strong-as-homeland-ukraine-attacked
All countries were showing concerns, but they didn't do anything, and now we will probably have a Third World War, Tenetka said.
Her parents live in Lubny, a city in the north-east, 190 kilometres from the border.
McKenzie-Wiley went to Kyiv as a volunteer to help run conversational English camps with students.
New Zealand had suspended some high-level engagement with Russian foreign officials in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Marlborough winemaker Alina Tenetka is monitoring the news and trying to stay calm as Russian forces continue their assault on her homeland, Ukraine.
Tenetka said the Russian propaganda, claiming Ukraine was not a country or a nation, was very painful.
We are the nation that Russia always tries to attack and tries to destroy our culture, our language, our people.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, in a statement issued late Thursday evening, said the Government would issue travel bans, export controls, and suspend formal bilateral Russian foreign ministry consultations in response to the unprovoked and unnecessary attack.
Russian-backed separatists had been battling Ukrainian government forces in the Donbas region since 2014, in a conflict that Kyiv said had cost about 15,000 lives.
Every single Ukrainian will fight. We will fight using a knife, a gun or even just our hands. I believe we will be strong enough.
Blenheim resident James McKenzie-Wiley had twice visited Ukraine, in 2015 and 2017, staying three weeks each time.
This war makes us a very strong connected nation who is proud to be Ukrainians.
Tenetka, who was last in Ukraine in January 2020, said she wished she could be there now to help, but couldn't.
They've been living this life for the last eight years, but now it's more real obviously, he said.
They are safe, they stay calm and are just waiting for the next instruction from the government.
My native town Lubny, where my parents live now, was established in 988. So it's already 1033 years old, then Moscow was established in 1147.
READ MORE:  Why has Russia invaded Ukraine? The crisis explained   Russia-Ukraine: What to know as world awaits next moves  Ukraine crisis: 7000 more Russian troops at joint border - US official
I've made some very good friends there, and I am still in touch with a lot of them today through social media.
A lot of them are very passionate about their country and have a real passion for independence, so it's very sad to see what could happen with Russia, he said.
McKenzie-Wiley said Ukrainians were getting on with their lives despite a constant threat from Russia.
Modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia or, to be more precise, by Bolshevik, Communist Russia, Putin said.
From that time 2014, we had military action happening there every day and every day someone died there.
In a televised speech from the Kremlin last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Ukraine historically had no cause for being.
Putin will never stop on Ukraine, he will go further and if Ukraine can stop him, it would be a big help for everyone in Europe and in the world, Tenetka said.
The Ukraine had support from countries such the United States, the United Kingdom, Latvia, Estonia and Turkey, the Oyster Bay winemaker said.
Tenetka had donated money to one of the main organisations in Ukraine to help support the people and the army.
It is one thing to see what is in the news, but then to hear from them what's going on on the ground is another thing.
