Missiles cause multiple blasts in western Ukrainians Lviv mayor says
20220418
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300567916/mariupol-on-brink-of-falling-as-ukrainians-defy-russias-surrenderordie-demand
It also would allow Russia to fully secure a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014, and deprive Ukraine of a major port and its prized industrial assets.
We will fight absolutely to the end, to the win, in this war, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal vowed on Sunday local time on ABCs This Week.
Russia is bent on capturing the Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists already control some territory, since its attempt to take the capital, Kyiv, failed.
Torture chambers are built there, he said. They abduct representatives of local governments and anyone deemed visible to local communities.
He said they continue their struggle, but that the city effectively doesnt exist anymore because of massive destruction.
Drone footage carried by the Russian news agency RIA-Novosti on Sunday showed km after km of shattered buildings and, on the city's outskirts, the steel complex, from which rose towering plumes of smoke.
Capturing the city on the Sea of Azov would free up Russian troops for the expected new offensive to take control of the Donbas, in Ukraine's industrial east.
Oleksandr Kamyshin, the chairman of the Ukrainian rail service, said the strikes hit near railway facilities and that there were no known casualties. Train traffic has resumed with some delays, he said, vowing to restore the damaged network.
He said Ukraine is prepared to end the war through diplomacy if possible, but we do not have intention to surrender.
As for besieged Mariupol, there appeared to be little hope of military rescue by Ukrainian forces anytime soon.
In his nightly address to the nation, Zelenskyy also called on the world to respond to what he said was the brutality of Russian troops in parts of southern Ukraine.
A maternity hospital was hit by a lethal Russian airstrike in the opening weeks of the war, and about 300 people were reported killed in the bombing of a theatre where civilians were taking shelter.
But a few thousand fighters, by Russia's estimate, hold on to the giant, 11-square-kilometres Azovstal steel mill.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed to fight absolutely to the end'' in strategically vital Mariupol, meanwhile, where the ruined port city's last known pocket of resistance was holed up in a sprawling steel plant laced with tunnels.
The relentless bombardment and street fighting in Mariupol have killed at least 21,000 people, by Ukrainian estimates.
Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer, who met with Putin in Moscow this week  the first European leader to do so since the invasion February 24  said the Russian president is in his own war logic on Ukraine.
Russian forces, meanwhile, carried out aerial attacks near Kyiv and elsewhere in an apparent effort to weaken Ukraines military capacity ahead of the anticipated assault on the Donbas.
Lviv and the rest of western Ukraine have not been immune but have been less affected by the fighting than other parts of the country and have been considered a relatively safe haven.
Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told CBS Face the Nation on Sunday that the remaining Ukrainian troops and civilians there are basically encircled.
The fall of Mariupol, which has been reduced to rubble in a seven-week siege, would give Moscow its biggest victory of the war.
Kharkiv Mayor Igor Terekhov, in an impassioned address marking Orthodox Palm Sunday, lashed out at Russian forces for not letting up the bombing campaign on such a sacred day.
Many Mariupol civilians, including children, are also sheltering at the Azovstal plant, Mikhail Vershinin, head of the citys patrol police, told Mariupol television. He said they are hiding from Russian shelling, and from any occupying Russian soldiers.
An estimated 100,000 people remained in the city out of a pre-war population of 450,000, trapped without food, water, heat or electricity.
Multiple explosions apparently caused by missiles struck the western Ukrainian city of Lviv early Monday as the country was bracing for an all-out Russian assault in the east.
The barrage slammed into apartment buildings and left the streets scattered with broken glass and other debris.
At least five people were killed by Russian shelling in Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, on Sunday, regional officials said.
We are doing everything to ensure the defence of eastern Ukraine, Zelenskyy said in his nightly address to the nation.
Plumes of thick, black smoke were rising over Lviv after the explosions, which were witnessed by AP staff.
Malyar, the Ukrainian deputy defence minister, said the Russians continued to hit Mariupol with airstrikes and could be getting ready for an amphibious landing to reinforce their ground troops.
With missiles and rockets also battering other parts of the country, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russian soldiers of carrying out torture and kidnappings in areas they control.
After the humiliating sinking of the flagship of Russias Black Sea Fleet last week in what the Ukrainians boasted was a missile attack, the Kremlin had vowed to step up strikes on the capital.
Moscow had given the defenders a midday deadline to surrender, saying those who laid down their arms were guaranteed to keep their lives. The Ukrainians rejected it, just as they did with previous ultimatums.
He again called on the world to send Kyiv more weapons and apply tougher sanctions on Moscow.
READ MORE:  Mariupol's dead put at 5000 as Ukraine braces for Russian attacks in the east  'Scenes from a horror movie' in body-strewn streets of Ukraine town, Bucha  Ukraine: Mines left in wake of Russian retreat creating 'catastrophic' situation  Pro-Moscow rebels continue renewed Ukraine offensive
Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said on Facebook that five missiles struck the city and that emergency services were responding to the blasts. He said more details would follow.
Explosions were also reported in Kramatorsk, the eastern city where rockets earlier this month killed at least 57 people at a train station crowded with civilians trying to evacuate ahead of the Russian offensive.
Russia said Sunday that it had attacked an ammunition plant near Kyiv overnight with precision-guided missiles, the third such strike in as many days.
In an interview on NBCs Meet the Press, Nehammer said he thinks Putin believes he is winning the war, and we have to look in his eyes, and we have to confront him with that, what we see in Ukraine.
The looming offensive in the east, if successful, would give Russian President Vladimir Putin a badly needed victory that he could sell to the Russian people amid the wars mounting casualties and the economic hardship caused by the Wests sanctions.
