New footage shows remains of the worlds biggest plane as Ukraine retakes airport from Russians
20220403
https://www.stuff.co.nz/travel/news/300557307/new-footage-shows-remains-of-the-worlds-biggest-plane-as-ukraine-retakes-airport-from-russians
READ MORE:  Antonov AN-225: The largest plane ever built may have been destroyed in Ukraine   Odesa rocked by explosions as Russia claims strikes on oil refinery, fuel depots  World leaders vow to hold Russia accountable for Bucha atrocities  Video confirms the world's largest plane has been destroyed
Among the rubble: The remains of the massive Antonov AN-225 airplane - also called Mriya, or "dream" in Ukrainian - which had set a Guinness world record for being the largest aircraft by weight.
Russia has failed in its efforts to take Ukraine's capital, but the suburbs around Kyiv have been decimated in the assault.
Kyiv's forces have re-captured territory near the capital as Russian troops pull out of the area as part of an apparent shift in strategy to focus on the country's south and east.
Mriya, weighing some 705 tons with a wingspan of 290 feet 88.3m, was reportedly destroyed as Russian forces fought to seize the airport in late February.
The Antonov AN-225 was finished shortly before the former Soviet Union's collapse and was said to be the world's biggest. The cargo plane was originally built to transport a Soviet space shuttle. In 2009, it was recognised by Guinness World Records for airlifting the heaviest item of any plane: a power plant generator weighing 375,200 pounds 170,187kg.
Other planes left the airport when the war began. But the Mriya had been at the airport undergoing maintenance and could not fly out, according to Ukroboronpromm, the Ukrainian company overseeing it. The firm estimated it would take five years and US$3 billion NZ$4.3 billion to rebuild it - a cost it said Russia should bear.
Russian forces had hoped to use that airfield in their assault on Kyiv, 20 miles 32km to the southeast, and it was captured in the earliest days of the war.
Ukrainian troops toured the plane's charred remains on Saturday at Hostomel airport on the outskirts of Kyiv - and positioned themselves at the airport's entrance in a sign that they were in control, the Associated Press reported.
The battle for Kyiv has been brutal, and civilians in the cities around the capital have born much of the brunt of war. As Russian troops retreat from cities and towns they briefly conquered, incoming Ukrainian forces are finding complete devastation from burned-out vehicles to bodies lining streets left behind.
Meanwhile, video has been released showing the world's second-heaviest gross weight production cargo airplane, the Antonov AN-124, which was also being housed in a hangar at the airport.
