Petty mischief Ukraine points blame at Russia as cyberattack hits government banks
20220215
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300518677/petty-mischief-ukraine-points-blame-at-russia-as-cyberattack-hits-government-banks
READ MORE:  Putin: Russia ready to discuss confidence-building measures  Tensions in Ukraine scaring off airlines  Ukraine-Russia crisis: What you need to know as diplomacy steps up  Kremlin ready for more talks with West amid Ukraine tensions
In mid-January, Ukraine accused Russia of being behind a cyberattack that temporarily disabled about 70 Ukrainian government websites simultaneously. During that attack, an announcement posted stated that Ukrainians should be afraid and expect the worst.
Russia sent signals on Tuesday that it might be pulling back from the brink of an invasion, but Western powers demanded proof.
There is no threat to depositors funds, the Ukrainian Information Ministrys Centre for Strategic Communications and Information Security said in a statement. The deputy minister, Victor Zhora, confirmed a cyberattack.
At least 10 Ukrainian websites stopped working due to DDOS attacks, including those of the Defence Ministry, Foreign Ministry, Culture Ministry and Ukraines two largest state banks.
The United States has accused Moscow publicly of preparing to invade Ukraine and underscored that cybersecurity remains a pivotal concern.
The attack on Tuesday local time, the latest of several hacking operations targeting Ukraine, came after weeks of escalating fears that Russia might invade its neighbouring country.
Customers at Ukraines largest state-owned bank, Privatbank, and the state-owned Sberbank reported problems with online payments and the banks apps.
A cyberattack has hit the websites of Ukrainian government agencies and major banks, Ukrainian authorities say.
It is possible that the aggressor resorted to tactics of petty mischief because his aggressive plans arent working overall, the statement said.
Russia launched one of the most devastating cyberattacks ever on Ukraine in 2017 with the NotPetya virus, causing over US$10 billion in damage worldwide. The virus, also disguised as ransomware, was a so-called wiper that scrubbed entire networks.
