Pope Francis offers to meet with Russias Vladimir Putin but is still waiting to hear back
20220503
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300579546/pope-francis-offers-to-meet-with-russias-vladimir-putin-but-is-still-waiting-to-hear-back
Francis recalled that he spoke in March with the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, for 40 minutes by videoconference, and for the first half with paper in hand, he read all of the justifications for the war.
READ MORE:  Pope Francis makes Easter plea for Ukraine peace, cites nuclear risk  Pope Francis comes to the rescue of the much-maligned mother-in-law  Displaced artists in Ukraine help people cope with war trauma  What is genocide, and is Russia carrying it out in Ukraine?
Of course, it would be necessary for the leader of the Kremlin to make available some window of opportunity. But we still have not had a response and we are still pushing, even if I fear that Putin cannot and does not want to have this meeting at this moment, Francis was quoted as saying by Corriere della Sera.
He added that Kirill cannot turn into Putins altar boy, a dismissive term used by a top US Ukrainian Greek Catholic archbishop.
Francis has given a handful of interviews of late to friendly media emphasising his call for an end to the war and initiatives to provide humanitarian relief to Ukrainians. He has defended his decision to not call out Putin or Russia publicly, saying popes don't do so. But he freely named Putin in his remarks to Corriere, and seemed to equate the carnage in Ukraine with the genocide in Rwanda a quarter-century ago.
Such brutality, how can you not try to stop it? Twenty-five years ago in Rwanda we saw the same thing, he was quoted as saying.
Francis lengthy interview with Corriere della Sera newspaper underscored the Vaticans complicated policy on Ukraine, where it is caught between denouncing the atrocities while not alienating Russia and its Orthodox Church.
Popes for decades have sought to visit Moscow as part of the longstanding effort to heal relations with the Russian Orthodox Church, which split with Rome more than 1000 years ago. But an invitation has never been forthcoming.
Francis said he made the offer about three weeks into Russia's invasion, via the Vatican Secretary of State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, but has yet to hear back.
Francis has frequently denounced the weapons industry and the announced increases in defence spending by the West in recent weeks. But he has also defended the right of Ukrainians to protect their territory from the Russian invasion, in line with Catholic social doctrine. He told Corriere he felt he was too removed to judge the morality of resupplying the Ukrainian armed forces from the West.
But he also said he was trying to understand why Russia had reacted as it had. Maybe this barking of Nato at Russias door had prompted it, he was quoted as saying, An anger that I dont know if you can say was provoked, but maybe facilitated.
Pope Francis told an Italian newspaper he had offered to travel to Moscow to meet with President Vladimir Putin to try to end Russia's war in Ukraine and suggested the invasion might have been provoked by Natos eastward expansion.
"I listened and told him: I dont understand any of this. Brother, we are not clerics of the state, we cannot use language of politics, but that of Jesus. For this we need to find the paths of peace, to stop the firing of arms.
