Russia invades Ukraine Biden condemns attack
20220224
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300525081/ukraines-president-says-moscows-actions-could-mark-the-start-of-a-big-war
The action reflected increasing concern among Ukrainian authorities after weeks of trying to project calm. The Foreign Ministry advised against travel to Russia and recommended that any Ukrainians who are there leave immediately.
Ukrainian Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya said that if Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia was not in a position to give a positive answer, he should relinquish the presidency of the Security Council, which Russia holds this month.
US President Joe Biden allowed sanctions to move forward against the company that built the Russia-to-Germany Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and against the companys CEO.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the separatists' request for Russian help was an example of the sort of false-flag operation that the US and its allies have expected Moscow to use as a pretence for war.
Officials have long said they expect cyberattacks to precede and accompany any Russian military incursion, and analysts said the incidents hew to a nearly two-decade-old Russian playbook of wedding cyber operations with real-world aggression.
A full-blown Russian invasion could cause massive casualties and topple Ukraines democratically elected government. And the consequences of the conflict and resulting sanctions levied on Russia could reverberate throughout the world, affecting energy supplies in Europe, jolting global financial markets and threatening the post-Cold War balance on the continent.
Zelenskyy said he asked to arrange a call with Putin late on Wednesday local time, but the Kremlin did not respond.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced a military operation in Ukraine and warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with the Russian action would lead to consequences they have never seen.
Earlier in the day, Ukrainian lawmakers approved a decree that imposes a nationwide state of emergency for 30 days starting on Thursday. The measure allows authorities to declare curfews and other restrictions on movement, block rallies and ban political parties and organisations in the interests of national security and public order.
After weeks of rising tensions, Putin's steps this week dramatically raised the stakes. He recognised the independence of the separatist regions, a move he said extends even to the large parts of the territories now held by Ukrainian forces, and had parliament grant him authority to use military force outside the country.
In an apparent reference to Putins move to authorise the deployment of the Russian military to maintain peace in eastern Ukraine, Zelensky warned that this step could mark the start of a big war on the European continent.
READ MORE:  Vladimir Putin orders 'peacekeeping' troops to separatist regions of Ukraine  NZ scolds Russian ambassador over Ukraine encroachment  Joe Biden, Vladimir Putin signal bigger confrontation ahead over Ukraine
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said the Russian force of more than 150,000 troops arrayed along Ukraines borders is in an advanced state of readiness. They are ready to go right now, Kirby said.
In a televised address, Putin accused the US and its allies of ignoring Russias demand to prevent Ukraine from joining Nato and offer Moscow security guarantees. He said Russia's goal was not to occupy Ukraine.
As Putin spoke, big explosions were heard in Kyiv, Kharkiv and other areas of Ukraine.
As I have made clear, we will not hesitate to take further steps if Russia continues to escalate, Biden said in a statement.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the rebel chiefs wrote to Putin on Wednesday, pleading with him to intervene after Ukrainian shelling caused civilian deaths and crippled vital infrastructure.
US President Joe Biden denounced the unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine and said the world would hold Russia accountable.
In other developments, Russia evacuated its embassy in Kyiv Ukraine recalled its ambassador to Russia and considered breaking all diplomatic ties with Moscow and dozens of nations further squeezed Russian oligarchs and banks out of international markets.
Facing a barrage of criticism at the 193-member United Nations General Assembly, Russias UN ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, warned Ukraine that Russia would monitor a ceasefire in the east and emphasised that no one intends to go softly, softly with any violators.
But if we come under attack, if we face an attempt to take away our country, our freedom, our lives and lives of our children, we will defend ourselves. When you attack us, you will see our faces, not our backs.
A short time later, the Ukrainian president rejected Moscows claims that his country posed a threat to Russia and said a Russian invasion would cost tens of thousands of lives.
Kyslytsya then asked if he should play the video of Putin announcing military operations being launched in Ukraine.
The Ukrainian then asked for another emergency meeting of the Security Council, calling on the UN body to stop the war because its too late to talk about de-escalation.
Putin announced the military operation after the Kremlin said rebels in eastern Ukraine asked Russia for military assistance to help fend off Ukrainian aggression. The announcement immediately fuelled fears that Moscow was offering up a pretext for war, just as the West had warned.
For a long time, we refrained from declaring a state of emergency ... but today the situation has become more complicated, Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council head Oleksiy Danilov told parliament, emphasising that Moscow's efforts to destabilise Ukraine represented the main threat.
So well continue to call out what we see as false-flag operations or efforts to spread misinformation about what the actual status is on the ground, she said.
Already, the threat of war has shredded Ukraine's economy and raised the spectre of massive casualties, energy shortages across Europe and global economic chaos.
European Union sanctions against Russia took effect, targeting several companies along with 351 Russian lawmakers who voted for a motion urging Putin to recognise the rebel regions and 27 senior government officials, business executives and top military officers.
The Russian Foreign Ministry has shrugged off the sanctions, saying that Russia has proven that, with all the costs of the sanctions, it is able to minimise the damage.
A new military adventure by Kyiv might cost the whole of Ukraine very dearly, he warned ominously.
He challenged the Russian propaganda claims, saying that you are told that this blaze will bring freedom to the people of Ukraine, but the Ukrainian people are free.
Another wave of distributed-denial-of-service attacks hit Ukraines parliament and other government and banking websites on Wednesday, and cybersecurity researchers said unidentified attackers had also infected hundreds of computers with destructive malware.
In Ukraine's east, one Ukrainian soldier was killed and six more wounded after rebel shelling, the Ukrainian military said Wednesday. Separatist officials reported several explosions on their territory overnight and three civilian deaths.
The only other aircraft tracked over Ukraine was a US RQ-4B Global Hawk unmanned surveillance plane, which began flying westward early Thursday after Russia put in place flight restrictions over Ukrainian territory.
Germany said on Tuesday that it was indefinitely suspending the project, after Biden charged that Putin had launched the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine by sending troops into the separatist regions. The pipeline is complete but has not yet begun operating.
Ukraines ambassador at the United Nations told a special meeting of the Security Council that Putin had declared war on Ukraine. He also pressed his Russian counterpart to state that Russia would not shell and bomb Ukrainian cities.
Early Thursday, airspace over all of Ukraine was shut down to civilian air traffic, according to a notice to airmen. A commercial flight tracking website showed that an Israeli El Al Boeing 787 flying from Tel Aviv to Toronto turned abruptly out of Ukrainian airspace before detouring over Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland.
Putin laid out three conditions that he said could end the standoff, urging Kyiv to renounce its bid to join Nato, to partially demilitarise and to recognise Russias sovereignty over Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that Moscow annexed from Ukraine in 2014. Ukraine long has rejected such demands.
The United Nations Security Council quickly scheduled an emergency meeting on Wednesday night at Ukraine's request. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called the separatists request a further escalation of the security situation.
The latest images released by the Maxar satellite image company showed Russian troops and military equipment deployed within 16 kilometres of the Ukrainian border and less than 80km from Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv.
He said the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a claim the US had predicted he would falsely make to justify an invasion
The people of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine want peace, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an emotional overnight address, speaking in Russian in a direct appeal to Russian citizens.
Anxiety about an imminent Russian offensive against its neighbour soared after Putin recognised the separatist regions' independence on Monday, endorsed the deployment of troops to the rebel territories and received parliamentary approval to use military force outside the country. The West responded with sanctions.
Putin said on Tuesday that he had not yet sent any Russian troops into the rebel regions, contrary to Western claims, and Donetsk rebel leader Denis Pushilin insisted on Wednesday there were no Russian troops in the region, even though a local council member claimed the previous day they had moved in.
Nebenzia replied: This isnt called a war. This is called a special military operation in Donbas.
He said the Russian military operation aimed to ensure a demilitarisation of Ukraine. Putin urged Ukrainian servicemen to immediately put down arms and go home.
