Russian soldier sentenced to life in prison in Ukraines first war crimes trial amid the invasion
20220523
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300595545/russian-soldier-sentenced-to-life-in-prison-in-ukraines-first-war-crimes-trial-amid-the-invasion
He told the court that an officer insisted that the Ukrainian man, who was speaking on his cellphone, could pinpoint their location to the Ukrainian forces.
Associated Press journalists Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Andrea Rosa in Kharkiv and other AP staffers around the world contributed.
In Tokyo, US President Joe Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida joined in condemning Moscows invasion of Ukraine. Earlier on his trip to Asia, Biden signed legislation granting Ukraine US$40 billion more in US support for its defence against the Russian attack.
READ MORE:  After three months of war, life in Russia has profoundly changed  Ardern signs NZ up for United States' Indo-Pacific economic agreement  Ukraine invasion: Russia presses Donbas offensive as Polish leader visits Kyiv  Why Jacinda Ardern's trade trip to the United States is so important  Jacinda Ardern says NZ troops will train Ukraine soldiers in using a howitzer gun
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed the World Economic Forum as it opened in Davos, Switzerland, calling for maximum sanctions against Russia.
Ukraines parliament has voted to extend martial law and mobilise its armed forces for a third time, until August 23. Ukrainian officials have said little since the war began about the extent of their countrys casualties, but on Sunday Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that 50 to 100 Ukrainian fighters were being killed, apparently each day, in the east.
A Russian tank commander has been jailed for life for killing an unarmed Ukrainian civilian at the first war crimes trial since the invasion began.
But the Ukrainian military said that Russian forces were unsuccessful in their attack on Oleksandrivka, a village outside of Sievierodonetsk.
Haidai said that the Russians had occupied several towns and cities in Luhansk after indiscriminate, 24-hour shelling and concentrating forces and weaponry there, bringing in troops from Kharkiv to the northwest, Mariupol to the south, and from inside Russia.
Grinding battles in the Donbas, where Ukrainian and Russian forces are fighting town by town, have forced many civilians to flee their homes.
Western support  both financial and military  has been key to Ukraine's defence, helping their outgunned and outnumbered forces to repel Russia's attempt to take the capital of Kyiv and fight them to a standstill in other places. In the face of those setbacks, Moscow has outlined more limited goals in Ukraine, with its sights now on trying to expand the territory that Russia-backed separatists have held since 2014.
On the battlefield, Russian forces have stepped up shelling in Ukraine's eastern industrial heartland as they press their offensive in the region that is now the focus of fighting.
A Ukrainian court sentenced the 21-year-old Russian soldier to life in prison on Monday local time for killing a Ukrainian civilian in a village in the northeastern Sumy region in the early days of the war.
The sentencing came as the 3-month-old war helped push the number of people displaced worldwide to the highest level on record level, according to the United Nations, with more 100 million people driven from their homes across the globe.
Sergeant Vadim Shishimarin pleaded guilty to shooting the unarmed civilian, testifying that he shot the man after being ordered to do so.
He said by video that sanctions needed to go further to stop Russias aggression, including an oil embargo, all of its banks blocked and cutting off trade with Russia completely.
Zelenskyy says his country has slowed Russian advances and his peoples courage has stirred unseen unity of the democratic world.
Ukrainian forces dug in around Sievierodonetsk, the main city under Ukrainian control in the Luhansk province of the Donbas, as Russia intensified efforts to capture it. Ukrainian Governor Serhiy Haidai accused the Russians of simply intentionally trying to destroy the city... engaging in a scorched-earth approach.
While the east is now the focus of flighting, the conflict is not confined there. Powerful explosions were heard early in Korosten on Monday, which is about 160 kilometres west of Kyiv, the towns deputy mayor said. It was the third straight day of apparent attacks in the Zhytomyr District, Ukrainian news agencies reported.
