Russias Vladimir Putin is already battering Ukraine economically
20220222
https://www.stuff.co.nz/business/world/300524376/russias-vladimir-putin-is-already-battering-ukraine-economically
The longer the crisis drags on, the worse all these effects will become. Business deals and investments currently on hold will be put off for good. Rising yields on government debt and corporate bonds the yield on ten-year bonds has jumped from 6.9 per cent in November to 10.9 per cent now have a compounding effect, making life ever harder for the Ukrainian treasury and big businesses alike. Workers suffering from the psychological strain may no longer feel willing or able to work as usual. Domestic demand will wilt as workers hoard cash and curb their normal leisure activities.
Ukraine might have suffered even more had Zelensky not played down the risk of an invasion until recently. It may also have left millions of Ukrainians mentally unprepared for what seems to be on the way. But it kept Ukrainians going to work and living normal lives in a way that has astounded many foreign observers.
The cost of the stand-off, however, will be as nothing compared to the cost of a war. Russian troops are rolling into the breakaway statelets of Donetsk and Luhansk Western countries are imposing fresh sanctions on Russia and Ukraine is threatening to sever diplomatic ties. Tensions have never been higher. Even if they ease, Ukraine will have already paid a high price.
The doomsday atmosphere has had a predictable effect on foreign investment. Capital, foreign and domestic, is fleeing. On January 28, Zelensky claimed that US$12.5b had left the country since the crisis began. Trade has also been affected, since three-fifths of Ukraines exports pass through the Black Sea, where the cost of insuring ships in Ukrainian waters has increased, especially since the areas were declared to be high-risk by a key London insurers committee on February 17.
Virtually every Western country has instructed its citizens to leave Ukraine and to avoid travelling there. Expat haunts in Ukraines big cities have thinned out. After European insurance firms stopped covering flights to Ukraine, the national government had to stump up 16.6b hryvnia US$580m to keep planes coming and going. Several airlines have stopped flying anyway, in part because their staff are petrified.
A spokesperson for Vladimir Zelensky, Ukraines president, says that the crisis is costing the country US$2b-3b a month, plus an extra US$1.5b-2b from the sagging currency.
Vyacheslav Steshenko, a businessman in Kyiv, first noticed a drop-off in customers visiting his restaurant chains a few weeks ago. Perhaps this was normal, he thought: a new Covid-19 variant was ripping through Ukraine, so people must be staying home. Then he heard from colleagues in the industry that restaurants in Lviv, Ukraines westernmost city, near the border with Poland, were filling up with out-of-towners from Kyiv, Kharkiv, Zaporizhiaplaces closer to Russia. Next Steshenko noticed that his petrol stations had sold out of 20-litre gas canisters, the largest size.
The Ukrainian government has tried to persuade its citizens to keep calm and carry on. Officials complain that breathless Western press reports have deepened the economic gloom by spreading panic, citing headlines like Russia planning extremely violent operation to crush Ukraine. Zelensky, who has described Americas communications strategy for the crisis as very expensive for Ukraine, proposed a stability and reconstruction fund during a speech on February 19 to the Munich Security Conference. Canada has offered a US$400m loan. In a sign of how dire things are, the EU, which typically attaches a lot of strings to its loans, is offering 1.2b NZ$2.19b with barely any conditions.
READ MORE:  Joe Biden accuses Vladimir Putin of flagrantly violating international law, in the 'beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine'  Ukraine - Russia situation: What to know in the escalating crisis  UEFA under pressure to move Champions League final from Russia amid Ukraine crisis  Why Vladimir Putin is so confident in his Ukraine strategy  he has a trump card in China
Recent modelling by the Kyiv School of Economics KSE indicates that if the threat of war is perceived to be high, GDP will shrink by more than 5 per cent before any shots are fired. Indeed, the economic toll from the threat of invasion is so high some Ukrainians wonder whether the entire Russian mobilisation is intended simply to inflict economic damage.
2022 The Economist Newspaper Limited. All rights reserved. From The Economist published under licence. The original article can be found on www.economist.com
Ukraine is not in the middle of a full-blown panic, Steshenko stresses. But the remarkable calm shown by ordinary Ukrainians throughout the months-long crisis with Russia is starting to dissipate. The news suggesting a Russian invasion grows more unnerving.
That, in turn, is having a dire effect on the economy, which is already being strangled, in the words of a diplomat. Conflict with Russia cost Ukraine US$280 billion NZ$415b between 2014 and 2020, according to one estimate. But the damage from the past few months is of a different order.
Resilience has also come from the surgery that reformists performed on Ukraines financial industry after the Maidan revolution of 2014. That has allowed Ukraine to enter the crisis with swelling foreign reserves, a liquid banking system and national debt of less than 50 per cent of GDP. These achievements have now been undermined.
