Russia is fixing weapons with fridge and dishwasher parts
20220513
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300587871/russia-is-fixing-weapons-with-fridge-and-dishwasher-parts
Technology experts have estimated exports to Russia have slumped by nearly 70 since the introduction of sanctions after the invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
Russia has been forced to use computer chips from dishwashers and refrigerators in its military hardware as a result of Western sanctions, a top United States official has said.
Defence analysts dissecting a downed Russian drone from the battlefield in Ukraine found a Western-made consumer SLR camera inside, which the experts said had likely been smuggled into Russia from the West.
Gina Raimondo, the US commerce secretary, said: We have reports from Ukrainians that when they find Russian military equipment on the ground, its filled with semiconductors that they took out of dishwashers and refrigerators.
Previous studies into Russias military modernisation showed the Kremlin relied on Western electronics to bring their force into the 21st century.
During a US Senate hearing on Wednesday, Raimondo also claimed two Russian tank factories have been forced to shut down because of a lack of components.
Almost 30 Western nations have adopted similar punitive measures against Moscow, making it virtually impossible for the Kremlins armed forces to secure the required components to fix their battle-weakened military machines.
Since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, the West has further tightened its rules for so-called dual-use products, with military and commercial applications, being shipped to Russia.
READ MORE:  Russia threatens to retaliate if Finland, Sweden try and join Nato  How is Volodymyr Zelenskyy winning the information war against Russia?  Russian troops forced to retreat back across the border in fierce Ukrainian counter-attack
The US and European nations had already limited the sale of computer chips to Russia in the wake of its illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014.
