Russia will not invade Ukraine
20211210
https://www.stuff.co.nz/manawatu-standard/opinion/300474024/russia-will-not-invade-ukraine
READ MORE:  Russians have been planning a coup in Ukraine for next week, says Kyiv  Russia will invade in new year, says Ukraine military  Russia says warning shots deter UK warship London denies it
When some former Soviet satellites in Eastern Europe joined Nato in 1999, that brought Nato forces to within 800km of Russias western frontier.
Yet there is certainly something weird going on. In only two weeks a full-scale panic about Russia invading Ukraine has been sold to the Western media, and normally sensible journalists and analysts are talking about war  with Russia, of all places.
Then the western-backed non-violent overthrow of Ukraines pro-Russian president for a second time in 2014 created the possibility that Ukraine itself might also join Nato.
All right, if you read the small print they are really saying the Russians are going to invade Ukraine and the United States and its Nato allies WONT fight to stop them.
Its a dark comedy about a United States president facing a sex scandal whose staff invent a completely fictional war in the Balkans to draw the medias attention elsewhere. But sex scandals are not the Biden administrations style.
OPINION: I must admit that I googled the plot of the 1997 film Wag the Dog before starting to write this.
This story about Russian forces massing on Ukraines borders for an invasion first emerged from US intelligence circles in mid-November. Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky realised that it could mean more American arms for Ukraine, and soon he and his people were singing from the same song-sheet.
Why not? Because he spent the first half of his life in the Cold War, and his attitudes are still shaped by the propaganda of that time. Biden sees Russia as an expansionist power that must be contained. It must never be appeased, because that was what let Hitler get started. Bad historical analogies are dangerous things.
The 92,000 Russian troops that are allegedly now near the Ukrainian border is really not a very impressive a number, given that the Ukrainian army is 255,000 strong, but the same US intelligence sources say the Russians plan to raise the number on Ukraines border to 175,000 troops in January and go for broke.
So Putin wants a written promise that Ukraine will never join the Western alliance. Nato countries would never allow it anyway, precisely because there is some risk that it could drag them into a war with Russia, but Biden is unwilling to put it in writing.
They might even undermine Putins still significant popularity in Russia itself. There may be all kinds of threatening gestures, but Russia will not invade Ukraine.
If you want another, it is that the Western sanctions, which would follow, really would cripple the Russian economy.
Satellite images of Russian tank parks and barracks were distributed. Reports of Russian military units moving from Siberia to western Russia were whispered in the ears of favoured correspondents. Few Western journalists remembered how partial and distorted this sort of information was during the Cold War, so most of them uncritically repeated it.
Stop focusing on the troop numbers. If an invasion were really scheduled for January, the forces could be anywhere in Russias vast expanse right now and still show up in time for the party next month.
Both men are of an age where a fundamental change of mind is unlikely. On the other hand, as veterans of the Cold War they both understand that Russia and the United States must never do anything that risks bringing them into a direct military conflict.
Any extra Russian troops near Ukraine now are there as a symbolic gesture, not as part of a military plan.
The military frontier with Nato was a safe 1500 kilometres west of Moscow during the Cold War, but afterwards it moved.
Moscow is only a six-hour drive up highway E101 from Ukraines northern border although tanks would take a little longer. Nato has been alert enough to Russian sensitivity on this topic not to invite Ukraine to join, but the prospect does weigh heavily on Putins mind.
Putin, like any educated Russian, therefore feels uneasy about the way Nato has crept closer and closer to Russia.
Symbolism and historical stereotypes are what this is all about, and the dominant stereotype in Putins mind is the fact that practically everybody on the A list of would-be world conquerors has invaded Russia, from the Golden Horde Mongols to Napoleon to Hitler. That sort of thing is bound to leave a mark.
Ukraine is not part of Nato and theyll sadly have to watch it go under. But theyll be very, very cross, and theyll sanction the hell out of Russia. So there!
