Russia burning corpses in mobile crematorium in Mariupol to hide war crimes says mayor
20220407
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300561101/russia-burning-corpses-in-mobile-crematorium-in-mariupol-to-hide-war-crimes-says-mayor
READ MORE:  Ukraine: President Zelenskyy accuses Russian military of worst atrocities since World War II  Ukrainian Kiwis horrified by Russian atrocities near Kyiv  Ukraine invasion: Russia denies alleged Bucha atrocities as fraudulent and 'staged'  Russia faces new wave of revulsion and outrage over bodies in Ukraine's streets
It had been speculated that they would be used for burning dead Russian soldiers, not the bodies of civilians.
He has also said that there are thousands of civilians still trapped in cellars, living without food, medical supplies or drinking water.
"The world has not seen the scale of the tragedy in Mariupol since the Nazi concentration camps," he said on the Mariupol Telegram channel. "The racists turned our whole city into a death camp.
Mariupol has been the focus of Russia's most sustained bombardment since the beginning of the war on February 24, and Boychenko has said 90 per cent of the city is destroyed.
Vadym Boychenko accused Russian soldiers of scrambling to hide their war crimes after mass graves were found near Kyiv in areas previously occupied by Russia's army.
"In addition, all potential witnesses to the occupiers' atrocities are being identified through filtration camps and destroyed."
Russian collaborators have turned Mariupol into a death camp by using mobile crematoriums to burn the bodies of thousands of murdered civilians, the citys mayor has said.
"The Russians left all the dirty work to collaborators They collect and burn the bodies of Mariupol residents murdered and killed as a result of the Russian invasion."
On Russian state-owned TV stations, viewers are shown Russian soldiers handing out aid parcels to desperate people instead of images of murdered civilians and burnt-out apartment blocks.
"Russia's top leadership has ordered the destruction of any evidence of crimes committed by its army in Mariupol," he said.
The aid parcels are labelled with a "Z", the insignia of the main Russian battle group and a rallying point for supporters of the war.
Over the weekend, Ukrainian forces had moved into Bucha, near Kyiv, which had been under Russian occupation for a month. There they found the bodies of hundreds of civilians. Many had been shot in the head and dumped in mass graves.
Before the start of the war, military mobile crematoriums, essentially long articulated lorries with a furnace and a chimney, were photographed deploying alongside Russia's army.
The Kremlin has said that evidence of war crimes committed by its forces has been faked. Instead, it has framed its invasion as a mission to rescue Ukrainians from Nazis.
