Treating Russia as a pariah is not the answer ending Putins rule is
20220322
https://www.stuff.co.nz/opinion/300546814/treating-russia-as-a-pariah-is-not-the-answer-ending-putins-rule-is
Notwithstanding the risks of dissent, there are a courageous few who dare defy the iron fist of Putins state. Alexei Navalny and his supporters stand out. But there are others such as Marina Ovsyannikova, the state television editor who interrupted a live broadcast to protest the war, expressing shame that she had previously helped propagate lies that have allowed Russians to be turned into zombies.
Emeritus Professor Roberto Rabel is a professorial fellow at the Centre for Strategic Studies at Victoria University of Wellington, and is currently a visiting professor at the University of Warsaw.
That is why they are going to ever more drastic lengths to ensure a fair representation of the diversity of Russian public opinion is not possible.
Words now cease to convey the outrage and heartbreak that Vladimir Putins assault on Ukraine justifiably arouses. But it is a mistake to conclude that Russia is irredeemable.
Just as unity amongst democracies was critical in prevailing in World War II and the Cold War, so too was the importance of distinguishing between authoritarian regimes and their citizens.
In particular, this means thinking carefully about how to facilitate flows of accurate information through social media platforms and other means, rather than playing into Putins hands by validating his claims that the West is seeking to cancel Russia and thereby guaranteeing that the Kremlins propaganda is all that the Russian people can see.
Japan and Germany stand as examples of the possibility and power of redemption after their wartime atrocities in the 1930s and 1940s.
Such Russians face enough challenges in resisting their increasingly totalitarian rulers without democracies reducing their potential effectiveness.
By all means, sanction oligarchs linked to Putin and investigate Russias military commanders for war crimes, but do not write off a whole nation indiscriminately.
Such views are especially strong in Poland, the country where I am currently living. With justification, Poles are lining up to chastise those in other democracies who failed to call out Vladimir Putins aggression earlier.
At present, the easiest response for those Russians uneasy about Putins regime is to lie low, embrace a weary cynicism or leave Russia  with a surge in departures triggered by the war.
Their almost total suppression of free expression is a measure of the Kremlins fear that knowledge about the truth of the horrific war in Ukraine along with other inconvenient truths would undermine their grip on power.
In reality, Russia is redeemable. Putin and his corrupt cronies do not represent all Russians, and they know it.
This perspective is not confined to Poles. Commentators elsewhere highlight that opinion polls suggest most Russians support Putins war and his popularity has purportedly grown since launching his special military operation.
The best way, perhaps the only way, to win it is to have change within Russia that brings down Putins regime, as eventually transpired with the equally morally bankrupt Soviet Union.
But many go further, including colleagues at the University of Warsaw, where I am a visiting professor. They say that Poles have lived next to Russia for hundreds of years and its irredeemably menacing character has never changed.
While the Russian people will not and should notbe untouched by the impact of sanctions, democracies must make clear that the cause of their pain is Vladimir Putin and not those who stand against his aggression.
Democracies must focus relentlessly on a strategy that helps Russians achieve this outcome. Recognising that Russia is redeemable is a critical first step in developing that strategy.
Democracies must heed the lessons of the last Cold War and the war that preceded it.
That is not to say that democracies should stop backing Ukraine in every way possible. They must sustain and even expand current forms of military, humanitarian, political and economic support to Ukraine. Its charismatic leader, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, and his supporting cast of millions of indomitable Ukrainians deserve nothing less.
It also means Ukrainians and Russians around the world should mobilise together to protest against Putins evil war.
If we are in a new Cold War, as I would argue, what hope is there of victory when facing an adversary that cannot be changed? That prospect means either an endless and dispiriting Cold War, or an even more costly hot war, with the attendant risk of a nuclear conflagration.
They are also conscious of the more diverse views amongst the young and more highly educated, especially in Russias larger cities. A recent poll suggested only 29 per cent of those in the 18-24 age group backed the war, while 39 per cent opposed it.
But democracies must not commit the error of assuming that solidarity with a besieged fellow democracy also requires demonising the Russian people as a whole.
There are many steps that can be taken to this end, but it will require creative thinking to ensure the power of transparency is deployed decisively against the Kremlins falsehoods.
The goal must be to differentiate Putin and his coterie from the Russian people. This requires finding ways to amplify the voices of the brave Russians fighting for the soul of their nation, like Navalny and his organisation.
READ MORE:  Life and death in a postmodern war   Living next door to the war in Ukraine   Law changes needed to sanction Russia, says international law expert
