Ukraine invasion Satellite images show vast damage to Crimea air base
20220810
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300659063/ukraine-says-nine-russian-warplanes-were-destroyed-in-crimea-blasts
Official Kyiv has kept mum about it, but unofficially the military acknowledges that it was a Ukrainian strike, Ukrainian military analyst Oleh Zhdanov said.
The Washington-based Institute for the Study of War said it couldnt independently determine what caused the explosions but noted that simultaneous blasts in two places at the base probably rule out an accidental fire, but not sabotage or a missile attack.
It was a terrible night, Reznichenko said. It's very hard to take bodies from under debris. We are facing a cruel enemy who engages in daily terror against our cities and villages.
This Russian war against Ukraine and against all of free Europe began with Crimea and must end with Crimea  its liberation, he said in his nightly address.
But Russian authorities sought to downplay the explosions on Wednesday, saying all hotels and beaches were unaffected on the peninsula, which is a popular tourist destination for many Russians.
Zhdanov suggested that Ukrainian forces could have struck the air base with Ukrainian Neptune anti-ship missiles that have a range of about 200km, or with Western-supplied Harpoon anti-ship missiles that can reach about 300km.
Russia stated that the explosions were caused by ammunition exploding because of fire safety rules being flouted. In response, Ukraines defence minister suggested that perhaps irresponsible Russian soldiers were to blame for the damage.
The explosions, which killed one person and wounded 14, sent tourists fleeing in panic as plumes of smoke rose over the coastline nearby. Video showed shattered windows and holes in the brickwork of some buildings.
New satellite images from Planet Labs taken on Wednesday afternoon showed some two square kilometres of burnt grassland at the Saki base. Several craters marked the ground near the tarmac  typically the sign of a powerful explosion.
READ MORE:  Large explosions rock Russian military air base in Crimea  Ukraine war: Accounting of bodies in Bucha nears completion  Russia halts US inspections of its nuclear arsenals under the START treaty
Crimea holds huge strategic and symbolic significance for both sides. The Kremlins demand that Ukraine recognise Crimea as part of Russia has been one of its key conditions for ending the fighting, while Ukraine has vowed to drive the Russians from the peninsula and all other occupied territories.
During the war, the Kremlin has reported numerous fires and explosions on Russian territory near the Ukrainian border, blaming some of them on Ukrainian strikes. Ukrainian authorities have mostly kept silent about the incidents, preferring to keep the world guessing.
If Ukrainian forces were, in fact, responsible for the blasts, it would be the first known major attack on a Russian military site on the Crimean Peninsula, which was seized from Ukraine by the Kremlin in 2014. Russian warplanes have used Saki to strike areas in Ukraines south.
Crimeas regional leader, Sergei Aksyonov, said some 250 residents were moved to temporary housing after dozens of apartment buildings were damaged.
On Wednesday, foreign ministers of the Group of Seven industrialised democracies demanded that Russia immediately hand back full control of the plant to Ukraine. They said they are profoundly concerned about the risk of a nuclear accident with far-reaching consequences.
The explosions raised speculation that Ukraine had finally gotten the long-range weapons, but US congressional staffers said that they knew of no such missiles supplied by the United States.
In other developments, Russian forces shelled areas across Ukraine on Tuesday night into Wednesday, including the central region of Dnipropetrovsk, where 13 people were killed, according to the regions governor, Valentyn Reznichenko.
Reznichenko said the Russians fired at the city of Marganets and a nearby village. Dozens of residential buildings, two schools and several administrative buildings were damaged.
One tourist, Natalia Lipovaya, said that the earth was gone from under my feet after the powerful blasts. "I was so scared, she said.
Russia denied any aircraft were damaged in Tuesday's blasts  or that any attack even took place.
Sergey Milochinsky, a local resident, recalled hearing a roar and seeing a mushroom cloud from his window. "Everything began to fall around, collapse, he said.
The two runways bore no apparent damage and appeared to still be operational. Some fighter jets on the flight line had been moved farther down the runway, compared to images taken on Tuesday before the blast.
While damaged fighter jets can appear to be seen, it is still not clear how the base was damaged.
But it added: The Kremlin has little incentive to accuse Ukraine of conducting strikes that caused the damage since such strikes would demonstrate the ineffectiveness of Russian air defence systems.
Ukraine has repeatedly urged Washington to deliver longer-range missiles for HIMARS that can strike targets up to 300km away. The White House has rejected that out of concern it could trigger a wider war.
The base on the Black Sea peninsula, which dangles off southern Ukraine, is at least 200km from the closest Ukrainian position  out of the range of the missiles supplied by the US for use in HIMARS launchers.
Ukrainian officials stopped short of publicly claiming responsibility for the explosions, while mocking Russias explanation that a careless smoker might have caused ammunition at the Saki air base to catch fire and blow up.
Russian forces also continued shelling the city of Nikopol across the Dnieper River from the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. It is the biggest nuclear plant in Europe. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of shelling it, stoking international fears of a catastrophe.
"I think that Russian military guys in this airbase ruined their very simply known rule: don't smoke in dangerous places," said Oleksiy Reznikov.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych, cryptically said that the blasts were either caused by a Ukrainian-made long-range weapon or the work of Ukrainian guerrillas operating in Crimea.
Ukraine's air force said Wednesday local time that nine Russian warplanes were destroyed in a deadly string of explosions at an air base in Crimea, amid speculation the blasts were the result of a Ukrainian attack that would represent a significant escalation in the war.
Analysts said that the explanation doesnt make sense and that the Ukrainians could have used anti-ship missiles to strike the base.
