Ukrainian Kiwis defiance in the face of aggression
20220227
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/300527837/ukrainian-kiwis-defiance-in-the-face-of-aggression
But his sister had told him that even there the local airport had been bombed in the past few days.
The protest was attended by about 400 Ukrainian expatriates and local people, a number of them from Hamilton.
Ask Hamilton-based Ukrainian Yuriy Gladun what hed say to Vladimir Putin right now and the angry answer comes straight back.
Gladun would like the New Zealand Government to impose sanctions on Russia without the need for UN approval.
When back in Hamilton, where the Victoria Bridge was lit up Sunday night in Ukrainian colours, the St Andrews resident said he will continue to lobby the Government to do what it can for Ukraine. This included looking at lists of people who should be offered refugee status, and continue to provide mutual support for his fellow ex-pats.
While the Russian advance had been slowed on day three of Putins invasion designed to topple the government and bring Ukraine back under Moscows influence, air and artillery strikes lit up the sky over Kyiv.
When pre-invasion tensions were escalating he helped send letters to the Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister. But now  following the bombing of cities and other Russian violence  he struggles to find the right words to fully convey his outrage.
Western nations also announced a new plan for economic measures aimed at crippling Russias economy in a bid to halt the bloodshed.
Gladun has a 70-year-old sister, living with her daughter and her five-year-old grandchild, in a relatively quiet part of western Ukraine.
This included the likely cutting off of Russian backs from the international SWIFT money transfer system and specifically targeting Russia's Central Bank to limit the Kremlin's ability to access the more than US$600 billion in reserves there and send the ruble into freefall and prices rocketing to put domestic pressure on Putin to change course.
READ MORE:  Marlborough winemaker 'stays calm' and stands strong as homeland Ukraine attacked  Ukrainians gather in solidarity at Wellington's Civic Square  Wellingtonians protest Ukraine invasion in front of Russian embassy
Gladun, a 63-year-old engineer whos lived in New Zealand for 21 years, left his home country for more predictability and to build a better life.
Currently chairman of the northern region of the Ukrainian Association of NZ, Gladun said there were about half a dozen Ukrainian families in Hamilton.
He said Ukrainians in New Zealand, mostly from eastern and central areas of his homeland, tended to be pretty self-sufficient.
There were also reports of columns of Russian armoured vehicles assembling near the capital for a renewed push into the city, which has already seen some street fighting.
They have set up a shelter in their basement, he said, where they have food, water and a place to sleep.
I wouldnt say anything. If I had a gun I would shoot him, Gladun said in the wake of the Auckland protest he helped organise on Sunday against the Russian leaders invasion of his homeland.
However, these measures were a world away from Yuriy Gladun's more immediate concerns on a sunny Sunday in New Zealand.
He would also like New Zealand to take Ukrainian refugees, especially family members of the approximately 1500 Ukrainians living here.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian civilian volunteers answered President Volodymyr Zelenskyys to take up arms to defend the country.
His sister had asked his advice on whether she should try to escape elsewhere but he couldnt recommend fleeing in the current circumstances.
