Ukraine ambassador says country is ready for Russian invasion NZ support useful
20220221
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/politics/127834107/ukraine-ambassador-says-country-is-ready-for-russian-invasion-nz-support-useful
For months, Russia has been threatening an invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by massing troops at Ukraines border and conducting military exercises. The warnings from countries seeking to curb Russias aggression, including the United States, United Kingdom, and European nations, have only grown more dire in the past week as Russia appeared poised to invade at any given moment.
Zelenko said Kuleba provided Mahuta first-hand information of what was happening, and spoke of possible co-operation.
New Zealand has said it supports Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity. New Zealands ambassador to Warsaw, Poland, visited Ukraine on January 24 and met with Ukrainian officials. And last week Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta spoke with Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba.
She said there was a cautious optimism about the outcome of Russians aggression, but we also realise the moment of truth has come.
Ambassador Kateryna Zelenko, who is Singapore-based but has responsibility for her countrys relationship with New Zealand, said in an interview that New Zealands condemnation of Russias aggression was useful to show Russia that Ukraine had support in every corner of the world.
On Thursday, an increase of shelling in the contested Donbas region of Ukraine  which has been held by Russian-backed separatists since 2014, when Russia invaded and annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine  caused alarm that Russia was creating a pre-text to justify invasion. Zelenko said three people had been injured in the shelling, and civilian infrastructure was damaged.
What is going on around Ukraine is not merely about Ukraine. The threat to one imperils the security of all.
There are so many tools which are in place in order to blackmail the free democracies, and these are all the attempts which must be nipped in the bud.
We have seen no evidence that Russian forces are withdrawing from Ukrainian border regions, Zelenko said, in an interview on Friday.
She said Ukraines future was at stake, and recent surveys of the country showed the majority of people were willing to take up arms to defend the country.
Since, the US has warned that Russian President Vladimir Putin had ordered the invasion of Ukraine and false-flag operations to make it appear Russia was responding to a threat were underway. The claim was based on intelligence, according to a New York Times report on Monday morning.
Russia is nowadays not only playing with its military forces. We also see a massive non-military component ... Russia's bargaining chips in its dangerous game are also energy supplies, migrant crisis, hybrid warfare across Europe, cyberattacks, interference in elections, fake news disinformation campaigns just to name a few, Zelenko said.
We are fully aware of the threats of any possible escalation of the situation or any possible attempts by Russia to launch some new military operation against Ukraine.
"We all realise that if there is a fuelling conflict in Ukraine, it can also be challenging for the global markets, for supply chain, for businesses in economies all over the world.
READ MORE:  Nato fails to understand Moscow's strategy in escalating tensions  Kremlin ready for more talks with West amid Ukraine tensions  US President Joe Biden names Qatar major non-Nato ally as energy crisis looms
It is a clear sign that Ukraine gets support from all corners of the world.
Ukraines ambassador says her country is ready for war if Russia invades, and the ripples of the conflict would be felt in the South Pacific.
Ukraine has been at war since 2014, so we are well-prepared for these kinds of threats.
Only together, we can move forward on the path of diplomacy. Diplomacy is a good way to keep Russia at the negotiate table.
