Ukraine China rejects sanctions against Russia as war tops summit agenda
20220401
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/300556554/ukraine-china-rejects-sanctions-against-russia-as-war-tops-summit-agenda
Beijing also sanctioned some European Union lawmakers last year after the EU, Britain, Canada and the United States launched co-ordinated sanctions against officials in China over human rights abuses in the far western Xinjiang region.
Zhao said that when it came to Ukraine, Beijing would not be forced to choose a side or adopt a simplistic friend-or-foe approach. We should, in particular, resist the Cold War thinking and bloc confrontation.
Officials said they also wish to emphasise the impact the war is having on the availability of fertilizer and global energy and food prices, which are hitting the poorest countries in Africa and the Middle East hardest.
Beijing has dismissed European criticisms as biased and driven by an anti-China agenda being pursued by its chief global rival, the United States.
Rights groups have also urged the EU to take a more assertive stand with China over repression in Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong and elsewhere and the persecution of Chinese dissidents including Sakharov Prize winner Ilham Tohti and Chinese-Swedish publisher Gui Minhai.
The European Parliament responded by saying it will not ratify a long-awaited business investment deal as long as the sanctions remain in place.
China has renewed its criticism of Western sanctions against Russia, as top European Union officials seek assurances from Beijing that it would not help Moscow circumvent the economic measures imposed in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
China disapproves of solving problems through sanctions, and we are even more opposed to unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction that have no basis in international law, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a daily briefing as they met.
Prior to the summit, EU officials said they would look for signs Beijing is willing to co-operate on bringing an end to the war. The meeting takes place amid rising negative sentiment within the bloc fuelled by Chinas aggressive foreign policies and trade practices.
READ MORE:  Russia praises India's neutral stand on Ukraine fighting  How close are Russia and Ukraine to a peace settlement?  Ukraine invasion: Russian forces 'transfer' Chernobyl back to Ukrainian personnel  Under unprecedented sanctions, how is the Russian economy faring?
Underlying the EU's expectations for China is the possibility of penalties against Chinese companies that undermine measures taken against Russia. EU officials point out that 13.7 per cent of Chinas total trade is done with the 27-nation bloc, and 12 per cent with the United States, compared with just 2.4 per cent with Russia.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry also laid blame for the war in Ukraine at least partially on the United States for pushing to expand the NATO military alliance closer to Russia's borders. Twenty-one of the EU's 27 countries are also NATO member states.
China says it is not taking sides in the conflict, but it has declared a no limits partnership with Russia and refuses to condemn the invasion. Beijing routinely amplifies Russian disinformation about the conflict, and does not refer to it as an invasion or a war in keeping with Russian practice.
Other topics include Chinas travel ban on members of the European Parliament Beijings economic boycott of EU member Lithuania over its Taiwan relations the fate of a stalled investment agreement and civil and political rights under Chinas authoritarian Communist Party regime.
At a virtual summit on Friday local time, European Council President Charles Michel, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell were seeking signs from Chinese President and Communist Party leader Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang that Beijing would help to end the war.
As the culprit and leading instigator of the Ukraine crisis, the US has led NATO to engage in five rounds of eastward expansion in the last two decades after 1999," he said, adding that NATO membership almost doubled from 16 to 30 countries, and pushed "Russia to the wall step by step.
