Ukraine accuses Moscow of forcibly taking civilians to Russia as hostages
20220324
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300549688/ukraine-accuses-moscow-of-forcibly-taking-civilians-to-russia-as-hostages
The port was going to be used to deliver military equipment for the Russians, the report said.
Foreigners were barred from selling, and traders were prohibited from short selling, or betting prices would fall.
The claims could not be independently verified. Russia has said it is evacuating thousands of civilians of their own free will.
Ukraine's Foreign Ministry charged that Russian forces have taken 6000 Mariupol residents to camps against their will.
At an emergency NATO summit in Brussels, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pleaded with the Western allies via video for planes, tanks, rockets, air defence systems and other weapons, saying his country is defending our common values.
She was on her way to join her mother and then go on to Poland or Germany.
Ukrainian military intelligence said Ukrainian civilians are being sent through a camp in Russian-controlled territory, then onward through southern regions of Russia to economically depressed parts of the country.
Ukraine accused Moscow on Thursday local time of forcibly taking thousands of civilians from the shattered port city of Mariupol to Russia so that they can be used as hostages to pressure Kyiv to give up.
Some could be sent as far as the Pacific Ocean island of Sakhalin, Ukrainian intelligence said, and are being offered jobs on condition they dont leave for two years.
READ MORE:  UN blames Russia for Ukraine humanitarian crisis  Half of Russian troops advancing on key Ukrainian city 'have frostbite'  'Every minute of the war doing damage' - Russian expat wants ceasefire  Journalist heard thunder of Ukrainian defence hours before she was killed by rocket in Kyiv
Russian troops are confiscating identity documents from an additional 15,000 people in a section of Mariupol under Russian control, the ministry said.
US President Joe Biden, in Europe for a series of summits, gave assurances more aid was on its way.
Ukraine claimed two more ships were damaged and a 3000-ton fuel tank was destroyed when the Orsk was sunk, causing a fire that spread to nearby ammunition supplies.
A month into the invasion, meanwhile, the two sides traded heavy blows in what has become a devastating war of attrition. Ukraines navy said it sank a large landing ship near the port city of Berdyansk that had been used to supply Russian forces with armoured vehicles. Russia claimed to have taken the eastern town of Izyum after fierce fighting.
Photos and video after the naval attack in Berdyansk showed fire and thick plumes of smoke.
Sending a signal that Western sanctions have not brought it to its knees, Russia reopened its stock market but allowed only limited trading to prevent mass sell-offs.
Millions of people in Ukraine have made their way out of the country, some pushed to the limit after trying to stay and cope.
At the beginning I didnt want to leave, she said. Now Im scared for my life.
Around the capital, Kyiv, and other areas, Ukrainian defenders appear to have fought Moscow's ground troops to a stalemate, raising fears that a frustrated Russian President Vladimir Putin will resort to chemical, biological or nuclear weapons.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance's leaders agreed to send equipment to help protect Ukraine against chemical attack.
Russian TV reported earlier this week that the vessel the Ukrainians claimed to have sunk, Orsk, was the first Russian warship to enter Berdyansk.
At the central station in the western city of Lviv, a teenage girl stood in the doorway of a waiting train, a white pet rabbit shivering in her arms.
