Ukraine invasion Soldier shares photos of the Mariupol siege before surrendering to Russian forces
20220523
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300595598/ukraine-invasion-soldier-shares-photos-of-the-mariupol-siege-before-surrendering-to-russian-forces
Kozatsky posted a selection of images on Twitter before joining the stream of troops laying down their arms this week. They marched out of the Azovstal mill in their hundreds, carrying the wounded. They were following orders from the Ukrainian high command to save their lives, because theyd fulfilled their previous mission to hamper Russias advance.
Somewhere inside the grimly defended Mariupol steel plant, where he and his comrades were making their last stand, one Ukrainian soldier was tackling a crossword puzzle.
One shows a soldier smoking a cigarette to its nub. Was it to be his last?
Send them to all journalistic awards and photo contests, he said. If I win something, it will be very nice after the release.
With reading glasses perched on the end of his nose and deep in concentration, he looked peaceful  in this war-torn city and amid a violent siege that was anything but.
But Kozatskys photos tell stories that cant be razed so easily, immortalising the defenders in lulls between fighting.
One more shows two members of the garrison lost in thought, staring into a wood fire. Its easy to imagine that they were conjuring up memories of happy familiar faces and calmer times miles away.
Once they are also in Russian hands, the fall of Mariupol will be complete. Russia will be in full control of a bombarded city that now hardly stands.
For nearly three months, Azovstals garrison clung on, refusing to be winkled out from the tunnels and bunkers under the ruins of the labyrinthine mill. Because of its tenacious defence, not only were Russian troops who had captured the rest of Mariupol unable to declare victory, they couldnt even all be peeled away to fight in battles on other Ukrainian fronts.
READ MORE:  Russian soldier sentenced to life in prison in Ukraine's first war crimes trial amid the invasion  Ukraine War: Russia claims to have taken full control of Mariupol  Ukraine invasion: Russia presses Donbas offensive as Polish leader visits Kyiv  Under attack: How a Ukrainian mother and her children survived their home being bombed
Squeezed against a concrete wall in heavy combat boots and camouflage fatigues, he was surely uncomfortable  but too engrossed to care. Or to notice the photographer hovering to his right, immortalising the moment inside this last bastion of Ukrainian resistance, the pulverised Azovstal steel mill.
Well, thats all. Thank you from the shelters of Azovstal  the place of my death and my life, he wrote.
Nearly 2000 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered this week, Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said. An unknown number of others remain inside, seemingly not yet ready to give up the mill, for which their brothers and sisters gave up their lives.
In another, with an electric strimmer one fighter calmly trims a comrades silver hair. Life, even here, must go on, it seemed to whisper, gaining power from its mundaneness.
Photographer-soldier Dmytro Kozatsky was among them, on the Ukrainian side. He is now a prisoner of war. His photos are his legacy.
