Ukraine and Russia sign deals to end wartime grain standoff
20220722
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300644289/ukraine-and-russia-sign-deals-to-end-wartime-grain-standoff
Ukraine has sought international guarantees that the Kremlin wouldnt use the safe corridors to attack the key Black Sea port of Odesa. Ukrainian authorities have also accused Russia of stealing grain from eastern Ukraine and deliberately shelling Ukrainian fields to set them on fire.
Guterres said the plan, known as the Black Sea Initiative would open a path for significant volumes of commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea: Odessa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny".
It would bring relief for developing countries on the edge of bankruptcy and the most vulnerable people on the edge of famine.
Ukrainian and Russian military delegations had reached a tentative agreement last week on a UN plan that would also allow Russia to export its grain and fertilizers. Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraines president, stressed Friday that Ukraine and Russia would sign separate agreements, saying Ukraine does not sign any documents with Russia.
The deal makes provisions for the safe passage of ships. A control centre will be established in Istanbul, staffed by UN, Turkish, Russian and Ukrainian officials, to run and co-ordinate the process. Ships would undergo inspections to ensure they are not carrying weapons.
In Washington, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the US welcomes the agreement in principle.
Russian and Ukrainian officials have blamed each other for the blocked grain shipments. Moscow accused Ukraine of failing to remove sea mines at the ports to allow safe shipping and insisted on its right to check incoming ships for weapons. Ukraine has argued that Russia's port blockade and launching of missiles from the Black Sea made any shipments unviable.
You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all, he said, addressing the Russian and Ukrainian representatives.
It will help stabilise global food prices which were already at record levels even before the war  a true nightmare for developing countries," Guterres added.
He proposed a package deal in early June amid fears that the war was endangering food supplies for many developing nations and could worsen hunger for up to 181 million people.
But what were focusing on now is holding Russia accountable for implementing this agreement and for enabling Ukrainian grain to get to world markets. It has been for far too long that Russia has enacted this blockade, Price said.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, Guterres said. A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever.
Russia and Ukraine signed separate agreements Friday local time with Turkey and the United Nations clearing the way for exporting millions of tonnes of desperately needed Ukrainian grain  as well as Russian grain and fertilizer  ending a wartime standoff that had threatened food security around the globe.
READ MORE:  Turkey: Ukraine grain export deal is finally set to be signed  Black Sea grain shipments must be a global priority  Russian official: War's focus expanding to include southern Ukraine
Guterres first raised the critical need to get Ukraines agricultural production and Russias grain and fertilizer back into world markets in late April during meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv.
Podolyak insisted that no Russian ship would escort vessels and that there would be no Russian representative present at Ukrainian ports. Ukraine also plans an immediate military response in case of provocations, he said.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russias invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments. Some grain is being transported through Europe by rail, road and river, but the prices of vital commodities like wheat and barley have soared during the nearly five-month war.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov signed separate deals with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres and Turkish Defence Minister Hulusi Akar. The ceremony in Istanbul was witnessed by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
The deal will enable Ukraine to export about 22 million tonnes of grain and other agricultural products that have been stuck in Black Sea ports due to the war.
