Ukraine invasion Hundreds show solidarity at Auckland protest
20220227
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/127902629/ukraine-invasion-hundreds-show-solidarity-at-auckland-protest
The former Ukrainian, who has been in New Zealand for 21 years, says Kiwis have never lived under suppression or tyranny.
For such an invasion to happen to Ukraine, it could happen to New Zealand too, he said.
They said, freedom means more to us  we will never give up, they will never break us.
One protest organiser, Yuriy Gladun, said New Zealanders have to do all they can against the Russian invasion.
READ MORE:  'One minute I'm preparing for Paris Fashion Week, the next, I'm a war refugee'  Live: Oil depot fire lights up the sky in Kyiv, Russia banks cut from Swift system  Ukrainian Kiwis distraught as home country invaded: 'It is hard not to yell and cry'
Many waved Ukrainian flags, and some wore traditional dress, and held posters saying save Ukraine.
Its like Im living in a surreal world  I would like to wake up and have my free country back and safe people, she said.
To help stop the spread of Covid-19, the protest was spread across the road and most protesters wore masks.
About 400 to 500 people gathered at Auckland's Aotea Square on Sunday afternoon to show solidarity with Ukraine.
With many holding signs saying Stop Putin stop war, the protesters made clear their feelings about Russia's invasion of the country.
Gladun would like the New Zealand Government to impose sanctions on Russia without the need for UN approval.
He would also like New Zealand to take Ukrainian refugees, especially family members of the approximately 1500 Ukrainians living here.
Gladun said his sister and her family are in the western part of Ukraine. While the family is hoping Russian forces will not come so far west, they have prepared a shelter in their basement just in case, he said.
Another former Ukrainian now living in New Zealnad, Larysa Talaluyeva said the Russian invasion of Ukraine was horrible and unbelievable in 2022.
Gladun said her family is in the centre of the conflict, including several in Kyiv  including her 95-year-old grandmother  and a nephew who is in the military.
