Ukrainians queue for stamps showcasing defiance of soldiers on Snake Island
20220420
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300569749/ukrainians-queue-for-stamps-showcasing-defiance-of-soldiers-on-snake-island
The "First Day" stamp was an interpretation of an incident that occurred on Snake Island on February 24 in which Ukrainian border guards reportedly told off the encroaching Moskva with colourful language as Russia launched its invasion.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy took to social media to promote the commemorative stamp and an envelope that bore the same image. He mocked the damaged vessel, telling people using the stamps to remember that the Moskva "always travels only in one direction" - downward.
READ MORE:  Moskva captain may have abandoned ship early, new images suggest  Russian warship's sinking raises tense questions about fate of crew  Displaced artists in Ukraine help people cope with war trauma  Russia's invasion of Ukraine far from over amid renewed strikes on Kyiv  The Moskva, sunk off Ukraine, served in wars hot and cold
In another instance underscoring continued defiance as the war grinds into an eighth week, an art studio in Lviv in western Ukraine is auctioning a non-fungible token NFT based on a mug shot of oligarch Viktor Medvedchuk, a friend of Russian President Vladimir Putin who was recaptured by Ukrainian authorities this week.
Artists from the M81 Studio retooled a post-capture photo of Medvedchuk into what they termed "Warhol-style" pop art. Proceeds from the sale of the "Kremlin agent Medvedchuk for sale" NFT, which was trading at roughly NZ$470 US$320, will be used to support Ukraine's defence efforts, the studio said.
"We are used to Medvedchuk being corrupt, but finally, he is being sold to benefit Ukraine, and not for his own enrichment," it added. An attorney for Medvedchuk did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Odessa's governor and the Ukrainian military said a Ukrainian missile attack sank the Russian warship - an assertion backed by Washington - while Moscow blamed a combination of a fire and bad weather.
Images of the dishevelled and handcuffed mogul Medvedchuk have also circulated widely since his recapture. Medvedchuk, who has been charged with treason, escaped house arrest shortly after the invasion, according to Kyiv.
As news emerged of the sinking of the Moskva - for which Ukrainian officials claimed responsibility - Ukrainians lined up outside a Kyiv post office in hope of snatching up the special stamp.
The sinking of the flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet has boosted Ukrainian morale, as well as sales of a postage stamp commemorating an earlier incident involving the cruiser.
The sinking of the Russian cruiser Moskva came shortly after Ukraine's national postal service released 1 million stamps depicting a Ukrainian fighter holding up a middle finger in front of the vessel.
