US rockets could arrive too late for Ukraine to stall Russian advance
20220601
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300603888/us-rockets-could-arrive-too-late-for-ukraine-to-stall-russian-advance
The US on Wednesday unveiled a new US$700 million package of sophisticated weapons for Ukraine in an urgent effort to prevent Russia from seizing the final swaths of land in the Donbas region.
The Pentagon would not say how many rockets it will provide to Ukraine, only that it is sending four of the truck-mounted HIMARS systems. The trucks each carry a container with six precision-guided rockets, which can travel about 70km.
President Joe Biden in an essay in the New York Times, said: We are not encouraging or enabling Ukraine to strike beyond its borders. We do not want to prolong the war just to inflict pain on Russia.
We are fighting for Ukraine to be provided with all the weapons needed to change the nature of the fighting and start moving faster and more confidently toward the expulsion of the occupiers, Zelenskyy said in a recent address.
The weapons will come from Pentagon drawdown authority, so would involve taking them from US inventory. Kahl said that the HIMARS systems have already been sent to Europe, and officials said the training could begin this week.
The Biden administration's decision to send four medium-range rocket systems came after weeks of debate over whether the precision-guided weapons would provoke a strong military reaction from Russian President Vladimir Putin. It suggested the US believes it has zeroed in on what weapons deliveries are worth the risk.
Since the war began in February, the US and its allies have tried to walk a narrow line: send Ukraine weapons needed to fight off Russia but stop short of providing aid that will trigger a broader conflict that could spill into other parts of Europe.
Still, Kahl and other US officials said that Ukrainian leaders have promised they will use the rockets only to defend their nation.
Over time, however, the US and allies have amped up the weaponry going to Ukraine, as the fight has shifted from Russias campaign to take the capital, Kyiv, and other areas, to more close-contact skirmishes for small pieces of land in the east and south.
We dont have an interest in the conflict in Ukraine widening to a broader conflict or evolving into World War Three. So weve been mindful of that, said Colin Kahl, the defence undersecretary for policy. But at the same time, Russia doesnt get a veto over what we send to the Ukrainians.
The expectation is that Ukraine can use the rockets in the Donbas, where they could both intercept Russian artillery and take out Russian positions in towns where fighting is intense, such as Sievierodonetsk.
The need to train Ukrainian troops on the HIMARS system for about three weeks before they can go to battle raises concerns that Russia will have a window of time to capture key terrain in the east.
It is a grinding fight, said Kahl. "We believe that these additional capabilities will arrive in a timeframe thats relevant and allow the Ukrainians to very precisely target the types of things they need for the current fight.
AP Diplomatic Writer Matthew Lee, AP writer Aamer Madhani and AP broadcast reporter Sagar Meghani contributed to this report.
In order to trust someone, you need to have experience with situations when such promises were kept. Regretfully, there is no such experience whatsoever, Peskov said.
Russia has been making incremental progress in the Donbas, as it tries to take the remaining sections of the region not already controlled by Russian-backed separatists.
The Ukrainians have given us assurances that they will not use these systems against targets on Russian territory, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday. There is a strong trust bond between Ukraine and the United States.
However, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Wednesday the US is deliberately and diligently pouring fuel on the fire. He added that Russia doesnt trust Kyivs assurances that the multiple rocket launch systems supplied by the US will not be used to attack.
These are very important capabilities that we have not gotten them yet. And they not only need them, but they have been very vociferous in explaining they want them, said Breedlove.
The package announced on Wednesday is the 11th approved so far and will be the first to tap the US$40 billion in security and economic assistance recently passed by Congress. It includes a variety of weapons and equipment, ranging from helicopters, Javelin anti-tank weapon systems and radars to tactical vehicles, artillery rounds and spare parts.
READ MORE:  Russia accuses US of 'pouring fuel on the fire' as West pledges more weapons to Ukraine  Deluded Putin wants you to believe seizing Severodonetsk is a big win for Russia  Biden says US sending medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine
We need to get serious about supplying this army so that it can do what the world is asking it to do: fight a world superpower alone on the battlefield.
Sievierodonetsk is important to Russian efforts to capture the Donbas before more Western arms arrive to bolster Ukraines defense. The city, which is 145km south of the Russian border, is in an area that is the last pocket under Ukrainian government control in the Luhansk region of the Donbas.
But the most advanced rocket systems will take at least three weeks to reach the battlefront, raising questions of whether they will arrive in time to stop Russias slow but steady gains.
Ukraine needs multiple-launch rocket systems, said Philip Breedlove, a retired US Air Force general who was Natos top commander from 2013 to 2016.
To that end, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has been pleading with the West to send multiple-launch rocket systems as soon as possible to help stop Russias destruction of towns in the Donbas. The rockets have a longer range than the howitzer artillery systems that the US has provided Ukraine. They would allow Ukrainian forces to strike Russian troops from a distance outside the range of Russia's artillery systems.
