Vladimir Putins vain ambitions stung by Boris Johnson in surprise visit to Kyiv
20220617
https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/300616443/vladimir-putins-vain-ambitions-stung-by-boris-johnson-in-surprise-visit-to-kyiv
The organiser of the Eurovision Song Contest said it will start talks with the BBC on possibly holding next years event in the UK after concluding that it cant be held in Ukraine. Last month, Ukrainian band Kalush Orchestra won the 2022 contest, buoying Ukrainian spirits. The event is traditionally staged by the previous years winner.
A group of volunteers called the IT Army of Ukraine said it carried out a cyberattack that delayed Putin's speech in St Petersburg. The group was convened by Ukraine after the invasion to launch cyberattacks against Russian targets. It said it carried out a distributed denial-of-service attack, which leverages networks of zombie computers to flood websites with junk traffic, rendering them unreachable.
The possibility of membership in the EU, created to safeguard peace on the continent and serve as a model for the rule of law and prosperity, fulfils a wish of Zelenskyy and his Western-looking citizens.
In another show of Western support, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson arrived in Kyiv to meet with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to offer continued aid and military training, adding that evidence points to Russia taking heavy casualties in the invasion.
The latest embrace of Ukraine by its European allies marked another setback for Russian President Vladimir Putin, who launched his war nearly four months ago, hoping to pull his ex-Soviet neighbour away from the West and back into Russias sphere of influence.
Johnsons trip to Kyiv followed one a day earlier by the leaders of Germany, France, Italy and Romania, who vowed to support Ukraines fight without asking it to make any territorial concessions to Russia.
The Ukrainian navy claimed it destroyed a Russian boat carrying air defence systems to a strategic island in the Black Sea. The navy said on social media that the Vasily Bekh was used to transport ammunition, weapons and personnel to Snake Island, which is vital for protecting sea lanes out of the key port of Odesa.
We are with you to give you the strategic endurance that you will need, Johnson said on his second visit to the country since the February 24 start of the war. Although he did not detail the aid, he said Britain would lead a programme that could train up to 10,000 Ukrainian soldiers every 120 days in an unspecified location outside the country.
Johnson said his government will work to intensify the sanctions on Russia. He praised the resilience of Ukrainians and how life is coming back to the streets of Kyiv, but noted that only a couple of hours away, a barbaric assault continues. Towns and villages are being reduced to rubble.
The British-led training programme could change the equation of this war, Johnson said. Ukraine has been taking heavy casualties in the battle for the countrys eastern industrial heartland.
The European Commission's recommendation that Ukraine become a candidate for membership will be discussed by leaders of the 27-nation bloc during a summit next week in Brussels. The war has increased pressure on EU governments to fast-track Ukraines candidate status. But the process is expected to take years, and EU members remain divided over how quickly and fully to open their arms to new members.
We are old people, we do not have a place to go. Where will I go? asked Vira Miedientseva, an elderly resident grappling with the aftermath of an attack Thursday in Lysychansk, just across the river from Sievierodonetsk, where a key battle is raging.
Zelenskyy welcomed Johnson's visit, saying on Telegram: We have a common view of the movement towards Ukraines victory. Im grateful for a powerful support!
At Russias showpiece economic forum in St Petersburg on Friday, Putin said Moscow has nothing against Ukraine joining the EU, because it isn't a military organisation, a political organisation like Nato. He also reprised his usual defence of the war, alleging it was necessary to protect people in parts of eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed rebels and to ensure Russias own security.
He said that two months after his last visit, the Ukrainian grit, determination and resilience is stronger than ever, and I know that unbreakable resolve will long outlive the vain ambitions of President Putin.
Political and military support for Ukraine from Western countries has been key to its surprising success in the face of larger and better-equipped Russian forces. Zelenskyy has also clamoured for additional immediate support in the form of more and better weapons to turn the tide in the east, known as the Donbas region.
The European Unions executive arm recommended putting Ukraine on a path to membership Friday local time, a symbolic boost for a country fending off a Russian onslaught that is killing civilians, flattening cities and threatening its very survival.
Russia pressed its offensive there Friday, leaving desperate residents struggling to make sense of their future.
The wars disruption to exports of grain and other crops from Ukraine that feed the world has captured global attention and sent bread prices soaring across the world. But the production of other, more niche foodstuffs has also been impacted, including for a Ukrainian snail farmer.
READ MORE:  Leaders pledge arms and EU path for Ukraine in Kyiv visit  Rockets and artillery dictate policy on Ukraine  Ukrainian civilians stranded as Russia destroys every bridge out of Severodonetsk
I completely understand why you and your people can make no compromise with Putin because if Ukraine is suffering, if the Ukrainian troops are suffering, then I have to tell you that all the evidence is that Putins troops are under acute pressure themselves and they are taking heavy casualties," he said. "Their expenditure of munitions, of shells and other weaponry, is colossal.
