We need to deal with the challenges of misinformation
20220303
https://www.stuff.co.nz/southland-times/southland-top-stories/127957403/we-need-to-deal-with-the-challenges-of-misinformation
I had hoped the fears my parents and grandparents expressed through the 1950s and 60s about a nuclear Armageddon had all been lost in the mists of time, but it seems not.
OPINION: As we left 2021 behind us and welcomed in 2022, I had high hopes Covid may be on the way out.
While its true the current variant Omicron appears to be somewhat less debilitating if you are double or triple vaccinated, every day sees increasing numbers hospitalised and exerting more pressure on the health system.
READ MORE:  Ardern and Putin seek to leave very different legacies  Parliament occupation a site of confusion and chaos  Protest hampered by a lack of clear leadership and purpose
I have much to thank my father for, but his persistence in helping me understand why the tour was so wrong was a highlight.
Of course, the role of social media and some of the questionable science promoted by the various platforms was, in my view, a significant factor in why things escalated in the last days.
I think any doubts there may have been about the Russian Bear being in an enforced period of hibernation have been soundly quashed, and with it, all western nations put on notice.
Daily I give thanks for the place we call home. It not perfect, but it is close.
I envisaged us being able to start remedying what seems to be a multitude of intractable problems such as a lack of affordable housing, a health system cracking under pressure, and resource consenting bogged down at every turn.
Rhetoric is one thing. But invading your neighbour in the way it is playing out in Ukraine looks to me like Russia, or perhaps more accurately Vladimir Putin, has passed the point of no return.
For goodness sake, if you are reading this and havent already taken advantage of the free vaccines, please do. Its never too late.
It has been impossible to miss the antics taking place on the well-manicured grounds of Parliament over the past three weeks.
Protests certainly have their place. I can say from personal experience that I learned much from the Springbok tour. As someone who started with a strong pro-tour stance, lets say I, fortunately, saw the light and finished that chapter of New Zealands history in the opposite camp.
If we dont want to see a repeat of the Wellington protest we, as a nation, need to deal with the challenges of misinformation and how easily it can be spread sooner rather than later.
I applaud the actions of our men and women in blue to remove those occupying the grounds for too long and causing significant disruption to Wellingtonians going about their lawful business.
But it wasnt to be, with Covid finding a new gear and spreading to all corners of our country.
The recent protest in Wellington, which began by highlighting what some saw as a wrong imposed on individuals, ended in a whimper, having been hijacked along the way by those with unusual views about how New Zealand society should function.
I dont know exactly what that means for us in the southwest Pacific, but in many ways, the world order as we have known it for the last 50 plus years is changing before our eyes.
And just as our internal conflict came to a close for now, on the international front a conflict that may have significant implications for us all was kicking off on the borders of Ukraine.
While our democratic tradition and rights to peacefully protest, particularly on the grounds of Parliament, need to be protected at all cost, this protest went too far, in my opinion.
