Why the Government has lain low on soldiers who could be in Ukraine
20220727
https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/politics/opinion/129691619/why-the-government-has-lain-low-on-soldiers-who-could-be-in-ukraine
All this explains why the New Zealand Government has so far treated the death of Abelen in the way that it has. Ministers have stressed that he is a private citizen, who has broken the rules to travel to Ukraine and that, further, no on- or off-duty New Zealand soldiers are allowed in Ukraine under the terms of their employment. No permission has been, or will be, granted for soldiers to travel to Ukraine.
Tragically, his family said they did not know where he was off to and would have talked him out of it. In a statement, father Bryce said how proud he was of his boy.
Already, Russia has used the capture of British troops for the purposes of Soviet-style show trials.
Russias Defence Ministry has declared that anyone heading to fight for Ukraine will be considered mercenaries. That means if they are captured they will not be accorded the usual rights of prisoners of war and can be used as bargaining chips with the state from which  they came.
The risks to personal life in this grinding war are clear. But, also, the risks and complications for New Zealand are significant.
Now, one of Russias tactics seems to be to try to draw the war out, hoping that the West loses patience or enthusiasm with the conflict, and the Russians can rebuild their forces somehow.
Now the task for the Defence Force should be to try to ascertain whether any other soldiers are fighting in Ukraine. While Henare said that expectations on soldiers on leave were clear, he said he did not expect the NZDF to check up on anyone.
There is basically the free West supporting Ukraine in some manner, while China watches on to see what it can learn from the Wests response.
What was initially expected to be a Russia rout that would be over within a week has morphed into a protracted war of attrition, with relative fighting positions changing little over the past two months.
There are many details in this episode that are unclear. What was his motivation? How did he get there?
These cases demonstrate why volunteers travelling to Ukraine present foreign governments with diplomatic difficulties, particularly when their citizens are captured by Russian forces, wrote Tanya Mehra and Abigail Thorley in a paper, published in July, for the International Centre for Counter-Terrorism.
Even the matter of who may have his body  the Russians or Ukrainians  is dealt with by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a consulate matter out of the embassy in Warsaw, Poland. If his body is ever brought home  which appears unlikely  it will be as a private citizen, not as a soldier.
READ MORE:  Establishing guilt for war crimes is not straightforward  Why Russia's military is bogged down by logistics in Ukraine  Russia begins to mobilise military reinforcements for Ukraine as casualties mount, Pentagon says
The Defence Force said in a statement on Thursday that it was not aware of any other off-duty troops in Ukraine.
In a speech to the Lowy Institute in Sydney last month Prime MInister Jacinda Ardern said the war in Ukraine should not be viewed as a war of the West vs Russia. Or democracy vs autocracy. But given that the free world is lining up against Russia, and clearly supporting the war effort, that is one of the dynamics at play here.
OPINION: As the war in Ukraine passes the six-month mark, it has suddenly  come closer to home, with news that New Zealand soldier Dominic Abelen  on leave without pay  was killed while fighting in the International Legion of Ukraine against Russia.
Once captured by pro-Russian separatists or Russian forces, individuals face an uncertain fate and their capture could be used for propaganda purposes to demonstrate that the West is involved in the conflict in Ukraine.
New Zealand has continued to send deployments to the United Kingdom to help train Ukrainian soldiers. The war does not look like ending  soon, but the Russian position is generally considered vulnerable.  Russia does not have enough troops to take more ground and the Ukrainians have been boosted by new rocket systems provided by the West.
The question  and political crux of the matter  is why the Government has been so relatively quiet about Abelens death. The crucial fact is: he wasnt representing New Zealand.
I'm extremely proud of my children, and especially Dominic for standing up and doing what he thought was right.
The United States and other Western nations have continued to ramp up support for the Ukrainian war effort, with America recently approving US$1 billion in rockets. In May, Congress approved US$40b in aid to Ukraine, following up with smaller, shorter-term grants. It was a mixture of military and economic support.
In the meantime,  more foreign fighters are showing up in Ukraine. A month into the war, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said there were 16,000 foreign fighters in the country. In July, an adviser to Zelenskyy told the New York Times that perhaps 1000 foreign soldiers had been fighting on the front line, many British and American veterans of conflict in the Middle East.
The Government has been careful not to give any appearance that the New Zealand state might, in any way, be behind any New Zealanders who turn up there.
Meanwhile, it is in New Zealands best interests to ensure no more serving soldiers are in Ukraine. The war continues.
There are no press conferences in the Beehive Theatrette and the only appearances that have been made by Foreign Affairs Minister Nanaia Mahuta and Defence Minister Peeni Henare  were on their way into the House. These are deliberately not scheduled Government press conferences, but as the usual opportunities where journalists  get to quiz ministers.
It was clearly an uncomfortable space for Henare, in particular, to be in on Thursday. No defence minister wants to be less than effusive about the sacrifices made by soldiers, but when the soldier is acting as a private citizen, they have to be basically disowned by the state  they are not representing New Zealand.
Other non-fighting New Zealanders have been in Ukraine helping the war effort, most notably former defence minister Ron Mark.
