Sunflower prices continue to move higher
20220514
https://www.agupdate.com/minnesotafarmguide/farmandranchguide/markets/crop/sunflower-prices-continue-to-move-higher/article_16e62bae-d0b0-11ec-8dac-7f341b671df2.html
Sandbakken also noted that 2022 new crop prices at the crush plants were also moving higher. Cargill in West Fargo was offering $33.20 cash and $32.70 with an Act of God AOG clause for 2022 new crop NuSun sunflower, while ADM in Enderlin was offering $33.10 cash and $32.40 with an AOG.
The conflict in Ukraine pushed sunflower prices to all-time record highs this spring. Previous market highs of $38.80 for old crop and $30.50 for new crop were surpassed in late April at the crush plants, commented John Sandbakken, National Sunflower Association NSA executive director, in the May 9 NSA newsletter.
High-oleic 2022 new crop prices were $34.20 cash and $33.70 with an AOG at West Fargo, and $34.105 cash and $33.40 with an AOG at Enderlin. Elsewhere in North Dakota, the Pingree plant was offering $33.80 cash for 2022 new crop high-oleic sunflower and Hebron was offering $33.10 cash.
As the end of February approached, there were unfortunate sell-offs in the markets, and not just wheat, but across all commodities.
The rally has continued setting fresh highs each week as the lack of global sunflower seed availability and strong oil demand have encouraged crushers to pay more for the available crop, he said. Sunflower oil exporters are reportedly fielding unprecedented call volumes from new customers seeking to replace Black Sea sunflower oil.
The high prices have encouraged farmers to sell off most remaining seed stocks in the past few months, Sandbakken noted. For 2022-23, global sunflower seed production is going to be a moving target depending on what actually gets planted in Ukraine this year.
Sunflower prices, which were already high, continued to push to all-time highs in early May largely as a result of the war in Ukraine.
Whether Ukraines farmers will be able to get spring crops planted is a big concern for the market as is their ports being under siege and whether their supply chains will allow adequate shipments of fuel, fertilizer, and so on.
The conflict between Ukraine and Russia bears watching as it has significantly increased the uncertainty of the agricultural supply and demand conditions in the region and globally. With lower than anticipated acres, diversifying market risk with some sunflower acres would be a good option in 2022, he concluded.
Corn prices have been pushing against the high $6 range in recent weeks due in large part to weather in South America.
A look at the regional crush plants shows how much sunflower prices have risen. As of May 9, NuSun sunflower was listed at $40 per hundredweight for delivery in May and June at the Cargill plant in West Fargo, N.D. At the ADM plant in Enderlin, N.D., the MayJune delivery price for NuSun sunflower was $39.50.
Durum prices havent moved a whole lot in recent weeks, and thats the good news.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA, in its first unofficial projections in terms of acreage for the 2023 growing season, is looking at 
High-oleic sunflower prices at Cargill in West Fargo were listed at $40.40 for delivery in May and June, while at ADM in Enderlin the price of high-oleic sunflower for delivery in May and June was $40.
During the last week in February, nearby sunflower prices were unchanged to up 50 cents with new crop unchanged at the regions crush plants.
Sandbakken pointed out that Ukraine is one of the major producers and exporters of sunflower oil accounting for 50 percent of global sunflower oil trade with 5.3 million metric tons MMT in 2020-21. Russia was the second leading exporter of sun oil exporters this past year with about 3.3 MMT. Prior to the start of the conflict in late February, Ukraines sun oil exports were projected at about 6.7 MMT.
The war in Ukraine has left much uncertainty of what seed availability will be like this year and potentially in 2023, as well, he said. The events in Ukraine escalated an already tight vegetable oil market. Global vegetable oil prices skyrocketed in the past few months to record levels.
