Ukraine accuses Russia of massacre as city strewn with bodies
20220404
https://www.rhyljournal.co.uk/news/20042128.ukraine-accuses-russia-massacre-city-strewn-bodies/
Estimates of the impact of a gas boycott on European countries vary but most involve a substantial loss of economic output.
Mr Putin has said the attack is aimed at eliminating a security threat after Ukraines government pursued membership in the US-European Nato military alliance.
One resident of Bucha, who refused to give his name out of fear for his safety, said Russian troops went from building to building and took people out of the basements where they were hiding.
Meanwhile, president Volodymyr Zelensky appealed in a video shown Sunday during the Grammy Awards in Las Vegas for musicians and other artists to help tell the story of Russias invasion.
For its part, Russia is temporarily enjoying a windfall as global prices surge due to anxiety over possible supply disruptions.
Europe must consider stepping up penalties for Moscow by boycotting its gas exports, Germanys defence minister has said, as foreign outrage mounts over evidence of possible executions and other atrocities by Russian forces in Ukraine.
They appeared to have been shot at close range. At least two had their hands tied behind their backs.
Russian forces retreated from some areas around Kyiv after Moscow said it was focusing its offensive on the countrys east, where two regions are controlled by Russian-backed separatists.
Ukrainian officials blamed Russian soldiers, but Russias defence ministry said photos and videos of dead bodies have been stage managed by the Kyiv regime for the western media.
Europe gets 40 of its gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, while such sales are the Kremlins main source of export revenue.
On Saturday, Lithuania announced it had stopped imports of Russian gas and urged other European governments to do the same.
The AP also saw two bodies, that of a man and a woman, wrapped in plastic that residents said they had covered and placed in a shaft until a proper funeral could be arranged.
Ukrainian deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk confirmed the mayor was killed while being held by Russian forces.
The ministry said not a single civilian in Bucha faced any violent military action and the mayor did not mention any abuses a day after Russian troops left.
The head of Ukraines delegation in talks with Russia said Moscows negotiators informally agreed to most of a draft proposal discussed during talks in Turkey, but no written confirmation has been provided.
The mayor of Chernihiv, which has been cut off from food and other supplies for weeks, said Russian shelling has destroyed 70 of the northern city.
He put his hands up, and they shot him, said the resident who refused to be identified.
Ukrainian officials said the bodies of 410 civilians were found in towns around the capital, Kyiv, that were recaptured from Russian forces. Mr Zelensky called the killings evidence of genocide.
On Monday, the Ukrainian military said its forces had retaken some towns in the Chernihiv region and humanitarian aid was being delivered.
It is time to do everything possible to make the war crimes of the Russian military the last manifestation of such evil on earth, he said in remarks translated by his office.
The mayors husband had his hands behind his back, with a piece of rope nearby, and a piece of plastic wrapped around his eyes like a blindfold.
Russian troops had rolled into Bucha in the early days of the invasion and stayed until March 30.
Russia asked for a meeting on Monday of the UN Security Council to discuss events in the city.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
It is a brutality against civilians we havent seen in Europe for decades, Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said on the same broadcast.
New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern called reports of rape and other atrocities by Russian soldiers beyond reprehensible.
In a video address posted online Sunday, Mr Zelensky said Russian soldiers who killed and tortured civilians were responsible for concentrated evil.
One group of nine, all in civilian clothes, were scattered around a site that residents said Russian troops used as a base.
If we can do it, the rest of Europe can do it too, president Gitanas Nauseda said on Twitter, referring to Russia as the aggressor.
Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Mr Zelensky, claimed some of the women had been raped before being killed and the Russians then burned the bodies.
US secretary of state Antony Blinken called images of what happened near Kyiv a punch to the gut. on CNNs State of the Union programme. The US has previously said that it believes Russia committed war crimes.
The reports of atrocities are severe enough that European officials would have to talk about halting gas supplies from Russia, German defence minister Christine Lambrecht said on public broadcaster ARD.
In Motyzhyn, some 30 miles west of Kyiv, residents told AP that Russian troops killed the towns mayor, her husband and her son and threw their bodies into a pit in a pine forest behind houses where Russian forces had slept.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko called on countries to end Russian gas imports. He said they were funding the killings.
The regional governor in Kharkiv in the northeast said Russian artillery and tanks launched more than 20 strikes on Ukraines second-largest city and its outskirts over the past day.
Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida said on Monday that we strongly condemn attacks on civilians, following reports of bodies found with signs of torture in areas abandoned by Russian forces.
He said soldiers checked their phones for evidence of anti-Russian activity and took them away or shot them.
Russian president Vladimir Putins February 24 invasion has killed thousands of people and forced more than four million Ukrainians to flee their country.
Years ago my country made decisions that today allow us with no pain to break energy ties with the agressor.
Even if you raised looters, how did they also become butchers? he said. You couldnt overlook that they are deprived of everything human. No soul. No heart. They killed deliberately and with pleasure.
The road between Chernihiv and Kyiv was to reopen to some traffic later in the morning, according to the news agency RBK Ukraina.
Inside the pit, AP journalists saw four bodies of people who appeared to have been shot at close range.
