Putin and Erdoan discuss military operation in Ukraine
20220306
https://en.vestikavkaza.ru/news/Putin-and-Erdogan-discuss-military-operation-in-Ukraine.html
In turn, Erdoan noted that an urgent ceasefirewouldmake it possible to solve humanitarian problemsin the region, as well as to seek a political solution. According to thestatement issued by the Turkish Presidents Office, Erdoanreiterated his call: "Let's pave the way for peace together", the Turkish president's office said in a statement.
In addition to this, Putin confirmed Russia's readiness for dialogue with the Ukrainian authorities and with foreign partners. At the same time, he drew Erdoan's attention to the futility of Kiev's attempts to drag out negotiations. The Russian leader also expressed hope thatthe Ukrainian negotiators "will show a more constructive approach, fully taking into account the emerging realities"at the new meeting.
The President of the Russian Federation noted that the armed forces of the Russian Federation were doing everything possible to save the lives and ensure the safety of civilians, and targeted attacks were directed only against military infrastructure".
"Vladimir Putin informed about the course of the special military operation to protect Donbass, outlined the principle approaches and assessments in this context, explained in detail the main goals and objectives set. It is emphasized that the special operation is proceeding according to plan and in accordance with the schedule", the statement said.
During the talks, the Turkish leader said that he was ready to make any contribution to the peaceful settlement of the Ukrainian problem as soon as possible. He said that urgent steps were needed to ensure a ceasefire, open humanitarian corridors and sign a peace treaty. The Turkish President also announced his intention to continue contacts with the Ukrainian side and other countries on the situation in Ukraine.
Today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said during a telephone conversation with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan that the suspension of the Russian military operation in Ukraine is possible only if Ukraine stops hostilities and fulfills the requirements of the Russian Federation. This is stated in a message posted on the Kremlin website.
What is more, the Russian President said that Moscow was ready to provide the necessary assistance for the safe evacuation of Turkish citizens from the combat areas in Ukraine.
