Civilians flee fierce fighting in eastern Ukraine
20220611
https://www.theboltonnews.co.uk/news/20203331.civilians-flee-fierce-fighting-eastern-ukraine/
Fighting in the Donbas has now ground on for more than two months. A provincial governor said Russian and Ukrainian forces battled for every house and every street in Sievierodonetsk, a city that has recently been under steady attack.
An envoy for the Luhansk Peoples Republic, a self-proclaimed separatist territory, reported on Friday that some Ukrainian troops were trapped inside a chemical plant on the citys outskirts.
He said only more advanced Western weaponry will turn back the Russian offensive and force Moscow to the negotiating table.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Svitlana Kaplun, whose family fled as shelling reached their neighbourhood in the city of Krasnohorivka, said: We live on the front line now. The kids are worried all the time, they are afraid to sleep at night, so we decided to take them out.
Civilians have fled intense fighting in eastern Ukraine as Russian and Ukrainian forces engage in a grinding battle of attrition for key cities in the countrys industrial heartland.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraines president, told the BBC in an interview aired on Thursday that the daily loss of 100 to 200 Ukrainian soldiers is the result of a complete lack of parity between Ukraine and Russia.
They are being told that no conditions will be accepted. Only the laying down of arms and surrender.
Sievierodonetsk is in the last pocket of Luhansk province that has not yet been claimed by Russia or Moscow-backed separatists. The Luhansk and Donetsk regions together make up the Donbas.
Luhansk governor Serhiy Haidai said Ukrainian forces retain control of the industrial zone on the edge of the city and some other sections amid the painstaking block-by-block fighting.
Meanwhile, Moscow kept up its artillery strikes on the neighbouring city of Lysychansk and surrounding towns and villages, the Ukrainian military said. It also said that Russian troops were preparing to resume an offensive on the city of Slavyansk in the Donetsk region, south of Luhansk.
Mostly women, children and elderly residents left on a special evacuation train that departed from the city of Pokrovsk and headed west.
After a bungled attempt to overrun the capital Kyiv in the early days of the war, Russia shifted its focus to an eastern region of coal mines and factories known as the Donbas.
The fighting there has led to mounting casualties and renewed pleas from Ukraine to the West for more weapons.
