Ukrainian Bolton South East MP Yasmin Qureshi asks for safe passage visas
20220224
https://www.theboltonnews.co.uk/news/19949231.ukrainian-bolton-south-east-mp-yasmin-qureshi-asks-safe-passage-visas/
Were not going to give up 30 years of independence for a remodel of Hitler.
Miss Qureshi said: "The Government's response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine is nowhere near good enough.
That said, I spoke to them on Sunday morning and one of my brother-in-laws actually said dont worry, the machine gun is on the wall ready.
That is the attitude of most Ukrainians, were not going to give up this lightly.
"'Global Britain' should be showing international leadership on an issue such as this, starting by ridding the City of London of Russian dirty money, sanctioning more of those close to Putin, and releasing the Russia Report.
Bolton has a large Ukrainian community, and there is a huge amount of worry over what will happen next.
"Many, many years ago we demonstrated outside the Russian Embassy when Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union to get the Russians out.
"To sanction just three people and five banks does not even scratch the surface of what we should be doing.
When speaking to TheBoltonNews, Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn, was in tears trying to get hold of his cousin, who lives in Lviv.
"We need to ramp up our economic sanctions and limit Russian economic activity to show our commitment to international law and stand against Putin's aggression.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Were now having to do this again. I never ever suspected in my lifetime, especially after 1991, that this would happen again.
Miss Qureshi has also called for more to be done in the way of sanctions imposed by the UK.
When that news filtered through it was tears of joy, this morning it is tears of desperation.
On my wifes side, I have not even had time to think about looking to see if they are online.
Yasmin Qureshi announced her move in a Tweet, and said she is expecting an answer by Tuesday from the Home Office.
As the chair of the Bolton branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain AUGB, he said: "Shes not online and I fear for the worst. I just dont know whats going to happen.
Please if you can donate to the Ukrainian Cultural Centre in Bolton - 99 Castle St, Bolton, BL2 1JP.
"In Bolton specifically, I know the large Ukrainian community will be concerned about family, friends and loved ones. I will continue, amongst other Labour colleagues, to push the Government to do more to support Ukraine."
I've just submitted a parliamentary question to the Home Office to ask whether they will introduce a safe passage visa for relatives of Ukrainians living in Britain. Will get an answer by Tuesday from Home Sec. https:t.cokJXfTL5Hjy
BOLTONs South East MP, has submitted a parliamentary question to see if safe passage visas can be introduced for relatives of Ukrainians in the UK.
