What the papers say  January 28
20220128
https://www.theboltonnews.co.uk/news/19881250.papers-say---january-28/
American officials have told The Times they fear being unable to impose effective sanctions on Vladimir Putin if Russia invades Ukraine because of years of British tolerance of suspect money flooding into London.
New Russian gas projects will face sanctions from the West if Moscow pushes ahead with its incursion into Ukraine, reports the Financial Times.
Guardian front page, Friday 28 January 2022: Treasury alarm as PM refuses to confirm national insurance rise pic.twitter.comGwkd3mcTpe
Just published: front page of the Financial Times UK edition Friday January 28 https:t.coDsOdRFHUSv pic.twitter.comlgAD2HEdHF
Top royals are cited by theDaily Mirroras being fearful the Duke of York could damage the monarchy with his civil sex trial tactics.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The i says the Prime Ministers plan to tackle the cost-of-living crisis has been delayed by Downing Street turmoil,whileThe Guardian reports there is alarm at the Treasury that Mr Johnson could be preparing to scrap the national insurance rise to placate his MPs.
The Daily Mailreports the number of fat cat civil servants earning more than150,000 per year has soared sinceCovid-19s arrival.
Mr Johnsons allies warned rebel Tories of the perils of plotting against their leader and repeating the self-inflicted wounds which ended the Margaret Thatcher era, according to the Daily Express.
The Independent says Labour have criticised Foreign Secretary Liz Truss for spending half a million pounds of taxpayer money to fly on a private jet to Australia.
Meanwhile, millions of people have gone back to work in towns and cities as Plan B Covid restrictions were eased, says Metro.
The Daily Telegraph reveals a work from home tax loophole will be closed after officials warned Chancellor Rishi Sunak it had cost the Treasury nearly half a billion pounds during the pandemic.
And the Daily Star suggests the Loch Ness monster has been spotted in Wimbledon, with the paper adding: To be fair, stranger things have happened already this week.
Continuing pressure on Boris Johnson, Ukraine tensions and concerns about the Duke of York are splashed across the papers as the working week concludes.
