Strike kills at least 52 at Ukraine rail station crowded with civilians
20220218
https://www.wmtw.com/article/russia-plans-nuclear-drills-amid-rising-tensions-with-ukraine/39131235
Like the massacres in Bucha, like many other Russian war crimes, the missile attack on Kramatorsk should be one of the charges at the tribunal that must be held, Zelenskyy said, his voice rising in anger late Friday.
On Friday, workers pulled corpses from a mass grave near a town church under spitting rain, lining up black body bags in rows in the mud. About 67 people were buried in the grave, according to a statement from Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova's office.
After meeting with Zelenskyy on Friday, during which he urged the EU to impose a full embargo on Russian oil and gas, von der Leyen provided him with a questionnaire that is a first step for applying for EU membership.
The train station hit is in Ukrainian government-controlled territory in the Donbas, but Russia's Defense Ministry accused Ukraine of carrying out the attack. So did the region's Moscow-backed separatists, who work closely with Russian regular troops.
German government officials would not confirm or deny the report, but two former German ministers filed a war crimes complaint Thursday. Russia has denied that its military was involved in war crimes.
British Defense Minister Ben Wallace denounced the attack as a war crime, and U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called it completely unacceptable.
Elsewhere, in anticipation of intensified attacks by Russian forces, hundreds of Ukrainians fled villages that were either under fire or occupied in the southern regions of Mykolaiv and Kherson.
In the northeast's Kharkiv, Lidiya Mezhiritska stood in the wreckage of her home after overnight missile strikes turned it to rubble.
The official did not say how many units sustained such extensive damage, but said the U.S. believes Russia has lost between 15 and 20 of its combat power overall since the war began. While some combat units are withdrawing to be resupplied in Russia, Moscow has added thousands of troops around Ukraines second-largest city, Kharkiv, he said.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, the regional governor of Donetsk, in the Donbas, said 52 people were killed, including five children, and many dozens more were wounded.
A senior U.S. defense official said Friday that the Pentagon believes some of the retreating units were so badly damaged they are for all intents and purposes eradicated. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal military assessments.
The Ukrainian military is desperately trying to reinforce units in the area  and the railway stations in that area in Ukrainian-held territory are critical for movement of equipment and people, said Justin Bronk, a research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute in London.
Bronk pointed to other occasions when Russian authorities have tried to deflect blame by claiming their forces no longer use an older weapon to kind of muddy the waters and try and create doubt. He also suggested that Russia specifically chose the missile type because Ukraine also has it.
Zelenskyy's comments echo reporting from Der Spiegel saying Germany's foreign intelligence agency had intercepted Russian military radio traffic in which soldiers may have discussed civilian killings in Bucha. The weekly also reported that the recordings indicated the Russian mercenary Wagner Group was involved in atrocities there.
NATO nations agreed Thursday to increase their supply of weapons, and Slovakian Prime Minister Eduard Heger announced on a trip to Ukraine on Friday that his country has donated its Soviet-era S-300 air defense system to Ukraine. Zelenskyy had appealed for S-300s to help the country close the skies to Russian warplanes and missiles.
Photos from the station in Kramatorsk showed the dead covered with tarps, and the remnants of a rocket with the words For the children painted on it in Russian. About 4,000 civilians had been in and around the station, heeding calls to leave before fighting intensifies in the Donbas region, the office of Ukraines prosecutor-general said.
After failing to take Kyiv in the face of stiff resistance, Russian forces have now set their sights on the Donbas, the mostly Russian-speaking, industrial region where Moscow-backed rebels have been fighting Ukrainian forces for eight years and control some areas.
There are many people in a serious condition, without arms or legs, Kramatorsk Mayor Oleksandr Goncharenko said. Even with 30 to 40 surgeons working, the local hospital was struggling, he said.
The Russian world, as they say, she said, wryly invoking Putins nationalist justification for invading Ukraine. People, children, old people, women are dying. I dont have a machine gun. I would definitely go fight, regardless of age.
There are almost no words for it, European Union Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, in Ukraine, told reporters. The cynical behavior by Russia has almost no benchmark anymore.
American and Slovak officials said the U.S. will then deploy a Patriot missile system to Slovakia.
Ukrainian authorities and Western officials have repeatedly accused Russian forces of atrocities in the war that began with the Feb. 24 invasion. More than 4 million Ukrainians have fled the country, and millions more have been displaced. Some of the most startling evidence of atrocities has been found in towns around Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, from which Russian President Vladimir Putin's troops pulled back in recent days.
Zelenskyy told Ukrainians in his nightly video address Friday that great efforts would be taken to establish every minute of who did what, who gave what orders, where the missile came from, who transported it, who gave the command and how this strike was agreed to."
Ukrainian officials have almost daily pleaded with Western powers to send more arms, and to further punish Russia with sanctions and exclusion of Russian banks from the global financial system.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who says he expects a tough global response, and other leaders accused Russias military of deliberately attacking the station. Russia, in turn, blamed Ukraine, saying it doesn't use the kind of missile that hit the station  a contention experts dismissed.
There are Russian soldiers talking with their parents about what they stole and who they abducted. There are recordings of Russian prisoners of war who admitted to killing people, he said. There are pilots in prison who had maps with civilian targets to bomb. There are also investigations being conducted based on the remains of the dead.
A Western official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence, also said Russias forces have used the missile  and that given the strike's location and impact, it was "likely Russia's.
In Bucha, Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk has said investigators found at least three sites of mass shootings of civilians and were still finding bodies in yards, parks and city squares  90 of whom were shot.
The attack that some denounced as yet another war crime in the 6-week-old conflict came as workers unearthed bodies from a mass grave in Bucha, a town near Ukraine's capital where dozens of killings have been documented after a Russian pullout.
A missile hit a train station in eastern Ukraine where thousands had gathered Friday, killing at least 52 and wounding dozens more in an attack on a crowd of mostly women and children trying to flee a new, looming Russian offensive, Ukrainian authorities said.
He expounded on that theme in an excerpted interview with CBS' 60 Minutes that aired Friday, citing communications intercepted by the Ukrainian security service.
Western experts refuted Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov's assertion that Russian forces do not use that type of missile, saying Russia has used it during the war. One analyst added that only Russia would have reason to target railway infrastructure in the Donbas.
