Howell Concerning Russia
20220121
https://www.sprucegroveexaminer.com/opinion/columnists/howell-concerning-russia/wcm/fe831810-7aad-4026-afed-bae5bc1b65f9
While Putin has publicly denied planning to invade Ukraine, it remains unclear how far he is willing to take his play. He has, however, made his demands known. He wants assurance Ukraine will not be permitted to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO. Further, for Russias own security, he is also seeking both a halt to any further NATO expansion and a withdrawal of western military presence in central and Eastern European nations.
I am by no means a foreign policy scholar, but even I can see Putin is continuing to test the limits of his power in an effort to destabilize global faith in the U.S. What better way to do so than invade a sovereign state as critical as Ukraine and have the world watch as America does nothing about it. Have no doubt Russia took this years U.S. midterm elections into consideration when timing this possible invasion. There is nothing Putin, and his ally President Xi Jinping of China would love to see more than a Trump victory in 2024.
In August 2008, Russia invaded Georgia, conquesting the provinces of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. This resulted in what is regarded as the first European war of the 21st century  the Russo-Georgian War. Six years later, in 2014, Russia shocked the world by annexing the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine. This offensive saw Russia removed from the G8.
For those unaware, Russia has amassed roughly 100,000 troops along its border with Ukraine in apparent preparation for an impending invasion.
What is happening on the Russia-Ukraine border is hauntingly resemblant to a similar situation on the Germany-Poland border in 1939  a former superpower seeking back territory and influence after its collapse. In this case, let us hope history does not repeat itself.
Even though it is blatantly obvious these demands are impossible to meet, the Biden Administration has said it will not deploy troops to Ukraine if an invasion should take place. Instead, it plans to provide military equipment to Ukraine and impose sanctions on Russia  two tactics we all know have proven to be effective in the past just look at how well things ended in Afghanistan.
The current situation, however, is taking matters up a notch to the very real possibility of all-out war. Declassified U.S. intelligence documents have detailed a multi-front offensive building across the entire Russia-Ukraine border. Experts believe Putin is waiting for the ground to freeze in order to transport Russian tanks and heavy artillery across the border.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
It seems like very few people are concerned with whats happening on the Russia-Ukraine border.
Its no secret Russian President Vladimir Putin has long been obsessed with Ukraine. It was once a key territory of the Soviet Union before its collapse in 1991. In the years since, Russia, especially under the leadership of Putin, has made bold military moves to take back control of Ukraine as well as other former Soviet republics.
As tensions continue to reach a boiling point between the U.S. and Russia and China, we the public cant help but fear the worst possible outcome. Both Putin and Jinping have made it abundantly clear they have little respect for international law. Weve seen time and time again what they are capable of doing to their own people. Who is to say they wont do it to the rest of the world when the right opportunity presents itself?
