More required to ensure victory for Ukraine
20220305
https://www.sprucegroveexaminer.com/opinion/more-required-to-ensure-victory-for-ukraine
Ukrainians have so far shown an incredible capacity to defend their territory. This should not be too surprising. Russia has a large conscript army fighting a war on foreign soil at the whim of a regime that has no regard for the welfare of the Russian people. Ukrainians, though lacking the same level of resources, are fighting on home turf for the life of their nation. Ukrainians also benefit from superior training, thanks to help from Canada and other western countries. With clear advantages in motivation and training, Ukraine is countering Russias larger force. Canada should offer critical support now to help make up for Ukraines size and resource disadvantages, and work to hit the Russian economy hard with sanctions.
When the time comes for a retrospective analysis of how this conflict started, it will be important to examine the failure of deterrence. The western world made abundantly clear beforehand that, insofar as actual fighting goes, Ukraine would be on its own. This significantly reduced the risk for Putin associated with invasion. The failure to include Ukraine in past rounds of NATO enlargement or to make other kinds of security guarantees made Ukraine more vulnerable.
It is necessary that we do all we can to support a victory for Ukraine. Slava Ukraini! Heroyam slava!
Garnett Genuis is the Member of Parliament for Sherwood Park-Fort Saskatchewan. He can be contacted by e-mail at garnett.genuisparl.gc.ca. Genuis was re-elected in September 2021.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine is terrible news for Ukraine, its people, and its friends and allies around the world.
Finally, Putin and Xi leading Russia and China respectively have global agendas that seek to overturn hard-won norms of national sovereignty and international rules, and instead create a reality in which power is the only law. The agendas of these leaders are not limited to Ukraine or to Taiwan or the Canadian arctic. These agendas are global. We either stop them now or we will be forced to stop them later. Inflicting a defeat on Putin today is not just vital for the survival of Ukraine. Inflicting a defeat on Putin today is necessary for preserving the peace and stability of a world in which power is not the only thing that matters.
The Putin regime clearly actively sought a conflict to counter its own unpopularity at home and fulfill a dream of restoring the Russian empire along the boundaries of the old Soviet Union. The regime has failed to deliver on promises to improve the Russian economy and has a history of trying to use wars or other military operations to try to distract attention from the fact that corruption and the self-enrichment of elites is preventing the kind of broad-based growth that would benefit ordinary Russians. Putin has called the collapse of the Soviet Union the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century. Given Putins reasons for acting against Ukraine, and given the constantly shifting goalposts of his demands, there is no concession that could have prevented this conflict.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Large anti-aggression and pro-Ukraine protests happening inside Russia suggest that Putins efforts to use a foreign war to rally support for his regime at home are failing. This is encouraging news. Putin will have to deal with increasing internal opposition the longer this war goes.
In light of the rapidly changing situation on the ground, this column will inevitably not be up-to-the-minute on the latest developments. But here are a few general comments that I suspect will remain relevant at the time of publication.
It is also an epoch-shaping global event that has much wider implications for the way that nations deal with each other.
