Russia should halt attack against Ukraine and talk
20220224
https://standardmedia.co.ke/health/editorial/article/2001438539/russia-should-halt-attack-against-ukraine-and-talk
The measures already taken by the US, European Union and United Kingdom seem to have done little to prevent war and keep Ukrainians safe. And President Vladimir Putins move to recognise two separatist regions in Ukraine as independent states is prove enough that Kremlin isnt willing to seek a diplomatic solution to the impasse.
Ukraine is now staring at a catastrophe as it prepares to fight a war it clearly cannot win considering how inferior it is military-wise compared to Russia. Ukrainians are already fleeing their homes into neighbouring Poland. A full blown war will not only lead to loss of lives in Ukraine and loss of territory as happened in Crimea in 2014, but will also have economic repercussions beyond the European country. Gas and oil prices are already rising.
Moscow must cease hostilities against Ukraine and give dialogue a chance. If it doesn't, the international community should impose the toughest possible sanctions against Russia and its leaders in the interests of a peaceful Ukraine and the world. The era of empire building, as Mr Kimani noted, is long gone. This is the age of international cooperation, not occupation.
Russia is one of the world's most powerful countries. Due to that enviable position, it should serve as force for good, not evil. It should unite, not divide. It should not use its might to trample on the weak.
Ukrainians living in Cyprus take part in an anti-war protest in front of the Russian embassy after Russian President Vladimir Putin authorised a military operation in eastern Ukraine, in Nicosia, Cyprus February 24, 2022. Reuters, Yiannis Kourtoglou
After weeks and months of escalating tensions and despite French President Emmanuel Macrons diplomatic shuttle in a bid to prevent war, Russia yesterday launched a wide-ranging attack on its neighbour Ukraine. The invasion came a day after the United States and its European allies announced sanctions in a bid to force Russian President Vladimir Putin to return to the negotiating table.
Kenya has already condemned Russia's actions through Martin Kimani, it's ambassador to the UN. This war is unnecessary and must be condemned by all peace-loving countries. Russia is sending the wrong signal that a country can invade another at will merely because it has superior firepower.
