Russia halts gas to Poland Bulgaria taking aim at European economies
20220427
https://www.standardmedia.co.ke/world/article/2001444206/russia-halts-gas-to-poland-bulgaria-taking-aim-at-european-economies
The invasion of Ukraine has left thousands dead or injured, reduced towns and cities to rubble, and forced more than 5 million people to flee abroad.
The step was denounced by European leaders as "blackmail", and comes as European countries have joined the United States in ramping up arms shipments to help Ukraine fend off a newRussian assault in the east.
Russia's energy exports had until now continued largely unhindered since the war began, by far the biggest loophole in sanctions that have otherwise cut off Moscow from much of its trade with the West.
Since theRussian invasion force was driven back at the outskirts of Kyiv last month, Moscow has refocused its operation on eastern Ukraine, starting a new offensive from several directions to fully capture two provinces known as the Donbas.
Russian President Vladimir Putin demanded last month that buyers from "unfriendly" countries pay forgasin roubles or be cut off. The European Union says this violates contracts that called for payment in euros.
Russiathis month accused Ukraine of attacking a fuel depot in Belgorod with helicopters and opening fire on several villages in the province. A fire also broke out this week at a fuel depot in nearby Bryansk.
Ukraine reported on Wednesday thatRussian troops had made gains in several villages there.Russiareported a number of blasts on its side of the border, including a blaze at an arms depot, which Kyiv called "karma".
Russiahaltedgassupplies to Bulgaria and Poland on Wednesday for rejecting its demand to pay in roubles, taking direct aim at European economies in its toughest retaliation so far against international sanctions over the war in Ukraine.
Bulgarian Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov said: "It is clear that at the moment the naturalgasis being used more as a political and economic weapon in the current war."
Moscow says thegascut-off is to enforce its demand for payment in roubles, needed to shield its economy from sanctions. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov saidRussiawas a reliable energy supplier and denied it was engaging in blackmail.
Other European countries, including Germany, the biggest buyer ofRussiangas, did not report cuts. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesperson, declined to say how many countries had agreed to pay in roubles.
Kyiv has long called on Europe to stop funding Moscow's war effort by cutting off imports that bringRussiahundreds of millions of dollars a day.
"The announcement by Gazprom that it is unilaterally stopping delivery ofgasto customers in Europe is yet another attempt byRussiato usegasas an instrument of blackmail," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said.
"Basic legal principles have been broken, violated," Polish President Andrzej Duda said. "Appropriate legal steps will be taken and there will be appropriate compensation from Gazprom for violations of the provisions of the contract.".Keep Reading Top US, Ukraine military leaders meet in Poland France advance to the next stage of the World Cup as they beat Poland 3-1 Messi and Argentina advance at World Cup, beat Poland 2-0
Poland receives itsRussiangasthrough the Yamal-Europe pipeline fromRussia's hugegasfields in the Arctic far north, which continues west to supply Germany and other European countries. Bulgaria is supplied through pipes over Turkey.
An aide to the mayor of the ruined port city of Mariupol saidRussian forces had renewed their attacks on the Azovstal steel plant, where fighters and some civilians are holed up. No agreements had been reached on trying to evacuate civilians from Mariupol on Wednesday.
GazpromGAZP.MM, theRussiangasexport monopoly, said in a statement it had "completely suspendedgassupplies to Bulgargaz and PGNiGPGN.WAdue to absence of payments in roubles," referring to the Polish and Bulgariangascompanies.
Kyiv has not confirmed responsibility for such incidents but described them as payback. "Karma is a cruel thing," Ukrainian presidential advisor Mikhaylo Podolyak wrote on social media.
Bulgaria has long had warmer relations withRussia, but Prime Minister Kirill Petkov, an anti-corruption campaigner who took office last year, strongly denounced the invasion of Ukraine.
Germany said this week it is hoping to stop importingRussian oil within days. But weaning Europe off cheap and abundantRussian naturalgas, which heats its homes, fuels its factories and generates its electricity, would be a far more disruptive prospect.
Poland and Bulgaria are both former Soviet-era satellites of Moscow that have since joined the EU and NATO. Poland has been one of the Kremlin's most vocal opponents over the war.
Andriy Yermak, chief of staff to Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, saidRussiawas "beginning thegasblackmail of Europe".
Blasts were heard early on Wednesday in threeRussian provinces bordering Ukraine, authorities said, and an ammunition depot in the Belgorod province caught fire. The regional governor said the blaze near Staraya Nelidovka village had been put out.
Concern has increased in recent days over the prospect of the conflict widening to neighbouring Moldova, where pro-Russian separatists have blamed Ukraine for reported attacks this week in a region occupied since the 1990s byRussian troops. Kyiv denies this.
Ukraine's general staff acknowledgedRussiahad made gains in the east, capturing the town of Zavody and some outskirts of the town of Velyka Komyshuvakha on one front, and the Zarichne and Novoshtokivske settlements in Donetsk region.
Petkov was due to travel on Wednesday to Kyiv, the latest European leader to meet President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
The separatists reported firing across the border from Ukraine near an arms depot on Wednesday. Moldova's pro-Western government has blamed forces inside the separatist region for attacks aimed at provoking conflict.
Supplies from GazpromGAZP.MMcover about 50 of Poland's consumption and about 90 of Bulgaria's. Poland said it did not need to draw on reserves and itsgasstorage was 76 full. Bulgaria has said it is in talks to try to import liquefied naturalgasthrough Turkey and Greece.
Moscow termed it a "special operation" to disarm Ukraine and defeat fascists. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless and that the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
