United Nations suspends Russia from human rights body over Ukraine
20220407
https://www.standardmedia.co.ke/world/article/2001442582/united-nations-suspends-russia-from-human-rights-body-over-ukraine
Moscow is one of the most vocal members on thecounciland its suspension bars itfromspeaking and voting, officials say, although its diplomats could still attend debates. "They would probably still try to influence theCouncilthrough proxies," said a Geneva-based diplomat.
The resolution adopted by the 193-member General Assembly draft expresses "grave concern at the ongoinghumanrightsand humanitarian crisis in Ukraine," particularly at reports ofrightsabuses byRussia.
Suspensions are rare. Libya was suspended in 2011 because of violence against protesters by forces loyal to then-leader Muammar Gaddafi.
Russiahad warned countries that a yes vote or abstention will be viewed as an "unfriendly gesture" with consequences for bilateral ties, according to a note seen by Reuters..Keep Reading One Year on, tourism stands firm in support of Ukraine Ukraine Says Fighting in Eastern Mining Town Becoming More Difficult Migrant boat breaks up off Italian coast, killing nearly 60
The United Nations General Assembly on Thursday suspendedRussiafromtheU.N.HumanRightsCouncilover reports of "gross and systematic violations and abuses ofhumanrights" by invading Russian troops in Ukraine.
Russia denies attacking civilians in Ukraine. U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said on Tuesday that while Bucha was under Russian control "not a single civilian suffered from any kind of violence."
SinceRussia's invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, the General Assembly has adopted two resolutions denouncingRussiawith 141 and 140 votes in favor. Moscow says it is carrying out a "special operation" to demilitarize Ukraine.
The U.S.-led push garnered 93 votes in favor, while 24 countries voted no and 58 countries abstained. Kenya was among countries that abstained.
Last month thecouncilopened an investigation into allegations ofrightsviolations, including possible war crimes, in Ukraine sinceRussia's attack.
Russiawas in its second year of a three-year term on the Geneva-basedcouncil, which cannot make legally binding decisions. Its decisions send important political messages, however, and it can authorize investigations.
A two-thirds majority of voting members - abstentions do not count - was needed to suspendRussiafromthe 47-membercouncil.
The United States announced it would seekRussia's suspension after Ukraine accused Russian troops of killing hundreds of civilians in the town of Bucha.
