Why Russia is attacking Ukraine
20220224
https://www.standardmedia.co.ke/explainers/article/2001438527/why-russia-is-attacking-ukraine
The article notes whether this means Russian forces will attempt to push further into Ukraine, past the pre-existing front linesis not yet known.
Ukraine is located in Eastern Europe and shares a border with Russia. It was part of the Soviet Union but became an independent state in 1991.
Russia is resisting Ukraine's attempts to join both Nato and the European Union.Nato is the acronym for North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. It was formed by Western powers after World War 2 to guarantee their collective security with initial key members being the US, Britain and France.
February 24, 2022, marked the start of Russias invasion of Ukraine, three decades since a war of such magnitude was last witnessed after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Servicemen ride on an armoured vehicle after Russian President Vladimir Putin authorised a military operation in eastern Ukraine, in the town of Armyansk, Crimea, February 24, 2022. Reuters
But in 2021, Putin breached that protocol and in a statement termed Russia and Ukraine as one nation.
Secondly, Putin has argued that the Nato alliance might try to recapture Crimea if Ukraine joins Nato well known as the Atlantic Alliance.
He asserted that current Ukraine was entirely created from Communist Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991.
According to the BBC, in President Putin's eyes, the West promised back in 1990 that Nato would expand "not an inch to the east" but did so anyway.
Since Russian President Vladimir Putin deployed troops to Ukraine, over 40 people have been killed and scores left injured..Keep Reading One Year on, tourism stands firm in support of Ukraine Ukraine Says Fighting in Eastern Mining Town Becoming More Difficult Nigeria Election: Sen Ohuabunwa denies arrest over vote buying
First, he wants a legally-binding pledge that the alliance will not expand further in an effort to ensure that Ukraine never ever becomes a member of the Nato alliance.
According to Aljazeera, the two self-proclaimed peoples republics also claim the rest of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions as their territory, beyond where they already control.
A Ukrainian State Border Guard Service site damaged by Russian artillery in Kyiv region, Ukraine. Reuters
Thirdly, Putin demands that the Nato alliance should not deploy "strike weapons near Russia's borders", and that it removes forces and military infrastructure from member states that joined the alliance as from 1997.
In 1994, Russia as a member of the Partnership for Peace Program with Natosigned an agreement to respect Ukraine's independence and sovereignty.
Putin is quoted as saying, Let's imagine Ukraine is a Nato member and starts these military operations. Are we supposed to go to war with the Nato bloc? Has anyone given that any thought? Apparently not.
The tense standoff between Russia, Ukraine and Western governments sharply escalated this week after Putin recognised two breakaway regions as Independent.
Nato which is a defensive alliance with an open-door policy to new members has said the situation will not change. Despite Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskyy calling for "clear, feasible timeframes" to join the alliance, there is no prospect of it happening for a long time, as Germany's chancellor Olaf Scholz has made clear.
He is alsodemandingguarantees from the West and Ukraine that it will not join the Nato alliance, which is a defensive alliance of 30 countries.
Russias Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said that Putinaffirmed that Russia has nowhere further to retreat to and thus they would not just sit and idle by.
A girl walks past paintings depicting the crisis between Russia and Ukraine, outside an art school in Mumbai, India, on February 24, 2022. Reuters
This means that Natowould be forced to return to its pre-1997 borders should Russia have its way.
The two neighbours are at war after Russia fired missiles at several cities in Ukraine in a 5am Thursday attack.
That was before the collapse of the Soviet Union, however, so the promise made to then-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev only referred to East Germany in the context of a reunified Germany.
As a former Soviet republic, Ukraine has deep social and cultural ties with Russia, and Russian is widely spoken there, but ever since the Russian 2014 invasion and annexation of Crimea, they have worsened.
Some 14 former Russian satellite republics have joined Nato since 1997 six years after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
President Vladimir Putin asserts that if Ukraine joined the two institutions, it would become a puppet of the West because, from the start, it has never been a proper state.
Despite calls from the Nato alliance the United Nations Security Council member states, President Vladimir Putin has made three demands that should be met before he normalises the relationship.
Russia attacked Ukraine when its pro-Russian president was deposed in early 2014. The war in the east claimed more than 14,000 lives.
