1st ship carrying Ukrainian grain leaves the port of Odesa
20220801
https://whyy.org/articles/1st-ship-carrying-ukrainian-grain-leaves-the-port-of-odesa/
Unlocking ports will provide at least $1 billion in foreign exchange revenue to the economy and an opportunity for the agricultural sector to plan for next year, he said.
Under the agreements, ships going in and out of Ukrainian ports will be subject to inspection to make sure that incoming vessels are not carrying weapons and that outgoing ones are bearing only grain, fertilizer or related food items, not any other commodities.
Stream WHYY-FM, read the top stories from WHYY News, and listen to the latest podcast from WHYY Digital Studios  anytime, anywhere.
In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov hailed the ships departure as very positive, saying it would help test the efficiency of the mechanisms that were agreed to during the talks in Istanbul.
Experts warn that Europes largest conflict since World War II could drag on for years, and some fear it could lead to a direct confrontation between Russia and NATO.
In Kharkiv, two people were wounded by a Russian strike in the morning. One was struck while waiting for a bus, the other when a Russian shell exploded near an apartment building.
Donetsk Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko repeated a call for all residents to evacuate, emphasizing the need to remove about 52,000 children still in the region.
Russia and Ukraine signed agreements in Istanbul with Turkey and the U.N. on July 22, clearing the way for Ukraine to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural products that have been stuck in Black Sea ports because of Russias invasion of Ukraine more than five months ago. The deals also allow Russia to export grain and fertilizer.
The southern city of Mykolaiv also faced shelling that ruined a building at a hospital and damaged ambulances, according to regional Gov. Vitaliy Kim. Three civilians were wounded elsewhere in the city, he said.
The Sierra Leone-flagged cargo ship Razoni sounded its horn as it slowly departed with over 26,000 tons of corn destined for Lebanon.
As part of the agreements, safe corridors through the mined waters outside Ukraines ports were established.
Ukrainian officials say at least 15 people were killed when a Russian rocket hit an apartment building in the eastern town of Chasiv Yar.
In an interview with Turkeys state-run Anadolu Agency, Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar warned that the global food crisis threatens to trigger a serious wave of migration from Africa to Europe and to Turkey.
Ukraine and Russia are major global suppliers of wheat, barley, corn and sunflower oil, with the fertile Black Sea region long known as the breadbasket of Europe. The holdup of food shipments because of the war has worsened rising food prices worldwide and threatened hunger and political instability in developing nations.
The Razoni was expected to dock Tuesday afternoon in Istanbul, where teams of Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and U.N. officials were set to board it for inspection.
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please give today.
The departure of the first vessel doesnt solve the food crisis its just the first step that could also be the last if Russia decides to continue attacks in the south, said Volodymyr Sidenko, an expert with the Kyiv-based Razumkov Center think tank.
Hope for millions of people around the world who depend on the smooth running of Ukraines ports to feed their families, he said.
Hearing the ship sound its horn as it left port delighted Olena Vitalievna, an Odesa resident.
Ukraines presidential office said at least three civilians were killed and 16 wounded by Russian shelling in the Donetsk region over the past 24 hours.
Finally, life begins to move forward and there are some changes in a positive direction, she said. In general, the port should live its own life because Odesa is a port city. We live here. We want everything to work for us, everything to bustle.
Butsome shipping companiesare not yet rushing to export food across the Black Sea as they assess the danger of mines and the risk of Russian rockets hitting grain warehouses and ports.
Diplomats from Ukraines allies sought to win over more nations that have been ambivalent toward the war, including China.
The first grain ship since Russian aggression has left port, Ukrainian Minister of Infrastructure Oleksandr Kubrakov declared on Twitter.
More ships are expected toleave from Ukraines portsthrough the safe corridors. At Odesa, 16 more vessels, all blocked since Russias invasion on Feb. 24, were waiting their turn, with others to follow, Ukrainian authorities said.
Soon after the grain shipment deal was signed, a Russian missile targeted Odesa. Analysts warned that the continuing fighting could still upend the grain deal.
The first ship carrying Ukrainian grain set out Monday from the port of Odesa under an internationally brokered deal to unblock the embattled countrys agricultural exports and ease the growing global food crisis.
The G7 leading economies agreed Friday to provide $19.8 billion in economic aid to Ukraine to ensure its finances do not hinder its ability to defend itself from Russia.
Yet the resumption of the grain shipments came as fighting raged elsewhere in Ukraine, with Russia pressing its offensive in the east whileUkraine tries to retake territoryin the Russian-occupied south.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who proposed the grain deal in April, said the Razoni was loaded with two commodities in short supply: corn and hope.
Lebanon, the corns destination, is in the grip of a severe financial crisis. A 2020 explosion at its main port in Beirut shattered its capital city and destroyed grain silos. Lebanon mostly imports wheat from Ukraine but also buys its corn to make cooking oil and produce animal feed.
