Biden Putin should face war crimes trial for Bucha killings
20220404
https://whyy.org/articles/biden-putin-war-crimes-trial-bucha-killings/
Ukrainian community and allies march through Philadelphia, marking 1 year since war began with Russia
My message to those 140 countries who have courageously stood together is simple: the images out of Bucha and devastation across Ukraine require us now to match our words with action, Thomas-Greenfield said. We cannot let a Member State that is subverting every principle we hold dear to continue to sit on the UN Human Rights Council.
The U.S. and more than 40 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, after the passage of a resolution by the United Nations Human Rights Council to establish a commission of inquiry. There is another probe by the International Criminal Court, an independent body based in the Netherlands. The U.S. Senateunanimously approved a resolutionlast month seeking investigations of Putin and elements of his government for war crimes over the invasion of Ukraine.
President Joe Biden on Monday called for a war crimes trial against Russia President Vladimir Putin and said hed seek more sanctions after reported atrocities in Ukraine.
European leaders and the United Nations human rights chief condemned the bloodshed, some of them also branding it genocide.
Ukraines leader pledged Friday to push for victory in 2023 as he and other Ukrainians markedthe somber anniversaryofthe Russian invasionthat upended their lives.
A Russian law enforcement agency says it has launched its own investigation into allegations that Ukrainian civilians were massacred in suburbs of Kyiv that were held by Russian troops, focusing on what it calls false information about Russian forces.
This guy is brutal and whats happening to Bucha is outrageous, and everyones seen it, Biden said.
After unveiling an avalanche of sanctions in the first weeks of the war, administration officials in recent days have put more focus on closing loopholes that Russia might try to use to avoid sanctions.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen tweeted Monday that the European Union will send investigators to Ukraine to help the local prosecutor general document war crimes.
The Investigative Committee claims Ukrainian authorities made the allegations with the aim of discrediting Russian troops and that those involved should be investigated over possible breaches of a new Russian law banning what the government deems to be false information about its forces.
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general, Iryna Venediktova, said. Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of the capital.
Biden noted that he faced pushback last monthwhen he described Putin as a war criminal for the unfolding onslaught in Ukraine after hospitals and maternity wards were bombed. In his remarks on Monday, Biden made clear that label still applied.
Meanwhile, Bidens chief envoy to the United Nations, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, announced Monday that the U.S. plans to seek a suspension of Russia from its seat on the U.N.s top human rights body in the wake of more indications Russian forces may have committed war crimes in Ukraine. That would require a decision by the U.N. General Assembly.
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please give today.
You saw what happened in Bucha, Biden said. He added that Putin is a war criminal.
We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue the fight. And we have to gather all the detail so this can be an actual  have a war crimes trial, Biden said.
The family settled in Poland with their three young children after the invasion. They remain hopeful, but know the fate of Poladkos homeland remains uncertain.
Hundreds of Ukrainian-Americans and supporters marched through Center City to show support for the nation as the war continues.
Bidens comments to reporters came afterUkraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Bucha,one of the towns surrounding Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found. Zelenskyy called the Russian actions genocide and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
Russia and the other four permanent members of the U.N. Security Council  Britain, China, France and the United States  all currently have seats on the 47-member-state rights council, which is based in Geneva. The United States rejoined the council this year.
White House officials said talks about ramping up new sanctions against Russia intensified after reports of alleged atrocities emerged. Biden said Monday that he would continue to add sanctions but did not detail what sectors the U.S. may target next.
