Mariupol teeters as Ukrainians defy surrenderordie demand
20220410
https://whyy.org/articles/mariupol-teeters-ukrainians-defy-surrender-or-die-demand/
Ukrainian community and allies march through Philadelphia, marking 1 year since war began with Russia
Fighting is raging at the besieged steel plant in Mariupol as Russian forces attempt to finish off the citys last-ditch defenders and complete the capture of the port city.
Malyar, the deputy defense minister, said the Russians continued to hit Mariupol with airstrikes and could be getting ready for an amphibious landing to beef up their ground forces.
Russia also claimed to have destroyed Ukrainian air defense radar equipment in the east, near Sievierodonetsk, as well as several ammunition depots elsewhere.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the fall of Mariupol could scuttle any attempt at a negotiated peace.
The shattered port city of Mariupol appeared on the brink of falling to the Russians on Sunday afterseven weeks under siege, in what would give Moscow a crucial success following its failure to storm the Ukrainian capital and the sinking of its Black Sea flagship.
Pope Francis made an anguished Easter Sunday plea for peace in the senseless war in Ukraine.
Stream WHYY-FM, read the top stories from WHYY News, and listen to the latest podcast from WHYY Digital Studios  anytime, anywhere.
Explosions were reported overnight in Kramatorsk, the eastern city where rockets earlier this month killed at least 57 people at a train station crowded with civilians trying to evacuate ahead of the Russian offensive.
Capturing the city would be Russias biggest victory after two months of costly fighting and could help reassure the Russian public amid the worsening economic situation from Western sanctions.
Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer, who met with Putin in Moscow this week  the first European leader to do so since the invasion Feb. 24  said the Russian president is in his own war logic on Ukraine.
The mayor of the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says that more than 10,000 civilians have died in the Russian siege of his city.
An estimated 100,000 remained in the city out of a prewar population of 450,000, trapped without food, water, heat or electricity in a siege that has made Mariupol the scene of some of the worst suffering of the war.
All those who will continue resistance will be destroyed, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, the Russian Defense Ministrys spokesman, said in announcing the latest ultimatum.
Mariupols seizure also would make more troops available for the offensive in the east, which, if successful, would give Russian President Vladimir Putin a vital piece of the country and a badly needed victory that he could sell to the Russian people.
The capture of Mariupol would free up Russian forces to join an expected all-out offensive in the coming days for control of the Donbas, the industrial region in the countrys east where the Kremlin has focused its war aims after abandoning, for now at least, any attempt to take Kyiv, the capital.
The barrage slammed into apartment buildings and left the streets scattered with broken glass and other debris, including part of at least one rocket. Firefighters and residents scrambled to douse flames in several apartments.
The Russian military estimated that 2,500 Ukrainian fighters were holding out at a hulking steel plant with a warren of underground passageways in the last pocket of resistance in Mariupol.
The destruction of all our guys in Mariupol  what they are doing now  can put an end to any format of negotiations, Zelenskyy said in an interview with Ukrainian journalists.
Its almost Easter in Ukraine, where a trio of churches on the far edges of the capital have faith, hope and charity to consider.
Pope Francis has made an Easter plea for peace in Ukraine and in other wars in the world.
After the humiliating loss of the flagship of its Black Sea Fleet last week to what the Ukrainians boasted was a missile attack, Russias military vowed Friday to step up strikes on the capital. The Kremlin said Sunday that it had attacked an ammunition plant near Kyiv overnight with precision-guided missiles, the third such strike in as many days.
In his nightly address to the nation, Zelenskyy called on the West to send more heavy weapons immediately if there is any chance of saving the city, adding Russia is deliberately trying to destroy everyone who is there.
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please give today.
Like Mariupol,the northeastern city of Kharkivhas been a target of attacks since the early days of the invasion and has seen conditions deteriorate ahead of the eastern offensive.
Tunnels at the sprawling Azovstal steel mill, which covers an area of more than 11 square kilometers over 4.2 square miles, have allowed the defenders to hide and resist.
It would allow Russia to secure a land corridor to the Crimean Peninsula, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014, and deprive Ukraine of a major port and its prized industrial assets.
He said intercepted communications indicated there were about 400 foreign mercenaries along with the Ukrainian troops at the Azovstal steel mill, a claim that could not be independently verified.
Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar described Mariupol as a shield defending Ukraine as Russian troops prepare for the battle in the mostly Russian-speaking Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists already control some territory.
The relentless bombardment and street fighting in Mariupol have left much of the city pulverized and killed at least 21,000 people, by the Ukrainians estimate. A maternity hospital was hit by a lethal Russian airstrike in the opening weeks of the war, and about 300 people were reported killed in the bombing of a theater where civilians were taking shelter.
A regional official in eastern Ukraine said at least two people were killed when Russian forces fired at residential buildings in the town of Zolote, near the front line in the Donbas.
Hundreds of Ukrainian-Americans and supporters marched through Center City to show support for the nation as the war continues.
We will fight absolutely to the end, to the win, in this war, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal vowed on ABCs This Week. He said Ukraine is prepared to end the war through diplomacy if possible, but we do not have intention to surrender.
In an interview on NBCs Meet the Press, Nehammer said he thinks Putin believes he is winning the war, and we have to look in his eyes and we have to confront him with that, what we see in Ukraine.
At least five people were killed and 13 wounded in Russian shelling of Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, on Sunday, regional officials said.
Amid the fighting, Zelenskyy spoke in his nightly address about Ukraines plans for a memorial to remind all generations of our people of the brutal and senseless invasion Ukraine has been able to fend off.
May there be peace for war-torn Ukraine, so sorely tried by the violence and destruction of this cruel and senseless war into which it was dragged, Francis said, without mentioning Putins decision to invade.
Moscow set a midday deadline for their surrender, saying those who laid down their arms were guaranteed to keep their lives. But the defenders did not submit, just as they rejected previous ultimatums.
In a reminder that no part of Ukraine is safe, Russian forces carried out missile strikes Sunday near Kyiv and elsewhere in an apparent effort to weaken Ukraines military capacity before the anticipated assault.
