Some kind of terrible dream for Ukrainian women refugees
20220308
https://whyy.org/articles/some-kind-of-terrible-dream-for-ukrainian-women-refugees/
Women normally receive flowers and chocolates and kisses and speeches. But this time, the messages were tinged with sorrow and pleas for peace.
Ukrainian community and allies march through Philadelphia, marking 1 year since war began with Russia
Of course its hard to travel with a child, but I explained to her that were going on vacation and that well definitely come home one day when the war is over, Shulga said.
In Romania, Alina Rudakova began to cry as she realized she had forgotten about the holiday. Last year, the 19-year-old from Melitopol received a bouquet of flowers from her father and gifts from other relatives.
She cannot allow herself to collapse in grief as she thinks about the life they left behind. I realize that well have to work a lot now, she said. I need to get myself together because I have two children and I need to ball up my will like a fist.
She didnt know what would come next after arriving in Hungary from Ukraines capital, Kyiv, but believed the experience would make her stronger. I feel like Im responsible for my child, so it was easier for me to take this step and leave, she said, as her little girl tugged at the hem of her coat.
Polina Shulga tried to ease the journey for her 3-year-old daughter by hiding the truth.
Stream WHYY-FM, read the top stories from WHYY News, and listen to the latest podcast from WHYY Digital Studios  anytime, anywhere.
Ukraines leader pledged Friday to push for victory in 2023 as he and other Ukrainians markedthe somber anniversaryofthe Russian invasionthat upended their lives.
The best present for every woman will be to stop the war, added 19-year-old Anastasia Kvirikashvili from Vinnytsia.
On the global day to celebrate women, many fleeing Ukraine on Tuesday felt only the stress of finding a new life for their children as husbands, brothers, and fathers stayed behind to defend their country from Russias invasion.
Hundreds of parishioners in Bridgeport, Pennsylvania gathered at Saints Peter and Paul Ukrainian American Catholic Church for a rally in solidarity with Ukraine on Sunday.
It was difficult to prepare myself for traveling, said one refugee from near Kyiv who gave only her first name, Natalia. My sister said that I am very brave, but in my opinion I am a coward. I want to go home.
At the Medyka border crossing in Poland, Yelena Makarova said her hurried flight from Kremenchuk with her mother and teenage daughter marked the end of her life as she knew it. Her father, husband and brother all stayed behind.
I was so stressed, I was so tired, it kind of made my day, said 15-year-old Mariia Kotelnytska from Poltava.
This year, I didnt even think about this day, she said. This day was really awful.
The Russian onslaught has trapped people inside cities that are running low on food, water and medicine amid the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II.
Im generally in some kind of a terrible dream which keeps going on, the retired teacher said. I would be in some kind of abstraction if it wasnt for my daughter. I wouldnt be able to come to my senses.
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please give today.
The family settled in Poland with their three young children after the invasion. They remain hopeful, but know the fate of Poladkos homeland remains uncertain.
In a refugee camp in Moldova, Elena Shapoval apologized for her tears. She doesnt hide them from her two children, 4 and 8, while recalling their journey from Odesa. The younger one doesnt understand whats happening, Shapoval said. The older one tries to calm her, saying, Mom, everything will be all right.
The number of refugees reached 2 million on Tuesday, according to the United Nations, the fastest exodus Europe has seen since World War II. One million were children, UNICEF spokesman James Elder tweeted, calling it a dark historical first. Most others were women.
That has led to heartbreaking scenes of separation, along with growing worry as some encircled, battered parts of Ukraine slip out of reach.
Hundreds of Ukrainian-Americans and supporters marched through Center City to show support for the nation as the war continues.
But some arriving refugees were given bouquets of spring flowers by the immigration officials and volunteers who greeted them after crossing the borders in Poland and Romania.
As the refugees continued to arrive, new fragilities emerged. The people who are coming now have less means than the people who came initially, and theyve also experienced more likely conflict directly, so theyre probably more traumatized, said a spokesman for the U.N. refugee agency, Matthew Saltmarsh.
I wish that the war would finish as soon as possible, because do you know, for every mother, what can be worse? she said. I cant understand why our children are dying. I dont know.
Ukrainians, we usually celebrate this holiday, the holiday of spring. We congratulate our women, our daughters, wives, mothers, he said. Usually. But not today. Today I cannot say the traditional words. I just cant congratulate you. I cant, when there are so many deaths. When there is so much grief, when there is so much suffering. When the war continues.
In a theater at the Ukrainian Cultural Center in the Polish city of Przemysl near the border, women and children filled makeshift beds. Some checked their phones yet again for news.
A decree by Ukraines government that prohibits men aged 18 to 60 from leaving the country means that most of those fleeing are women and children, though the U.N. doesnt have exact numbers on gender. Ukraines policy is meant to encourage men to sign up to fight against Russias invasion or to keep them available for military conscription.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke of International Womens Day, which is normally a day for celebration in Ukraine, in a video address.
