Peaceful protesters to take to streets of Hanley in support of Ukraine
20220306
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/news/stoke-on-trent-news/peaceful-protesters-take-streets-hanley-6760320
We know how irritating it is to find your inbox filling up with emails you don't want. If you decide you don't want to receive the newsletters any more, just click the unsubscribe box and you won't get them again. But you can always sign up again whenever you like.
It comes as similar events are being held in other cities across the UK to unite in support of the Ukrainian people. Many of the demos have seen people waving yellow and blue placards  the colours of the countrys flag.
All you need to do is sign up to our daily email alerts, and you'll get them sent straight to your inbox.
No, the newsletters are absolutely free. All it'll cost you is the time to input your email address and chose which newsletters you want to receive.
North Staffs Green Party, NORSCARF, and South Cheshire and North Staffs CND will be among those taking part.
A CND spokesperson said: With the escalating threat of nuclear war, we are doing everything we can to raise awareness of the catastrophe that nuclear weapons use would unleash.
Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter
More than a million people have fled over the border, with Europe facing a humanitarian crisis.
All you need to do is follow this link and click which newsletters you want to receive. And there isn't just the main news email - there are Stoke City and Port Vale newsletters, our Way We Were nostalgia weekly email, and many others that might be of interest.
The Green Party has also called for the UK Government to follow the lead taken by countries across the EU to aid the growing number of refugees.
Local groups will be campaigning for a peaceful end to the conflict and for the UK Government to make it easier for refugees to seek asylum in Britain.
Our newsletters are sent out in the morning, afternoon and evening. They're a digest of all the most important local headlines of the day in an easy to read format. We will also send you breaking news alerts, so you'll get the news when it happens.
It marks the 11 th day of Russias assault on Ukraine, as the heavy bombardment of many cities continues.
We are at a life-or-death moment for humanity and we urge you to do everything you can to oppose this war and to oppose the use of nuclear weapons.
The demo will take place by the blue clock outside the Potteries Centre, in Hanley, between noon and 2pm.
