Recap Protestors hit streets of StokeonTrent to show support for Ukraine
20220306
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/news/stoke-on-trent-news/live-protestors-hit-streets-stoke-6761326
"They are undergoing a terrible situation with the Russian invasion and they are being targeted as civilians.
It came as other protests against Russia's invasion of Ukraine are being held in cities across the UK. Many of the demos have seen people waving yellow and blue placards  the colours of the countrys flag.
The Hanley protest was organised by Ukraine Solidarity North Staffordshire. Protestors are campaigning for a peaceful end to the conflict and for the UK Government to make it easier for refugees to seek asylum in Britain.
Nikki McKenzie, aged 48, of Longport, said: "I am here to show solidarity for Ukraine.
More than a million people have fled over the border, with Europe facing a humanitarian crisis.
Protestors gathered in the city centre to show their support for families in war-torn Ukraine.
"We are also here to show support for refugees and the Ukrainian people in Stoke."
Those gathered to support Ukraine are carrying banners and placards reading 'No To War' and displaying blue and yellow, the colours of Ukraine's flag.
"We want to say we are against the war. What they are doing is horrendous.
The protest marked the 11th day of Russias assault on Ukraine, as the heavy bombardment of many cities continues.
A CND spokesperson claimed: With the escalating threat of nuclear war, we are doing everything we can to raise awareness of the catastrophe that nuclear weapons use would unleash.
People were asked to sign a 'Stop The War In Ukraine' petition and organisers sold cakes and badges to raise funds for humanitarian aid for refugees.
North Staffs Green Party, NORSCARF, and South Cheshire and North Staffs CND were among those taking part.
Jeanine Amel pictured, aged 61, of Hartshill, said: "I am here to protest against the Russian invasion of Ukraine and to demand refugees are allowed into Britain."
We are at a life-or-death moment for humanity and we urge you to do everything you can to oppose this war and to oppose the use of nuclear weapons.
Simon Senn, aged 58, of Biddulph, said: "I am here to show some solidarity with the people of Ukraine.
