Russian troops may have captured Chernobyl because it was just in the way
20220225
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/russian-troops-captured-chernobyl-because-6717184
The building containing the reactor was covered in 2017 with an enormous shelter aimed at containing radiation still leaking from the accident until the site can be dismantled, which is expected to take until 2064.
Ukraine also uses the deserted zone for its centralised storage facility for spent fuel from the countrys other remaining nuclear power plants.
I cant see them having had that as a particular area they would want to hold, he added.
The population around Chernobyl is about 7,000, although the nearby evacuated city of Pryp'yat, whose population mostly served the power plant, remains abandoned.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had warned Russian forces were trying to seize the plant where there is still nuclear material.
He said: It is right on the border and I dont believe the Ukrainians would have put many troops there.
Nick Reynolds, a land warfare analyst with the Rusi think tank, said the site of the nuclear reactor 80 miles north of the capital Kyiv could have been just in the way of the Russian forces who were crossing into Ukraine.
Nuclear Reactor 4 at Chernobyl exploded in April 1986, spewing radioactive particles across Europe. Three other reactors at the plant remained active until 1999, when the final reactor was decommissioned.
Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter
Really, the Ukrainians best chance of defence is in urban areas and also deeper into their own territory once Russian supply lines have been stretched a bit.
I think the Ukrainian military, because of its lack of medium-range air defence, is vulnerable to air attack given the Russian capabilities, and it lacks artillery.
It is unclear how much damage has been caused or the extent to which it could be a hazard for surrounding areas.
Russia may have chosen to capture the Chernobyl nuclear plant because strategically it was just in the way of its military plans in Ukraine, it has been suggested.
Ukrainian officials have reportedly said they have lost control of the Chernobyl facility, the site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, after forces waged a fierce battle with Russian troops.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said it is following the situation in Ukraine with grave concern and appealed for maximum restraint to avoid any action that may put Ukraines nuclear facilities at risk.
He said: Going through the Chernobyl zone is one of the shortest routes to get from Belarus to Kyiv. It is an exclusion zone that is heavily irradiated, which means it is, by all accounts, not as heavily defended as other areas.
Mr Reynolds said it is a little bit of a mystery why Chernobyl would have been chosen for capture, and that Ukrainian defence plans have been closely guarded for reasons of operational security.
A Ukrainian official said Russian shelling had hit a radioactive waste repository and an increase in radiation levels was reported, although experts were not easily able to check the extent of the damage before Russian forces reached the site.
