Ukraine latest 660000 flee as Russia takes aim at crowded cities
20220302
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/news/stoke-on-trent-news/ukraine-latest-660000-flee-russia-6740023
Hundreds of thousands of people have fled Ukraine as Russia has taken aim at crowded cities as the invasion continues.
The UK's Defence Ministry said it had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days.
Overall, the Russian military has been stalled by fierce resistance on the ground and a surprising inability to completely dominate Ukraine's airspace.
The UN human rights office said it has recorded 136 civilian deaths, though the actual toll is likely to be far higher.
Many military experts say Russia may be shifting tactics. Moscow's strategy in Chechnya and Syria was to use artillery and air bombardments to pulverize cities and crush fighters' resolve.
Speaking at a press conference in the City of London, Mr O'Leary said: "We do want to see the Ukrainians succeed."
PA reports how Ukraine's leader has denounced Russia's escalation of attacks on crowded cities as a blatant terror campaign. Tuesday saw bloodshed on the central square in Kharkiv, the country's second-largest city, and a deadly bombing of a TV tower in the capital.
Leading Russian bank Sberbank announced on Wednesday that it is pulling out of European markets amid the tightening Western sanctions.
A TV control room and power substation were hit, and at least some Ukrainian channels briefly stopped broadcasting, officials said.
Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko has said his country has no plans to join the fight.
Some Russian military columns have run out of petrol and food, the official said, and morale has suffered as a result.
As the seventh day of the war dawned Wednesday, Russia found itself increasingly isolated, beset by the sanctions that have thrown its economy into turmoil and left the country practically friendless, apart from a few nations like China, Belarus and North Korea.
A ministry statement posted early Wednesday on Facebook said the Belarusian troops have been taken into combat readiness and were concentrated close to Ukraine's northern border.
Among other things, the Kremlin is not allowing the fighting to be referred to as an "invasion" or "war".
Ryanair is operating its largest summer schedule from its three London airports, Gatwick, Luton and Stansted.
No, the newsletters are absolutely free. All it'll cost you is the time to input your email address and chose which newsletters you want to receive.
A spokesman for the memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941, was damaged, but the extent would not be clear until daylight.
The Slovenian foreign ministry said its consulate in Kharkiv, located in another large building on the square, was destroyed.
Mr O'Leary said bookings across all routes on Thursday and Friday last week were down by "about 20" compared with a week earlier.
The attack on the square, the nucleus of public life in the city, was seen by many Ukrainians as evidence that the Russian invasion was not just about hitting military targets but also about breaking their spirit.
A top Kremlin official warned that the West's "economic war" against Russia could turn into a "real one".
Inside Russia, a top radio station critical of the Kremlin was taken off the air after authorities threatened to shut it down over its coverage of the invasion.
Our newsletters are sent out in the morning, afternoon and evening. They're a digest of all the most important local headlines of the day in an easy to read format. We will also send you breaking news alerts, so you'll get the news when it happens.
But it also showed Russia was comfortable that they would not come attack by air, rocket or missile, the official said.
The immense convoy, with vehicles packed together along narrow roads, would seemingly be "a big fat target" for Ukrainian forces, the senior Western intelligence official said.
He added that the best way to punish Russia would be for the West to "drive down the price of oil".
It is introducing 14 new routes from the airports to destinations such as Naples, Madeira and Stockholm.
"Throughout our history we've learned this lesson, when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos," Mr Biden said.
The death toll was less clear, with neither Russia nor Ukraine releasing the number of troops lost.
Instead, Moscow made new threats of escalation on Tuesday, days after raising the spectre of nuclear war.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said it will return to the eastern European country "when it's safe to do so" but warned that might not be until the winter.
The invading forces also pressed their assault on other towns and cities, including the strategic ports of Odesa and Mariupol in the south.
About 85 miles west of Kyiv, Zhytomyr is the home of the elite 95th Air Assault Brigade, which may have been the intended target.
We know how irritating it is to find your inbox filling up with emails you don't want. If you decide you don't want to receive the newsletters any more, just click the unsubscribe box and you won't get them again. But you can always sign up again whenever you like.
Residents also reported the use of such weapons in Kharkiv and Kiyanka village. The Kremlin denied using cluster bombs.
The first talks between Russia and Ukraine since the invasion were held Monday, but ended with only an agreement to talk again. On Tuesday, Mr Zelensky said Russia should stop bombing first.
"But I suspect it will take probably maybe into next winter before those technologies can be restored at Ukrainian airports, when hopefully the Ukrainians will have seen off the Russians and sent them back to where they came from."
Mr O'Leary predicted that this will lead to it overtaking easyJet to become the UK's largest airline.
He added: "I think it will not have a dramatic impact on bookings as long as the war doesn't escalate and spread elsewhere."
Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter
Mr Biden used his first State of the Union address to highlight the resolve of a reinvigorated Western alliance that has worked to re-arm the Ukrainian military and adopt tough sanctions, which he said have left Russian president Vladimir Putin "isolated in the world more than he has ever been".
"They keep moving. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising."
In Kharkiv, with a population of about 1.5 million, at least six people were killed when the region's administrative building on Freedom Square was hit with what was believed to be a missile.
"Where are the children? What kind of military factories do they work at?" Mr Zelensky said.
The "first thing" the Russians did when they invaded was "disable the flight systems" at major airports, he added.
The airline has seen a "significant surge" in bookings to and from Poland, as people fleeing Ukraine are "reuniting with family and friends" across Europe.
As Mr Biden spoke, a 40-mile convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles advanced slowly on Kyiv, the capital city of nearly three million people, in what the West feared was a bid by Mr Putin to topple the government and install a Kremlin-friendly regime.
A senior US defence official said that Russia's military progress, including the massive convoy, has slowed, plagued by logistical and supply problems.
Russia previously told people living near transmission facilities used by Ukraine's intelligence agency to leave their homes.
The bombardment blew out windows and walls of buildings that ring the square, which was piled high with debris and dust. Inside one building, chunks of plaster were scattered, and doors lay across hallways.
Mr Zelensky has mocked Russia's claim that it is going after only military targets, saying 16 children were killed on Monday.
Ukraine's emergency services said Tuesday's strike killed at least two people, burned three homes and broke the windows in a nearby hospital.
"We cannot even take the wounded from the streets, from houses and apartments today, since the shelling does not stop."
All you need to do is sign up to our daily email alerts, and you'll get them sent straight to your inbox.
But Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov claimed on Wednesday that the airstrike on the TV tower did not hit any residential buildings.
One senior Western intelligence official estimated that 5,000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed in the biggest ground war in Europe since the Second World War.
Ukrainian authorities said five people were killed in the attack on the TV tower near central Kyiv.
"They have been flattening us non-stop for 12 hours now," Mariupol mayor Vadym Boychenko was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying.
Mr Zelensky expressed outrage on Wednesday at the attack on Babi Yar and concern that other historically significant and religious sites, such as St Sophia's Cathedral, could be targeted.
He went on: "We will be the first airline to return to Ukraine when it's safe to do so.
Cluster bombs shoot smaller "bomblets" over a large area, many of which fail to explode until long after they've been dropped. If their use is confirmed, that would represent a new level of brutality in the war.
Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraine's east in recent days.
All you need to do is follow this link and click which newsletters you want to receive. And there isn't just the main news email - there are Stoke City and Port Vale newsletters, our Way We Were nostalgia weekly email, and many others that might be of interest.
Meanwhile US President Joe Biden has highlighted the resolve of the Western alliance which he says has left Vladimir Putin 'more isolated in the world than he has ever been'.
It also said Kharkiv and Mariupol were encircled by Russian forces and that troops had reportedly moved into the centre of a third city, Kherson.
"We do not believe it will be possible to fly to Ukraine for the foreseeable future."
Mr Boychenko called Russia's actions "genocide" - the same word that Mr Putin has used to justify the invasion.
Russia's defence ministry said it had seized Kherson, though the claim could not be confirmed.
Mr Zelensky's office reported that the site of the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial, which is adjacent to the TV tower, was also hit.
"This is beyond humanity. Such missile strike means that for many Russians our Kyiv is absolutely foreign," Mr Zelensky said in a speech posted on Facebook.
Ukraine's defence ministry said it had evidence that Belarus, a Russian ally, is preparing to send troops into Ukraine.
