Ukraine morning briefing Ukraine reportedly shells ammo depot in Russia as Kyiv attacked despite vow
20220330
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/ukraine-morning-briefing-ukraine-reportedly-6879236
In an Intelligence update issued late last night, the UK's MoD said: "Repeated Russian setbacks and successful counter attacks by Ukrainian forces mean it is almost certain that the Russian offensive has failed in its objective to encircle Kyiv.
The evening at the Resorts World Arena featured a star-studded line-up also including Camila Cabello, Anne-Marie and Gregory Porter  and was punctuated by short video pieces documenting the lives of displaced Ukrainians both inside and outside the country.
The two-hour Concert for Ukraine was organised to raise money for the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC and its response to the Russian invasion.
"It is highly likely that Russia will seek to divert combat power from the north to their offensive in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in the east."
Zelensky's scepticism appeared to be justified within a matter of hours when multiple explosions were reported in Kyiv on Tuesday night and into the early hours of Wednesday morning.
Sheeran took to the stage solo for a two-song set of his hits Perfect and Bad Habits.
An administration building was partly destroyed in the attack, leaving a large hole in its centre. Rescue workers searched the rubble and debris for several people feared to have been inside, but Head of Administration Vitaliy Kim wasn't among them.
If the strike is confirmed by Ukraine's armed forces, it will mark the first offensive since the Millerovo airbase was attacked in late February.
"We should not lose vigilance," he said. "The situation has not become easier. The scale of the challenges has not diminished. The Russian army still has significant potential to continue attacks against our state.
Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter
Elsewhere the Mirror reported that the mayor of the Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv survived an assassination attempt after oversleeping.
"Yes, we can call positive the signals we hear from the negotiating platform. But these signals do not silence the explosion of Russian shells. Of course, we see all the risks. Of course, we see no reason to trust the words of certain representatives of a state that continues to fight for our destruction. Ukrainians are not nave people. Ukrainians have already learned during these 34 days of invasion and over the past eight years of the war in Donbas that only a concrete result can be trusted."
Ukraine has reportedly attacked a military weapons depot in Russia. Tuesday night saw Ukraine strike back for only the second time since war broke out on February 24, if Russian state media reports are to be believed. A missile appeared to hit a Russian military weapons depot outside Belgorod close to the Ukraine border, causing an explosion.
"Russian statements regarding a reduction in activity around Kyiv, and reporting indicating the withdrawal of some Russian units from these areas, may indicate Russias acceptance that it has now lost the initiative in the region.
War reporter Nolan Preston tweeted: "Loud night in Kyiv so far  multiple window-rattling explosions." Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko, meanwhile, tweeted: "Sirens across West Ukraine sound simultaneously. This is Putin retreating to the East for you. In Rivine now and the sound of war is loud and clear."
At the end of the night, the hosts announced that ticket sales, advertising, sponsorship and donations had led to the grand total, but it was expected to continue rising.
In other news Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky made his daily address and cast doubt over Russia's promise to "drastically reduce military hostility" against the Ukrainian cities of Kyiv and Chernihiv following peace talks in Istanbul.
Witnesses said the strike had "presumably" come either "via drone or short range ballistic missile", according to the Mirror. Video footage of the explosion was circulated on social media below and showed a huge explosion, with Russia claiming that at least four soldiers were injured as a result.
A fundraising concert for Ukraine featuring Ed Sheeran and the countrys 2016 Eurovision winner has raised 12.2 million for the humanitarian effort in the war-torn nation.
