We tried chicken kyivs from six supermarkets including Aldi Sainsburys and Tesco
20220328
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/tried-chicken-kyivs-six-supermarkets-6851597
Sainsburys, leading the way with the chicken kyiv name change, offers two British garlic and herb kyivs in a crispy, golden crumb with buttery garlic and parsley filling. The kyivs cost 2.30 and weigh approximately 130g each, taking 21 minutes to cook from chilled.
The chicken took 25 minutes to cook and didnt split in the oven - though I do recommend using tin foil to cover your baking trays to avoid mess. The kyiv was very garlicky and tasted very nice. Served with rice, it was very filling, and seemed good value for money.
The Ukrainian cuisine has long been popular in the UK, and is one of my go-to comfort dishes. So I set out to discover which supermarket has the best tasting chicken kyiv, for the best price. Heres what I found.
The British chicken kyivs are flavoured with garlic butter and coated in golden farmhouse breadcrumbs, taking 30 minutes to cook in the oven. The filling was very well contained with not spilling or splitting, and it was very much a butter, still maintaining a creamy consistency, rather than being super runny, which was different from the others.
Tesco recommends chicken kyivs for a fuss-free midweek meal, ideal with mashed potato to mop up the sauce or salad and jacket potatoes. Ive been opting for even less faff than that, and sandwiching my kyiv in between a slice of bloomer bread for a garlicky, buttery, chicken butty.
Tescos chopped and shaped chicken kyivs weigh around 135g each, and cost 2.30 for two. Clubcard members can get a pack for 2.
Aldis offering came in at 1.65 for two Ashfields breaded garlic chicken kyivs - 83p for one - weighing around 130g each. Chopped and shaped, the chicken takes 20 minutes to cook from chilled, and features a crispy breadcrumb coating and garlic butter filling.
It's a longstanding food favourite - so our reporter decided to put it to the test
The move came as Kiev is the Russian name for the Ukrainian city, with Ukrainians spelling it Kyiv. And while during my supermarket shop I didnt spot any packaging with the new spelling, its expected to be rolled out in the coming weeks, with most people accepting the new spelling as correct.
Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter
Unusually, it notes on the packaging that the garlic is not from the UK, but the chicken is. I also noticed that Asdas had one of the best use by dates on it.
Another chopped and shaped option from Morrisons, with crunchy breadcrumbs from which the garlic and parsley centre oozes. These are usually 2.20, but are currently reduced to 1.99 - however Aldis are still cheaper.
Aldis chicken kyivs did appear to be on the smaller side of the scale, but were very tasty and provided a quick, easy and cost effective meal. Small but mighty, it ticked all the boxes.
They take 22 minutes to cook, and while they had good flavour, the meat texture was a bit gristly for me, and made the experience slightly less enjoyable. However, there was a great amount of garlic butter, so much that it was spilling out - but I was able to mop it up with my bread.
Overall, Aldi had the best priced chicken kyiv, and it was very tasty too. On the other hand, MSs 3 kyivs were the only ones not made from chopped reformed chicken, so you really are paying for quality. That said, for a quick, easy, fuss free and delicious dinner - Aldi have my vote.
The humble Chicken Kiev - now set to be rebranded as kyiv as stores show support with Ukraine - has long been a favourite of many families. Chicken in breadcrumbs packed with a sauce in the middle - can you go wrong? Well reporter Bethan Shufflebotham decided to put the products on offer at Sainsbury's, Tesco, Morrisons, Asda, MS and Aldi to the test. This is how she went on.
At Asda, shoppers can find two garlic and herb chicken kyivs for 2.15. The chopped, shaped and formed chicken was one of the biggest of the bunch but a similar weight to the other supermarkets at 130g each.
When it was announced earlier this month that Sainsburys would be changing the name of their chicken kievs, it sparked the inspiration for one of my supermarket taste test comparisons. The retailer is in the process of renaming its chicken kievs to chicken kyivs, in support of Ukraine in light of the recent Russian conflict.
The Morrisons kyivs cook in 35 minutes, but similarly to Tescos, I found the meat quality wasnt amazing and the texture a little gritty. The flavour of the garlic butter was nice, though.
The chicken is chopped reformed chicken, which isnt particularly uncommon with kyivs, Ive found, but the meat was moist, with a crisp crumb and well contained butter. The sauce tasted rich and wasnt oily, as can be an issue with some kyivs. Overall, my week of garlic-infused lunches was off to a good start.
Other supermarket chains have been urged by customers to follow suit, with one tweeting: Kiev is the Russian name for the city. Come on asda LidlGB AldiUK Tesco sainsburys MandSnews waitrose show your support and change the spelling ChickenKyiv
NEWSLETTER: Sign  up for email alerts from StokeonTrentLive  direct to your inbox here
Itll come as no surprise that MS had the most expensive chicken kyivs, selling two 143g chicken pieces for 3. That said, it appeared to be the only one of the lot to not use chopped reformed chicken, made with MS assured chicken from farms in the UK.
