What you can do to help Ukranians affected by Russian invasion
20220302
https://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/news/stoke-on-trent-news/what-you-can-help-ukranians-6731886
Full Fact has issued advice on how to check whether videos from Ukraine are what they seem to be: https:fullfact.orgblog2022febhow-to-fact-check-ukraine-videos
But there are a number of practical things North Staffordshire residents can do to help those in need.
While the UK, the EU and the United States have imposed crippling sanctions on Russia, while providing Ukraine with arms and aid, ordinary people can feel helpless in the face of such major global events.
The Ukrainian Institute London has suggested a number of ways in which ordinary people can show their support.
These include writing to your MP 'urging them to support Ukraine and push for more sanctions'. The institute has drafted a template email for this purpose https:docs.google.comdocumentd10TbVCVm5eWghVRWnDKJzBCXdNovePPXk8p8B6I4B2Dcedit
The Red Cross says that donations will help pay for things such as food, water, first aid, medicines, warm clothes and shelter for those affected by the war.
Like millions of people around the world you have probably been watching the events unfolding in Ukraine with growing concern.
Russia's invasion of its neighbour last week has sparked the biggest conflict Europe has seen since the Second World War, with hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians fleeing their country.
The Embassy of Ukrain in the UK has set up a special fund to provide humanitarian assistance to Ukraines civilian population
The Ukrainian Institute recommends The Kyiv Independent and The New Voice of Ukraine as reliable English-language sources of information in Ukraine.
During times of war it is more important that people check that they are not spreading false information, as has already happened in relation to the war in Ukraine on several occasions. Make sure that anything you share on social media has come from a reputable source.
There are a number of reputable charities and organisations which are appealing for donations to fund aid efforts in Ukraine and neighbouring countries:
Want Stoke-on-Trent news emailed to you direct from our journalists? Sign up to our newsletter
The institute also suggest joining a local demonstration, or organising one yourself if none are happening in your area.
InYourArea gives you the community news you need. Find out about events where you live, the latest news, property for sale and all the local planning and council notices. All the local updates straight to your inbox!
The UNHCR is working to ensure that Ukrainians who have been forecd to flee their homes are sheltered and safe.
