As Mariupol hangs on the extent of the horror not yet known
20220321
https://www.chroniclejournal.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russian-demand-for-surrender-in-mariupol/article_07a5e305-af37-5c82-a566-6e74960bf033.html
As Russia intensifies its effort to pound Mariupol into submission, its ground offensive in other parts of the country has become bogged down, slowed by lethal hit-and-run attacks by the Ukrainians. Western officials and analysts say the conflict is turning into a grinding war of attrition, with Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces using air power and artillery to pulverize cities from a distance.
Zelenskyy also suggested Kyiv would be open to future discussions on the status of Crimea, which Russia seized in 2014, and the regions of the eastern Donbas region held by Russian-backed separatists. But he said that was a topic for another time, after a cease-fire and steps toward security guarantees.
Ukrainian authorities also said Russia shelled a chemical plant outside the eastern city of Sumy, sending toxic ammonia leaking from a 50-ton tank, and hit a military training base in the Rivne region of western Ukraine with cruise missiles.
Associated Press writer Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Ukraine, and other AP journalists around the world contributed to this report.
Talks between Russia and Ukraine have continued by video but failed to bridge the chasm between the two sides. The Kremlin has demanded that Ukraine disarm and declare itself neutral. Zelenskyy told Ukrainian television late Monday that he would be prepared to consider waiving any NATO bid by Ukraine in exchange for a cease-fire, the withdrawal of Russian troops and a guarantee of Ukraines security.
For those who remain, conditions have become brutal. The assault has cut off Mariupols electricity, water and food supplies and severed communication with the outside world, plunging residents into a fight for survival. Fresh commercial satellite images showed smoke rising from buildings newly hit by Russian artillery.
A senior U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the military's assessment, said Russia had increased air sorties over the past two days, carrying out as many as 300 in the past 24 hours, and has fired more than 1,100 missiles into Ukraine since the invasion began.
Whats happening in Mariupol is a massive war crime, European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said.
Mariupol had a prewar population of about 430,000. Around a quarter were believed to have left in the opening days of the war, and tens of thousands escaped over the past week by way of a humanitarian corridor. Other attempts have been thwarted by the fighting.
Russia's invasion has driven nearly 3.5 million people from Ukraine, according to the United Nations. The U.N. has confirmed over 900 civilian deaths but said the real toll is probably much higher. Estimates of Russian deaths vary, but even conservative figures are in the low thousands.
The agency said that problem, and a lack of firefighters to protect the area's radiation-tainted forests as the weather warms, could mean a significant deterioration in the ability to control the spread of radiation in Ukraine and beyond.
In another worrying development, Ukraines nuclear regulatory agency said radiation monitors around the decommissioned Chernobyl power plant, the site in 1986 of the worlds worst nuclear meltdown, have stopped working.
More than 1,300 people were believed to be sheltering in the theater, and 400 were estimated to have been in the art school.
With communications crippled, movement restricted and many residents in hiding, the fate of those inside an art school flattened on Sunday and a theater that was blown apart four days earlier was unclear.
In the Black Sea port city of Odesa, authorities said Russian forces damaged civilian houses in a strike Monday. The city council said no one was killed.
Russian military spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov charged that Ukrainian forces had been using the shopping mall to store rockets and reload launchers. That claim could not be independently verified.
In all, more than 8,000 people escaped to safer areas Monday through humanitarian corridors, including about 3,000 from Mariupol, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said.
Amid the continuing shelling, Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko announced a curfew extending from Monday evening through Wednesday morning.
Over the weekend, Moscow had offered safe passage out of Mariupol  one corridor leading east to Russia, another going west to other parts of Ukraine  in return for the city's surrender before daybreak Monday. Ukraine flatly rejected the offer well before the deadline.
In the Russian-occupied southern city of Kherson on Monday, Russian forces shot into the air and fired stun grenades at protestors who were chanting Go home! Kherson early this month became the first major city to fall to Russia's offensive.
Perched on the Sea of Azov, Mariupol has been a key target that has been relentlessly pounded for more than three weeks and has seen some of the worst suffering of the war. The fall of the southern port city would help Russia establish a land bridge to Crimea, seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Thats why we got in the car, at our own risk, and left in 15 minutes because everything is destroyed there, dead bodies are lying around, she said. They dont let us pass through everywhere  there are shootings.
In a video address Monday night, Zelenskyy hailed those who have fought back against Russia.
Mariupol officials said on March 15 that at least 2,300 people had died in the siege, with some buried in mass graves. There has been no official estimate since then, but the number is feared to be far higher after six more days of bombardment.
Olga Nikitina, who fled Mariupol for the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, where she arrived Sunday, said gunfire blew out her windows, and her apartment dropped below freezing.
In the capital, Kyiv, a shopping center in the densely populated Podil district near the city center was a smoking ruin after being hit late Sunday by shelling that killed eight people, according to emergency officials. The attack shattered every window in a neighboring high-rise.
Britains defense ministry said Ukrainian resistance has kept the bulk of Moscows forces more than 25 kilometers 15 miles from the center of Kyiv, but the capital remains Russias primary military objective.
Russia's Foreign Ministry warned that relations with the U.S. are on the verge of a breach, citing unacceptable statements by U.S. President Joe Biden about Putin. Biden last week branded the Russian leader a war criminal.
A long line of vehicles lined a road in Bezimenne, Ukraine, as Mariupol residents sought shelter at a temporary camp set up by Russian-backed separatists in the Donetsk region. An estimated 5,000 people from Mariupol have taken refuge in the camp. Many arrived in cars with signs that said children in Russian.
A woman who gave her name as Yulia said she and her family sought shelter in Bezimenne after a bombing destroyed six houses behind her home.
There are no buildings there anymore, said 77-year-old Maria Fiodorova, who crossed the border to Poland on Monday after five days of travel.
Francesco Rocca, president of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, urged Russia to abide by the Geneva Convention and allow humanitarian aid into the city.
There is no need to organize resistance," he said. Resistance for Ukrainians is part of their soul.
LVIV, Ukraine AP  As Mariupols defenders held out Monday against Russian demands that they surrender, the number of bodies in the rubble of the bombarded and encircled Ukrainian city remained shrouded in uncertainty, the full extent of the horror not yet known.
Nobody can tell from the outside if it really is on the verge of being taken, said Keir Giles, a Russia expert at the British think tank Chatham House.
Russian shelling of a corridor wounded four children on a route leading out of Mariupol, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.
