Current sanctions announced by US wont affect Putin at all Estonias former prez
20220223
https://www.wionews.com/world/current-sanctions-announced-by-us-wont-affect-putin-at-all-estonias-former-prez-455723
The difference is that in the 1990s, we undertook difficult, and often painful, reforms that allowed us to join the EU and NATO. So, we do feel threatened, but once you are in NATO, you feel much more secure. "
"NATO has no desire to expand itself. The question is whether it is open to accepting countries or not, and why do these countries want to join NATO? NATO has no urge to expand it will expand when countries fulfil its requirements. For example, holding free elections and upholding democratic principles, "he said.
"All of their holdings in the West should be frozen as of this moment," he added.
"The entire Russian leadership has massive amounts of money stored in the West. And why is there money stored there? Because they dont even trust their countrys rule of law, "he added.
Speaking exclusively to WION on Wednesday, Ilves said, "The ones sanctions announced now are pointless since they are directed towards the common people of DNR Donetsk and LNR Lugansk. The real sanctions that bite would affect the oligarchs and the people in power. "
Even though the US and a handful of countries in Europe warned of more sanctions in the event of Ukraine's invasion, many countries in the region have kept mum.
Even though Germany froze a new gas pipeline that it shares with Russia, Ilves asserts that Berlin has not taken any effective action that could harm the elites in Russia.
In his recent speech, Russia's Putin emphasised reviving the law of "Soviet glory." When he was asked whether Estonia would consider joining the Soviet Union, he said, "It would be if we were in the position of Ukraine, which is outside the EU and NATO."
US President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced new economic sanctions in response to Putin's recognising two breakaway regions in eastern UkraineDonetsk and Luganskas "independent".
When he was asked whether the aim to expandNATO by allowing Ukraine to join the alliance led to the current escalation, the former president said, "This is a complete canard."
Speaking exclusively to WION, former president of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves said that the current sanctions announced are 'pointless'
Toomas Hendrik Ilves, former Estonian president, believes that the current round of economic sanctions announced by the Biden administration will have little to no impact on Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Watch Estonia's Ex-President speaks to WION: How will Putin's moves in Ukraine affect European security?
FDA panel recommends Pfizer, GSK vaccines against RSV for older adults, what is RSV, symptoms  prevention?
So far, Italy and Germany have not indicated what kind of action they would take in the event of such a possibility.
He signed an executive order to "prohibit new investment, trade, and financing by US persons to, from, or in the so-called DNR and LNR regions of Ukraine," an abbreviated reference to Donetsk and Lugansk.
He said that sanctions would have an effect only if they were directed towards the elite responsible for the current situation.
"So far, Italy and Germany have said no sanctions on energy or on cutting off SWIFT a messaging network used by banks and otherfinancial institutionsto quickly, accurately, and securely send and receive information, such as money transfer instructions. Theissue here is whether Italy and Germany have the courage to issue sanctions on the oligarchs and the leadership that have property in their territory. I suspect that within the EU, there will be quite a bit of a debate over these issues in the next few days, "he said.
