RussiaUkraine conflict Civilian targets hit in Ukraines Dnipro say officials
20220311
https://www.wionews.com/world/russia-ukraine-conflict-civilian-targets-hit-in-ukraines-dnipro-says-officials-461169
As the Russia and Ukraine conflict continues to escalate, a civilian area has apparently been targeted by the Russian shelling in the central Ukrainian city of Dnipro on Friday March 11.
The emergency services have said that this appeared to be the first direct attack on the city. Reports have emerged that at least one person has been killed. Identity has not been confirmed.
The Russian defence ministry said in a briefing on Friday that its troops targeted airports in Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk, another western Ukrainian city some 250 kilometres south of Lutsk.
In a statement, the emergency services noted: "There were three airstrikes on the city, namely hitting a kindergarten, an apartment building and a two-story shoe factory, starting a fire. One person died."
WATCH Russia calls emergency UNSC meeting on biological weapons after claiming that the US is making it
Disclaimer: A number of claims and counterclaims are being made on the Ukraine-Russia conflict on the ground and online. While WION takes utmost care to accurately report this developing news story, we cannot independently verify the authenticity of all statements, photos and videos.
As per news agencies, shelling was also reported Friday in Lutsk, a city in north-western Ukraine.Lutsk mayor Ihor Polishchuk wrote on Facebook,"Explosions at the airport side."
"Military airfields in Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk have been put out of order," ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
As per news agencies, shelling was also reported Friday in Lutsk, a city in north-western Ukraine
ALSO READ  Satellite images show Russian military convoy northwest of Kyiv has 'dispersed, redeployed'
A Ukrainian soldier hides from a helicopter airstrike amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine, near Demydiv, Ukraine March 10, 2022.  Photograph:Reuters
FDA panel recommends Pfizer, GSK vaccines against RSV for older adults, what is RSV, symptoms  prevention?
ALSO READ Russian tanks or '40-ton iron freezers'? Freezing temperatures might help Ukraine to resist Putin's army
The strikes came amid preparations by the United States, together with the Group of Seven nations and the European Union, to revoke Russia's "most favoured nation" status over its invasion of Ukraine.
The strikes Ukraine had warned that Russia was mustering forces to encircle Dnipro, home to about one million people before the invasion started.
