Sign of respect Kuleba asks China to provide security guarantees for Ukraine
20220501
https://www.wionews.com/world/sign-of-respect-ukrainian-fm-kuleba-asks-china-to-provide-security-guarantees-against-russia-475496
In a lengthy interview, he told Xinhua news agency that "Ukraine is currently studying the possibility of acquiring security guarantees from permanent members of the UN Security Council, including China, and other major powers."
"We propose that China becomes one of the guarantors of Ukraine's security, this is a sign of our respect and trust in the People's Republic of China," Kuleba was quoted as saying by Chinese state media.
A captured Russian tank is carried on a platform by the Ukrainian army on a road outside Dnipro, Ukraine Photograph:Reuters
Also see 'Display of military power': Serbia shows off new Chinese missiles amid concerns in Balkans
Defending Kyiv's stance against Russian troops, he added "The situation is not escalating because of Ukraine, we are exercising our right to defend ourselves."
Instead, it has repeatedly blamed the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO for provoking Russia to attack Ukraine.
Ukraine's foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba on Sunday May 1 asked China to provide security guarantees against Russia.
China is the only country in the world that has not condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine despite facing pressure from the West.
In reference to a similar United Nations security resolution on non-nuclear states, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman last month suggested that such "security assurances have clear limitations on the content and are triggered under specific conditions."
China is the only country in the world that has not condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine despite facing pressure from the West
Accusing Russia of compromising Beijing's signature Belt and Road infrastructure initiative, Kuleba said "We also believe that this war is not in China's interests."
The ties between China and Russia have warmed since Chinese President Xi Jinping took power in 2013 with trade between the two countries rising to $146.9 billion last year.
However, defence experts that their interests can conflict despite sharing resentment of Washington as Putin is uneasy about the growing Chinese economic presence in Central Asia and Russias Far East.
FDA panel recommends Pfizer, GSK vaccines against RSV for older adults, what is RSV, symptoms  prevention?
Kuleba said that Russian President Vladimir Putin's recklessness will adversely impact China's economy as the West might restrict its access to the US and European markets for helping Moscow.
