Top 10 world news RussiaUkraine crisis Covid surge in China and more
20220312
https://www.wionews.com/world/top-10-world-news-russia-ukraine-crisis-surge-in-covid-cases-and-more-461707
In its highest daily figure since the Wuhan outbreak, China on Saturday 1,524 coronavirus cases.
As the situation in Ukraine intensifies and chaos across the border increases, several aid groups and volunteers have claimed that the children are going missing.
From revolving around all Covid-related stories for the past two years to now focussing on every small development in Ukraine - this is how media attention shifted in a span of two weeks.
Media focus shifted from Covid to Ukraine in just two weeks. But virus is not done yet
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has given new boost to Taiwan's military's level of alertness and military reservists reforms.
Amid all the chaos, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos has warned that all these sanctions could crash the International Space Station.
Ukrainian soldiers on guard in Irpin, north of Kyiv asRussian forces stepped up their attackon Ukraine's capital. Also, amid all the chaos, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos has warned that all these sanctions could crash the International Space Station.
As the war in Ukraine entered the seventeenth day on Saturday, Russia said it could target Western weapon supplies into Ukraine.
FDA panel recommends Pfizer, GSK vaccines against RSV for older adults, what is RSV, symptoms  prevention?
Iran oil minister said on Sunday that US seizure of Iranian tankers in recent months hasn't stopped the sanctions-hit country from increasing oil exports.
Ukrainian soldiers on guard in Irpin, north of Kyiv asRussian forces stepped up their attackon Ukraine's capital.
Finance police in Italy have seized a superyacht belonging to a Russian billionaire , as per Italian prime minister's office.
Disney is facing backlash after it was revealed that the company was donating funds to Florida's 'Don't Say Gay' bill.
