Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba accuses Lavrov of spreading misinformation
20220304
https://www.wionews.com/world/ukrainian-foreign-minister-dmytro-kuleba-accuses-lavrov-of-spreading-misinformation-459024
This comes after Russia blamed the explosion on Ukrainian "saboteurs" calling it "monstrous provocation". "Last night on the territory adjacent to the power plant, an attempt was made by the Kyiv nationalist regime to carry out a monstrous provocation," Russia's defence ministry said.
"Russia who itself fires at nuclear facilities in Ukraine. Safe zones must be established around them to prevent disaster in Europe," he wrote on Twitter.
On Friday, the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, while citing the country's regulatory authorities, said that essential equipment at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant was unaffected in the incident and there was no change in radiation levels.
Russian forces have seized the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine's southeast, the regional state administration claimed on Friday.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has claimed that Russia is spreading misinformation. "Russian FM Lavrov spreads disinfo by falsely alleging Ukraine wants to restore its nuclear arsenal," he said.
Also read LIVE  Ukraine invasion: This is Putin's war, and he has to stop it, EU says
Russian FM Lavrov spreads disinfo by falsely alleging Ukraine wants to restore its nuclear arsenal. Once again: This is a cynical, blatant lie by Russia who itself fires at nuclear facilities in Ukraine. Safe zones must be established around them to prevent disaster in Europe.
FDA panel recommends Pfizer, GSK vaccines against RSV for older adults, what is RSV, symptoms  prevention?
Ukraine had said that the plant in its southeast was shelled overnight, the IAEA added.
"The Ukraine regulatory authority said a fire at the site had not affected 'essential' equipment and plant personnel were taking mitigatory actions. There was no reported change in radiation levels at the plant," it said.
