Vladimir Putin says Russia will launch a lunar probe with ally Belarus
20220419
https://www.wionews.com/world/vladimir-putin-says-russia-will-launch-a-lunar-probe-with-ally-belarus-470521
In the first known trip outside Moscow since Russian launched military action in Ukraine, Putin met Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko at the Vostochny Cosmodrome in Russia's Far East.
Russia's President Vladimir Putin R speaks with Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko during their talks at the engineering building of the technical complex of the Soyuz-2 space rocket complex at the Vostochny Cosmodrome, some 180 km north of Blagoveschensk, Amur region Photograph:AFP
According to Putin, Russia plans on launching a probe called Luna-25 to the moon in the third quarter of this year
Putin added that we will work with those of our partners who want to cooperate.
Russia continues to redeploy its forces for a push on eastern Ukraine, and fighting is expected to intensify there over the next two to three weeks as per Britains defence ministry.
According to Putin, Russia plans on launching a probe called Luna-25 to the moon in the third quarter of this year.
Also read Ukraine invasion can push quarter of a bn people into extreme poverty: Oxfam
Recalling Soviet successes in space, Putin said its certainly impossible to isolate anyone in the world of today, especially such a huge country as Russia.
He said Russia will deepen cooperation with Belarus on space infrastructure and technology. Roskosmos is going to train a Belarusian for flight on a Russian spacecraft.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday that Moscow will launch a lunar probe with ally Belarus.
He was referring to NASA which is boycotting Russian space agency Roscosmos after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
FDA panel recommends Pfizer, GSK vaccines against RSV for older adults, what is RSV, symptoms  prevention?
It says Russian forces are withdrawing from Belarus in order to redeploy in support of operations in eastern Ukraine.
