An unmistakable message Biden unveils US sanctions on Russia after Putins invasion of Ukraine
20220222
https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/2022/02/22/biden-sanctions-russia-invasion/6757445001/
Russiademanded guarantees that NATO never admit Ukraine and other former Soviet nations as members and that the military alliance roll back troop deployments in other former Soviet bloc countries, a region Moscow still views as itssphere of interest. But NATO leaders refused to abandon the alliance's open-door policy to allow any nation to join and instead offered cooperation on issues like international security.
Russias interest in the separatist regions has always been about controlling all of Ukraines politics, said Ben Rhodes, who was deputy national security adviser to President Barack Obama.
The U.S. has been coordinating with major oil producers to keep energy supplies stable, he said.
Nord Stream 2:How pipeline became a bargaining chip in the crisis between Russia and Ukraine
While Russia could choose a slow creep into broader parts of Ukrainian territories, Polyakovasaid, the estimated 190,000Russian troops encircling Ukraine indicatea more aggressive move toward the Ukraine capital of Kyiv is still on the table.
Polyakova, likewise, said it'sunlikely that Russia would only remain in the separatist regions of regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Putin on Monday ordered troops into two pro-Russian separatist regions in eastern Ukraine that he declared "independent" from Ukraine and in need of military protection.
Biden announced a first round of financial sanctions and vowed that Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression.
"Putin was never very subtle about what he disliked about the post Cold War settlement,"Pomeranz said. "But now, he has essentially torn it up and has not provided any sort of retreat other than full concessions from the West."
"We still believe that Russia is poised to go much further in launching a massive military attack against Ukraine. I hope I'm wrong about that," Biden said.Im hoping diplomacy is still available."
The crisis poses a crucial test for Biden as he seeks tokeep Europeanallies united and crafta tough response to Putin's attempt to occupyall or partof its neighbor, essentiallyrenegotiatingthe end of the Cold War.
Biden said there is still time to avert "the worst case scenario that will bring untold suffering to millions of people" but that's up to Putin.
"This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine," he said. "We're ready to respond with unity, clarity and conviction."
Thats a world war when Americans and Russia start shooting at one another, Biden told NBC Nightly News earlierthis month. Were in a very different world than weve ever been in.
Former Defense Secretary William Cohen said it was one of the most perilous moments since the end of World War II.
"I think we're at one of the most dangerous periods in our history, certainly since 1945," Cohen told CNN. "The danger that we face here is that, once we take a step, and then Putin responds to it, the cycle tends to escalate."
Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said last monthan attack by Russian ground troops, artillery, warplanes and ballistic missiles would result in a significant amount of casualties."
The deployment was meant to supplement the more than 80,000 U.S. troops already in Europe on rotational and permanent orders, but Biden has suggested he would deploy more troops to the region in the event of an attack.
However we respond now will determine which scenario and which path they walk down, she said.
Biden saidthe U.S. would also impose sanctions on Russias elites and their family members, to go into effect on Wednesday.
Before Biden spoke, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said he hoped the presidentwould impose the "toughest possible sanctions."
"That means we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing," he said. "It can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or the European markets either."
"They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well," the president said.
Biden said the first wave of U.S. penaltiesincludes "full blocking sanctions" on two major Russian financial institutions, as well as on the country's sovereign debt.
Geopolitical chess:What are Joe Biden's options with Russia in Ukraine? That all depends on Putin's next move.
Which is one more reason why this should just be seen as a preliminary step, Rhodes tweetedafter Putin's announcement.
The invasionraises concerns about the future of European security and triggered a set of punishing economic sanctionsfrom Europe as well, in a coordinated response thatNATO leaderssaid would extend beyond the measures imposed on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine's Crimea region in 2014.
Biden repeated his warning from last week that an escalated conflict could lead to higher gas costs for Americans.
The latest developments culminate months of tensions between Moscow and NATO countries after more than 100,000 Russian troops amassed on Ukraine's border, carrying out military exercises with live ammunition and sounding the alarm of a potential invasion.
A flurry of diplomatic meetingsacross Europe, in Moscow and in Washington over the past two months ultimately failed to de-escalate the unfolding crisis.
The U.S has deployed more than 4,000 troops to Poland recentlyto help shore up NATO's eastern flank in response to Russia'smilitary build-up along Ukraine's border.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson unveiled new sanctions on Tuesday against five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals in what Johnson called the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do.
"I anticipate that a larger military operation will be introduced in Ukraine, going after Kyiv, and the current Ukrainian government," he said.
And Germany announced it will put the breaks on the $11 billion, Russian-ownednatural gas pipeline that snakes westward from Russia to northeastern Germanyfor more than 700 miles under the Baltic Sea.
"This is not the moment for wobbliness and weakness," saidAlina Polyakova, president and chief executive officerof the Center of European Policy Analysis, a Washington think tank. "What the Russians have done has rewritten the rules of the European security order and it will have global consequences.
That movefollowed weeks of faileddiplomatic efforts todefuse the monthslong standoff between Moscow and NATO countriesover Ukraine's sovereignty.
Biden said he had also authorized the additional movement of U.S. forces and equipmentalready stationed in Europeto bolster America's Baltic allies, including Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
WASHINGTON President Joe Biden on Tuesday outlined theU.S. response to Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion ofUkraine as the world braced for a deadly military conflictthat could destabilize Europe, rattle theglobal economyand upend international security.
"We want to send an unmistakable message that the United States, together with our allies, will defend every inch of NATO territory," Biden said.
Biden and U.S. officialshave made clear they have no plans to send combat troops to Ukraine but have vowed to send Kyivmore military weapons and lethal aid should there be a full invasion.
But Putin's recent actions, including arambling, hourlong speech on Monday in which he incorrectly claimed that Ukraine was only the product of power-brokering during the beginning of the Soviet Union, closed off any remaining diplomatic options, saidWilliam Pomeranz, the acting director of the WilsonCenter's Kennan Institute.
