Hundreds injured trapped in battered Mariupol steel plant Russian assault on Donbas behind schedule Live Ukraine updates
20220510
https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/2022/05/10/ukraine-russia-invasion-putin-updates/9713002002/
Some analysts and Western officials braced forRussian President Vladimir Putin to ramp up attacks ordeclare victory in the war in Ukraine on the country's Victory Day, the nation's largest public holiday.
At least 44 bodies of civilians were found under the rubble of a destroyed residential building in Izium, near Kharkiv, said Oleh Synehubov, head of the Kharkiv Regional Military Administration.
The company said it would offer Russia the chance to try to reroute gas through another crossing held by the Ukrainian government.
The package comprises military and humanitarian aid, provide economic assistance, help regional allies, replenish weapons the Pentagon has shipped overseas and provide $5 billion to address global food shortages.
One person was killed and five were wounded when Russian missiles struck ashopping center and a warehouse Monday, the officials said. Around thattime, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and European Council President Charles Michel were forced to move theirmeeting in Odesa to a bomb shelter because of the shelling.
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan announced the shipment of a multimillion dollar aid package to Odesa,including medical supplies and body armor. Odesa, the subject of intensifying Russian shelling, is a sister city of Baltimore.
Biden, speaking Monday at a political fundraiser outside Washington, said Putin had mistakenly believed the invasion of Ukraine would break up NATO and weaken the European Union, according to a Reuters report.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has no exit strategy for theUkraine war  and that is a problem for the West, President Joe Biden says.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk Regional Military Administration, said Russian bombardments have targeted the complex dozens of times in the last day or so.
Ukraines gas transmission operator says it will shut off almost a third of Russian gas transported through the country en route to much of Europe "asa result of the Russian Federations military aggression against Ukraine." The company said it has facilities in territory temporarily controlled by Russian troops and thus cannot carry out operational and technological control.
The U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday night passed a package of about $40 billion in additional aid money for Ukraine, $7 billion more than President Joe Biden's request to Congress.
Russian warplane activity has increased in recent days, including more than 300 missions flown in the last 24 hours, a Pentagon official said. However, the airspace over Ukraine continues to be contested, said the official, who is not authorized to speak publicly about intelligence assessments.
More Americans continue to approve than disapprove of the Biden administration's response to the war in Ukraine, but half of them are at least very concerned the U.S. may wind up in a war with Russia, according to new survey.
President Joe Bidens nominee to be U.S. ambassador to Ukraine told senators Tuesday she does not underestimate the task ahead if she is confirmed.
"It is easier to say when the shelling does not happen than when it happens," he said. "Aviation and artillery are almost constantly at work there."
Finland and Sweden, two non-aligned European countries in close proximity to Russia --Finland shares a border -- are expected to announce this week whether they'll pursue NATO membership.
About14 million Ukrainians had been forced from their homes by the end of April, including more than 5.9 million who left the country, the United Nations said.
Many badly wounded fighters are among the 1,000Ukrainian troops still holed up at the sprawling Azovstal steel plant, the last major holdoutin the port city of Mariupol, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Tuesday.
Those opinions might have been swayed at least in part by the early-April revelation of Russian atrocities in the town of Bucha, outside Kyiv.
The city on the Black Sea, Ukraine's largest port, isa major gateway for grain shipments, andits blockade by Russia already threatens global food supplies.Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy pointed out Russias blockade of ports on the Black Sea and Sea of Azov won't allow Ukraine to export vital products.
The measure had bipartisan support, with 57 Republicans voting against. It heads to the Senate for a vote before Biden can sign it.
Russia appears to be trying to disruptsupply lines and Western weapons shipments critical to Ukraine's defense with an intensified bombardment of the southern port city of Odesa, Ukrainian officials said Tuesday.
Russiaappears to be at least two weeks behind schedule in its attempt to wrest the eastern Donbas region from Ukrainian troops, a senior Defense Department official said Tuesday.It remains unclear what Russian President Vladimir Putins overall strategy is for Ukraine, said theofficial, who is not authorized to speak publicly about intelligence assessments.
Putin may seek to capture eastern Ukraine, where separatists have fought with Ukrainian troops since 2014, or he may have a broader aim to control more of the country.But Putin has not achieved any of the success he sought, the official said.
The new aid package comes as Biden says he has "nearly exhausted" the amount of aid money approved by Congress that he could send help Ukraine's defense against the Russian invasion.The new legislation would bring American support for the effort to nearly $54 billion.
But Putin refrained from doing so during his speech in Moscow's Red Square on Monday, instead sticking withthe phrase he's usedsince Feb. 24 to describe Russia's invasion:"special military operation." He didn't declare victory, and there was no discernibleincrease in attacks Monday.
In his nightly update, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces aregradually pushing Russian troops away from Kharkiv in the northeast.
Maria Alyokhina, the leader of the punk band Pussy Riot who was jailed at least seven times for her activism against Russia's repressive regime, escaped the country last month as Moscow police sought her, the New York Times reported.
Many of the airstrikes launched by Russian pilots have been conducted inside Russian airspace, an indication that they fearUkrainian air defenses, the official said. The strikes are focused on the eastern Ukraine region of Donbas and the south, including the embattled city of Mariopul.The Russians are not flying routine combat air patrols over Ukraine, the official said.
Biden said Putin is a very calculating man who "doesn't have a way out right now, and I'm trying to figure out what we do about that."
Senators from both parties praised Brinks background and called it urgent to get her on the job.
If we cannot export wheat, barley, sunflower, sunflower seed oil, then it means that people in North Africa and Asia will be lacking food and the prices will go up, Zelenskyy said. Later, there could be new chaos and a new migration crisis.''
"Hundreds are injured," Vereshchuk told AFP. "There are people with serious injuries who require urgent evacuation. The situation is deteriorating every day."
"These actions under the current transit contract are force majeure circumstances that make it impossible to fulfill obligations," the company said.Force majeure is essentially an escape clause in contracts allowing for for so-called acts of God."
Russian troops have overwhelmed most of the embattled city, home to 450,000 people before the war. Local officials say fewerthan100,000 remain, but Russia has struggled tocomplete a takeoverthat would deprive Ukraine of an important port while providing Russia with a land corridor to the Crimean peninsula and a staging area to sendtroops elsewhere in the country.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM:Join our Russia-Ukraine war channel for latest updates to receive updates straight to your
Eight years ago, Russia stormed into Crimea with little international resistance. But much of the western world rallied behind Ukraine when Moscow sent troops into the heart of the country in February, rolling to within miles of the capital Kyiv. Russian troops have reportedly taken heavy losses while gaining limited ground across Ukraine.
Tuesday on Capitol Hill, the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Army Lt. Gen. Scott Berrier, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that he expected a prolonged stalemate in Ukraine under current conditions.
UkrainianPresident VolodymyrZelenskyy also celebrated Victory Day on Monday, promising that Ukraine will soon have two Victory Days: one celebrating the defeat of Nazism in Europeand the other celebrating Ukraine's victory against Russia.
The poll of more than 5,000 adults, conducted by the Pew Research Center fromApril 25-May 1, reveals support for the administration's stance diminished slightly from 47 in March to 45 in May, but opposition decreased by a larger amount, from 39 to 34. The approval rate from respondents who identified as Republicans or leaning that way increased from 21 to 26.
Regardless, Americans are clearly worried about the possibility the U.S. support of Ukraine may lead to a direct confrontation with Russia:81 saidthey're at least somewhat concerned, and 50 said very or extremely concerned.
I would assess the challenge to be enormous, Bridget Brink, a veteran foreign service officer, said at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
