SNL calls out Fox News hosts Laura Ingraham and Tucker Carlson for views on Russian invasion
20220306
https://www.azcentral.com/story/entertainment/tv/2022/03/06/snl-mocks-tucker-carlson-laura-ingraham-russian-invasion-views/9399804002/
"Tell me something boy, don't you love that big Russian convoyI'm on the deep end, we should take Ukraine,"Guilfoyle belted before being cut short by Carlson.
There was also a musical number during the"Ukrainian Invasion Celebration Spectacular": Donald Trump Jr. Mikey Dayand hisfianceKimberly GuilfoyleCecily Strong sang a parody of Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper's "Shallow" to honor "Russia and Ukraine coming together."
Afterpaying asolemn tribute to the people of Ukraine last week during its normally raucouscold open,"Saturday Night Live" returned to itsboisterous rootsMar. 5, mocking Fox News, Donald Trump and Russia.
The fundraiser ended with the hosts announcing that a Russian "boat is currently being towed by NATO" and joking that since Putin is attempting to block free speech, they should also shut down CNN.
Ingraham was there to assure viewers that "former and current President of the United States Donald Trump James Austin Johnson"will be handling phone lines for callers looking to donate.
To encourage people at home to loosentheir purse strings, the Fox News hosts brought in a special guest:"great American patriot" Steven Seagal Bowen Yang.
"I kept saying we should be worried about our own borders getting invaded by Mexico, but in my defense, I am racist so I thought that was true," Carlson said before asking viewers to donate by either sending money or "because this is Fox News... take out a reverse mortgage."
"Putin and I are, as they say in ancient Japan, Eskimo brothers," Seagal said who honored the Russian president by performing a few Taekwondo moves.
The cold open featured a Fox News special titled "Ukrainian Invasion Celebration Spectacular" with hosts Laura Ingraham Kate McKinnon and Tucker Carlson Alex Moffat. The Fox News anchors kicked off the showby attemptingto apologize for calling Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyy "pathetic" and reducing Russia's invasion of Ukraine as a "border dispute," respectively, by hosting a fundraiser for the real victims: the Russian oligarchs.
After cutting to Donald Trump, who criticized Beyond Burgers and the "Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" reboot, the Fox News anchors revealed they would be sending a network care packageto "every Russian soldier" that included "a My Pillow, six-month subscription to LifeLock and 10 American flag catheters."
