Strike kills 50 at Ukraine rail station crowded with people 67 bodies found in mass grave Live updates
20220408
https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/2022/04/08/kraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/9507961002/
Slovakia and other NATO allies on the alliances eastern edge operate the Russian-made S-300 missile system. Ukraines military has experience operating the system and has used it down Russian warplanes. Russia has failed to gain air superiority over Ukraine since its Feb. 24 invasion began.
Some Russian units have only a handful of troops and vehicles left, the official said. Some of the depleted units will be combined, others may be reconstituted with draftees. The process is not expected to be speedy, the official said.
Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall shared his first update on social media since he was injured last month in Ukraine, and paid tribute to two colleagues who were killed in the attack.
Over the last three years, Russia and Ukraine together accounted for 30 and 20 of global wheat and maize exports, respectively, according to the U.N.. The FAO Vegetable Oil Price Index increased more than 23 in March, largely because of rising costs for sunflower seed oil, of which Ukraine is the worlds leading exporter.
A rocket strike targeting a train station in theeastern Ukrainiancity ofKramatorsk Fridaykilled at least 50 people and injured dozens who were attempting to flee amid Russia's new focus on the region, Ukrainian officials said.
The president told Ukrainians that great efforts would be taken to establish every minute of who did what, who gave what orders, where the missile came from, who transported it, who gave the command and how this strike was agreed, so that those behind the attack would be held responsible.
Pink Floyd released its first new music in almost three decades to raise money for thepeople of Ukraine, the band announced Thursday.
The FAO Food Price Index averaged 159.3 points in March, about 13 up from Februarys index level  already the highest level since the U.N. began tracking food prices with the index in 1990.
European Council President Charles Michel echoed that response, noting it was horrifying to see Russia strike a station being used by civilians to evacuate. He called for action and noted that additional sanctions and weapons to Ukraine were underway.
This was a deliberate slaughter, said Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraines minister of foreign affairs.. We will bring each war criminal to justice.
The United Nations humanitarian chief is not optimistic that a ceasefire will be reachedamid mounting evidence of atrocities by the Russian military in Ukraine.
The Washington-based Institute for the Study of War said in an analysis that the Russian troops will likely try to advance from Izyum to capture the strategic city of Slovyansk and link up with other Russian forces in Donbas in what it said: Will likely prove to be the next pivotal battle of the war in Ukraine.
The Russians used an SS-21 short-range ballistic missile in the attack Friday on the train station in the Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk,according to a senior Defense official who spoke on the condition of anonymityto discuss intelligence assessments.
The official described the station as a major rail hub near in eastern Ukraine in a strategic location. It's the latest humanitariancatastrophein the country as the Kremin refocuses its attacks on eastern and southern Ukraine.
The European Unions ambassador to Ukraine has returned to the nations capital, Kyiv, signifying improved security in the area. E.U. foreign policy chief Josep Borrell announced the news Friday in Kyiv where he joined E.U. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen for talks with Zelenskyy.
After a rocket strike killed dozens at a train station in eastern Ukraine, global leaders and groups took to social media to condemn Russia and the attack.
If you smell explosions and there are a lot of them these days the riflemen and explosive ordnance disposal technicians are working, he said. They are removing ammunition that the Russian troops lost on our soil.
The Russian Defense Ministry denied targeting the station in Kramatorsk,a city in part of the Donetsk region that is controlled by the Ukrainian government.
World food commodity prices reached their highest levels for the second month in a row, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organizationsaid in a Friday report.
Russian forces had been using banned antipersonnel landmines in the Kharkiv region, Human Rights Watch reported last month. These mines cab"indiscriminately kill and maim people within an apparent 16-meter range."
After Russias invasion, Khlyvnyuk cut short a tour of the U.S. to return to Ukraine and join a territorial defense unit.Gilmour said he spoke to Khlyvnyuk, who was recovering in a hospital from a mortar shrapnel injury, while he was writing the song. He said: I played him a little bit of the song down the phone line and he gave me his blessing. We both hope to do something together in person in the future.
Five children were among those killed, according to Pavlo Kyrylenko, the regional governor of Donetsk. In a telegram post, he said98 people were taken to the hospital, including 16 children. About 4,000 civilians were inside and around the station when it was hit.
This means that they killed civilians, shot them, Venediktova said, speaking as workers pulled corpses out under spitting rain. Black body bags were laid in rows in the mud.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy denounced the strike and said Ukraine expects a tough global response.
The 1997 Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Treaty banned the use, creation, stockpiling and transferring of antipersonnel mines, butRussia did not sign the treaty. TheU.S. and Chinaare also not parties of the treaty.
Hey Hey Rise Up features Pink Floyd membersDavid GilmourandNick Mason,with vocals from Ukrainian singer Andriy Khlyvnyuk of the band BoomBox.
On Thursday, both the U.S. and European Union escalated punishments on Russia: the U.S. Senateunanimously in favor ofbanning the importation of oil from Russiaand ending normal trade relations with the country, while European Union nations agreed to new sanctions on Russia that include a ban on importing its coal.
The U.K. Defense Ministry said Russian forces have now fully withdrawn from northern Ukraine to Belarus and Russia.
Ursula von der Leyen, president of the E.U. Commission, called the attack despicable. . The missile attack this morning on a train station used for evacuations of civilians in Ukraine is despicable, von der Leyen said. I am appalled by the loss of life and I will offer personally my condolences to President Zelenskyy.
The combat force that Russian President Vladimir Putin deployed to invade Ukraine has lost more than 15 of its strength, the official said.
Fox News cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski,journalistOleksandra "Sasha" Kuvshynovaand Hall were traveling in a vehicle in Horenka, a village nearly 20 miles from Kyiv, when they were struck by incoming fire March 14. Zakrzewski and Kuvshynova were killed. Hall was evacuated days later.
Undersecretary-General Martin Griffiths told the Associated Press onThursday the two sides have very little trust in each other. The two countries staged peace talkslast weekin Turkeybut largely failed to produce a breakthrough  Russian President Vladimir Putintampered expectationseven before negotiations began.
Ukrainian and Western officials say the Russians plan to encircle tens of thousands of Ukrainian troops in Donbas by moving from Izyum, near Kharkiv in the north, and from besieged Mariupol in the south.The timing will depend on how quickly Russia can take the southern port city, which has been reduced to rubble after weeks of bombardment but has yet to fall to the invading forces. Russia also needs to replenish the troops that were pulled back from Kyiv and other areas in the north.
The track features Khlyvnyuk singing a patriotic Ukrainian song from a clip he recorded in front of Kyivs St. Sophia Cathedral and posted on social media.
"To sum it up, I've lost half a leg on one side and a foot on the other. One hand is being put together, one eye is no longer working, and my hearing is pretty blown, but all in all I feel pretty damn lucky to be here - and it is the people who got me here who are amazing!" Hall said on Twitter with a photo of himself on a stretcher in a since-deleted tweet.
Photos from the scene showed luggage and personal belongings scattered across the platform. Bodies were covered in tarps, surrounded by blood. Photos also showedremnants of a rocket with the words For the children painted on it in Russian.
The White House similarly condemned the attack and said the U.S. would support efforts to investigate it.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austinsaid Thursdaythat Russian President Vladimir Putin had probably given up on his efforts to capture Kyiv, noting Russias shifted focus to eastern and southern Ukraine
UNICEF, which offers humanitarian aid to children in crisis, said it strongly condemns the attack and that the killing of children must stop now.
Its a strong testament to how determined Ukraines neighbors are to help the Ukrainians defend themselves against Russias unprovoked invasion of their homeland, Austin said.
The prosecutor generals office is investigating the deaths, and other mass casualties involving civilians, as possible war crimes. Venediktova said the European Union is involved in the investigation and we are coordinating our actions.
As they departed Chernihiv in northern Ukraine, Russian forces left behind a path of terror after weeks of siege:crushed buildings, streets littered with destroyed cars and residents in desperate need of food and other aid. And yet, the Russians wound up retreating after facing fierce resistance on the battlefields.
Russian troops retreated completely from areas around the capital of Kyiv earlier this week and returned to Belarus and Russia where they are being reconstituted, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence assessments.
Now that Moscow is shifting its offensive toward the Donbas region in the east, what can be expected in Ukraine's industrial heartland?
Shipments of anti-armor missiles, kamikaze drones and other weapons continue to flow into Ukraine, the official said. Small-arms ammunition is a critical need that is being filled with millions of rounds, the official said.
The Ukrainian prosecutor generals office says approximately 67 bodies were buried in a mass grave near a church in Bucha, a northern Kyiv suburb where journalists and returning Ukrainians discovered scores of bodies on streets and elsewhere after Russian troops withdrew.
"War criminals have no place in UN bodies aimed at protecting human rights," Ukraine Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya tweeted after the vote. "Grateful to all member states which supported the relevant UNGA resolution and chose the right side of history."
Ten humanitarian corridors across threeregions opened Friday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuksaid in a statement.
The U.N. General Assembly alsoapproveda U.S.-initiated resolution to suspend Russia from the world organizations Human Rights Council amid mounting evidence of atrocities by the Russian military in Ukraine.The votewas 93-24 with 58 abstentions.
Gilmour, who performed with BoomBox in London in 2015, said the video was a powerful moment that made me want to put it to music.
Like the massacres in Bucha, like many other Russian war crimes, the missile attack on Kramatorsk should be one of the charges at the tribunal that must be held, he said during his nightly video address to the nation Friday.
Britain on Friday joined the U.S. in sanctioning the adult daughters of Russian President Vladimir Putin with asset freezes and travel bans in an effort to target the lavish lifestyles of the Kremlins inner circle.
The Sumy region was retaken by Ukrainian forcesbut is still littered with landmines,regional governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky said Thursday evening. He warned the regions territory is not yet safe and discouraged people from driving and using forest roads.
Ukrainian forces have eradicated some of the Russian units that invaded the country in late February, according to a senior Defense official.
The Russians have shifted their attacks to eastern and southern Ukraine, the official said.The Russians appear to be aiming to trap Ukrainian forces in the eastern part of the country. The official described the combat there a knife fight.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said thousands of people were present in the station, which was being used to evacuate civilians, and called Russia an "evil without limits" that needed to be punished before more civilian attacks.
On Thursday,the U.N. General Assemblyvoted to suspend Russiafrom the organizations Human Rights Council as evidence of atrocities by the Russian military in Ukraine mounts. The vote was 93-24 with 58 abstentions.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said Friday that 18 bodies had been located so far, 16 with bullet wounds and two with bullet and shrapnel wounds. Two were women and the rest were men, she said.
The agency credited ongoing war in the Black Sea region for the rising prices, noting the markets for staple grains and vegetable oils were particularly affected.
USA TODAY TELEGRAM:Join our new Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone.
The Pentagon will send a Patriot air defense system and troops to Slovakia to replace S-300 anti-aircraft missiles it is sending to Ukraine, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said in a statement Friday.
Where we are now is were going to support efforts to investigate the attack as we document Russias actions, hold them accountable, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters, calling the strike "another horrific atrocity."
