This heartbreaking image from Ukraine is a wakeup call free press is essential to freedom
20220308
https://www.azcentral.com/story/entertainment/media/2022/03/08/ukraine-family-killed-irpin-why-photo-matters/9418988002/
In the photo, Ukrainian soldiers workto try to save a man, identified as a friend of the family, who lay besidethem. The four had been hit by a mortar as they tried to escape Irpin.
Journalist Lynsey Addario took the photo and wrote about the attack. The story includes this description: Their luggage, a blue roller suitcase and some backpacks, was scattered about, along with a green carrying case for a small dog that was barking.
Now American politicians bluster constantly about fake news, which in most cases is legitimate news they dislike.Some openly muse about getting rid of journalists who dare report on them truthfully. Attacking the media is part of the conservative playbook, and not just a page at the back. Its right up there in the front.
If it takes a photo that is difficult to look at anddifficult to processto pound that point home, to move this story beyond just the numbers, thenso be it.
Its also important. And it should be seen. It is a reminder of the atrocities happening in Ukraineafter Russias unprovoked invasion. And oftheir cost. These are people neighbors, friends, children  and they are dying.
Its probably too much to think that whats going on there and what isnt going on namely, independent reporting that is crucial to the health and survival of any country  will serve as a warning to the people here who need it most. But it should.
For instance, the law made itit illegal to refer to the war in Ukraine as, well, a war. Special operation is the preferred term.
Donald Trump regularly attacked the media ina nonstop disinformation campaign to try to discredit journalists who didnt show him what he considered proper fealty. Of all the negative influence left in his wake, this may be the most dangerous.
The truth, no matter how unpleasant, no matter how horrifying, no matter how heartbreaking, is essential. Look at the backpacks in the New York Times photo. Look at the faces. Everyone should see them. Even people  especially people  in Russia. And that isn't going to happen.
Now, there is a discussion to be had about how much of this anyone should expose themselves to. There is no patanswer everyones level of tolerance is different. But at least we are able to make that choice for ourselves. That choice is now unavailable to almost anyone living in Russia.
We see three of the four faces, a scene so horrific that it seems surreal, too tragic to be true.
On Sunday the New York Times published a photo of a woman and her two children dead on the streets of Irpin, near Kyiv, as the lead photo on its home page. On Monday the newspaper ran it on the front page of its print edition.
What Russian authorities consider fake news, of course, has nothing to do with the truth. It has everything to do with selling the necessity of an unnecessary war to its citizens, who are increasingly cut off from accurate reporting.
As awful as it is to see this, its those backpacks and bags that ground the scenein reality. Every parent has watched their child trudge off to school with a backpack over their shoulders.Seeing thesame item in a vastly different contextis, among all the other adjectives you can think of, heartbreaking.
On Friday Russia passed a law that makes publishing anything authorities consider false information  fake news in the parlance of a previous American presidential administration  punishable by fines and up to 15 years in prison.
Media companies have already adjusted their coverage not out of protest, but out of fear for the safety of their journalists.CNN has said it will stop broadcasting in Russia. The BBC and Bloomberg News have temporarily suspended the work of their journalists there on Tuesday the BBC reversed its decision. ABC and CBS News are temporarily ceasing broadcasting from Russia. The New York Times announced Tuesday that it was pulling its journalists from the country.The list goes on.The country has also banned Facebook, further cutting its people off from information.
Whats going on in Russia as it tries to justify its attack on Ukraine should be chilling to anyone who values freedom, no matter what their politics.
Its terrifying and unimaginably sad. Its also essential to our understanding of whats going on in Ukraine.
