Ukraine can retake land recently captured by Russia Johnson tells Zelensky
20220705
https://www.runcornandwidnesworld.co.uk/news/national/20257270.ukraine-can-retake-land-recently-captured-russia-johnson-tells-zelensky/
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace meanwhile said the first group of Ukrainian soldiers had recently arrived in the UK as part of a programme to train up to 10,000 new Ukrainian recruits.
The Prime Minister, who is under political pressure at home over the resignation of former deputy chief whip Chris Pincher, tweeted: Updated President Zelensky on progress made at G7 and NATO last week.
He added that the programme, announced by the Prime Minister on his recent visit to Kyiv, was a priority for the Ministry of Defence as part of the UKs unwavering efforts to bolster the capability of the Ukrainian armed forces.
Boris Johnson has told Volodymyr Zelensky he believes Ukraine can retake territory recently captured by Russia in a call about the latest situation in the war-torn nation.
Mr Zelensky tweeted: Thanked Mr Johnson for the unwavering support of  the recent decision to provide 1 billion in security aid and todays  100 million.
Moscow claims that Russian forces have taken control of Lysychansk, the last major Ukrainian-held city in Luhansk.
Held talks with BorisJohnson. Thanked for the unwavering support of   the recent decision to provide 1 billion in security aid and today's  100 million. Talked about food security for the world and security guarantees for . Grateful for s willingness to host URC2023
The Russian president has focused his assault on the eastern regions of Luhansk and Donetsk after withdrawing from the offensive in the capital Kyiv as his troops faced fierce resistance.
Our ambition is to increase the scale and frequency of these courses, in line with Ukrainian requirements.
I believe the Ukrainian military can retake territory recently captured by Putins forces. The UK remains committed to helping Ukraine defend itself  rebuild.
The spokeswoman said the Prime Minister also updated Mr Zelensky on the latest UK military equipment, including 10 self-propelled artillery systems and loitering munitions, which would be arriving in the coming days and weeks.
The Prime Minister on Tuesday reiterated the UKs commitment to helping Kyiv defend itself and rebuild, as the Ukrainian president thanked Mr Johnson for a further 100 million in support.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Mr Johnson suggested on Monday the Danube and other rivers could be used to free Ukraines trapped grain, amid fears Russias Black Sea blockade could lead to starvation around the world.
This includes weapons training, battlefield first aid, fieldcraft, patrol tactics and training on the Law of Armed Conflict, he said.
On Monday, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss told this years conference in Switzerland that it was the free worlds duty to do whatever it takes to support Ukraine in rebuilding its economy as quickly as possible.
In their call, Mr Johnson and Mr Zelensky discussed how to quickly get grain out of Ukraine, with Mr Johnson saying the UK stood ready to help in any way possible, according to a Downing Street spokeswoman.
Mr Johnson also told Mr Zelensky he looked forward to the UK hosting the recovery and reconstruction conference next year, the spokeswoman said.
The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine  05 July 2022
In a written statement, Mr Wallace said the weeks-long courses, based on the UKs basic soldier training, will take place at military training areas across the North East, South West and South East regions.
