Guest Views Trust matters even between nations
20211221
https://www.gazettextra.com/opinion/other_views/guest-views-trust-matters-even-between-nations/article_75fa13f7-5f3d-5f31-9410-65950c384e10.html
Fears of an all-out Russian offensive against Ukraine have been on the rise for several weeks as Russia continues to conduct a massive troop buildup on its border. Russia has a history of aggression in this region, invading Ukraine to take Crimea in 2014, a forced annexation rejected by most of the world. It has also used troops to aid separatists in eastern Ukraine in a simmering conflict that continues to claim lives.
The Russian government seemingly hopes concerns about Ukraine will force the United States and western nations into negotiations. Russias demands include effectively rolling back NATO to early 1997, prohibiting aid to Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. Acquiescence would also mean sacrificing members Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and kicking out Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.
American allies will watch closely to see if our word is worth any more than Xi Jinpings. They face pressure from Beijings efforts to establish new bases in a bid to expand territorial claims. These have, in some cases, quite literally involved creating new islands for China to claim. And China recently demanded the Philippines remove troops that were supporting the latters claim to a shoal, using water cannons on Chinese vessels to try to force their departure.
That list is a roster of future targets for Russia. Its worth noting several are former Soviet republics and the rest were satellite states behind the Iron Curtain. The goal, seemingly, is restoration of Russian domination of Eastern Europe.
But how long will that last? Beijings pressure on Taiwan has increased, and there can be little doubt there will come a day when it views war as an acceptable cost for an attempt to take over the island.
That situation is no doubt being watched by others with aggressive intentions of their own. China is chief among them.
Negotiations between nations depend heavily on both sides believing the other is acting in good faith. In two of the worlds trouble spots, thats not possible.
But until Russia and China are willing to engage in good faith, thats going to be very difficult.
That confrontation has died down considerably, in part because the United States warned an attack on the Philippine troops would trigger a mutual defense pact with the United States. China has, at least for the moment, little appetite for the response such an act would provoke.
Theres a fine line between warning and provoking. Thats the line the United States must walk, and it must leave little doubt in the minds of both our allies and our opponents that our word means more than those who view aggression as an acceptable tool of statecraft. Our word must continue to be trusted.
Sunday was the first election in Hong Kong since a new security law was rammed through. Turnout, understandably, was underwhelming. Fewer than one-third of eligible voters cast ballots.
The United States must continue to stand for more than Vladimir Putins post-Soviet fever dreams or Xi Jinpings saber-rattling. We must continue to stand with those who have looked to our nation for leadership and security. The best way to do so would be negotiations.
If you have an event you'd like to list in our calendar, submit it now!
China agreed to leave Hong Kongs institutions and politics alone for 50 years after the 1997 return of the territory to its control. That agreement lies in tatters less than 30 years on.
