Pradhan Efforts to preserve democratic forms of government underway
20220201
https://www.gazettextra.com/opinion/columns/pradhan-efforts-to-preserve-democratic-forms-of-government-underway/article_bc958eca-82c0-11ec-a1f2-fbc72bfde4b7.html
Freedom House succinctly sums up the global situation heading into 2022: As a lethal pandemic, economic and physical insecurity, and violent conflict ravaged the world, democracys defenders sustained heavy new losses in their struggle against authoritarian foes, shifting the international balance in favor of tyranny, it found.
But there are signs of hope and promise. The end of 2021 saw major global forumssuch as the U.S. Summit for Democracy and the global summit of the 78-country Open Government Partnershipconvening a countervailing force to renew democracy and push back against the rise of authoritarianism.
The fourth category: Confronting threats to democracy, such as the Netherlands and Canada strengthening the transparency of online political campaigns to curb disinformation.
The world is in the midst of the 15th consecutive year of democratic backsliding. Authoritarianism is on the march. In a brazen example in the heart of Europe, the democratically elected government of Ukraine is under threat by Russia, which has massed nearly 100,000 troops along their common border. From Hungary to Tanzania to Turkey and beyond, elected leaders are attacking civil society, media and oversight institutions and spreading disinformation.
Some governments have used the pandemic to deploy emergency powers that restrict civil liberties. In addition, public trust in government across democracies has plummeted. The United States entered 2022 reliving the horror of the Jan. 6 assault on its democracy. In 2022, elections across several major democraciesBrazil, India, the Philippines among otherswill serve as a litmus test on whether leaders with authoritarian tendencies prevail.
The new year is ushering in an unprecedented test for democracies. Democracy around the globe is in peril. As historys most effective and fair form of government, democracy is confronting a confluence of crises.
The third category: Empowering historically marginalized communities, such as enhancing access to justice for the Roma minority in North Macedonia or empowering women by targeting the gender wage gap in Jalisco, Mexico.
The imperative now is to scale up these reforms to tackle societal crises and reignite confidence in democracy as the most viable and potent form of government for addressing the needs of people.
A new study published by the organization I lead, the Open Government Partnership, assessed democratic reforms implemented over the last decade in scores of countries around the world. It highlights hundreds of transformative efforts that are building public trust in democratic governance by making government more open and accountable. Specifically, courageous reformers and activists over the last decade are advancing four broad categories of reforms that can protect and renew democracy going forward.
The Canadian writer Margaret Atwood noted the duality of democracyits great power to transform whole nations for the better and yet its own vulnerability and need for constant nurturing.
The fabric of democracy is always fragile everywhere because it depends on the will of citizens to protect it, she wrote. And when they become scared, when it becomes dangerous for them to defend it, it can go very quickly.
Open Government Partnership, a pro-democracy organization whose members include 78 countries and 76 local governments. You can follow him on Twitter SPradhanOGP. He wrote this for InsideSources.com.
A collection of editorial cartoons that appeared in The Gazette from Jan. 31 to Feb. 4, 2022.
If you have an event you'd like to list in our calendar, submit it now!
The first category: Opening opaque institutions to fight corruption. Today, 70 governments from Argentina to Ukraine are opening procurement contracts to end corrupt backroom deals. At a time when the Panama and Pandora Papers have unmasked illicit wealth stashed in anonymous corporations, 30 countries including Armenia, Nigeria, and the UK are opening up about who really owns these companies. In another example, Colombia is empowering citizen auditors to monitor COVID-19 stimulus spending on a mobile app to ensure it reaches intended beneficiaries.
The second category: Empowering citizens to shape and oversee policies and services that affect their lives, particularly at the local level, such as participatory budgeting in Madrid or citizens monitoring services in Kaduna, Nigeria. Reformers are convening people across political divides in citizens assemblies to forge shared solutions on contentious policies such as same-sex marriage in Ireland or climate justice in France.
The mission of all people during this period of unprecedented peril must be to join forces to demand and advance reforms that renew democracyand protect this most cherished of gifts.
