Red Cross unable to reach Mariupol for evacuations Kremlin claims Ukraine targeted oil depot in Russia April 1 recap
20220401
https://www.dispatch.com/story/news/politics/2022/04/01/ukraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/7239190001/
The Mariupol city council said Friday that buses escorted by the Red Cross and State Emergency Service of Ukraine would take more than 2,000 citizens. The Russian military said it committed to a ceasefire between Mariupol and Zaporizhzhia.
But Petro Andryushchenko, an aide to the mayor of Mariupol, said Friday the city remained closed for entry and was very dangerous for people trying to leave, according to Reuters. He added that Russian forces had been blocking humanitarian supplies since Thursday.
American and European leaders aim to strike a difficult balancewith China, both warning the nation over Ukraine and hoping to preserve a relationship.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declined to comment on whether he ordered the alleged attack during an interview on Fox News.Zelenskyy said he does not discuss any orders he issues as commander in chief.
It will cost at least $10 billion to renew the Mariupol's' infrastructure due to damage caused by the war, the city councilsaid in a Telegram post Friday. Mayor Vadim Boychenkosaid he would push for reparations from Russia to compensate for Mariupol and its citizens' suffering and damage.
Russian military troops departed the heavily contaminated Chernobyl nuclear power plant early Friday, handing control back to Ukrainians.
Gladkov first wrote that two oil workers were injured but later said there were no victims. And Rosneft, the Russian oil firm that owns the fuel depot, said in a separate statement that no one was hurt in the fire, according to Reuters.
"Certainly, this is not something that can be perceived as creating comfortable conditions for the continuation of the talks,"Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
We called on China to end the war in Ukraine, European Council President Charles Michel told reporters in Brussels after the meeting, according to the Washington Post. China cannot turn a blind eye to Russias violation of international law.
While China says it is not taking sides in the conflict, it has declared a no limits partnership with Moscow, has refused to condemn the invasion, opposes sanctions on Russia and routinely amplifies Russian disinformation about the conflict, including not referring to it as an invasion or a war in keeping with Russian practice.
Kirby said the equipment will include laser-guided rocket systems, unmanned aircraft, armored vehicles, weapons, ammunition, night vision gear and medical supplies.
USA TODAY ON TELEGRAM:Join our new Russia-Ukraine war channel to receive updates straight to your phone.
A team from the International Committee of the Red Cross was planning to enter Mariupol to deliver emergency humanitarian aid and begin evacuating residents but had to return toZaporizhzhia.
Marta Hulievska, a freshman student at Dartmouth College, has been organizing campus rallies to raise awareness about the war in Ukraine to keep her from reading the news and worrying about her family. Her mother, sisters and grandma were forced to flee to western Ukraine while her dad stayed behind in their hometown of Zaporizhzhia.
THE NEWS COMES TO YOU:Get the latest updates on the situation in Ukraine. Sign up here
Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of Ukraine's national security council, said the Russian claims do not "correspond with reality."
In a Friday press conference, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency,Rafael M. Grossi, said he had spoken with Ukrainian and Russian nuclear officials but they did not discuss reports of Russia's troops experiencing radiation poisoning, according to the New York Times. Grossi added that radiation near the plant was "quite normal" but that there was arelatively higher level of localized radiation because of the movement of heavy vehicles.
Vyacheslav Gladkov, regional governor of Belgorod, wrote on Telegram on Friday that two Ukrainian helicopters conducted an airstrike late Thursday on the oil facility in Belgorod, about 21 miles from Russias border with Ukraine.
Russia and Ukraine resumed negotiations online Friday.Russian delegation head Vladimir Medinsky published a picture of the talks underway, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys office confirmed to The Associated Press that the negotiations had resumed.
Other reports indicated over 100 workers at the plant were stuck there for more than 12 days in early March after Russian forces seized it.
Moscow took control of Chernobyl over a month ago. According to Ukrainian officials, Russian troopsdestroyed a new laboratory at the plant working to improve management of radioactive waste that had highly active samples and samples of radionuclides" last week.
An attemptby humanitarian groups to remove civilians from the besieged port city of Mariupol failed Friday.
The IIE launched grants and scholarships to provide resources for students, Ilchman said. Campus offices are also facilitating emergency funding and offering mental health resources. Meanwhile, some institutions are helping students secure temporary protected status, whichwill shield them from deportation for the next 18 months. Read more here.
Alfred University president Mark Zupan asked the Ukrainian embassy if Zelenskyy would be able to receive the degree by video, according to the Democrat  Chronicle, part of the USA TODAY Network. The embassy said no, given he is busy fighting a war.
"For some reason they say that we did it, but according to our information this does not correspond to reality,"Ukraine's Security Council Secretary OleksiyDanilov said onUkrainian television.
The U.S. Department of Defenseannounced Friday evening it will provide an additional $300 million in military equipment to Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian withdrawals from the north and center of the country were only military tactics.
Although the large effort on Friday failed, smaller groups have been able to leave the city via private transport, the New York Times reported, citing a statement fromIryna Vereshchuk, the deputy prime minister, on her Telegram page. Evacuees from Berdyansk and a few from Mariupolhave been arriving at the registration centerin Zaporizhzhiaonprivate vehicles and busescarrying bags and pets, photos from the site show.
A collection of 16 American colleges, one with Ukrainian roots, plan to issue honorary degrees to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, 153 children have been killed and 245 injured, according to a Telegram post from Ukraine attorney general's office on Friday.The most children have been injured in the Kyiv region.
"Today, our team tried to facilitate a safe passage out of Mariupol, the ICRC said in a Twitter statement Friday. "But had to return to Zaporizhzhia after conditions made it impossible to proceed. We will try again tomorrow.
Tuesday negotiations failed to produce a breakthrough, leading President Joe Biden to pledge an additional $500 million in aid to Ukraine earlier this week.
The city remained closed for entry and was very dangerous for people trying to leave, saidPetro Andryushchenko, an aide to the mayor of Mariupol. He added that Russian forces had been blocking humanitarian supplies since Thursday, according to Reuters.
"You kind of enter like this alternative world where you're not in America and you're not in Ukraine, you're like somewhere in between," she said, describing her experience as "second-hand PTSD."
Russian officials accused Ukraine of the strike in the Belgorod region. If confirmed, it would mark the first Ukrainian airstrike on Russian soil.
Manor College said the Honorary Consul of Ukraine in Philadelphia, Iryna Mazur, will accept the degree on Zelenskyys behalf.
Leaders in the European Union on Friday told Chinese President Xi Jinpingthat China would hurt its global reputation if it provides Russia with economic or military assistance.
Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyys office said 86 Ukrainian service members were freed in the Zaporizhzhia region as part of a prisoner swap with Russia. The number of Russians released was not disclosed.
In recent weeks, tens of thousands of people have made it out of Mariupol through humanitarian corridors, reducing the city's population from 430,000 to 100,000 by last week.
Meanwhile, Dmitry Peskov, Russian President Vladimir Putin's press secretary, said the alleged attack on the Russian fuel depot "cannot be perceived as creating comfortable conditions for continuing the talks," Russian state media reported.
An estimated 1,700 college and university students from Ukraine are living in the United States. Unsure if they'll be able to return to Ukraine when their programs end, many are trying to find ways to stay in the country longer.
Ukraines state power company, Energoatom, said the Russian pullout at Chernobyl was due to soldiers receiving significant doses of radiation from digging trenches in the forest in the exclusion zone around the closed plant. But there has been no independent confirmation of that.
The equipment adds to the $1.6 billion in U.S. aid money to Ukraine since Russia's invasion began, he said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a decree Thursday demandingpayment for natural gas in rublesbut appeared to temper the order by allowing dollar and euro payments through a designated bank
Manor College, a private Catholic institution in Pennsylvaniafounded by Ukrainian nuns in 1947, said Zelenskyyexemplifies leadership through crisis and caring for his people worthy of the conferring of this degree," according to a news release.
As the culprit and leading instigator of the Ukraine crisis, the U.S. has led NATO to engage in five rounds of eastward expansion in the last two decades after 1999, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters at a daily briefing.
Russia continued withdrawing some of its troops from around Ukraine's capital Friday, though Ukrainian and Western officials have said Russian forces may be resupplying and shifting focus elsewhere.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said Friday that its attempt to evacuate residents in the besieged port city Mariupol failed but they would try again Saturday.
Lijian added that the number of NATO members increased from 16 to 30, moving eastward and pushing Russia to the wall step by step.
The two countries held face-to-face talks Tuesday in Turkey as the United Nations pressed for a cease-fire inRussia's brutal invasion. The talks took place in the Turkish presidential office in Istanbul and lasted more than three hours, Russia's Tass agency reported.
"This decision underscores the United States' unwavering commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in support of its heroic efforts to repel Russia's war of choice," said John Kirby, Defense Department press secretary.
"It is really hard to be going through a crisis in your country when you're not in your country," said Sarah Ilchman, co-president of the Institute of International Education. "Maybe there are people at home who were going to pay for their tuition and that's not there anymore."
Talks between Ukraine and Russia to stop fighting resumed as scheduled on Friday, as Ukrainian officials denied responsibility for ahelicopter attack on a Russian oil depot.
The other 15 colleges include Adrian College in Michigan, Bard College in New York, Lenoir-Rhyne University in North Carolina and Shenandoah University in Virginia. The group is encouraging other universities to join them in elevating the profile of President Zelenskyys heroism and his courageous efforts to protect western civilization.
Meanwhile earlier on Friday,China accused the United States of instigating the war in Ukraine, saying NATO should have been disbanded following the break-up of the Soviet Union.
