Theodore Decker As Ukraine girds for war thoughts go to a family tree obscured by time
20220220
https://www.dispatch.com/story/news/columns/2022/02/20/ukraine-russia-conflict-thoughts-family-history-war-looms/6785183001/
But there is a chair in my living room and children's clothing upstairs that showcase Ukrainian embroidery. Ukrainian Easter eggs, some many decades old,rest securely in a dining room hutch. As I kid I learned the hard way that the eggs, so intricate and fragile, held explosivepotential and must be handled with care. I know how to decorate them, if not especially well, and have taught my children as best I can.
Her parents came here in the early part of the last century and settled in a Ukrainian enclave in Irvington, New Jersey, in the same neighborhood that I later learned was the childhood home of Ukrainian-Americanactress Vera Farmiga.
I'm fairly sure their roots were in the countryside of western Ukraine, somewhere south ofthe city of Lviv. My mother's only sibling, an older sister, went on a trip there when I was still young, but the USSR didn't make tourism to rural Ukraine an easy proposition.
"No war in Ukraine," read a small sign held up by Abramenko's teammate, skeleton athlete Vladyslav Heraskevych,following one of his runs.
We all come from somewhere, and for centuries it has been the same. Those who wield power playtheir egotistical, lethal games, and it is the "normal person," the little person,who pays the price.
There's little of that uncertainty on my father's side. We can trace his roots to a precise town in the Black Forest region of Germany, where Deckers still run a popular inn.
I "tour" the country roads south of Lviv using Google, and the landscape  all farms and hedgerows and railroad crossings  reminds me of the trip north onRoute 4 to Lake Erie.
My grandfather worked at a laundry. It is from him that I inherited my first name and my love of fishing. I never met him, but I was told that he was happiest plying the Atlantic for stripers and bluefish, along with eels that my mother remembers writhing out of a pot in their kitchen. My grandmother was a maid, cleaning the houses of the rich.
"Like any normal person, I don't want war," Heraskevych, 23, told The Associated Press after his competition. "I want peace in my country, and I want peace in the world."
My mother taught me that the colors in the flag represent the clear blue sky over a vast expanse of grain. Those fields of wheat, she told me as a child, earned Ukraine its nickname, "the breadbasket of Europe."
My mother taught us what she knew. Most of it had to do with food.
With no family in Ukraine known to me, I catch myself personalizing this buildup toward war in strange ways. I search the faces of soldiers interviewed in the trenches, wondering if they might be kin.
I've since read different explanations for the flag's design and colors,and so, like much of my Ukrainian heritage, I'm left to wonder what the truth might be.
In recent days I cheer whenever aUkrainian athlete appears in the Winter Olympics. When skier Oleksandr Abramenko took silver in the aerials competition, I beamed. And when the bronze medalist in that discipline,Russian skier Ilia Burov,embraced Abramenko to celebrate their joint wins, my throat tightened just a little.
The flag has been flying at my house for weeks now, my minuscule gesture of solidarity for a country bracing forwar and for relatives Iwill never know.
