UkraineRussia ceasefire talks to resume Monday Israel PM returns from meeting Putin Saturday recap
20220305
https://www.dispatch.com/story/news/politics/2022/03/05/ukraine-russia-invasion-live-updates/9388548002/
The two companies previouslyblocked a number of Russian institutions from their payment networks as a result of sanctions taken against the country in response to its invasion of Ukraine.
At the refugee center, Americas top diplomat heard harrowing tales from mothers and their children who described long and perilous journeys  and the shock of the sudden disruption and the fear for their lives  after fleeing the devastation of the war.
We saw it in Chechnya. Weve seen it in Syria. We saw it, of course, in 2014 in Ukraine, said Blinken, who is on a six-day tour ofEurope.
RFERL, which describes itself as an editorially independent media company supported by a grant from Congress and the U.S. Agency for Global Media, issued a statement late Saturday saying it had stopped operating in Russia after local tax authorities initiated bankruptcy proceedings against RFERLs Russian entity on March 4 and police intensified pressure on its journalists.
The White House said Biden supported the decision by Visa and Mastercard to cut off its operations in Russia and reiterated his concern about the recent Russian attack on a Ukrainian nuclear power plant.
Sen. Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat who sits onthe Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said Congress must swiftly pass $10 billion in emergency supplemental aid to give Ukraine and NATO allies the additional military, economic and humanitarian assistance needed to respond to Russian attacks on civilians and the rapidly growing humanitarian crisis in Eastern Europe.
Zelenskyy reiterated his commitment to defeating Russia and powerfully made his case for Ukraine and for the principles behind that: defending a sovereign democratic country, said Rep. Mike Quigley, D-Ill., and co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus.
Fromspray painted road signstoimpassioned speeches, Ukrainians have latched on to the phrase welcome to hell as a defiantmantra directed toward Russian invaders.
Ukraine and Russia will engage in talks aimed at negotiating a cease-fire and safe passage for civilian evacuations on Monday, a Ukraine official said, after the evacuation of the southeastern city of Mariupol was halted.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on U.S. lawmakers to suspend credit card access in Russia on a Zoom call with Congress earlierSaturday.
In its cold open sketch, Saturday Night Live skewered Fox News hosts Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham and former President Donald Trump for their pre-war comments on Ukraine and Russia with the Fox News Ukrainian Invasion Celebration Spectacular, a fundraising telethon for Russian oligarchs held at Trumps Mar-a-Lago.
Mariupol became a focal point of the war in Ukraine on Saturday when evacuations were halted after Ukrainian officials reported continued shelling in violation of a cease-fire meant to give civilians enough time to flee.
In Kryvyi Rih, Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyys hometown, the fervent expression wasscribbled across a banneron a bridge over the entry road to the city.
This is likely to represent an effort to break Ukrainian morale, the ministry said in a statement. Russia has used similar tactics in Chechnya in 1999 and Syria in 2016, employing both air and ground-based munitions.
Russia risked a nuclear catastrophe with its reckless operation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station, which was taken over by Russian forces late Thursday, Blinken said. He called on the Kremlin to cease all attacks around Ukrainian nuclear facilities and allow civilian personnel to do their work to ensure the facilities safety and security.
RFERL, which has maintained a physical presence in Russia since 1991, said nine of its Russian language websites have been blocked in the last week after it refused to comply with demands to delete information about the invasion of Ukraine.
NATO member Turkey has close ties to both Russia and Ukraine and has repeatedly offered to mediate between the two. It has invited the top diplomats of both countries to Turkey for talks next week.
"Do I need to say more?" said Oleksandr Balash, head of anesthesiology department. "This is just a boy."
Bennetts trip was the latest attempt at diplomacy in the Russia-Ukraine crisis. Israel is one of the few countries that has good working relations with both Russia and Ukraine. Israel has delivered humanitarian aid to Ukraine, but also maintains ties with Moscow to make sure that Israeli and Russian warplanes do not come into conflict in neighboring Syria.
Sen. Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the U.S. should send more airpower to Ukraine.
President Biden noted his administration is surging security, humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine and is working closely with Congress to secure additional funding, the White House said.
So far, that request has ben rejected by the West. White House Press Secretary Jen Psakisaid Mondaythat imposing a no-fly zone would be escalatory and is not something the president wants to do.
The Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement that it had agreed on evacuation routes with Ukrainian forces to allow civilians to leave the strategic port of Mariupol in the southeast and the eastern town of Volnovakha from 10 a.m. Moscow time 8 a.m. GMT. The vaguely worded statement did not make clear how long the routes would remain open.
Zelenskyy has pushed NATO to impose a no-fly zone over his country, warning that all the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you.
Russias federal communications agency announced Friday that it would block the websites of RFERL, the BBC, Voice of Americaand other foreign outlets for spreading what it termed fake information.
LONDON  British military officials on Sunday compared Russias tactics in Ukraine to those used in Chechnya and Syria, where cities were bombarded and heavily damaged after Russian forces faced unexpected resistance from their defenders.
Blinken praised Kuleba, President Volodmyr Zelenskyy and other officials for their courage and inspiring leadership during the crisis. He said support for Ukraine and pressure on Russia to end the war would increase until this war of choice is brought to an end.
Putin also minced few words when discussingZelenskyy's request thatNATO and its allies impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine, a move the Russian president said would amount to an act of war.
We are compelled to act following Russias unprovoked invasion ofUkraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed, Visa Inc. Chairman and CEO Al Kelly said in a statement. We regret the impact this will have on our valued colleagues, and on the clients, partners, merchants and cardholders we serve inRussia. This war and the ongoing threat to peace and stability demand we respond in line with our values.
Establishing a no-fly zone over Ukraine would mean sending American pilots into combat against Russian jets and air defenses in a battle that could quickly spiral out of control, Sasse said. But the U.S. should send planes, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles to Ukraine, he said.
We must be able to stop Putins attack, bringing him to the table, and he wont go with niceties, Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio told Italian state TV Friday.
The State Department urged Americans on Saturday to leave Russia immediately, citing the unprovoked and unjustified attack against Ukraine and the potential for harassment of U.S. citizens by Russian government security forces.
That very second, we will view them as participants of the military conflict, and it would not matter what members they are, the Russian president said.
Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Friday that Russian Foreign Minister Seygey Lavrov had confirmed his attendance at the Antalya Diplomacy Forum, to be held in the Mediterranean coastal city between March 11-13.
The VOA profiled Matthew Parker, who said he has 22 years of service in the U.S. Army and decided to travel to Ukraine even before Zelenskyy posted a message on Thursday in which he appealed to a legion of foreign volunteers with combat experience to stand with Ukraine.
Editor's note: This page recaps the news from Ukraine on Saturday, March5. Follow here for the latest updates and news from Sunday, March 6, as Russia's invasion continues.
The terrible expectation is that the suffering weve already seen is likely to get worse before it gets better for as long as Russia pursues these methods, Blinken said.
A story published by the Russian News Agency Tass this week quoted a Russian lawmaker saying Zelenskyy "hastily fled" Kyiv for Lviv in far western Ukraine, despite photos and video clips showing him leading Ukraines defense from its capital.
European governments are seizing superyachts and luxury villas owned by Russian oligarchs on international sanctions lists, a move designed to get them to pressure Russian President Vladimir Putin to stop the war in Ukraine.
We must provide the Ukrainian people with the support they need in the face of this illegal invasion, Quigley said. As Congress is poised to pass additional aid for Ukraine in the coming days, I sincerely hope that this package receives unanimous, bipartisan support.
Ever since Russian tanks rolled into Sumy, a city in northeast Ukraine, on Feb. 24,hundreds of international students have been stuck inside university hostelswith dwindling access to food, water and electricity.
This is not a decision that RFERL has taken of its own accord, but one that has been forced upon us by the Putin regimes assault on the truth, President and CEO Jamie Fly said.
The State Department urged Americans on Saturday to leave Russia immediately, citing the unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russia against Ukraine and the potential for harassment of U.S. citizens by Russian government security forces.
Zelenskyy urged listeners Friday to rally behind Ukraine in its resistance against Russian invaders, warning them, "if we fall, you fall." On Saturday, the Ukrainian president made a pitch for aid to nearly 300 U.S. lawmakers as he talked to them on an hour-long zoom call.
Americans who wish to stay in Russia should understand the U.S. Embassy is limited in its ability to assist U.S. citizens and that transportation options and other conditions may change suddenly, the advisory said.
Shivangi Shibu, a fifth-year student at Sumy State University originally from Patna, India, said the students  including about 700 Indian students, 400 Nigerian students and others from Turkey, South Africa, Tanzania and elsewhere  were caught off guard by the sudden invasion.
Both U.S. officials and NATO havesaid a no-fly zone, which would bar all unauthorized aircraft from flying over Ukraine, could provoke widespread war in Europe with nuclear-armed Russia.
The latest example: Armed Forces of Ukraine on Saturdayshared a video to Twitter purportedly depicting the fiery downfall of a Russian helicopter shot down by Ukrainian forces, goading Russian forces with the phrase.
And several thousand Americans, including some veterans, have answered Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys call for volunteers by traveling to Eastern Europe to fight the Russians, the Voice of America reported Saturday.
Russian state media is spreading misinformation about the location of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyyin what analysts said is an attempt to discourage resistance fighters and erode support for Ukraine around the globe.
In a hospital nearby, a father buried his face into his dead 16-year-old's lifeless head. The teen's body was draped under a bloodstained sheet after he succumbed to wounds from the shelling of a soccer field where he was playing.
66224. That's how many men returned from abroad at this moment to defend their Country from the horde, he tweeted.
Russian troops continue to cynically violate children's right to life, as enshrined in Article 6 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, she wrote in the post.
The U.N. migration agency, citing figures from government ministries in countries where they have arrived, said Saturday that 787,300 of them went to Poland. Some 228,700 fled to Moldova, 144,700 to Hungary, 132,600 to Romania and 100,500 to Slovakia.
Evacuations have halted from an area of Ukraine whereRussian defense officials had previously announced a cease-fire after the city of Mariupol remained under fire, theUkrainian presidents office said Saturday.
Associated Press reporters at the border checkpoint in Medyka in southeastern Poland found Ukrainians lining up to return from other countries in Europe in recent days in response to Zelenskyys call for volunteers to come assist the countrys military.
Sens. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., and Steve Daines, R-Mont. posted screenshots of the Zoom call on Twitter. The two drew criticism online after Minnesota Rep. Dean Phillips, a Democrat, tweeted that the Ukrainian ambassador explicitly asked Congress members to refrain from sharing on social media during the meeting for security reasons.
Americans have responded to calls to supp1ort Ukraine in a variety of ways, through fundraising efforts on Airbnband a array of aid organizations.
The refugee crisis:More than 1.3 million refugees have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded. Here is where they're going.
ISTANBUL - Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's spokesman says the Turkish leader will speak with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday.
The decisionto halt the evacuations roughly two hours after the cease-fire began cameafter Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyydelivered a rousing speech on video to crowds of demonstrators Friday night in major European cities and Russian forces remain largely stalled in their advance on the capital city of Kyiv.
Blinken told reporters in Brussels the dire assessment was based on what is already known about Russian President Vladimir Putins methods to subjugate another country or region to his will.
Davyd Arakhamia, head of Zelenskyy's political party and a member of the Ukraine delegation for the talks between the nations, said Monday would be the third round of talks.
A top official in Mariupol said the cease-fire there is to last until 4 p.m. 2 p.m. GMT and an evacuation along a humanitarian corridor would begin at 11 a.m. 9 a.m. GMT. Pavlo Kirilenko, head of the Donetsk military-civil administration that includes Mariupol, said the humanitarian corridor would extend from the city to Zaporizhzhia.
Want to support the people of Ukraine?These apps and websites can help you send money
"We just want to go home," Olawale said. "Were not asking for much. Well literally go with just the clothes on our back if its possible."
Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko on Saturday displayed a shipment of Starlink systems that had arrived in the Ukraine capital. He said they would help secure critical infrastructure and defense of the city. Several large Ukrainian cities are without internet or phone service after shelling by Russian troops.
I urge international human rights organizations to take all possible measures to strengthen pressure on the Russian Federation to stop military aggression against Ukraine, Denisova wrote in the post.
The International Organization for Migration says the number of people who have left Ukraine since fighting began has now reached 1.45 million.
The Russian military is observing a cease-fire in two areas of Ukraine to allow civilians to evacuate, Russian state media reported Saturday, the first breakthrough in allowing civilians to escape the war.
Zelenskyys message is simple: Close the skies or give us planes, Sasse said in a statement after the call.
Bennett spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy after his meeting with Putin. He then flew to Germany to meet Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and U.S. President Joe Biden spoke on the phone Saturday evening after Zelenskyy talked with members of Congress earlier in the day.
Videos and photos of Zelenskyy in Kyiv have quickly become some of the defining images of the invasion, rallying support for Ukraine at home and abroad and challenging Russias attempt to control public perception.
In a separateinterview with the BBC, Blinken said he still believes Ukraine can win the war with Russia.
The Russian Defense Ministry said earlier in a statement that it had reached an agreement with Ukrainian forces on evacuation routes through the strategicport of Mariupol in the town of Volnovakhato allow civilians to leavefrom 10 a.m. Moscow time 8 a.m. GMT.
The two card issuers accounted for about 74 of all credit and debit transactions in Russia in 2020 according to the Nilson Report, The Wall Street Journalpreviously reported. Read more.
A bloodied 6-year-old girl in unicorn pajama pants was rushed to a hospital as her mother wailed. The mother, in a bloodstained knit cap, watched as medics attempted to resuscitate her daughter, trying a defibrillator, an injection, and pumping oxygen.
The media entity also referenced a law signed Friday by Russian President Vladimir Putin that could subject journalists to prison sentences if they deviate from Kremlin-approved descriptions of the war. It said RFERL journalists would continue to tell the truth about Russias catastrophic invasion of its neighbor, reporting on developments from outside of Russia.
Denisova said that of the children killed, two died in 47 shellings of civilian objects in the Kyiv region, three were killed in the Markhalvka, Fastivsky district of the Kyiv region by Russian shells and five died due to missile and artillery shellings in Kharkiv. In a car with six civilians, a woman and 17-year-old girl were shot and killed and four others were wounded, including another 17-year-old girl and a 7-year-old girl, she said.
KORCZOWA, Poland  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Saturday visited a welcome center set up by Polish authorities in what once was a shopping mall in Korczowa, close to the border with Ukraine, where roughly 3,000 refugees are taking shelter after the Russian invasion of their homeland.
The Russian side is not holding to the ceasefire and has continued firing on Mariupol itself and on its surrounding area, said Kyrylo Tymoshenko, deputy head of the Ukrainian president's office. Talks with the Russian Federation are ongoing regarding setting up a ceasefire and ensuring a safe humanitarian corridor.
Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights Lyudmila Denisovaannounced Saturday in an online postthat, as of 11 a.m. 9 a.m. GMT, 32 children were killed and 70 injured since Russias invasion of Ukraine began.
Elon Musk is providing a communications lifeline to embattled Ukraine and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday expressed his thanks to the SpaceX chief executive for access to the companys Starlink satellite-internet system.
Musk tweeted Thursday that Starlink is the only non-Russian communications system still working in some parts of Ukraine, so probability of being targeted is high. Please use with caution.
The Mariupol City Council confirmed that attacks were ongoing in a Telegram post Saturday, telling residents to disperse to shelters.
Students gathered as much food as they could before the war began but are now out of food and water. Fourth-year student Precious Olawale said sometimes locals would bring them carrots and potatoes, "but we're not getting proper food." Students are also gathering water by melting snow and catching water runoff from the roof. No students are injured, but some are falling sick.
More:'What next?' A Ukrainian mom wrestles with 'a million questions' over her family, country's fate
"This war must be stopped immediately and there must be a return to the negotiating table,"Ibrahim Kalin told broadcaster NTV in Istanbul. He said Saturday that "our president will talk to Putin tomorrow."
Russia reportedly seized Kherson, a key Ukrainian port city on the Black Sea and the first major city to fall. Early Friday, Russian troops seized Ukraines Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe.
The new advisory also said Americans should not travel to Russia. For those wishing to leave Russia, limited commercial flights are still available, and routes by car and bus are also still open, the advisory said.
More:He 'drove for 12 hours to save us': One man's efforts to transport Ukrainian refugees to safety
"Due to the fact that the Russian side does not adhere to the cease fire and continued shelling both Mariupol itself and its surroundings, for security reasons the evacuation of the population is postponed," the council wrote.
Students rented a bus to attempt to leave the city but were shot at by Russian soldiers, said Samuel Olaniyan, a fourth-year student from Nigeria. Olaniyan said soldiers were positioned outside the hostels to prevent students from leaving.
A Mariupol official said the cease-fire was to last until 4 p.m. 2 p.m. GMT and that evacuations would begin at 11 a.m. 9 a.m. GMT.
Zelenskyy personally urged a bipartisan group of Congress membersSaturday to provide more military support and humanitarian aid to Ukraine in the aftermath of its invasion by Russia.
GENEVA  The International Organization for Migration says the number of people who have left Ukraine since fighting began has now reached 1.45 million.
Its one of many distorted claims to emerge from a Russian propaganda and disinformation campaign that aims to strengthen domestic support for the invasion and undermine the resolve of Ukrainians. But the same tactics that have sustained such propaganda for years are running into a far more complex reality where the claims can be instantly and credibly rebutted on social media.
In the U.S., former Vice President Mike Pence told Republicans "there is no room in this party for apologists for Putin"during an event with the party's top donors. His comments directly contradict statements made by former President Donald Trump days ago. Trump described Putin as "smart" and "savvy"on the day Russia launched its war against Ukraine.
The new travel advisory updated a notice issued Monday that said Americans should consider leaving Russia immediately.
Russia's unprecedented attack on a nuclear power plantsparked worldwide alarm and astonished and worried experts, who are fearful of what the dangerous move could mean moving forward.U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield warned the U.N. Security Council Friday that Russian troops were "20 miles and closing to Ukraine's second largestnuclear plant.
Im grateful to him for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds, Zelenskyy tweeted Saturday night. Next week we will receive another batch of Starlink systems for destroyed cities.
The Ukrainian president spoke to more than 280 senators and House members in a Zoom call that lasted about an hour. He thanked themfor the sanctions the U.S. has slapped on Russia in retaliation for the invasion but underscored the need for more aid.
Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty is suspending operations in Russia due to government pressures since the start of the war in Ukraine.
These sanctions that are being imposed are akin to a declaration of war, but thank God it has not come to that, he said, according to Al Jazeeras translation.
The head of Ukraines security council, Oleksiy Danilov, had called on Russia to create humanitarian corridors to allow children, womenand the older adults to get away from the fighting, calling such corridors "question No. 1."
Russia now has control of two Ukrainian nuclear plants, and its forces are advancing toward a third, Zelenskyy told U.S. lawmakers on Saturday. He said Russian forces have control ofZaporizhzhia and Chernobyl, which is not active but is still staffed, and are threateningYuzhnoukrainsk.
Meanwhile, Secretary of State Antony Blinken is warning that the crisis is likely to get worse before it gets better. And Russian President Vladimir Putin warned the West that imposing a no-fly zone over Ukraine as Zelenskyy is demanding would be treated as an act of war.
Two of the largest operators of payment cards announced Saturday they are halting transactions in Russia. Visa and Mastercard said they will boot any cards issued by Russian banks off their networks and not allow their cards issued outside of Russia to work with Russian vendors or ATMs.
Speaking at a meeting with female pilots on Saturday, Putin said Russia would view any move in this direction as an intervention that will pose a threat to our service members.
A representative from the Ukrainian Embassy told the VOAthat an estimated 3,000 Americans have volunteered to fight.
Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikovtweeted Saturdaythat more than 60,000 Ukrainian men returned to the country from abroad to fight against Russian invaders.
Since Friday, Italy seized $156 million worth of property located in some of its high-end destination spots, including the superyacht Lena belonging to Gennady Timchenko, who is close to Putin, in San Remo the $71 million, 215-foot Lady M yacht owned by Alexei Mordashov in nearby Imperia and villas in Tuscany, Lake Como and the island of Sardinia, the Associated Press reported.
The strength of Ukrainian resistance continues to surprise Russian forces and they have responded by targeting populated areas, including the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol, Britains Ministry of Defense said in its daily intelligence briefing.
Putin also said that imposing a no-fly zone over Ukraine will be seen by us as participation in the armed conflict, theNew York Times reported.
I can't tell you how long this will go on, he said. I can't tell you how long it will take.
New mothers cradled their newborns in a dimly lit makeshift nursery and bomb shelter in the basement of a Mariupol hospital. Above them, hospital staff rushed to save people who were wounded. A woman cried out as blood streamed from her mouth. A young man was covered in a blue sheet.
TEL AVIV, Israel  Israels prime minister returned Sunday morning from a surprise trip to Russia where he met President Vladimir Putin and discussed the war in Ukraine.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken is warning that the crisis in Ukraine is likely to get worse before it gets better.
Naftali Bennett flew to Moscow on Saturday, where he met the Russian leader for three hours. The trip was made in coordination and with the blessing of the Biden administration, according to Bennetts office.
TheUkrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights is reporting that32 children were killed and 70 injured since Russias invasion of Ukraine began.
The Ukrainian president's office said Saturday that Russia continued shelling the area in violation of a cease-fire. The shelling intensified into Saturday night, according to Mariupol's mayor, who said Russian airplanes were "dropping bombs on residential areas."
And on the outskirts of the nations capital, Kyiv, the phrase ispainted on a concrete block, a warning sign for Russian troops to come
Russian President Vladimir Putins rhetoric around Western involvement in Russias invasion of Ukraine devolved Saturday, warning that the global sanctions imposed by Western countries against Russia are akin to declaration of a war, according tonumerous media reports.
The IOM said that nationals of 138 countries have crossed Ukraines borders into neighboring nations.
While at the border later, Blinken stepped briefly onto Ukrainian soil to meet Foreign Minister Dymtro Kuleba, who predicted Russia would be defeated but appealed for more military assistance to lower the cost in lives that he said victory will require.
Germanys Economic Ministry said it was swiftly and effectively implementing the Russia sanctions but did not name any confiscated assets.
Russias advance has been slowed by attacks on its supply lines, the ministry said. As a result, there is a realistic possibility that Russia is now trying to disguise fuel trucks to reduce losses.
In Ukraine, what were seeing on the battlefield is Russian forces seeking to encircle the major cities, including Kyiv, and were seeing them use increasingly brutal methods, including going at civilians and civilian populations, Blinken said.
But for days scenes of grief and terror have gripped the city in southern Ukraine.
But, if it's the intention of Moscow to try somehow to topple the government and install its own puppet regime, 45 million Ukrainians are going to reject that one way or the other," he said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin says Moscow would consider any third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as participation in the armed conflict.
French authorities said Thursday they had impounded a yacht linked to Igor Sechin, a Putin associate who runs Russian oil giant Rosneft, in the Mediterranean resort of La Ciotat. At the time of the seizure, the ships crew was preparing for an urgent departure, even though repairs begun in January hadnt been completed.
