EU makes Ukraine a candidate for membership Biden to send 450 million in aid to Ukraine
20220624
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=67745
The European Union agreed Thursday to put Ukraine on a path toward EU membership, acting with uncharacteristic speed and unity to pull the embattled country further away from Russias influence and bind it more closely to the West.     Meeting at a summit in Brussels, leaders of the EUs 27 nations mustered the required unanimous approval to grant Ukraine candidate status. That sets in motion a process that could take years or even decades.     The EU also granted candidate status to the tiny country of Moldova, another former Soviet state that borders Ukraine.     European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen pronounced it a good day for Europe.     Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy tweeted his gratitude and declared: Ukraines future is within the EU.     Ukraine applied for membership less than a week after Moscow invaded on Feb. 24. Thursdays decision was unusually rapid for the EU. But the war and Ukraines request for fast-track consideration lent urgency to its cause.     To gain EU membership, countries must meet a detailed host of economic and political conditions, including a commitment to the rule of law and other democratic principles. Ukraine, among other things, will also have to curb entrenched government corruption and adopt other reforms.     The European Parliament endorsed Ukraines bid hours before the summit started, passing a resolution that called on EU governments to move without delay and live up to their historical responsibility.     The EUs nations have been united in backing Ukraine in its fight against Russias invasion with money and weapons, adopting unprecedented economic sanctions against the Kremlin.     EU candidate status doesnt give an automatic right to join the bloc and doesnt provide any immediate security guarantees.     Once a country gains membership, however, it is covered under an EU treaty clause that says if a member falls victim to armed aggression, the other EU countries are obligated to assist it by all the means in their power.     The main benefits of EU membership, though, are economic, since it gives access to a market of 450 million consumers with free movement of labor, goods, services and capital.     European officials have said that Ukraine has already adopted about 70 of the EU rules and standards, but they also have pointed to corruption and the need for deep political and economic reforms in the country.     Biden to send $450 million in aid to Ukraine  The Biden administration on Thursday said it would send $450 million in new security assistance to Ukraine.       Well break down the new assistance. Plus, well look at all the defense and veterans bills under consideration on Capitol Hill.      The Biden administration unveiled a $450 million security assistance package to Ukraine on Thursday.       Thursdays package is the 13th time that President Biden has authorized a weapons package for Kyiv under presidential drawdown authority since August 2021.       The U.S. has now given $6.1 billion in security assistance since Russias invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24 and $6.8 billion since the beginning of the administration.       Whats in the package: In a separate statement, acting Pentagon Press Secretary Todd Breasseale said the following items were in the new package:      Four High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems     36,000 rounds of 105mm ammunition     18 tactical vehicles to tow 155mm artillery     1,200 grenade launchers     2,000 machine guns     18 coastal and riverine patrol boats     Spare parts and other equipment      The announcement of the assistance came days before President Biden is set to depart for an overseas trip to participate in a Group of Seven G7 meeting in Germany and a North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO summit in Spain. Both meetings are expected to focus heavily on Russias war in Ukraine. Source: The Hill
