Reports Russian troops fall back to reorganize assault on Ukraine Refugee exodus hits 4 million
20220330
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=66786
Russian units suffering heavy losses on the ground have been forced to return to Belarus and Russia to "reorganize and resupply," Britain's defense ministry said Wednesday.       The development demonstrates "the difficulties Russia is having reorganizing its units in forward areas within Ukraine," it said. However, the defense ministry warned that Russia would likely compensate for its reduced capability on the ground through mass artillery and missile strikes.       NBC news reports that comes as both U.S. and Ukrainian officials have expressed skepticism over claims from Russia on Tuesday that it would "drastically" reduce military operations around Ukraine's capital, Kyiv. The vow was made as peace talks unfolded in Istanbul.       President Joe Biden said he would not "read anything" into the claims "until I see what their actions are." He said the United States had no plans to withdraw sanctions or military aid to Ukraine.       Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that while there were "positive" signals from ongoing negotiations, they did not "drown out the ruptures of Russian shells."       Four million people have now fled Ukraine since the start of the war, according to the latest figures from the UN refugee agency.       The UN human rights chief says 1,189 civilian deaths in Ukraine, including 98 children, have been verified since the invasion began in February.       A Kremlin spokesman says there was nothing very promising said or any breakthroughs achieved in talks between the two sides on Tuesday.  The country's chief negotiator says the position on Crimea and the Donbas region has not changed.       The governor of Chernihiv region says attacks have not stopped despite a Russian pledge. And Ukrainian officials say Russia is shelling nearly all cities on the front line in the Donetsk region.
