Ukraine  Day 17 brings casualties clashes and evacuation attempts
20220312
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=66572
Ukrainian President Zelensky tells a news conference that 1,300 Ukrainian troops have died in the conflict so far.    He says that around 500-600 Russian troops surrendered to Ukrainian forces on Friday, but the BBC cannot verify his claims    A military airfield south of Kyiv is hit by missiles as reports suggest the bulk of Russian forces are just 9 miles from the city    French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz urge Russian President Vladimir Putin to agree a ceasefire    People in the city of Mariupol are said to be enduring freezing temperatures with no power, and little food and water   Russia has accused Ukraine of rejecting nearly all its offers to provide humanitarian corridors out of flash-point towns   Russia intensified its assault around Ukraine's capital Saturday, while continuing to bombard cities already under siege across the country and issuing new threats against the West.    Fighting raged and missile strikes hit outside Kyiv, with Russian forces appearing to make fresh progress in their slow advance on the capital.    Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says hes open for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Israel ,but only if there is a cease-fire in place.    Zelenskyy said Saturday he told Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett that he would be ready to meet Putin in Jerusalem. Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin and spoke repeatedly with Zelenskyy and the leaders of France and Germany as he sought to help mediate an end to the war.    Zelenskyy said Bennett informed him about his talks with Putin, adding that he cant share details.    Putin has ignored numerous previous offers of talks from Zelenskyy.    About 2,000 people were evacuated in the Kyiv region on Saturday, the State Emergency Service has said.    An evacuation convoy of 40 buses arrived in the village of Bilohorodka on Saturday afternoon, according to a statement from the service.  Rescuers have been providing evacuees with assistance, including medical and psychological, the statement added.
