Ukraine invasion may ignite economic war spreading hostilities
20220428
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=67104
MOSCOW - Russian state-controlled energy giant Gazprom announced Wednesday it had halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for failing to pay for gas in rubles, something Putin had demanded last month in response to tough sanctions imposed by the West on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.   European buyers condemned Putins demand, saying it violated existing contracts with payments usually agreed on in dollars or euros, and called into question Russias reliability as a supplier.   It took the Kremlin nearly a month to make good on its promise to cut off gas supply to those who didnt abide by Putins instructions.    Russia is one of the worlds largest producers of petroleum and natural gas, and Europe is heavily reliant on imports from Russia for its energy supply.   The Kremlins decision is one of the few remaining cards in Putins hand to fight back against the Wests growing military support for Ukraine and sanctions that have largely cut off Moscow financially from the rest of the world.    NBC news noted the decision to cut off supplies to Poland and Bulgaria came the day after the United States and its allies gathered in Germany to pledge more heavy weapons for Ukraine as it steels its defenses for what could be a decisive battle in the eastern Donbas region.   The West has leveled waves of sanctions against the Russian economy. The crucial question posed by the Wall Street Journal is if they working?   Russia on Wednesday released inconsistent data that showed the economy in March was either doing fine or just treading water. Private-sector data has shown a sharp slowdown in Russia.   On the wear front, the BBC reports mysterious explosions in Transnistria, a breakaway Russian-controlled territory in Moldova bordering on Ukraine, have raised fears that the Ukraine conflict may be spreading.   Separatist authorities said Ukrainian "infiltrators" were responsible. But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has blamed Russian special services.   Russia says it is concerned. It has about 1,500 troops in Transnistria.
