Ukraine  Everything being shot at Russia launches cluster bombs
20220606
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=67603
Ukrainian troops may soon have to retreat from a key eastern city, the regions governor and Western military analysts have said, as Russian advances force them back.     Soldiers defending Sievierodonetsk are still fighting for every inch but may have to pull back as Russia throws everything it has at gaining control of the city, Luhansk Gov. Sergiy Haidai said.      Even if our army has to retreat to better fortified positions, because everything there is being shot at 247, that wont mean that anyone is giving up the city, Haidai said, speaking on Ukrainian TV.   But yes, its possible we will still have to retreat, he later said.     The street-by-street battle for Sievierodonetsk has become the focus of the conflict in recent weeks, with Russia slowly advancing toward its larger goal to take full control of the industrial Donbas region, NBC news reported.     The last major city still under Ukrainian control in the Luhansk province  which together with neighboring Donetsk makes up the Donbas  has been pummeled by artillery in a back-and-forth fight that remains hard to decipher. Kyiv said a counteroffensive over the weekend had helped its forces regain some ground, but the situation appears to have deteriorated further since then.     Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said last week that the battle for Sievierodonetsk could determine the direction of the broader battle for the Donbas.     This is a very brutal battle, very tough, perhaps one of the most difficult throughout this war, Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address. Sievierodonetsk remains the epicenter of the encounter in Donbas, he added. Largely, that is where the fate of our Donbas is being decided now.     While the British military and the Institute for the Study of War, a U.S.-based military think tank, both assessed this week that the situation in the city remained fluid and that the Ukrainian defenses were still holding, some analysts have also predicted that a Ukrainian retreat could be in the cards.     Russia has killed hundreds of civilians in the north-eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv using indiscriminate shelling and widely-banned cluster munitions, according to new research by Amnesty International.     Amnesty said it had found evidence of Russian forces repeatedly using 9N2109N235 cluster bombs, as well as "scatterable" munitions - rockets that eject smaller mines that explode later at timed intervals.     The BBC visited five separate impact sites in residential neighbourhoods in Kharkiv and saw evidence of a distinctive, symmetrical spalling effect associated with cluster munitions.
