War could bring unprecedented wave of hunger and misery UN chief says
20220609
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=67561
The consequences for the world of Russia's invasion of Ukraine are worsening, UN chief Antonio Guterres says, affecting 1.6 billion people.       "The war's impact on food security, energy and finance is systemic, severe, and speeding up," the UN Secretary General says, quoted by the AFP agency, as he presents the UN's second report into the repercussions of the conflict.       The war "threatens to unleash an unprecedented wave of hunger and misery, leaving social and economic chaos in its wake", Guterres says.       While this year's crisis looks to be about a lack of access to food, next year's might be about a lack of food itself, he warns.       "There is only one way to stop this gathering storm - the Russian invasion of Ukraine must end".       Food crisis could last years - World Trade Organization  The food crisis gathering pace since Ukraine was invaded could last years rather than months if decisive action isn't taken, according to the director general of the World Trade Organization.       Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala tells the BBC's global trade correspondent Dharshini David she fears the grain shortages caused by the war will result in "a dire situation worldwide".       Ukraine contributes 42 of the sunflower oil exported around the world, 16 of the maize, 10 of the barley and 9 of the wheat.       "If we are not able to evacuate grains in Ukraine now and then they have a harvest coming up in July with a similar quantity going to waste, then you can see that this will work its way through for the next couple of years - that will be really, really disastrous for certain parts of the world," Okonjo-Iweala says.       She says Africa will be particularly badly hit because many African countries import food or fertilizers from the Black Sea region.       Russia is sending Ukrainian grain overseas, officials claim  Russia is sending grain from Ukraine overseas, Russian-appointed officials in occupied southern Ukraine say.       The claim - which the BBC has not been able to verify - comes as Ukrainian officials accuse Russia of stealing about 600,000 tonnes of its grain and exporting some of it.       Russia denies it is stealing grain.       Accessing Ukraine's stockpiled grain has become urgent internationally: millions of tonnes are exported annually to Africa and the Middle East.       But it cannot be shipped now because Russia's navy is blockading Ukraine's Black Sea ports.       And Russia says Ukraine must de-mine waters off the Black Sea Coast for corridors to export the grain to become operational.       The US alleges that Russia is trying to sell stolen Ukrainian wheat to drought-stricken countries in Africa, the New York Times reported.       In mid-May, the US sent an alert to 14 countries, mostly in Africa, that Russian cargo ships were leaving ports near Ukraine laden with the grain, the paper reported, citing a State Department cable.       Summary  1.The consequences for the world of Russia's invasion of Ukraine are worsening and the "impact on food security, energy and finance" is "severe" according to the UN's chief       2.Antonio Guterres says he asked colleagues to help find "a package deal that allows for the safe and secure export of Ukrainian-produced food through the Black Sea       3.The battle for control of the key eastern city of Severodonetsk continues, as Russia tries to capture all of the Luhansk region       4.Regional governor, Serhiy Haidai, says Ukrainian fighters now hold only the city's outskirts       5.Meanwhile, more than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers - captured in Mariupol - have been transferred to Russia, according to Russian state media Source: BBC News
