World narrowly avoided radiation accident Zelensky says Putin orders 10 boost in Russian troop numbers
20220826
https://inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=68458
Europe faced the prospect of a radiation disaster on Thursday when a Russian-occupied nuclear plant was disconnected from Ukraine's power grid, President Volodomyr Zelensky has said.   It was only due to back-up electricity kicking in that the Zaporizhzhia plant was able to operate safely, he added.   Fires had earlier damaged overhead power lines, cutting the plant off.   There is growing concern over fighting near the complex, which is the largest nuclear plant in Europe.   "If the diesel generators hadn't turned on, if the automation and our staff of the plant had not reacted after the blackout, then we would already be forced to overcome the consequences of the radiation accident," President Zelensky warned on Thursday night.   The damage was caused by fires which Ukraine's state nuclear agency said had interfered with power lines connecting the plant on Thursday, temporarily cutting Zaporizhzhia off from the national grid for the first time in its history.   "As a result, the station's two working power units were disconnected from the network," Kyiv officials said.   The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA warned that having "a secure off-site power supply from the grid is essential for ensuring nuclear safety".   Satellite images taken on Wednesday showed an extensive fire burning in the immediate vicinity of the nuclear complex.   Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky blamed the damage on Russian shelling, and in his nightly address accused Moscow of putting Ukraine and Europe "one step away" from disaster.   But local Russian-appointed governor Yevgeny Balitsky blamed the Ukrainian military for the strikes, accusing them of causing power outages to the region as a result.   Radiation levels nearby remained normal despite the Zaporizhzhia nuclear complex losing its main power supply on Thursday, local officials reported.   Energy experts worry that some of the site's safety mechanisms could fail if the complex loses all power.   Washington officials condemned any bid by Moscow to redirect the power generated by the Zaporizhzhia plant away from Kyiv's national grid.   "The electricity that it produces rightly belongs to Ukraine," US State Department spokesperson Vedant Patel said on Thursday evening, adding that "no country should turn a nuclear power plant into an active war zone."   Putin orders 10 boost in Russian troop numbers  Russia's president has signed a decree which could see 137,000 service personnel added to the country's armed forces in the coming months.   Currently Russia has a limit of just over a million military personnel and almost 900,000 civilian staff.   Vladimir Putin's decree comes amid a recruitment drive around the country, with large cash incentives on offer.   Western officials say 70-80,000 troops have been killed or wounded since Russia invaded Ukraine six months ago.   There have been reports that recruiters have even been visiting prisons, promising inmates freedom and money.   The UK Ministry of Defense said in a statement two weeks ago that volunteer battalions being set up in several Russian regions were likely to form part of a new army corps.   But it said "very limited levels of popular enthusiasm for volunteering for combat in Ukraine" meant it would be difficult to find the required number of troops.   Russia had initially promised a short, decisive campaign when it invaded Ukraine in February, but fierce Ukrainian resistance has stalled its progress and in recent weeks front lines have hardly moved. Source: BBC News
