President Biden Putin Should Face War Crimes Trial for Bucha Killings
20220404
https://www.2news.com/news/president-biden-putin-should-face-war-crimes-trial-for-bucha-killings/article_a18dd4ea-b428-11ec-a74c-939fefb440d0.html
President Joe Biden on Monday called for a war crimes trial against Russia President Vladimir Putin and said hed seek more sanctions after reported atrocities in Ukraine.
We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue the fight. And we have to gather all the detail so this can be an actual -- have a war crimes trial, Biden said.
The Investigative Committee claims Ukrainian authorities made the allegations with the aim of discrediting Russian troops and that those involved should be investigated over possible breaches of a new Russian law banning what the government deems to be false information about its forces.
Meanwhile, a Russian law enforcement agency says it has launched its own investigation into allegations that Ukrainian civilians were massacred in suburbs of Kyiv which were held by Russian troops, focusing on what it calls false information about Russian forces.
The bodies of 410 civilians have been removed from Kyiv-area towns that were recently retaken from Russian forces, Ukraines prosecutor-general, Iryna Venediktova, said. Associated Press journalists saw the bodies of at least 21 people in various spots around Bucha, northwest of the capital.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, tweeted Monday that he European Union will send investigators to Ukraine to help the local prosecutor general document war crimes.
You saw what happened in Bucha, Biden said. He added that Putin is a war criminal
Russian law enforcement has launched several investigations since Russian troops entered Ukraine, typically into incidents such as the shelling of areas held by Russia-backed separatists.
Biden noted that he faced push back last monthwhen he described Putin as a war criminal for the unfolding onslaught in Ukraine after hospitals and maternity wards were bombed. In his remarks on Monday, Biden made clear that label still applied.
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.
The U.S. and more than 40 other countries are working together to investigate possible violations and abuses, after the passage of a resolution by the United Nations Human Rights Council to establish a commission of inquiry. There is another probe by the International Criminal Court, an independent body based in the Netherlands.
Bidens comments to reporters came afterUkraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Bucha,one of the towns surrounding Kyiv where Ukrainian officials say the bodies of civilians have been found. Zelenskyy called the Russian actions genocide and called for the West to apply tougher sanctions against Russia.
This guy is brutal and whats happening to Bucha is outrageous, and everyones seen it," Biden said.
