Limerick man leaving wife and son in Ireland to fight in native Ukraine
20220310
https://laois-nationalist.ie/2022/03/10/limerick-man-leaving-wife-and-son-in-ireland-to-fight-in-native-ukraine/
Yes, of course Im worried about him but I know that this is something he would do in a situation like this, I understand, said Nicolay.
Russia will never take Ukraine. Russia blindly follows its government but in Ukraine, people follow people, they love their land, in Russia they love their master. Ukraine will not blindly defend their masters but they will defend their homes. We are a proud country.
Me and some friends will be going and we will be staying in Kyiv  this is very important as it is the capital city for Ukrainians.
His son Nicolay 20 who was born in Limerick, said he had considered travelling to Kyiv with his father, however he will stay in Ireland to look after his mother and welcome relatives crossing the Ukraine borders and onto Limerick.
I am going to Ukraine not to die, I am going to help, to protect. If you go there thinking you are going to die you would not go, there would be no point.
Mr Krutsyk 53 and a group of friends plan to take a ferry to France and drive through Germany and Poland before crossing into the Ukraine war-zone.
I am staying, but I had thoughts of going but I have to look after my mum, and other family members are going to be coming here so I have to be here.
He also showed a bag of surgical tourniquets that he will bring, which will be used in surgical procedures to be performed with accuracy and speed in the Ukraine war-zone.
Mr Krutsyk, who is the Limerick director of the Association of Ukrainians in the Republic of Ireland AURI charity, has been receiving basic military training ahead of his departure.
My wife and son must stay here because they can help as well from here. Just talking to me when Im over there will be a help, he said.
Mykola Krutsyk, who has lived and worked in Limerick for over 20 years, is preparing to journey to the shelled city of Kyiv where his elderly father, who is suffering from cancer, has remained through daily missile strikes as he is too frail to leave.
If you go there thinking you are going to die you would not go, there would be no point.
A Limerick father is preparing to leave his wife and son in Ireland to fight Russian troops in his native war-torn Ukraine.
I have talked with him and he does not want to go from Kyiv, he wants to stay there, but it is not good.
The former electronics shop owner again returned to Ukraine in 2014 after Russia annexed Crimea to deliver clothes to children and other supplies, for which he was awarded a volunteer medal.
Mr Krutsyk is leaving behind his son Nicolay and wife Liliya, who are preparing to welcome family members and friends evacuating the war.
He showed medical supplies he will bring to the frontline, including thermometers, bandages, surgical stitches, ice-packs and surgical gloves.
Mr Krutsky is also bringing military helmets, vests, uniforms, shoes and boots for those he will join to defend the country from Russias invasion.
Speaking at his home, Mr Krutsyk said: I will be going to Ukraine because Russia started this war and they are killing Ukrainian people, children, women, and I must help, I must be there to help my fellow Ukrainians.
Some of my family, including my dad, are there in Kyiv city. My dad is too old, he is 76, he has cancer, he is very sick and he is living in the city centre in Kyiv, but he cant walk.
My only training is my love for Ukraine, it is in my heart, he said.
Over the years he has collected eight such medals for his volunteer work for Ukraine.
