Sabina Higgins condemns Russias illegal invasion of Ukraine following letter controversy
20220802
https://laois-nationalist.ie/2022/08/02/sabina-higgins-condemns-russias-illegal-invasion-of-ukraine-following-letter-controversy/
To view the article, a visitor had to click on the Sabina Higgins link from the main page. At no time did the letter appear on any other part of the website.
This section contains details of activities I have been undertaking, including speeches and work towards the implementations of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, health issues, breastfeeding, issues affecting the Traveller Community, human rights, supporting the arts and a range of other issues.
Last week, I had been asked about my letter to The Irish Times, which I had written in a personal capacity, by a number of people who had missed it, and had not been able to access it online. I therefore put it on my dedicated section of the website as I have done for the last number of years, Mrs Higgins added.
The newspaper adds that a note from the Presidents office stated: The letter in question was published on Sabina Higgins section of the President.ie website only and was not visible on any other part of the website.
Mrs Higgins was widely criticised over the weekend for writing a letter in response to an editorial published in The Irish Times on the war in Ukraine.
Having put my letter up, I subsequently took it down when I saw it being presented as not being from myself, but from the general President.ie website.
As reported by The Irish Times, explaining how her letter appeared on the Presidents website, before subsequently being taken down, Mrs Higgins said: Since 2014, I have had a dedicated section on the President.ie website.
In her letter, Mrs Higgins called for a ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine, which critics claimed drew an equivalence between the actions of both countries.
In a statement released on Tuesday evening, Mrs Higgins said she was dismayed at the criticism.
President Michael D Higgins wife Sabina has condemned Russias illegal invasion of Ukraine following recent criticism she has received over a letter she wrote which appeared on the Presidents official website.
I have from its outset strongly condemned the illegal Russian invasion of Ukraine and I cannot be but dismayed that people would find anything unacceptable in a plea for peace and negotiations when the future of humanity is threatened by war, global warming and famine.
