Taoiseach plays down suggestions Zelenskiy criticised Irish support for Ukraine
20220325
https://laois-nationalist.ie/2022/03/25/taoiseach-plays-down-suggestions-zelensky-criticised-irish-support-for-ukraine/
Exceptional display of solidarity and unity yesterday between the EU, US, and others in support of the people of Ukraine.POTUS Biden and President ZelenskyyUa gave open appraisal of situation to EUCO leaders.
Speaking to European leaders, Mr Zelenskiy said he was grateful for the sanctions imposed so far.
Mr Zelenskiy has accepted an invitation to address the Oireachtas on April 6th, where he will speak directly to Irish politicians.
I cant surmise in terms of what implication there is except I spoke to him last week, and he was very strongly in praise of the Irish contribution, both from a humanitarian perspective, in terms of our clear support for Ukraines application to join the EU, and he thanked me personally for my own personal commitment to that.
Addressing the European Council, Volodymyr Zelenskiy name-checked EU member states  noting in turn what he saw as the level of support the country had given Ukraine.
Because if it had been preventative, Russia would not have gone to war. At least, no-one knows for sure. There was a chance.
I am not going to surmise in terms of whatever particular take you would take from the use almost or practically.
We are a militarily-neutral country, but again we facilitated the EU Peace Facility, which has been of enormous support to the Ukrainian people.
Taoiseach Michel Martin, speaking on the second day of the European Council meeting in Brussels, played down the comments.
Mr Martin has stressed Ireland is not politically neutral and has committed millions of euros in non-lethal aid to Ukraine.
The State has also taken in more than 10,000 Ukrainian refugees, with thousands more expected to arrive after the Government removed any requirement for visas.
He said: I wouldnt have taken the same slant as some may be taking from it.
Pointing to the events of the last month, he said: You saw that Ukraine should be in the EU in the near future.
He asked European leaders not to delay accepting his countrys bid to join the EU.
The Ukrainian president has offered only qualified thanks to Ireland for its support for the country since the Russian invasion a month ago.
EU leaders have so far resisted the call to accelerate the accession of Ukraine to the bloc.
While fully backing the Ukrainian push for EU membership, the State has not abandoned its position of military neutrality in the face of the Russian assault.
