What the papers say Tuesdays front pages
20220315
https://laois-nationalist.ie/2022/03/15/what-the-papers-say-tuesdays-front-pages-13/
The Russian advance has stalled, according to the Irish Daily Mail, as Russian forces may only be able to sustain another 14 days of fighting at full capacity.
Just published: front page of the Financial Times, UK edition, Tuesday 15 March https:t.cozglWGzGtPL pic.twitter.com6pbsv6ax7h
Meanwhile, the Irish Examiner reports that 31,000 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the past three days as hospital cases have risen above 1,000.
TheDaily Express and Daily Mirror report three British ex-special forces soldiers are feared to have been killed in Russias strike on a Ukrainian base near the Poland border.
The Financial Times quotes the US as telling allies China has signalled its willingness to provide Russia with military support in Ukraine, with The Guardian reporting nearly 3 million people have fled the war.
TheDaily Mailand i report tens of thousands of Britons signed up to the sponsorship scheme to house Ukrainian refugees in its first few hours, while The Times says the programmes website immediately crashed after opening. The story is also covered byThe Sun.
A humanitarian corridor was used successfully for the first time in the war on Monday as invading forces allowed at least 160 cars to leave the southern city of Mariupol, according toThe Independent.
Boris Johnson has toldThe Daily Telegraph Western leaders had made a terrible mistake by letting president Vladimir Putin get away with annexing Crimea in 2014 and subsequently becoming more dependent on Russian power sources.
Guardian front page, Tuesday 15 March 2022: Russias deadly raids plunge Ukrainians into nightmare pic.twitter.comAwd0DwZKTM
Morning readers! Stay with beltel for all your breaking news. Heres a look at the front page of the Belfast Telegraph this morning https:t.coZFlfbJQwqj pic.twitter.comoik6mKkPF1
Elsewhere, the Irish Daily Mirror reports that Daniel Kinahans planned podcast has been scrapped amid concerns over legal issues.
As the death toll rises in Ukraine, war in Europe continues to dominate the front pages.
The Irish Times reports that hundreds of people have fled the besieged port city of Mariupol where city authorities have said 2,500 civilians have been killed by Russian shelling.
And theDaily Star reports an academics claim the Turin Shroud is just a tablecloth and not the face of Jesus, with the paper adding very naughty monks made it as a money-making scam.
In the UK, the British responses to the war in Eastern Europe are splashed across many of the front pages.
Metro covers protesters breaking into a mansion owned by a sanctioned Russian oligarch in west London.
And the Belfast Telegraph leads with the journalist who staged an anti-war protest live on Russian television as politicians open their doors to Ukrainian refugees.
