25bn from Russian oligarchs frozen in multinational seizure effort
20220629
https://www.yorkpress.co.uk/news/20243297.25bn-russian-oligarchs-frozen-multinational-seizure-effort/
Today, Treasury sanctioned nearly 100 targets in Putins war machine to further impede his aggressive war in Ukraine. In line with G7 commitments, OFAC also prohibited importation of Russian gold into the U.S.https:t.coimD1A8BZ5h
We continue to increase Russias cost of its war, the treasury said of the Repo Russian Elites, Proxies and Oligarchs task force.
This was on top of the yachts, other vessels and luxury real estate that had been impounded, as well as 300 billion US dollars 246 billion in Russian Central Bank funds that had been immobilised, the US treasury department said.
The programme is designed to drain Russia of its resources as the countrys president Vladimir Putin continues his invasion of Ukraine, but civil rights advocates have raised concerns about potential overreach.
Repo members will continue to track Russian sanctioned assets and prevent sanctioned Russians from undermining the measures that Repo members have jointly imposed, the treasury said.
The American Civil Liberties Union has contested Bills  including the House-passed Asset Seizure for Ukraine Reconstruction Act  that would make seizure of Russian assets easier for the government.
The European Commission has set up its own Freeze and Seize Task Force to work in conjunction with the Repo group.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
The government said that in a wartime environment that had spawned a worldwide food crisis we are seeking to maximise the impact of sanctions on designated persons and entities while guarding against spillover that affects global commodities markets and food supplies.
With sanctions increasing, there are growing concerns that seizures are being carried out on non-Americans outside of the judicial review process, with big consequences for sanctioned individuals who may not be able to challenge the seizures.
Treasury secretary Janet Yellen and attorney general Merrick Garland convened the Repo task force in March in conjunction with a number of other countries, which work together to investigate and prosecute oligarchs and other individuals allied with Mr Putin.
For instance, earlier this month, the US announced sanctions on God Nisanov, one of the richest men in Europe, and Alexey Mordashov, one of Russias wealthiest billionaires, along with his wife and two adult children.
The US government is going after a variety of targets. There is a lot of uncertainty about where it is all going.
Attorney Tom Firestone, who specialises in international investigations for business clients, said seizures can have consequences for innocent people who have nothing to do with the war  we need to be careful not to penalise innocent people.
A multinational task force designed to seize Russian oligarchs wealth has blocked and frozen 30 billion US dollars 25 billion in sanctioned individuals property and funds in its first 100 days in operation, it has been reported.
