Putin warns West Russia has red line over Ukraine
20211130
https://www.yorkpress.co.uk/news/national/19752090.putin-warns-west-russia-red-line-ukraine/
Mr Putin hailed the discussions on cyber security between Russian and US experts, saying just as with the pandemic, its necessary to pool efforts to work efficiently.
The Russian leader also drew a parallel with his own re-election plans, saying that even though he has not decided yet whether to seek re-election when his current six-year term ends in 2024, the possibility of him staying on has helped stability.
It would also need just five minutes to reach those who issue orders, Mr Putin said.
Ukrainian and Western officials have expressed worries this month that a Russian military build-up near Ukraine could signal plans by Moscow to invade its ex-Soviet neighbour.
Asked about Mr Bidens bid to seek a second term, Mr Putin hailed it, saying it would help US political stability.
The 69-year-old Russian president has been in power for more than two decades  longer than any other Kremlin leader since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin.
He added that Moscow has been forced to counter the growing threats by developing new hypersonic weapons.
Nato foreign ministers warned Russia on Tuesday that any attempt to further destabilise Ukraine would be a costly mistake.
Mr Putin argued that to avoid tensions, Russia and the West should negotiate agreements that would take the parties security interests into account.
The previous build-up of Russian troops near Ukraine early this year was followed by Mr Putins summit with US president Joe Biden in June in Geneva, where they agreed to launch a dialogue on strategic stability and cyber security.
Enjoy watching a new programme of TV channel Millet "Ethnicities of Crimea:diversity of Unity", an episode dedicated to Crimean Tatars. Many thanksto a charming presenter, Safie Adzhiumerova! Welcome2CrimeaWorth2SeeRussiahttps:t.coWWePkVP3Bp pic.twitter.comqCnk90U2nV
The Zircon hypersonic cruise missile, capable of flying at nine times the speed of sound to a range of 620 miles, has undergone a series of tests, most recently on Monday.
I hope that common sense and responsibility for their own countries and the global community will eventually prevail.
Russia annexed Ukraines Crimean Peninsula in 2014 after the countrys Kremlin-friendly president was driven from power by mass protests and also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency that broke out in Ukraines east.
Constitutional amendments approved in 2020 reset Mr Putins previous term limits, allowing him to run for president two more times and hold onto power until 2036.
The Russian leader noted that Russia has been strongly worried about Natos drills near its borders, pointing at a recent exercise that involved US strategic bombers.
He expressed concern that Nato could eventually use the Ukrainian territory to deploy missiles capable of reaching Russias command centres in just five minutes.
Strategic bombers, which carry precision weapons and are capable of carrying nuclear weapons, were flying as close as 12 miles to our border, he said.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
We would need to develop something similar to target those who threaten us. And we can do that even now.
Earlier this year, a spike in ceasefire violations in the east and a Russian troop concentration near Ukraine fuelled fears of war, but tensions abated when Moscow pulled back the bulk of its forces after manoeuvres in April.
The Kremlin has insisted it has no such intention and has accused Ukraine and its Western backers ofmaking the claims to cover up their own allegedly aggressive designs.
Russian president Vladimir Putin has warned Nato against deploying troops and weapons to Ukraine, saying this represents a red line for Moscow and would trigger a strong response.
They will discuss: The situation in  around Ukraine  Belarus  Lessons learned from NATOs engagement in Afghanistan
Commenting on Western concerns about Russias alleged intention to invade Ukraine, he said that Moscow is equally worried about Nato drills near its borders.
He said a new hypersonic missile that is set to enter service with the Russian navy early next year would be capable of reaching targets in comparable time.
Speaking to participants of an online investment forum, the Russian president said that Natos eastward expansion has threatened Moscows core security interests.
In line with the constitution, I have the right to get elected to seek a new term, but I havent yet made up my mind whether to do it or not, Mr Putin said.
