April 26 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220505
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-04-26-22/h_83b9f0a9cf1980d2f84b5fd3b7c3520a
Austin was speaking as part of his visit to Europe alongside US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
"Infrastructure facilities of the enterprise were damaged and destroyed," it said, adding that a third missile exploded in the air.
It added that during the meeting with the Russian ambassador, Moldovan officials reiterated that the country was a "neutral state and this principle must be respected by all international actors, including the Russian Federation."
The UNHCR and partner organizations are seeking $1.85 billion to support Ukrainian refugees in neighboring countries, UNHCR spokesperson Shabia Mantoo said Tuesday.
The images showedexcavated trenches on the territory of the Old Crimean cemetery, the city council said on Telegram.
Austin said his recent trip to Kyiv "reinforced" his "admiration" for the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
In addition to mass graves uncovered in the villages of Mangush and Vynohradne, "now we see there is another one," said Vadym Boichenko.
Russian forces have stepped up their offensive in both the south and east of the country -- but resistance has been able to push back in some locations, Ukrainian officials said Tuesday.
On Monday, a series of explosions were heard near the Ministry of State Security building in Transnistrias capital Tiraspol, Russian state news agency RIA-Novosti reported.
On Monday, there were explosions in Tiraspol, the capital of Transnistria, which Ukraine's Defense Ministry called a "planned provocation" by the Russian secret services.
Germany will deliver Gepard anti-aircraft tanks to Ukraine, the German Ministry of Defence announced on Tuesday.
The Russians have held Kherson since the early days of the invasion, and have been trying to push northward from there.
Boichenko accused Russian forces of involving the local population in mass burials in exchange for food.
In the same region, the Southern Command of the Ukrainian Infantry said Russian forces had again tried to advance toward the city of Mykolaiv with increased shelling and artillery  but two attacks "were repelled by our units, including the destruction of tanks and an APC military vehicle," it said. "The rest of the forces retreated under our fire to the previous positions."
Russian troops are also conducting an offensive to the south, in the region of Zaporizhzhia, the General Staff said. Ukrainian forces have struck back, destroying a Russian ammunition depot, the military leadership said, claiming that some 70 Russian soldiers had been killed and that the Russians also suffered losses in two settlements south of Kryvyi Rih.
A separatist statelet: Transnistria is a narrow sliver of land about 1,350 square miles in size, sandwiched between Ukraine and the rest of Moldova -- only a little larger than Rhode Island, the smallest state in the US.
It added that Russian forces had tried unsuccessfully to launch attacks elsewhere in the Donetsk region.
Two guided missiles hit the city of Zaporizhzhia in central Ukraine Tuesday, according to the Zaporizhzhia regional military administration.
Andriushchenko --who is not in Mariupol but has served as a clearinghouse for information from inside the besieged city -- saidRussian forces had dug several mass graves, each measuring about 30 meters around 100 feet, inManhush, a town around 12 miles 20 kilometersto the west of Mariupol.
The plan will also focus on "solutions through the promotion of social and economic opportunities," Mantoo added.
New satellite imagery has shown a mass grave at the village of Staryi Krym, according to the Telegram channel of the city authorities.
The move was announced by German Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht at Ramstein US Airforce base, the ministry tweeted.
"In the early morning of April 26, two explosions occurred in the village of Mayak, Grigoriopol district: the first at 6:40 and the second at 7:05," the statement said.
Some history: Transnistria declared independence from the former Soviet republic of Moldova following a two-year war 1990-1992 that erupted during the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Some background: Austin and Blinken traveled to Kyiv over the weekend, where they met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to pledge US support in the war and announce that US diplomats would be returning to Ukraine.
By Aditi Sangal, Maureen Chowdhury, Meg Wagner, Melissa Macaya, Jessie Yeung, Andrew Raine, Ben Morse and Jack Guy, CNN
"Russia's invasion is indefensible and so are Russian atrocities," Austin said, speaking from Ramstein US Air Base in Germany, where the US is hostingUkraine-focused defense talks.
"Law enforcers and Transnistrian emergency services were immediately dispatched to the sceneAs of 9 am local the two most powerful radio antennas are known to be out of order, it continued, adding that a bomb squad from the Ministry of Defense was undertaking an "investigation."
Just before the start of Alexandra Rudkovskaya's shift on Saturday, her mom gave her a big, long hug. The kind mothers give their kids when they don't know when -- or even if -- they'll see them again.
He added: "My Ukrainian friends, we know the burden that you all carry. And we know, and you should know, that all of us have your back. And that's why we are here today -- to strengthen the arsenal of Ukrainian democracy.
"The flight of missiles at low altitudes directly above the ZNPP site, where 7 nuclear facilities with a huge amount of nuclear material are located, poses huge risks," said Petro Kotin, head of Enerhoatom. "After all, missiles can hit one or more nuclear facilities, and this threatens a nuclear and radiation catastrophe around the world."
"As a result of a long search and identification of places of mass burial of dead Mariupol residents, we established the fact of arrangement and mass burial of the dead Mariupol residents in the village ofManhush," he wrote.
In addition to those fleeing the country, more than 7.7 million people are internally displaced in Ukraine, according to the latest International Organization for Migration report, bringing the total number of those forced to flee their homes to 12.9 million.
Austin explained that the "stakes" of the war reach "beyond Ukraine and even beyond Europe," before calling Russia's invasion "baseless, reckless and lawless."
The Russians stepped in to back Transnistria but never recognized it as an independent state. The conflict between the Moldovan government and the separatists ended in a ceasefire in 1992 -- but about 1,500 Russian troops have remained in Transnistria since then.
Role in the war: Some military analysts suspect Russia plans to lean on Transnistria for logistical support -- and to take advantage of its strategic position, to establish a land corridor along the Black Sea to capture the port city of Odesa.
"They the locals told us that you have to work 'hours' to have food and water. Now there is not enough humanitarian aid in Mariupol so people are forced to do it," he said on Telegram.
"New trenches were recorded on April 24. The length of the mass grave has increased to more than 200 meters," it said.
On Tuesday Boichenko repeated that some 20,000 residents of Mariupol had died since the beginning of the invasion.
"She says you need to leave this town, you need to go to some place safe. Why do you need to do this? I have only one child, stop doing this," Rudkovskaya told CNN.
A top Russian general said last week that the military is aiming for "full control" over the eastern Donbas region and southern Ukraine -- and to gain access to Transnistria, the breakaway territory in the neighboring country of Moldova.
Around 5.2 million refugees had left Ukraine as of Monday, the latest UNHCR data shows.
Russian forces are focusing particularly on the Kramatorsk and Sloviansk towns in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region, and on Kryvyi Rih in the southern Kherson region, he said.
Speaking in Geneva at the launch of an updated regional refugee response plan to support Ukrainian refugees, Mantoo said the plan "aims to ensure timely and life-saving humanitarian assistance to refugees fleeing Ukraine and third-country nationals, of whom a sizeable number would need international protection."
The Zaporizhzhia plant was captured by the Russians on March 4 and is still under their control.
The statements about Transnistria are unfounded and contradict the position of the Russian Federation supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic ofMoldova, within its internationally recognized borders," said the Moldovan Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration.
Petro Andriushchenko, an advisor to the mayor Mariupol, posted about the mass grave at Manhush on Telegram on Thursday.
CNN is unable to confirm the city's account of the mass graves. The images, from Planet Labs, were first reported by Radio Free Europe RFERL on Monday.
"The situation in Mariupol remains extremely difficult," he said. "Enemy artillery shells our fortress Azovstal," the steel plant where Ukrainian troops and civilians are holed up.
They appeared on March 24, after the village was occupied by the Russians, and were about 60 to 70 meters long, the council said.
US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austinsaid Tuesday that Russia's invasion and atrocities in Ukraine are "indefensible" as Russia has bombed hospitals and left children "traumatized."
TASS quoted the acting commander of Russia's Central Military District Maj. Gen.Rustam Minnekaevas saying the goal was to create a land corridor between Donbas and Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014.
Russia is also continuing to build up troops in the northeast, intended to partially blockade the heavily hit city of Kharkiv, the General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces said on Tuesday.
A projected 8.3 million refugees are expected to flee Ukraine, according to the latest assessment by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees UNHCR.
The missiles hit one of the city's businesses, killing one person and injuring another, the administration said.
Just hours after their hug goodbye, the stuff of her mother's nightmares came true when Rudkovskaya and her partner Vladimir Venzel put their lives on the line to reach an injured patient. CNN was there to witness their bravery.
"There are women and children inside. Ceasefire is needed to begin the evacuation. Unfortunately, there is no ceasefire," Boichenko said. "People are running out of food, there is almost no drinking water. This is a humanitarian catastrophe."
By April 7, according to new imagery, part of the trenches had been covered, the council said, and the burial area had grown.
Two radio towers in Moldova's unrecognized breakaway territory of Transnistria were damaged by explosions in the early hours of Tuesday morning, the Transnistrian Ministry of Internal Affairs said in a statement.
On Monday, speaking at a news conference at an undisclosed location in Poland near the Ukrainian border, the top US officials insisted that Russia was failing in its Ukraine incursion, with Austin explicitly saying that the US wants to see Russia's military capabilities weakened.
Rudkovskaya, 24, works as a paramedic in Kharkiv -- a choice she says leaves her mother "worried to the point of hysteria."
Russia eyeing Transnistria: The statement by Maj. Gen.Minnekaev, laying out Russia's strategy for the "second phase" of the war, prompted immediate alarm from Moldovan authorities, who summoned the Russian ambassador.
A third mass grave has been found near Mariupol, the mayor of the besieged southeastern city told Ukrainian television Tuesday.
There were also almost 13 million people estimated to be stranded in affected areas or unable to leave due to security risks, Mantoo said.
Earlier Tuesday, the Ukrainian state nuclear energy company, Enerhatom, claimed that two cruise missiles had flown over the nuclear power plant near the city of Zaporizhzhia.
The self-proclaimed republic of Transnistria  which has its own constitution, military, currency and flag but has never been recognized by the international community  could be pulled into Russia's war in Ukraine.
"We are all here because of Ukraine's courage, because of the innocent civilians that have been killed, and because of the suffering that your people still endure. Your country has been ravaged, your hospitals have been bombed, your citizens have been executed, your children have been traumatized."
Some background: Transnistria is a breakaway republic in eastern Moldova that borders Ukraine. It has a population of nearly 500,000 and is internationally recognized as part of Moldova.
Last week, a top Russian general said Russia intended to establish "full control" over southern Ukraine during the second phase of its invasion, adding that doing so would give its forces access to Transnistria.
CNN has reviewed satellite imagery purportedly showing mass graves at Vynohradne, but it is unclear beyond the disturbance of the ground what may have transpired there.
The site where the explosions occurred is known as the Transnistrian radio and television center, which was built in the 1960s and is one of 14 Soviet-era radio transmitting centers, the statement said.
Last week,Ukrainian officials identified the location of mass graves at Manhush near Mariupol after the publication of satellite images collected by and analyzed by Maxar Technologies.
