April 19 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220419
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-04-19-22/h_adfedfe69ac6ff5880ffe462bdcb3694
The European Commission says that about 45 of the bloc's natural gas imports, and around 25 of its oil imports, comefrom Russia. The EU has imported about 35 billion euros $38 billion worth of Russian energy since the war began.
Some background: The EU's latest sanctions package announced earlier this month includes the closing of EU ports to Russian vessels. Exemptions were granted to vessels carrying energy, food and other humanitarian aid.
Zhyvytskyi said on April 13 that the number of bodies was growing every day and there had been "a lot of people found dead with their hands tied with the signs of torture." He added at the time that others remained captive with "daily negotiations" for them to be exchanged or freed.
China says it will "continue to strengthen strategic coordination" with Russia, regardless of how the "international landscape may change," according to a statement released by China's Foreign Ministry on Tuesday.
By Adrienne Vogt, Aditi Sangal, Maureen Chowdhury, Andrew Raine, Travis Caldwell, George Ramsay and Jack Bantock, CNN
Le cited a nearly 30 increase in trade between the two countries during the first quarter of the year, reaching around $38.2 billion, as a testament to the "tremendous resilience" of its bilateral cooperation.
"We urge people to stay at home for Easter holidays," said Dmytro Zhyvytskyi, the head of the Sumy regional military administration in northern Ukraine, adding that an online livestream of the church service would be organized.
In the days after the retreat, authorities said more than 100 bodies had been discovered, some tortured.
Rudik also echoed calls from Zelensky and other Ukrainian officials for military equipment to be sent to Ukraine to help repel Russian attacks.
The 18 newly-sanctioned organizations are: Alfa-Bank, Bank Rossiya, Bank Otkritie, Black Sea Bank for Development and Reconstruction, Central Bank of the Russian Federation, Credit Bank of Moscow, Gazprombank, GenBank, Industrial Savings Bank, Novikombank, Russia Agricultural Bank, Russian National Commercial Bank, Russian Direct Investment Fund, Sberbank, Sovcombank, SMP Bank, Vnesheconombank, VTB.
Russian forces have regrouped and launched an offensive in the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine  a moment one Ukrainian lawmaker described as "the major battle" of the war.
France was attempting to persuade European partners to stop imports of Russian oil, Le Maire added, alleging that some countries were "hesitant" to do so.
Video footage of both captive Britons has aired on Russian TV. They previously fought with the UK armed forces and were volunteering with the Ukrainian military in the fight against Russia.
Some context: Medvedchuk served as a go-between for Moscow and Kyiv after the outbreak of the Donbas conflict in 2014 by leveraging his personal ties with Putin. In a 2019 interview with filmmaker Oliver Stone, Putin acknowledged that he was godfather to Medvedchuk's daughter.
Some background: Earlier this month, European leaders agreed to go after Russia's vast energy sector for the first time by banning all forms of Russian coal from the European Union. The European Commission predicted the move would affect about 8 billion euros $8.7 billion worth of Russian exports per year.
Some context: Russian troops recently withdrew from Sumy, which borders Russia's Bryansk, Kursk and Belgorod regions.
The embassy was shut with personnel evacuated to Warsaw in neighboring Poland soon after Russia's invasion of Ukraine in late February.
In a video address on Monday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia had commenced the battle for Donbas and that Ukrainian forces will continue to fight against a Russian incursion in the region.
"At some points, we are getting enough, at other points we are not getting anything," she added.
New Zealand has imposed new sanctions against more than a dozen Russian financial entities, including the countrys central bank, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta announced in a statement Tuesday.
The sanctions target 18 financial organizations thatallegedlyfinance Russias invasion of Ukraine, and which make up about 80 of Russias total banking assets,Mahuta said in a statement released by the New Zealand government.
"These sanctions are designed to impose an economic and political cost," Mahuta said in the statement. "With this latest round of sanctions, New Zealand is joining countries around the world who have imposed heavy penalties on President Putin and the system financing his illegal invasion."
The reopening will be "a new sign of the commitment of the Spanish government and society to the Ukrainian people," Snchez told Spanish TV Antena 3 on Monday.
"No matter how the international landscape may change, China will continue to strengthen strategic coordination with Russia to achieve win-win cooperation, jointly safeguard our common interests and promote the building of a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind," Le said, according to the statement.
Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Snchez will travel to Kyiv in the next few days to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, a senior Spanish government official told CNN Tuesday.
Pegas, the crude oil tanker sailing under the Russian flag with 19 Russian crew members on board was seized near the town of Karystos on April 15 as part of the European Union's latest sanctions, the spokesperson said.
Asked about the prospect of exchanging the Britons for Medvedchuk, who is currently detained by Ukrainian forces, he said: "We're actually going through the process of sanctioning people who are close to the Russian President Vladimir Putin regime. We're not going to be looking at how we can help Russia.
France supports extending sanctions to ban imports of Russian oil, French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire said Tuesday.
The two sides also exchanged views on Ukraine, as well as other international and regional issues of concern. However, no further details were provided by the ministry.
"Right now, rather than being upset with the ones who are not giving us what we asked for, I would like to thank every single country that is supporting us and say: Give us more.
"You see how critical it is, you see that we are fighting not only for ourselves, but for the whole democratic world, for the whole of Europe."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has reiterated his call for an oil embargo, saying on April 8: "How much longer can the Europe ignore the introduction of an embargo against oil supplies from Russia?"
"When you see what is going on in the Donbas, it is more necessary than ever to stop importing Russian oil," Le Maire told radio station Europe 1.
But he said more would be needed, and that his countrys trainers would be able to get his forces up to speed quickly.
They added that the authorities seized the vessel but not its oil cargo, and the ministry could not provide further details at this point.
Speaking earlier this month to CNN, Le Maire said: "As France is concerned we stand ready to go further and to decide a ban on oil and Im deeply convinced that the next steps and the next discussions will focus on this question of the ban on Russian oil."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced last week that Medvedchuk had been detained in a "special operation." Medvedchuk's wife, Oksana Marchenko, hasposted videos appealing for the release of her husband in exchange for British nationals taken captive.
Lewis encouraged people who want to help Ukraine to do so through the right channels -- such as financially or by opening their homes to refugees -- rather than taking very dangerous and actually not legal processes to go out and fight, he said.
But Beijing has since been quietly distancing itself from Russia's sanction-hit economy and hasrepeatedly denouncedsanctions against Moscowas an ineffective way of resolving the crisis.
Meanwhile, a Ukrainian official says control of Kreminna in the eastern Luhansk region has been "lost" in heavy fighting as Russia continues to bombard cities across the country.
The United Kingdom is not looking to help Moscow with the prospect of a prisoner swap that would trade pro-Russian oligarch and Ukrainian politician Viktor Medvedchuk for two British fighters captured in Ukraine by Russian forces, a government minister said Tuesday.
Many Ukrainians celebrate Easter according to the Julian calendar, with Easter Sunday falling this year on April 24. Zhyvytskyi said law enforcement would work extra shifts during Easter celebrations.
China'sVice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng expressed this view to the Russian ambassador to China Andrey Denisov during a meeting on Monday, the ministry said.
Northern Ireland Secretary Brandon Lewis would not confirm to Sky News if his government is working to return the fighters to the UK, saying he would not comment on what are effectively national security issues.
The fight for the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine will be "the major battle" of the war with Russia, Ukrainian lawmaker Kira Rudik told CNN Tuesday.
Some context: In public statements and at international summits, Chinese officials have attempted to stake out a seemingly neutral position on thewar in Ukraine, neither condemning Russian actions nor ruling out the possibility Beijing couldact as a mediatorin a push for peace.
Le Maire went on to say that it was oil, not gas, that has been "the first source of currency for Putins regime for several years," and therefore "stopping Russian oil imports means hurting the financing of the war in Ukraine for those who are in power in Russia."
Greek authorities have seized a Russian tanker off the southern coast of the Greek island of Evia, a spokesperson for the country's Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Insular Policy confirmed to CNN Tuesday.
Over the past month, New Zealand has issued a raft of sanctions against Russian entities and individuals, including against Russian President Vladimir Putin, members of his security council, politicians, oligarchs and military leaders.
Residents in the Sumy region in northern Ukraine have been advised to attend Easter services virtually this weekend amid concerns about potential "provocations" by Russia.
In an interview with CNN last week, Zelensky said the weapons the US and other countries have provided to Ukraine to date, including the Biden administrations new $800 million security assistance package, have helped his country resistRussias invasion.
