August 8 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220808
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-08-08-22/
Youre telling the whole world that it must live by your rules. Then go and live there. This is the only way to influence Putin, he added.
The agency said the Ukrainian government would receive a $3 billion tranche of funding this month.
On Saturday, IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi said he was extremely concerned by the shelling "which underlines the very real risk of a nuclear disaster that could threaten public health and the environment in Ukraine and beyond."
The United States will provide $4.5 billion to the government of Ukraine to help keep it functioning and to combat the budget deficit caused by the war, the US Agency for International Development USAID announced on Monday.
According to Ulyanov, the note also said Russia is interested in the IAEA taking into account criminal actions conducted by Kyiv and what he claimed is the campaign of disinformation that the Zelensky regime has launched.
Lubinets called on the UN Secretary General, the IAEA and the international community to take possible measures to send a security mission to the Zaporizhzhia NPP, to completely demilitarize the territory of the NPP, and to provide security guarantees to the employees of the nuclear plant and residents of the city of Enerhodar for the maintenance of the plant.
The Ukrainian president said Russians should live in their own world until they change their philosophy.
Theyll say, This war has nothing to do with us. The whole population cant be held responsible, can it? It can. The population picked this government and theyre not fighting it, not arguing with it, not shouting at it, Zelensky told the Washington Post.
Russian state media RIA Novosti reported Mikhail Ulyanov, Russias representative to InternationalOrganizations in Vienna, saying that a diplomatic note was sent out on Aug. 4 and distributed on Aug. 5.
The transfer of NASAMS itself could still be some days away according to US defense official. The first system to arrive is expected to be from Norway which can get it to Ukraine quicker than the US.
Zelensky called on Bill Clinton to use his personal authority to draw the attention of the world community to the shelling and mining of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant and Russia's nuclear terror.
Russia is continuing acts of nuclear terrorism on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant and its personnel, Dmytro Lubinets, Ukrainian Parliamentary Commissioner for Human Rights said.
We will use all possible channels of diplomacy to bring IAEA and UN closer to conducting this mission. We really need it urgently, Tsymbaliuk said at a news conference Monday.
Ukraine on Monday warned of catastrophic consequences if anything were to happen to the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, and said that Kremlins forces are preventing safety experts from visiting Europes largest nuclear power plant.
Kahl said the missiles had been sent over in recent Presidential Drawdown Authority packages, but the five most recent packages, dating back to July 1, make no mention of HARMs.
Zelensky thanked Clinton for his support of Ukraine since the start of the war, according the the Ukrainian president's office.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had a video meeting with former US President Bill Clinton, Zelenskys office announced.
A defense official told CNN the type of missile sent was the AGM-88 High-Speed Anti-Radiation Missile HARM.
He then pointed to the spare parts for Mig-29s the US helped send into Ukraine to keep the Soviet-era fighters flying. Kahl then mentioned the missiles, saying they can have effects on Russian radars and other things.
Russia has had about 70,000 to 80,000 casualtiesso far in the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia, Colin Kahl, Defense Department under secretary for policy, said during an on-camera briefing at the Pentagon on Monday. This figure includes both Russian forces killed and wounded in action.
Tsymbaliuk said Ukraine would like to see a delegation of experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA and the United Nations visit the station to monitor its status but that Russias military actions in Ukraine are making such a trip impossible.
In recent days, open source reports have shown the remains of what appear to be the fin of a HARM missile that targeted a Russian position in Ukraine.
Some background: Russia and Ukraine have traded blame for recent artillery and rocket fire around the nuclear plant in central Ukraine, which UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres described as "suicidal."
Produced by Raytheon, HARMs have a range in excess of 30 miles more than 48 kilometers, according to the US Air Force, making them one of the longer-range weapons the US has provided to Ukraine. The missiles can be used to target Russian anti-aircraft radar systems, such as the S-400, which have made it very difficult for the Ukrainian Air Force to operate over large swaths of Ukrainian airspace.The missiles can also target Russian counter-battery radars, which Russia uses to target Ukrainian artillery.
It is the largest single drawdown of US arms and equipment since August 2021 using presidential authorities to drawdown from US military stockpiles, according to a Pentagon statement. This marks the eighteenth drawdown by the Pentagon.
His comments come after Russia and Ukraine traded blame for recent artillery and rocket fire around the nuclear plant in central Ukraine, which UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres described as "suicidal."
The US Defense Department Monday announced a $1 billion package of additional weapons and security assistance for Ukraine in the latest round of military aid.
The Ukrainian morale and will to fight is unquestioned, and much higher I think than the average will to fight on the Russian side, so I think that gives the Ukrainians a significant advantage, Kahl added.
This assistance package focuses heavily on additional ammunition and weapons which Ukraine forces have used successfully against Russian forces in eastern Ukraine. There is additional ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS, 75,000 rounds of 155mm artillery ammunition and 1,000 Javelin anti-tank weapons among key items. This is the first transfer of Javelins announced since June. There are also hundreds of AT4 anti-armor weapons included.
In an interview with The Washington Post published on Monday, Zelensky said, the most important sanctions are to close the borders  because the Russians are taking away someone elses land.
The Pentagon announced Monday that the US has sent anti-radar missiles for Ukrainian aircraft to target Russian radar systems. It marks the first time the Pentagon has acknowledged sending the previously undisclosed missile to Ukraine.
On Saturday, the director general of the IAEA, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said he was extremely concerned by the shelling "which underlines the very real risk of a nuclear disaster that could threaten public health and the environment in Ukraine and beyond."
Meanwhile, a Russian representative claimed that Moscow sent out a diplomatic note stating that it is ready to assist the IAEA in a visit to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in central Ukraine.
The resources provided today build on previous budget support, enabling the Ukrainian government to carry out core functions  for example, keeping gas and electricity flowing to hospitals, schools, and other critical infrastructure, supporting the provision of humanitarian supplies to citizens, and continuing to pay the salaries of civil servants, healthcare workers and teachers, USAID said in a statement.
Lubinets said that according to International norms, an attack on a facility where nuclear or radiological materials are used is considered an act of nuclear terrorism. Nuclear terrorism also includes actions aimed at disrupting, sabotaging, or manipulating operations at the plant that could lead to the release of radioactivity.
In the near term, weve been doing lots of things to make Ukraines existing air force stay in the air and be more capable, Kahl said.
What will happen in the radius of 40-50 kilometers from the station, thats absolutely not comparable even to Chernobyl or to Fukushima, said Yevhenii Tsymbaliuk, Ukraines ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA in Vienna.
Colin Kahl, the under secretary of Defense for Policy, said at a news briefing that the US had sent a number of the missiles without specifying how many the US has provided or when exactly they were sent.Kahl also did not explicitly say what type of anti-radiation missile.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Western countries should ban all Russian citizens from entering their country.
Asked whether such a measure would unfairly impact those who left the country because they disagreed with the Kremlin, Zelensky said the distinction did not matter.
Kahl said that number of casualties from Russian forces is remarkable considering Russia has achieved none of Vladimir Putins objectives since invading Ukraine at the end of February.
What the package includes: The package for the first time will have munitions for the National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems NASAMS, a US-Norwegian air defense system the Ukrainians need for shooting down Russian cruise missiles aimed at population centers.
It is extremely important for us that societies where freedom and democracy are fundamental values do not lose the feeling of urgency of the war in Ukraine. That is why conversations like this one are very useful for us," Zelensky said, according to his office.
