August 11 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220811
https://edition.cnn.com/webview/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-08-11-22/
Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous and irresponsible  and we continue to call on Russia to cease all military operations at or near Ukrainian nuclear facilities and return full control to Ukraine, and support Ukrainian calls for a demilitarized zone around the nuclear power plant, the spokesperson said in a statement.
By Heather Chen, Jack Guy, Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Maureen Chowdhury and Elise Hammond, CNN
The Ukrainian military has repelled and even pushed back assaults by Russian forces in the east, its general staff said in an update Thursday evening.
Additionally, Damberg said he's very much uncertain about the countrys economic growth in the next few months, as the war in Ukraine rages on, compounded by inflation pressures and the prospect of higher interest rates.
We must be clear that any potential damage to Zaporizhzhia or any other nuclear facilities in Ukraine, or anywhere else, could lead to catastrophic consequences not only for the immediate vicinity, but for the region and beyond, Antonio Guterres said in a statement.
The plant  whichis the largest nuclear power facility in Europe was taken over by Russian forces in early March, along with the town of Enerhodar, where the complex is located.
In a statement on Wednesday, G7 nations demanded that Russia give back full control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant and other nuclear facilities to Ukraine, amid growing concern from international organizations that nearby fighting could lead to catastrophic consequences.
Ukraine is expecting the arrival of a ship that will be taking 23,000 tonnes of grain to Ethiopia, Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov tweeted on Thursday.
On Wednesday, the G7 Foreign Ministers in a joint statement demanded that Russia immediately hand back full control to its rightful sovereign owner, Ukraine, of the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant as well as of all nuclear facilities within Ukraines internationally recognized borders to ensure their safe and secure operations.
Ukraine is ready for the BRAVE COMMANDER arrival, which is expected tomorrow Friday, Kuvrakov said. Thanks to the Black Sea Initiative we are ready to load more than 23,000 tons of grain  export it to Ethiopia.
NATOformalized its invitationto Sweden and Finland to join the alliance at the end of June, and the decision must go to the 30 member states parliaments and legislatures for final ratification.
However, Russia and Ukraine have been unwilling to agree to such a mission and thus the plant ends up caught in the crossfire.
CNN previously reported Tuesday about two incidents of Russian military aircraft flying into Alaskas ADIZ.
At the same time,the ripple effect of the war in Ukraine is set to exacerbate Ethiopias food security crisis, the UN said in a report published in June. With over three-quarters of World Food Programme and government wheat  a country staple  coming from Ukraine or Russia, the precarious situation there is threatening to push its cost, as well as that of fertilizer, beyond the means of millions of Ethiopian farmers.
Grossi said the situation at the nuclear plant had reached a"grave hour"and insisted that the "IAEA must be allowed to conduct its mission to Zaporizhzhia as soon as possible."
International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA Director General Rafael MarianoGrossioutlined the parts of the plant that have been knocked out due to attacks.
During a briefing call with reporters, Patel reiterated that the US government continues to urge Russia to release wrongful detainees Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan.
On Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia was maximizing the risk of a nuclear disaster at the facility, and the UN secretary general said he was gravely concerned about the situation.
Moscow and Kyiv have accused each other of shelling the plant.Russian UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia on Thursday blamed Ukraine for the shelling of the plant and urged supporters of Kyiv to stop attacks and prevent a disastrous radiation leak.
We see the second quarter coming out quite well when it comes to growth, but when we look ahead, we think it will slow down. We will be affected by Europe, by the war, and by the German economy, he said.
Bonnie Jenkins, USunder-secretary for arms control and international affairs, said Russia is the country responsible for the nuclear dilemma now. She warned the Security Council the many consequences of this conflict, including the situation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, will only end when Russia ends its war.Today the United States demands particularly urgent action to address the nuclear risks posed by Russias latest moves.This must be done through the work of the IAEA and a return of full control of the Zaporizhzhia facility to Ukraine.
Patel said that ultimately, the ball is in Russia's court when it comes to the substantial proposal put forward by the US to secure the release of the two wrongfully detained Americans.
Russia is accused of using the nuclear power plant as a military base. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken last week cited reports that Russia is using this plant as the equivalent of a human shield, but a nuclear shield in the sense that its firing on Ukrainian from around the plant.
Conflict in the north and a drought in the south have pushed around 20 million people to a vulnerable and precarious humanitarian situation in Ethiopia, which, according to the United Nations, has been made worse by the war in Ukraine.
Swedens finance minister said that while the countrys decision to join NATO was not a happy one," it was a "necessary step to take in the wake of Russia's aggression against Ukraine.
"So far, it's gone well, and we expect that all countries ... would welcome Sweden and Finland as members of NATO, he said.
The North American Aerospace Defense Command on Thursday disclosed a third incident of a Russian military aircraft flying into the Alaskan air defense identification zone ADIZ some time between Aug. 8 and 10.
The Deputy Director of the Russian Foreign Ministry Information and Press Department Ivan Nechaev confirmed negotiations on Thursday, and said they are being conducted by the competent authorities.
We remain profoundly concerned by the serious threat that the seizure of Ukrainian nuclear facilities and other actions by Russian armed forces pose to the safety and security of these facilities, significantly raising the risk of a nuclear accident or incident and endangering the population of Ukraine, neighboring states and the international community, they said.
Radiation levels at Europes largest nuclear power plant are within the normal range despite renewed shelling on the site, Ukraines nuclear agency Energoatom said on Thursday.
Patel did not say explicitly whether there had been contact between US and Russia on the deal following US Secretary of State Antony Blinkens call with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
The occupiers unsuccessfully tried to improve the tactical position" near the city of Kramatorsk, but they were " pushed back, it said.
Ukrainian soldiers inflicted casualties on the occupiers and forced them to flee, the General Staff said, adding that Russia did not succeed in the direction of the Avdiivka, "suffered losses, and withdrew.
The ADIZ is international airspace adjacent to Alaska that extends in places more than 100 miles more than 160 kilometers from US territory. The US military initiates identification procedures for aircraft in the ADIZ in the interest of national security.
When asked about the status of the accession process,Dambergadded the country wants to join NATO as fast as possible."
The Ukrainian military also said it was also able to repel Russian forces pushing toward Bakhmut and Avdiivka.
The Ukrainian military said intense shelling and airstrikes were felt across the entire eastern frontline.
The United States supports calls for a demilitarized zone around Ukraines Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, a US State Department spokesperson said Thursday.
The nuclear agency also said Thursday that radiation levels at the plant were within the normal range despite renewed shelling on the site.
Ukraine has accused Russia of shelling the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant NPP again on Thursday, the country's nuclear agency Energoatom said in a telegram post.
The situation is getting worse, because there are radiation sources nearby and several radiation sensors are damaged, Energoatom added.
In an interview with CNN's Richard Quest in Stockholm, MikaelDambergsaid that Russia's invasion of Ukraine "really makes people think, 'we can be next.'"
"Any military action jeopardizing nuclear safety, nuclear security, must stop immediately," Grossi said."These military actions near to such a large nuclear facility could lead to very serious consequences."
The US military also distributed a photo of the second incident from the air, showing an F-22 flying within visual range of a Russian Il-20 aircraft.
Officials from the US Embassy in Moscow were last in touch with detained WNBA star Brittney Griner on Aug. 4, the day of her sentencing, State Department principal deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel said Thursday.
The head of the UN's nuclear watchdog told an emergency meeting of the Security Council on Thursday thatfighting close to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine had caused some damage to the facility and called foran immediate inspection mission to be allowed to visit the plant.
