February 25 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220226
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-25-22/h_9ba410be9fa7e694e88df978f8ebbb99
There are only two other Dnieper River crossings for over 100 miles: a bridge a Kherson  which a CNN team in the city says has been the site of intense clashes between Russian and Ukrainian forces  and a railroad bridge just east of Kherson at Prydniprovs'ke.
The two bridgesat Nova Kakhovka a railroad bridge and a vehicle bridge are vital for the Russians, who have reportedly been trying to advance their frontline in the area and cross from the south bank,to the north bank of the Dnieper River.
More than 50,000 Ukrainian refugees have left the country in less than 48 hours, according to United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi, who said the majority have gone to Poland and Moldova.
Delta didbookpassengers onsomeflights operated by the Russian national airline, but says it is ending its codeshare agreement effective immediately. The agreement allowed Delta to ticket its passengers on Aeroflot flights from Moscow and enabled Aeroflot to ticket its passengers on some Delta flights operated from John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York and Los Angeles International Airport.
Russian forces advancing towards the Ukrainian capital city of Kyiv are meeting more resistance than they expected, a senior US defense official told reporters on Friday.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Amy Woodyatt, Rob Picheta, Ed Upright, Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Melissa Macaya and Meg Wagner, CNN
Tai described Ukraine as an agricultural powerhouse Friday and noted to Vilsack that USDA and USTR are going to have to work very closely to assess where the impacts are going to be, especially when it comes to agricultural trade."
The lawmakers also encouraged the use of diplomatic pressure to persuade global oil producers to boost production and restrictions on petroleum exportsunless they will advance our national security goals and lower prices for consumers.
In the video, dozens of military vehicles are seen alongside a railroad near one of the only two Dnieper River crossings.The convoy moves toward the bridge and then appears to double back and head west.
The official added, Russians continue to try to move on Kyiv, even though they are meeting Ukrainian resistance.
This comes asconcerns have grownover the potential impact of Russias invasion of Ukraine on agricultural products worldwide. Russia is the world's top exporter of wheat, and Ukraine is also a significant exporter of both wheat and corn.
Delta Air Lines is ending its partnership with Russian airline Aeroflot in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
The biggest change that the US is seeing is from the advance in the south, the official added. Russian forces are still moving towards Kherson on the river, but they are also splitting off some forces to go to the northeast in the direction of Mariupol and the Donbas region, the official said.
The webcam had been broadcasting the location of the Russian convoy for hours, showing the dozens and dozens of military vehicles moving around the bridges.But at 11:11 a.m. local time, the camera suddenly was forced downward so it could only view the ground directly beneath it.
I think what's happening between Russia and Ukraine is gravely concerning to all of us who are watching it, Tai told US Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack during a United States Department of Agriculture event Friday.
The letter, signed by nine senators and one congressman, specifically cited an additional release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Biden said Thursday the United States stands ready to release more oil from Americas oil stockpile, if necessary.
The United Nations refugee agency estimated Thursday that tens of thousands will be displaced as Russia invades Ukraine. Theagency is stepping up operations and capacity in Ukraine and neighboring countries as people start to flee.
There have been no additional airborne drops over the last 24 hours in the Kharkiv area, the official said.
The US has observed at least 200 total missile launches since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a senior US defense official told reporters Friday.
There is an amphibious assault underway on the Sea of Azov, located west of Mariupol in Ukraine, a senior US defense official told reporters on Friday.
US Trade Representative Katherine Tai calledRussias invasion of Ukrainegravely concerning and emphasized the need for US coordination with NATO allies to respond appropriately to the attacks.
I cannot tell you at this time what the casualties are, and I cannot tell you at this time whether those civilian residential areas were deliberately targeted. All I can tell you is we have seen that they have been impacted by some of these missiles, the official said.
The official did not know exactly what these infantrymen are going to do in Ukraine, but the official said the general assumption is they are going to move towards the northeast, towards Mariupol and the Donbas region.
The south towards Kherson on the river  we do assess that they continue to move in that direction. But we also think that  based on what were seeing in addition to moving from Crimea on an axis towards the northwest towards Kherson  they are also splitting off some forces to go to the northeast, sort of in the direction of Mariupol' and the Donbas region, the official said.
The national average price for regular gasoline climbed to $3.57 a gallon on Friday,according to AAA. Thats up by about 3 cents in just a day and 23 cents in a month. Gasoline prices move with a lag to oil.
The missiles being launched are a mix of ballistic missiles and cruise missiles, the official said. The missiles are primarily being launched from ground and air, the official added.
Tai underscored how we as a government stand with our NATO allies, adding that there is a lot of coordination that we need to do with those allies, but also within our own government and economy to look at appropriate responses to the Russian actions.
The US will further need to determine how our trade policies take into account the foreign policy needs but also our domestic economic needs to ensure that we can be the kind of trading partner that our allies need us to be and how we take care of our own, Tai said.
Video taken by a webcam shows a massive Russian military convoy moving in Nova Kakhovka, Ukraine, at a Dnieper River crossing.
Russia has about a third of their combat power in Ukraine out of the total amassed for invasion on Ukraines borders right now, a senior US defense official told reporters Friday.
The Russian invasion of the country is continuing in the Kharkiv area of Ukraine and from the south towards the Ukrainian city of Kherson on the river, the official added. These are still the three main advances on the country that Russia began yesterday, the official said.
We have removed our code from Aeroflot-operated services beyond Moscows Sheremetyevo Airport and removed Aeroflots code from Delta-operated services from Los Angeles and New York-JFK, said a statement from the airline.Accommodations will be made for customers affected by these changes.
Democrats in Congress are calling for the White House totake new steps to blunt the impactof soaring gasoline prices in the wake of Russias attack on Ukraine.
Aeroflot joined the SkyTeam Alliance in 2004, a partnership of 19 international airlines of which Delta is also a member. Delta said it does not operate flights to Ukraine or Russia.
In frame, as the camera looks at the ground, are a number of Russian soldiers.
As Russias invasion of Ukraine continues to cause volatility in the global oil market, we are writing to urge you to consider using all of the tools at your disposal to insulate Americans from rising gasoline prices, the lawmakers wrote in aletterto President Biden dated Thursday.
That does not mean that they will not commit more, the official said. Im just giving you a snapshot of what were seeing right now.
