February 27 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220227
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-27-22/
Canada says it plans to launch an investigation into an Aeroflot flight from Miami to Moscow  that entered Canadian airspace Sunday  violating a ban on all Russian flights due to the ongoing invasion in Ukraine.
He also pointed out that Brazil is dependent on Russian fertilizer, and that action against Moscow "could bring serious harm to agriculture in Brazil." He added that he was in support of peace  "but we don't want to bring more problems to Brazil."
Bolsonaro met with Russian President Vladimir Putin on a visit to Moscow on Feb. 16.
The stage is set for a meeting between Russia and Ukraine Monday on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border, near the Pripyat River.
US first lady Jill Biden expressed concern for the mental health of those anxious about the conflict in Ukraine on Sunday.
Is this a diplomatic breakthrough or a political sideshow while Russia continues its offensive in Ukraine?
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro criticized Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky Sunday, adding that Brazil would "adopt a neutral stance on Ukraine" and will not impose sanctions on Russia.
What the meeting might produce: Zelensky himself on Sunday set low expectations for the meeting, and it is tempting to guess that the meeting on the border will yield little. But it does offer Putin at least some potential room for an exit from the war in Ukraine, if his troops continue to encounter battlefield setbacks against Ukrainian forces.
Canada's Transport Minister Omar Alghabra said earlier Sunday that the country's airspace was closed to all Russian aircraft operators. "We will hold Russia accountable for its unprovoked attacks against Ukraine, he said in atweet.
Google will no longer allow Russian state media outlets to run ads, following a similar decision on Saturday by the tech giant's video subsidiary, YouTube.
The disabled features include Google Maps' live traffic overlay  a feature some researchers have used tomonitor the conflictfrom afar  as well as Live Busyness, a feature that displays how popular a location may be at a given time.
Traffic updates are still available in Ukraine while using Google Maps' navigation mode, Google said.
By Helen Regan, Steve George, Rob Picheta, Jeevan Ravindran, Melissa Macaya, Mike Hayes, Maureen Chowdhury, Amir Vera and Emma Tucker, CNN
Instead, it's ameeting between delegations from both sides. Zelensky's office said Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko called the Ukrainian President Sunday and offered safety guarantees, saying Lukashenko had "taken responsibility for ensuring that all planes, helicopters and missiles stationed on the Belarusian territory will remain on the ground during the Ukrainian delegation's travel, meeting and return."
Let's be clear what this isn't: The meeting is not a summit between Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The Brazilian President's comments Sunday came after the United Nations Security Council voted by majority to hold an emergency meeting today to discuss Russia's invasion. Brazil voted in favor of holding the meeting while Russia voted against it. India, China and the UAE abstained.
Monday's planned meeting follows a flurry of statements from the Kremlin, which claimed earlier the Ukrainian side had countered Russia's proposal to meet in Belarus with a proposal to meet in Warsaw and then dropped contact. Zelensky's office denied claims they refused to negotiate.
Russia's unprovokedassault on Ukraine has faced universal condemnation from Western powers. But putting troops on the ground in Ukraine, which isnot a member of NATO, is a line that the US and other Western allies have not been willing to cross.
US President Joe Biden will hold a call with US allies on Monday morning to discuss the situation in Ukraine and their coordinated response, according to the White House.
But can Ukraine accept any guarantees from Lukashenko? This is the same leader whose authoritiesforced down a Ryanair flight over Belarusian airspacelast year, alleging a "security alert," and arrested a young Belarusian dissident, prompting international outcry.
US Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield told CNN on Sunday that the Biden administration "has made clear" the US will not "put boots on the ground."
Google made the change in an effort to help keep Ukrainians safe and after consultations with local officials, the company said.
The announcement marks the latest blow to Russia-linked media amid a wave of criticism directed at Big Tech platforms in the past week for allowing monetization to continue despite Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
On Friday, Meta, Facebook's parent,said it would suspend Russian state media's ability to run ads and monetize them on its platforms.
On Sunday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his G7 counterparts underscored the unified response to Russias invasion, in a call with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, according to a State Department readout.
She encouraged people to reach out for help, and added that she and US President Joe Biden were praying for "the brave and proud people of Ukraine."
Google Maps has blocked two features in Ukraine that provide information to users in real time, the company confirmed to CNN on Sunday.
"Our hearts are with our troops and our military families, including those who are stationed throughout Europe demonstrating solidarity with our Allies. We are profoundly grateful for your service," she wrote.
When questioned about a possible massacre in Ukraine, Bolsonaro said it was "an exaggeration to speak of massacre," and defended Russias move to recognize the pro-Moscow separatist regions of Luhansk and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine as independent.
