February 22 2022 UkraineRussia crisis news
20220222
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-22-22/
Kishida said Russias actions had clearly violated Ukraines sovereignty, territorial integrity and international law and urged Russia to resolve the situation through a diplomatic process.
Calling Ukraine a country that exists in a security vacuum, he said Kyiv did a lot to strengthen global security by abandoning its nuclear arsenal.
In the event of a larger conflict between Russia and Ukraine, US officials are concerned that transportation networks and broadcast media in Ukraine could be shut down by kinetic or cyberattacks, Matthew Hackner, an official in DHSs Office of Intelligence and Analysis, said on Tuesdays phone briefing, according to people on the call.
Minutes after US President Joe Biden announced new sanctions on Russian banksand elites Tuesday, a senior FBI cyber official asked US businesses and local governments to be mindful of the potential for ransomware attacks as the crisis over the Kremlins invasion of Ukraine deepens.
The United States, the United Kingdom, Ukraine and several EU countries have opposed the pipeline since it was announced in 2015, warning the project would increase Moscow's influence in Europe.
According to Blinken, he sent a letter to Lavrov Tuesday to inform him of the decision.
He said that Ukraine doesnt have any plans to evacuate Mariupol  a port city located in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine.
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, has requested an all- senator briefing on the Ukraine situation from the Biden administration, according to spokesman for Schumer.
After the cyberattacks on Ukrainian government and banking websites last week that the Biden administration blamed on Russias military intelligence directorate, US officials continue to see Russian cyber operations as likely playing a role in any further military invasion.
DHS has been engaging in an outreach campaign to ensure that public and private sector partners are aware of evolving cybersecurity risks and taking steps to increase their cybersecurity preparedness, a DHS spokesperson said in a statement.
Responding to a question from a reporter asking if what we've seen so far is a minor invasion  and it only warrants lesser US sanctions, Kuleba said: There is no such thing as minor, middle or major invasion. Invasion is an invasion.
US President Joe Biden on Tuesday described Russia's maneuverings in Ukraine as "the beginning of a Russian invasion." Biden announced what he labeled "thefirst tranche of sanctions" to punish Moscow, including on two large financial institutions, Russian sovereign debt and Russian elites and their family members.
Nord Stream 2 could deliver 55 billion cubic meters of gas per year. That's more than 50 of Germany's annual consumption and could be worth as much as $15 billion to Gazprom, the Russian state owned company that controls the pipeline.
Asked by Tapper to explain why the United States  which sits thousands of miles from Ukraine  ought to be invested in the conflict, Kuleba pointed to three key factors.
Morrison said at a news conference that Australia will first enact travel bans and targeted financial sanctions on eight members of the Security Council of the Russian Federation  a group of top state officials and defense heads.
There is no doubt that the sanctions imposed against us will hurt the global financial and energy markets," he added. "The United States will not be left out, where ordinary citizens will feel the full consequences of rising prices.
He went on to call the latest US sanctions against Russia announced Tuesday specific and painful for Moscow.
Ring asked state and local officials and business executives to consider how ransomware attacks could disrupt the provision of critical services, the people on the call said.
In remarks from the US State Department Tuesday, Blinken announced hed no longer meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Geneva this week, the latest sign that diplomatic avenues with Russia over Ukraine are quickly closing.
That was a huge contribution. And we expect the principle of reciprocity and equally huge contribution to ensuring Ukraine security, he added.
He also said Japan will ban imports and exports to and from Donetsk and Luhansk, and prohibit the issuance and circulation of Russian bonds in Japan. Kishida added that the details of the sanctions will be discussed further.
With regard to Moscow, new US sanctions will not solve anything, Russia has learned to work and develop under restrictions.
"We want every instrumentavailable to be used in order tostop Putin," he said. "If the price of saving a countryis the most, harshest sanctionspossible, then we should go for theharshest sanctions possible."
The extortion of Colonial Pipeline underscored for Biden administration officials the economic and national security threat posed by ransomware. The incident triggered long lines at gas stations in multiple US states and prompted Biden to call on Russian President Vladimir Putin to rein in cybercriminals operating from Russian soil.
Moving forward, Psaki said, the US remains open to diplomacy in concert with European partners once, if and when, Russia deescalate.
Australia is the latest country to announce sanctions against Russia, with Prime Minister Scott Morrison unveiling new measures Wednesday in response to the "aggression by Russia against Ukraine."
Though Kuleba supports the sanctions as laid out by Biden, calling them an "important" message, he maintains they are insufficient as the situation stands now.
Earlier Tuesday, Germany said it was halting certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline following Moscow's actions in eastern Ukraine on Monday. The 750-mile pipeline was completed in September but has not yet received final certification from German regulators. Without that, natural gas cannot flow through the Baltic Sea pipeline from Russia to Germany.
Japan will impose sanctions against Russia for its actions in Ukraine, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said on Wednesday.
He added that he will extend existing sanctions on Russian-held Crimea and Sevastopol to include Luhansk and Donetsk.
Speaking Tuesday evening, Scholz said what happened this week has been a great disappointment. He said, Putin has built up enough troops along the Ukrainian borders to really be able to fully invade the country.
The phone call was one of a series of recurring briefings that FBI and Department of Homeland Security officials have had for US companies and local governments in the last two months in light of US tensions with Russia over Ukraine. It was scheduled before it was clear that Biden was addressing Russias latest moves in Ukraine on Tuesday.
The US Presidentannounced the first tranche of sanctions against Russian entities for Russian President Vladimir Putins decision to recognize two breakaway regions in Ukraine and send troops there.
Moscow's ambassador to the United States has hit back at the imposition of sanctions on Russia by President Joe Biden, suggesting the move would hurt global financial and energy markets as well as ordinary citizens.
Morrison added that Australia always stands up to bullies, and that he will speak to Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal on Wednesday.
Kuleba's comments come one day after President Vladimir Putin ordered troops into separatist-held parts of eastern Ukraine and signed decrees recognizing the independence of the Moscow-backed regions.
"What I know for certain, andthis was eloquently proved, regretfully, in his addressyesterday, is that he hates the Ukrainianstatehood, he believes that Ukrainehas no right to exist," Kuleba said of Putin.
Context on the sanctions: Biden laid out what he called a "first tranche" of US sanctions against Russia for its actions in eastern Ukraine, including on two large financial institutions, Russian sovereign debt and Russian elites and their family members. He said the sanctions would effectively "cut off Russia's government from Western finance."
Speaking in a televised address on German television on Tuesday evening, local time, Scholz said, We are having a situation right now when nobody should bet on it Nord Stream. He added, We are far away from putting the pipeline into operation.
What Putin has done is a breach of international law that we cannot and will not accept," Scholz added.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba said Tuesday that Russian President Vladimir Putin can still be stopped if Ukraine and its allies act in a very reserved way and keep mounting pressure on the Russian leader.
More background: While ransomware attacks on US organizations by Russian-speaking hackers have continued, Russian authorities have dangled the prospect of cracking down on some groups in recent months, as the standoff of Ukraine brewed.
The chancellor said he believes the Russian president actually intends to change some of Europes geography and that is very threatening.
On the topic of specific forthcoming sanctions, Kuleba suggested no single option or possibility should be left off the global table.
The US could also see a possible increase in cyber threat activity from Russian state-backed hackers as a result of those sanctions, Ring said, according to the people on the call.
The willingness of Russian-speaking cybercriminals to disrupt US critical infrastructure has been a US concern for years, but came to a head last year when a ransomware attack forced major fuel transporter Colonial Pipeline to shut down for days.
Pointing out that Europeans had agreed on not changing the borders again, Scholz said, Who is looking back in history will find many borders that used to be different. If all of them will be discussed again, then we will have a very non-peaceful time ahead of us and therefore we have to come back to countrys sovereignty and borders that are not violated.
US officials continue to say there are no specific, crediblethreatsto the US homeland tied to tensions with Russia over Ukraine, but they are preaching vigilance.
Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba says he knows what Russian President Vladimir Putin's long-term objective is.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said nobody can predict the future of theNord Stream 2gas pipeline, following Russias actions in eastern Ukraine, after earlier halting the progression of the pipeline.
Biden pledged that his administration is using "every tool at our disposal" to limit the effect on gas prices in the US, acknowledging that Americans will likely see rising prices at the pump in the coming months.
We have two plans. Plan A is to utilize every tool of diplomacy to deter Russia and prevent further escalation. And if that fails, Plan B is to fight for every inch of our land, and every city and every village. Then, to fight until we win, of course, Kuleba said.
By Maureen Chowdhury, Aditi Sangal, Meg Wagner, Melissa Macaya, Jessie Yeung, Brad Lendon, Rob Picheta and Jeevan Ravindran, CNN
Canberra will also impose strong economic sanctions against the separatist-held pro-Moscow regions of Luhansk and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, which Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized as independent on Monday. The sanctions target transport, energy, telecommunications, oil, gas and mineral reserves, Morrison said.
The President, she added, is always going to be open to having leader to leader conversations, but this isn't the time to do it, when, and we said this at the time as well, when they are, when President Putin is overseeing the invasion of a sovereign country.
It has never been about NATO for Putin. It's just an excuse. Even if you do nothing, President Putin will find a reason to accuse us of doing something, he continued.
The foreign minister said that Ukraine becoming a NATO member is a choice of the people of Ukraine, adding that no one but Ukraine and NATO will decide on the future of our relationship.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Tuesday that the door to diplomacy still remains open, with Russia, even as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced hed no longer meet with his Russian counterpart following the administrations conclusion that Russian aggression into neighboring Ukraine constituted an invasion.
The US believes Russia has detained the person responsible for the Colonial Pipeline hack, but any cooperation between the two governments on cybercrime could be elusive if relations further deteriorate over Ukraine, according to some analysts.
While Kuleba told Tapper that the moving of Russian troops into the Ukrainian-controlled parts of the Donbas region would mark another crossing of a line by Putin, he noted that the ongoing conflict manifests itself along a multitude of fronts.
"We should be aware of the simple fact:this is hybrid warfare.Russia can attack physically, but also Russian can attack us in cyberspace ... We are in a dialogue with partnersincluding the United Statesabout the identification of thesered lines which will beresponded with sanctions," he said, adding, "I want to make itclear that we have to get readyto act in a very swift mannerbecause the situation can changeliterally every hour."
Kishida said Japan will suspend the issuance of visas and freeze the assets of people involved in recognizing the independence of Donetsk and Luhansk, the two separatist-held pro-Moscow regions in eastern Ukraine.
In summing up his explanation as to why the US involvement in the conflict is appropriate, Kuleba said: "All in all ...  Americans should beinterested in keeping the worldorder as it stands and thefuture of this order is beingdecided right now in Ukraine."
The request comes as the Biden administration unveiled new sanctions to respond to Moscow, with President Biden describing the events now underway in Ukraine as "the beginning of a Russian invasion."
