February 28 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220228
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-28-22/h_be6c1367333c4ceecfbf859b79b277fe
According to the latest data,2,802people were detained for taking part in unsanctioned demonstrations in57cities throughout the country on Sunday, OVD-Info also reported.In Moscow alone, 1,275people were detained.
On Thursday, Russias Investigative Committee warned that participation in any anti-war protest was illegal. It also said that offenses could be entered on participants criminal records which would leave a mark on the persons future
CNNs Matthew Chance walked through the aftermath of the scene on Monday, where charred debris litters the ground and the remains of Russian soldiers lay abandoned on the tarmac.
The Vatican is willing "to facilitate" a dialogue between Ukraine and Russia to end the war, Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin said Monday.
Belarusian Foreign Minister Vladimir Makei welcomed delegations from Ukraine and Russia for talks on Monday, assuring delegates that they should feel completely safe.
Long lines have been forming at supermarkets across Kyiv, after a 36-hour curfew lifted in the Ukrainian capital Monday.
The Russian Central Bank also said it would announce the opening times for Tuesday on the day, at 9:00 a.m. local time 1 a.m. ET
Moscow's stock exchange will not open Monday, the Russian Central Bank said, after the country's currency plummeted in the wake of Western sanctions.
Due to the current situation, the Bank of Russia has decided not to open a stock market section, a derivatives market section, or a derivatives market section on the Moscow Exchange today, the statement from the bank read.
Parolin, who is the number one ranking Vatican official after Pope Francis, told the Italian newspaperCorriere della Serathat he believes that "there is still and always room for negotiation. It is never too late."
Pope Francis once again on Sunday spoke on the conflict during his weekly Angelus prayer and asked the faithful to pray and invited "all to make March 2, Ash Wednesday, a day of prayer and fasting for peace in Ukraine."
Parolin added that the Vatican has been following with "great attention the events in Ukraine," and that it offers "its willingness to facilitate dialogue with Russia, is always ready to help the parties to resume this path."
Dear friends, the President of Belarus asked me to welcome you and to provide everything for your work, as agreed with President Zelensky and President Putin. You may feel completely safe here. This is our sacred duty, Makei said.
Official civilian death toll reaches triple figures: The latest toll for civilian deaths in Ukrainestands at102, with 304 people injured, but the true figure is feared to be considerably higher, the UNs Michelle Bachelet said Monday.
Moscow's invasionhas encountered "stiffer than expected" resistance from the Ukrainian military as well as unexpected difficulties supplying its forces, two senior US officials with direct knowledge told CNN on Sunday.
According to Bachelet, 422,000 people have fled Ukraine, while other civilians still in the country are forced to huddle in different forms of bomb shelters, such as underground stations, to escape explosions.
But Chance added that the question remains: What will Russia do now?" He predicted a strong likelihood that Moscow could "double down and go in much harder" in response. That is the big risk now for the Ukrainian military.
The suspension of trading comes after the Russian currency, the ruble, plunged nearly 30 on Monday, as markets began to assess the impact of sanctions imposed by the United States and NATO allies on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
"We appeal to the European Union to urgently admit Ukraine using a new procedure," Zelensky said in his latest video message.
The Kremlin declined to comment Monday on the progress of Russia's so-called special military operation in Ukraine, referring questions on the matter to the military.
Heavy-duty military vehicles were reduced to rubble in the fighting, with Western anti-tank missiles assisting in the Ukrainians' defence, Chance said.
Ukrainian officials and Ukrainian soldiers who Ive been speaking to over the last couple of hours are absolutely enthused by this victory," Chance said.
A CNN producer who went to three supermarkets said the lines were extremely long and that shelves were emptying fast.
The country demanded an immediate ceasefire and withdrawal of Russian troops in the lead-up to the meeting.
Individuals are allowed to stage solo protests, but it is not unheard of for people to be detained for those as well.
Russian forces have encountered "stiffer than expected" resistance from the Ukrainian military as well as unexpected difficulties supplying its forces, two senior US officials with direct knowledge told CNN on Sunday.
The curfew was in place from 5 p.m. on Saturday until 8 a.m. on Monday morning and required all residents to stay at home.
The exact location of the talks between Russia and Ukraine on Monday has been kept secret for security reasons.
Zelensky said he spoke on Sundaywith the Presidents of Portugal, Lithuania, France and Poland as well as thePrime Ministers of Belgium, Spain and the United Kingdom."Support of our anti-war coalition is unconditional and unprecedented," Zelensky said.
The talks are in Belarus, but the only location that has been announced is that they are on the banks of the Pripyat river in the Gomel region of Belarus.
The death toll includessevenchildren, Bachelet said, adding: Most of these civilians were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and air strikes.
Many food stores were shuttered since bombings in Kyiv started last week. People have reported shortages of certain supplies.
I dont think this is the time to sum up the results of the military operation, we need to wait for completion of the operation, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call with journalists.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked the European Union on Monday to "urgently admit Ukraine" to the bloc.
Unexploded grenades, smoking vehicles and dead bodies litter a scorched bridge near Kyiv after a Russian attack was repelled by Ukrainian forces.
By Aditi Sangal, Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Rob Picheta, Ed Upright, Maureen Chowdhury, Jason Kurtz, Melissa Macaya and Meg Wagner, CNN
Kyiv municipal authorities said grocery stories will be open and city public transport system will run at limited capacity.
Russian authorities have detained a total of5,942people for participating in anti-war protests across the country since the Kremlin ordered an invasion of Ukraine,independent monitoring site OVD-Info said on Sunday.
Its not just here. Weve seen instances all over the country where Ukrainians have really pushed back against the Russians, and its really made them feel that they can win this war."
Talks between Ukrainian and Russian delegations in Belarus began just before 1 p.m. Ukrainian time 6 a.m. ET on Monday.
