February 24 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220225
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-24-22-intl/h_6b42ef21fbc2684426583983fdd94d8e
CNN's Kate Sullivan in Washington, DC, Niamh Kennedy in London and James Frater in Lviv contributed reporting to this post.
Trudeau called on Putin to stop all hostile actions against Ukraine and withdraw all military and proxy forces from the country.
The rally was one of two organized on Thursday to show support for Ukraine, including a protest staged in front of the Russian Embassy in Paris.
US President JoeBidensaid Thursday that the newly announced sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine will take some time to have their full impacts felt by Russia and its economy.
Most of the missiles are short-range ballistic missiles, but the total airstrikes include a mix of medium-range as well as cruise missiles, the official said.
At least 1675 people have been detained today at anti-war protests all over Russia, with at least 919 of them in Moscow, according to independent monitoring group OVD-Info.
International humanitarian law calls for protection of health facilities, workers, patients, transport, and supplies. As part of WHOs role to document attacks on health, we will continue to monitor and report such incidents, Tedros said.
He added,"He's not going to say, 'Oh my God, these sanctions are coming. I'm going to stand down.' He's going to test the resolve of the West to see if we stay together and we will. We will and it will impose significant costs on him."
Earlier Thursday morning, Trudeau met with Canadas G7 partners to coordinate a response to the invasion. He said the Canadian government is also working closely with NATO and other allies.
"The health system must continue to function to deliver essential care to people for all health issues, he added in the post.
Ukrainian officials said more than 40 soldiers and as many as 10 civilians had been killed since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began shortly before dawn.
What happens if Russia is removed? There is precedent for removing a country from SWIFT.
Lviv hosts a number of embassies and consulates whichrelocated fromKyiv in recent weeksbecause ofthe relative safety of the western Ukrainian city.
On Thursday morning, Russia attacked three locations in the region, activating air raid sirens in the city for the first time since World War II.
And while the eyes of the world are on leaders, we can never lose sight of the human cost of conflict, he said. Innocent people, including children, are now facing violence and chaos. In these dark hours, Canadas message to Ukraine is this:You are not alone. We are standing with you.
Right now, the official said the US is not seeing a push deeper or further into the West.
Russian airborne troops have taken control of the Antonov Airport, which is about 25 miles away from the center of Kyiv, Ukraine, CNN's Matthew Chance reported Thursday. "The helicopter-borne troops were landed in the early hours of the morning to make and perform an air bridge to allow for more troops to come in," he reported.
The tensions between Ukraine and Russia escalated after Russian forcesinvaded Ukraine from three sides, while explosions rang through a number of cities, including the capital Kyiv, in a broad attack that began before dawn on Thursday. The West condemned Russian President Vladimir Putin for this invasion.
Crowds gathered at Place de la Rpublique in central Paris on Thursday evening in a show of support for Ukraine, with many carrying the Ukrainian flag, according to CNN's team in Paris.
US President Joe Biden said Thursday that removing Russia fromSWIFTis not the direction the rest of Europe wants to go in at this moment, but noted that taking the nation out of the network is "always an option."
I told him that we are announcing strong action today and continue to stand with him and with the Ukrainian people, Trudeau said.
World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Thursday expressed sadness and worry for Ukrainians amid the Russian invasion.
It's not clear how much support there is among US allies for taking similar action against Russia. The United States and Germany have the most to lose if Russia is disconnected, because their banks are the most frequent SWIFT users to communicate with Russian banks, according to Shagina.
The United Kingdom is set to sanction 100 people and entities as part of further sanctions against Russia, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced on Thursday afternoon.
Here's a look at the unveiled sanctions and who they will target, according to the White House:
CNN teams heard explosions in and near multiple Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, the second-largest city Kharkiv, Odessa, and distant firing from Zaporizhzhia. Images released by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's office showed large explosions to the east of the capital Kyiv with huge columns of smoke rising into the air.
The crew died," the statement read, without clarifying how many were on board and saying the cause of the crash was equipment failure.
European Union leaders have been considering what some are calling the "nuclear option" of removing Russia from SWIFT, a high security network that connect thousands of financial institutions around the world, following the invasion of Ukraine.
The President also said that the sanctions are critical for sending a message to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
"SWIFT is a neutral global cooperative set up and operated for the collective benefit of its community," the organization said in a statement in January. "Any decision to impose sanctions on countries or individual entities rests solely with the competent government bodies and applicable legislators," it added.
SWIFT is based in Belgium and governed by a board consisting of 25 people, including Eddie Astanin, chairman of the management board at Russia's Central Counterparty Clearing Centre. SWIFT, which describes itself as a "neutral utility," is incorporated under Belgian law and must comply with EU regulations.
US President Joe Biden says he agreed with fellow G7 leaders "to move forward on devastating packages of sanctions and other economic measures to hold Russia to account."
Trudeau said Canada is imposing severe sanctions that target 58 individuals and entities, including members of the Russian elite and their family members.
US President JoeBidensaid Thursday that the newly announced sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine will take some time to have their full impacts felt by Russia and its economy.The President also said that the sanctions are critical for sending a message to Putin."If we don't move against him now with these significant sanctions, he will be emboldened,"Bidensaid.
Russia has launched in total more than 160 missiles for airstrikes, a senior US defense official told reporters Thursday.
Russian forces took control of a Ukrainian air base near Kyiv and the Chernobyl nuclear plant
"If we don't move against him now with these significant sanctions, he will be emboldened,"Bidensaid.
Russian riot police were urging protesters to leave Pushkinskaya Square in Moscow. CNNs Nic Robertson and team on the ground have witnessed people being detained by police. Some are carrying signs with messages, including multiple signs saying no to war. Russian authorities on Thursday warned citizens that participating in anti-war protests could lead to prosecution and criminal charges.
All street and building lighting is to be switched off at 11 p.m. local time 4 p.m. ET, a Facebook post by the Lviv regional authority said. It instructed households to follow the order, andasked people not to leave their homes, with the exception of emergency cases.
The sanctions that weve proposed on all their banks are of equal consequence, maybe more consequence thanSWIFT, Biden said, referring to the latest round of sanctions he announced today.
By Aditi Sangal, Meg Wagner, Adrienne Vogt, Melissa Macaya, Rob Picheta, Lauren Said-Moorhouse, Ed Upright, Maureen Chowdhury and Fernando Alfonso III, CNN
Authorities in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv have ordered a city-wide lights out as a preventative security measure, less than a day after Russia launched a full-scale invasion of the country.
In a speech to the UK parliament, the prime minister said the UK is announcing the"largest and most severe package of sanctions that Russia has ever seen."
The Foreign Minister of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba on Thursday urged the West to ban Russia fromSWIFTin a tweet. Earlier on Thursday, CNN reported that the EU was undecided as to whether to cut Russia off fromSWIFTand that EU nations were split over the decision.
But what is SWIFT, and what could it mean for Russia? The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication was founded in 1973 to replace the telex and is now used by over 11,000 financial institutions to send secure messages and payment orders. With no globally accepted alternative, it is essential plumbing for global finance.
SWIFT unplugged Iranian banks in 2012 after they were sanctioned by the European Union over the country's nuclear program. Iran lost almost half of its oil export revenue and 30 of foreign trade following the disconnection, according to Shagina.
Removing Russia from SWIFT would make it nearly impossible for financial institutions to send money in or out of the country, delivering a sudden shock to Russian companies and their foreign customers  especially buyers of oil and gas exports denominated in US dollars.
A Russian Antonov-26 military transport aircraft crashed in the Voronezh region, near Ukraine, while transporting equipment, the Russian Western Military District said in a statement on Thursday, according to RIA, a Russian state news agency.
I call for peace and sustained access for the delivery of humanitarian assistance in Ukraine. Ive released a further $3.5 million from WHOs Contingency Fund for Emergencies to buy and deliver urgent medical supplies. This adds to supplies we prepositioned in health facilities, the tweet concluded.
Russian forces have seized control of theChernobyl power plantin northern Ukraine, the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster, according to the agency that manages the area. Troops overran the plant on the first day ofRussia's multi-pronged invasion of Ukraine, a spokesperson for the State Agency of Ukraine on Exclusion Zone Management, Yevgeniya Kuznetsov, told CNN.
The European Central Bank has warned lenders with significant exposure to Russia to prepare for sanctions against Moscow, according to theFinancial Times. ECB officials have also asked banks how they would respond to scenarios including a move to prevent Russian banks accessing SWIFT.
Slava  a Ukrainian national who declined to give his last name for safety reasons  told CNN, I am here to support my country.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau condemned Russias invasion of Ukraine during a briefing Thursday afternoon and announced a new set of sanctions.
In his address, Trudeau also called Putins actions the greatest threat to European stability since World War II, and said he has been in contact with Ukraine PresidentVolodymyr Zelensky.
Canada is unequivocal in our condemnation of Russias unprovoked and unjustified attack on the sovereign, democratic state of Ukraine, he said. President Putins brazen disregard for international law, democracy, and human life are a massive threat to security and peace around the world.
