How much is Vladimir Putin worth Almost no one knows for sure
20220301
https://www.cnn.com/2022/02/28/business/vladimir-putin-wealth-sanctions/
One theory of Putins wealth suggests that he has strongarmed Russias oligarchs, threatening them with arrest or worse unless they fork over cash or stakes in their companies to him.
High net worth people tend to get attached to their assets, even though they have plenty in reserve.
The US and its European allies on Friday announced new sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin, in a rare move targeting a foreign leaders personal wealth.
Putins visible watch collection is worth multiples of his official salary, Bill Browder, an investor in Russia who became a fierce critic of Putin, told CNN in 2018. The wealth came as a result of extortion and massive theft from state funds.
Browder testified before the US Senate in 2017 that he estimates the Russian leaders wealth to hover around $200 billion in assets, which would make him among the wealthiest people on the planet.
If the US government, along with the EU, were to get serious about going after his assets, thered be a lot of targets to hit, Delston says. Theyd be all over the world  certainly within the bounds of the EU and the US.
Which isnt to say the sanctions are toothless. They might make only a dent in Putins total fortune, but they do undermine his credibility on the world stage.
In stressing how rare it is for the United States to personally target a head of state with sanctions, the US Treasury Department said Friday that President Putin joins a very small group that includes despots such as Kim Jong Un, Alyaksandr Lukashenka and Bashar al-Assad.
On paper, the Russian leader looks like a humble bureaucrat. In 2018, Putin submitted an official income declaration that shows he owns an 800-square-foot apartment in St. Petersburg, along with two Soviet-era cars and an off-road truck. The Kremlin says his annual income is about $140,000  not an immodest figure in Russia, though hardly one that could keep Putin sporting his rotation of luxury watches.
But the impact of those sanctions may be largely symbolic. Although Putin is believed to hold billions of dollars in personal wealth, little is known about the exact amount or where it might be.
But just because the general public doesnt have a good sense of where Putins assets are hiding, we can assume that US and EU intelligence agencies and law enforcement agencies have been tracking his assets for years, said Ross S. Delston, an anti-money-laundering expert.
Still, tracking his wealth has proven next to impossible. Forbes magazine, which counts sleuthing the personal fortunes of the worlds elite as part of its core mission, said figuring out Putins net worth is probably the most elusive riddle in wealth hunting.
But would freezing Putins assets deter him from continuing the attack on Ukraine? Almost certainly not.
Putin has left almost no paper trail for his assets  mostly property  which are hidden behind complex financial schemes organized by his confidantes, according to a 2016 Panama Papers report by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. Among the luxuries that have been linked to Putins friends and family, but never directly to him, are a $100 million mega-yacht and a Black Sea palace allegedly built for Putins personal use.
