July 18 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220618
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-07-18-22/
Separately, Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of the National Security and Defense Council, told Ukrainian television that "today, we really have a completely different situation than it was a month ago. Now, thanks to the fact that we receive enough weapons from our partners, we have established a certain parity in certain positions."
I demonstrated good work results, she wrote. I managed to unite the legal, professional, and criminal procedural world elite around the problems of Ukraine in the interests of Ukraine.
Hayday said that "we can clearly understand that the Russians are really afraid of a further increase in those Western weapons."
Ukrainian first lady Olena Zelenska will deliver remarks before the US Congress on Wednesday, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office announced Monday.
However, Eduard Basurin, a spokesperson for the DPR militia, claimed that preparations are underway "to carry out the tasks planned for the liberation of the republic's territory. The same thing is happening in Avdiivka and in the Horlivka area."
Ankara said Helsinki and Stockholm agreed to not provide support to the Kurdish People's Protection Units, also known as YPG, which Turkey views as a terrorist organization, according to the Turkish Presidency.
CNN has identified nearly twenty strikes far behind Russian lines, in Donetsk, Luhansk, Mykolaiv and Kherson regions, so far this month  some of them causing large explosions and multiple detonations.
Both the Ukrainian military and the leadership of Russian-backed separatist-held Donetsk People's Republic DPR have been talking about the ongoing Russian offensive in Donetsk.
Istanbul also said the three countries agreed on not having national arms embargoes between them and would commit to establishing an intelligence sharing mechanism for counter-terrorism and to combat organized crime.
Speaking about the situation in Donbas, Serhiy Hayday, head of the Luhansk regional military administration, said Monday that "Western weapons work not at 100 but at 200 because Russian warehouses are blown up. Command posts are also blown up. "
In her comment, Venediktova added she would not argue the presidents decision or opinion, but said she was proud of her work.
Danilov said Ukraine would like more weapons in future to tip the balance in its favor "so that we have as many capabilities as possible to end this war as soon as possible."
Most of the information that the US is passing to the Prosecutor General of Ukraine on a routine basis is open-source information, Price added.
The Turkish statement said Finland and Sweden also confirmed the separatist militant Kurdistan's Workers Party, also known as PKK, which Turkey, the US and EU consider a terrorist organization, is a "proscribed terrorist organization" and commit to prevent activities "of the PKK and all other terrorist organizations and their extensions."
All members of the House and Senate are invited to the speech, which is set for 11 a.m. ET in the Congressional Auditorium at the Capitol Visitor Center in Washington, DC.
As soon as the stage of "settlement" of the existing situation is completed, adequately and understandably for all parties, I will give a comprehensive comment," Venediktova wrote.
Zelensky suspended Bakanov and the Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova on Sunday, as he announced an investigation into their departments, due to the alleged presence of Russian collaborators.
Avdiivka is immediately north of the city of Donetsk  but despite months of bombardment remains in Ukrainian hands.
The resolution will be discussed at the next plenary session, which is expected to take place in the next 24 hours.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan on Monday renewed his threat to freeze the process of NATO membership for Sweden and Finland after conditionally agreeing to green light their bid following negotiations with the Nordic countries and NATO members in late June.
Turkey said in late June that it signed a trilateral memorandum with Finland and Sweden supporting their NATO membership bids, which require ratification from all 30 members states' parliaments and legislatures.
If the corresponding resolution is registered in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, I will not hesitate for a second and will report to the people's representatives, she concluded.
Zaluzhniy said he had thanked Gen. Mark Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the US, for the help of the US and its allies "in the struggle for freedom."
We see that Sweden does not give a good picture in this regard, he added, without explaining his comments.
Jill Biden will host Ukrainian first lady Olena Zelenska at the White House Tuesday afternoon, according to a release from the East Wing. The two women are slated to talk privately during a scheduled bilateral meeting.
Zelensky suspended Venediktova and the head of the countrys intelligence service, SBU, Ivan Bakanov, on Sunday as he announced an investigation into their departments, due to the alleged presence of Russian collaborators.
Valeriy Zaluzhniy, commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, said that the "timely arrival" of longer range artillery such as the US HIMARS system was helping to change the battlefield.
Ukrainian forces are still defending the towns of Bakhmut and Siversk, which are in the pocket of the Donetsk territory.
In his daily video message, Zelensky said that the armed forces are "able to inflict significant logistical losses on the occupiers. It is increasingly difficult for the Russian army to hold positions on the captured territory. Step by step, we advance, disrupt the supply of the occupiers, and identify and neutralize collaborators."
Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said she will not discuss the decision by President Volodymyr Zelensky's to suspend her while an investigation into her office is underway.
We do have an intelligence sharing relationship with our Ukrainian counterparts, that is we continue to proceed ahead with that, Price said.
Following the signing of the memorandum  which covered several outstanding issues between Turkey, Finland and Sweden  the two Nordic countriesmade the historic decision to formally apply for NATO membership, ending decades of neutrality.
The US State Department is aware of the reports that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced he plans to suspend two of his top law enforcement officials over the weekend, citing instances of treason, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said at a briefing Monday.
Biden and Zelenska first met in person in May when Biden made a stealth trip to Ukraine. The first ladies had been in communication prior to their meeting, which was the first time Zelenska emerged from hiding since the start of the Russian invasion in February.
At the same time, Russians are intensifying hostilities towards the town of Avdiivka, trying to improve their "tactical position," but they were unsuccessful and had withdrawn, the General Staff added.
The State Department is leaning forward in terms of the information they are sharing with Ukrainian partners to help them build the case for accountability against those who may have perpetrated war crimes and other atrocities, Price added.
"The enemy continues offensive attempts in the direction of the cities of Bakhmut and Siversk" but is meeting pushback from Ukrainian forces, the Ukrainian General Staff said Monday.
President Volodymyr Zelensky says that the Ukrainian Armed Forces are now able to inflict "significant losses" on the Russians  and other Ukrainian officials have said that the influx of Western weapons is changing the battlefield.
The goal of DPR forces was to surround Ukrainian forces in Bakhmut as well as ensure that territory held by the DPR is beyond the range of Ukrainian artillery, Basurin said, adding that advances by DPR forces along with Russian units and the Luhansk People's militia would "make it possible to force" Ukrainian forces to retreat deep into the Ukraine territory, thereby securing both Donetsk and Yasynvata and Makiivka from shelling."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky put forward a resolution to the countrys parliament to dismiss the head of Ukraines intelligence agency SBU, Ivan Bakanov.
During their one-hour closed meeting, Zelenska shared with Biden her concerns for the emotional health of Ukrainian children.
Erdoan had saidSweden promised to extradite 73 people to Turkey because of the memorandum, which stipulates that Sweden and Finland will address Turkeys pending extradition requests of terror suspects in accordance with the European Convention on Extradition.
By Andrew Raine, Kathleen Magramo, Aditi Sangal, Mike Hayes, Elise Hammond and Maureen Chowdhury, CNN
