June 1 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220602
https://edition.cnn.com/webview/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-06-01-22/h_739f0559c5de168e797e97b7c3bb05e5
The Biden administration is working to get temporary storage containers for Ukrainian grain into the country, a stopgap measure as it seeks to mitigate a growing food crisis caused by Russiasmonths-long blockade of Ukrainian ports, administration officials told CNN.
The new security assistance package will also include air surveillance radars, additional Javelin anti-tank weapons, anti-armor weapons, artillery rounds, helicopters, tactical vehicles and spare parts to help the Ukrainians continue maintaining the equipment, the officials said.
In southern Ukraine, according to the military, "the Russians also continue to fire on civilian infrastructure and residential areas" in Mykolaiv, a city that is regularly shelled.
Stoltenberg also touched on NATOs security strategy to prepare for an age of increased strategic competition with authoritarian powers like Russia and China.Stoltenbergfurther referred to why Ukraine must continue to receive support. If Putin wins the war, then the price we have to pay would be higher than to now invest in support for Ukraine.
UN and Turkish officials are preparing for separate rounds of diplomatic talks with Moscow coalescing around a new plan to try to open up sea routes for Ukrainian grains, sources say.
The US is mindful of the escalation risk in everything were doing associated with the conflict in Ukraine, including the latest decision to provide Ukraine with four HIMARS systems, but ultimately Russia doesnt get a veto over what the US sends to Ukrainians, Defense Department Undersecretary for Policy Dr. Colin Khal told reporters during a briefing at the Pentagon Wednesday.
The officials said the systems that the US is sending Ukraine will be equipped with munitions that will allow Ukraine to launch rockets about 49 miles. That is far less than the systems maximum range, but far greater than anything Ukraine has been sent to date.
Still, Biden sought to spell out clearly in the op-ed what the US aims in Ukraine were and was careful to note the US is not looking to directly engage Russia.
The NATO chief touched on the significance of the bids of the two Nordic countries, calling it historic and that their membership will only strengthen our alliance.
The latest package of security assistance for Ukraine from the Biden administration includes HIMARS, or High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, as well as 1,000 more Javelin missiles and launch pads for those missiles, according to the Department of Defense states.
The officials said the systems that the US is sending Ukraine will be equipped with munitions that will allow Ukraine to launch rockets about 49 miles. That is far less than the systems maximum range but far greater than anything Ukraine has been sent to date.
I think theres a growing recognition of countries around the world that the challenges that theyre facing now, compounded by conflict, compounded by Russias aggression, are due to what Russia is doing, said Blinken.
The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces reported that the Russians "continue to storm Severodonetsk and establish control over the city's eastern part."
We do not seek a war between NATO and Russia. As much as I disagree with Mr. Putin, and find his actions an outrage, the United States will not try to bring about his ouster in Moscow, Biden said, roughly two months after declaring in Warsaw, Poland, that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Wednesday that Ukraines demands to the West regarding the supply of advanced rocket launchers go beyond all limits and decency" and is a "direct provocation.
When discussing the war in Ukraine, Stoltenberg said Putin made a strategic mistake by launching the war, and underestimated the strength of the Ukrainian people and unity of NATO. President Putin wanted less NATO, he is getting more NATO, more troops and more NATO members," he said.
Speaking at a joint news conference with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Washington, DC, Stoltenberg went on to explain his confidence in the decision because all allies agree NATO enlargement has been a great success.
Ukrainian forces still appear to control western sections of the city. Social media video showed Russian soldiers around the city's Square of Peace, which is in the northern part of the city. Several bodies, apparently of civilians, could be seen lying in the square. Earlier Wednesday, Serhiy Hayday, the head of the regional military administration, said that some Ukrainian units had fallen back to more defensible positions but others remained in the city.
Overall, the US has now committed approximately $5.3 billion dollars in security assistance to Ukraine since the beginning of the Biden administration and $4.6 billion since the beginning of Russias invasion on Feb. 24, Kahl added.
In response to Biden's announcement, the Kremlin said earlier Wednesday the US was "adding fuel to the fire" by supplying weapons to Kyiv.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday announced a $700 million drawdown in arms and equipment to Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky gave US President Joe Biden assurances Ukraine would not escalate the conflict if the US did provide HIMARS systems to Ukraine, Kahl added.
As CNNreported last week, Russia also appears to be ramping up its efforts to steal large quantities of Ukrainian grain.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that Russia risks whats left of its reputation by not allowing food to get out of Ukrainian ports.
Blinken said that an additional 40 million people are estimated to be food insecure as a result of the Russian invasion.
Similarly, the military said, attempts by the Russians to break through from the south toward Bakhmut had been repelled.
As he previewed in aNew York Times op-edTuesday, US President Joe Biden announced today a new package of aid to Ukraine.
These storage containers  such as bags or boxes  could help salvage some of the more than 20 million tons of grain that arecurrently stuck inside Ukraine. They could also help Ukraine load the grain onto trains or trucks out of the country once overland routes are established, a senior administration official explained.
"Two weeks ago, around 60 of all Mykolaiv population remained in the city. But now people tend to come back, regardless of the recommendation to wait for another two to three weeks. As the intensity of the shelling has grown, people still come back," Kim added.
Weve had one of our senior officials go around the world to make that very clear to other countries and to help them with any questions they may have, said Blinken. This is on Russia.
The secretary general went on to remind Russia they agreed on a UN statement in January that clearly stated nuclear war cannot be won and should not be fought, indicating Moscow knows that any use of nuclear weapons would totally change the nature of a conflict and reiterated nuclear weapons should not be used.
Blinken ended his statement by vowing that the US and its allies "will stand with Ukraine for as long as it takes."
He continued, This new package will arm them with new capabilities and advanced weaponry, including HIMARS with battlefield munitions, to defend their territory from Russian advances. We will continue to lead the world in providing historic assistance to support Ukraines fight for freedom.
Meanwhile, millions of tons of grain remain stuck in Ukraine, stored in silos and at the port in Odesa, leading to a dramatic spike in global food prices thats likely to worsen as the war continues. Ukraine is the worlds fourth-largest exporter of corn and the fifth-largest exporter of wheat, according to the State Department, and the UNs program to fight food insecurity buys about half of its wheat from Ukraine each year.
Ukraine had sought longer range weapons, but the US clearly had resisted due to concerns Ukraine would strike inside Russia thereby potentially escalating the war.
Today also marked Children's Day in Ukraine. More than 240 children have died in the war, Ukrainian officials say.
He also pointed to the unity of allies and partners implementing the EUs sanctions packages.
Russian artillery was used against Ukrainian defenses in the towns of Ridne and Sviatohirsk, which is north of Sloviansk, the military said.Russian troops had tried to take two villages in the area but withdrew.
The US agreed to provide Ukraine with these weapons as long as Ukraine assured the US they would not target locations inside Russian territory with the US weapons systems.
As we looked at the targets that they were looking to be able to go after on Ukrainian territory and have some additional standoff, we thought the HIMARS with the GMLRS rounds  these guided long-range rounds with about 70km range could service any target that they needed precisely  so we settled on the HIMARS with the GMLRS round as the appropriate round at this time, Kahl said.
If Russians dont allow it, we need to, as a global community, we need to find a solution how to do it without Russian agreement, Landsbergis said.
These weapons will give Ukraine critical capabilities to help Ukrainians repel the Russians, Defense Department Undersecretary for Policy Colin Kahl said at a briefing at the Pentagon Wednesday.
According to the Ukrainian military, Russian forces have tried without success to advance on several fronts Wednesday but have met resistance and fallen back.
More context: Senior administration officials confirmed to reporters on Tuesday that the US will send UkraineUS-made High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systemsas part of the United States' 11th package of security assistance to Ukraine.
The assurances have been given at multiple levels of Ukrainian government. Secretary Austin has raised these issues with Minister Reznikov in their numerous calls. Theyre talking to each other once or twice a week, that has been true since the beginning of the conflict, but this particular assurance goes all the way to the top of the Ukrainian government to include President Zelensky, Kahl said.
By Helen Regan, Andrew Raine, Lianne Kolirin, Jack Guy, Adrienne Vogt, Aditi Sangal and Meg Wagner, CNN
It seeks relationships with countries around the world, including many countries that are now the victim of Russian aggression because of growing food insecurity resulting from that aggression, said Blinken at a joint press conference with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.
Secretary Austin highlighted the success of the Ukraine Contact Group held on May 23 and noted the unity of the international community in supporting Ukraine as it repels the Russian invasion, Kahl said.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Wednesday that he will be meeting with senior officials of Turkey, Finland and Sweden in the coming days and is confident we will find a way forward with intentions to make progress on Finland and Swedens application status before the next NATO Summit, which is scheduled to take place in Madrid at the end of June.
He continued: In the European Union, especially in its northern part. There are politicians who are ready to go into this madness in order to satisfy their ambitions. But serious countries in the European Union, of course, are well aware of the unacceptability of such scenarios, and we recently heard signs of reasonable assessments from Washington."
The United States decided to send Ukraine four HIMARS systems,or high mobility artillery rocket systems,with about 70 kilometers about 43 miles range instead of a target with a longer range as Ukrainians had requested, Kahl told reporters at a briefing at the Pentagon Wednesday.
Vitalii Kim, the head of Mykolaiv regional military administration, said one person had been killed in the latest shelling.
He also referred to exceptions in sanctions imposed on Russia to allow it to export food.
We dont assess that they need systems that range out hundreds and hundreds of kilometers for the current fight, and so thats how we settled on it, Kahl added.
Still, as these efforts are underway the US and its international partners are no closer to finding a quick and absolute solution to lifting the Russian blockade of Ukrainian ports thats raised global food prices and threatened to cause acatastrophic food shortagein parts of the world.
This is the first presidential drawdown authority security assistance package announced by the Biden administration since Congress passed the $40 billion supplemental funding bill for Ukraine aid in May.
"The Kremlin has succeeded only in devastating communities, brutalizing civilians, disrupting Ukraines agriculture, and threatening global food security by blocking Ukrainian ports.The will of Ukraines courageous forces to defend their country is admirable, and Ukraine has shown it will never be subjugated to Russia," Blinken added.
The Defense Department also announced that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke with Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov on Tuesday to discuss Ukraines military requirements.
Stoltenberg also addressed the nuclear saber rattling rhetoric used by Russia, saying it only increases tensions, but that they have not seen any changes in Russias nuclear posture.
Senior administration officials confirmed to reporters on Tuesday that the US will send UkraineUS-made High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systemsas part of the United States' 11th package of security assistance to Ukraine.
As he previewed in aNew York Times op-edlast night, US President Joe Biden has announced a new package of aid to Ukraine.
Blinken said that after the food security summit held at the UN, UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres has been working to see if he can find a way forward on this to allow the ships out to end this blockade.
The work that the US is doing to open up overland routes for the grain to get into neighboring countries, get containers into the country, and implement long-term changes meant to drive down global reliance on Ukrainian grain could collectively have an impact on the crisis. But many view the efforts as marginal fixes to a much larger problem that cant be completely resolved until Russia eases its blockade, particularly of Ukraines biggest port in Odesa, which has been surrounded by Russian warships for months.
