June 20 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220521
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-06-20-22/h_46a7878f267539f7c6d238acfcaa2ea9
Thewaving of the flagisthenshownfrom another vantage point at ground level. "Rusak" radios into his commanders: "I'm going on a lunch break right now. I have done everything according to the plan. No losses. The enemy activity was insignificant."
The first concert began witha solemn performance of the National Anthem of Ukraine, as the audience "rose from the firstchords of the orchestra," read a press release from the opera house.
More background: On Wednesday, CNN reportedthat Drueke, 39, from Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Huynh, 27, from Hartselle, Alabama, had been missing for nearly a week and there were fears that they may have been captured by Russian forces, according to their families and a fellow fighter. Drueke and Huynh had been fighting alongside Ukrainian forces north of Kharkiv.
In an interview with dpa news agency, Scholz said: "It is absolutely necessary to speak to Putin. And I will continue to do so, as the French President will also.
The Russian troops meet no resistance as they enter Lyman's administrative building, its windows shattered from fighting and glass lying all around.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visited the city on Saturday, a day after the reopening, and toured the frontlines and a hospital treating wounded soldiers, his office said. Zelensky saidRussian shelling in the Odessa region has recently killed at least 55 residents and destroyed several buildings.
A photo of the two men emerged Thursday with their hands tied behind their back and in the back of a Russian truck.
Making their way up several flights of stairs to the roof of the building, a Russian soldier hesitates for a moment, before waving the Soviet victory banner.
Speaking exclusively to CNN, a former US servicemanfighting with Ukrainian forces recountedthe battle he witnessed on June 9 when American volunteer fighters Alexander John-Robert Drueke and Andy Tai Ngoc Huynh were reportedly captured by Russian forces.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Friday that it is "absolutely necessary" to continue speaking to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
New video of the moment Russian forces took control of Lyman inUkraine's eastern Donetsk region last month surfaced on social media on Sunday.
Some context: On May 30, the office of the President ofUkrainesaid in a statement that Lyman had been occupied, saying, "The city is temporarily under the control of Russian invaders."
Druekeand Huynh fired a rocket-propelled grenadeRPG at a BMP vehicle  an infantry fighting vehicle  that was coming through the woods and destroyed it. But the team had to quickly withdraw as more than 100 Russian infantry began advancing and the American fighters found themselves in a village they previously thought was in Ukrainian hands.
The performances at Odesa Opera will be dedicated to theArmed Forces of Ukraine, because thanks to them the public was able to go to the theatre and artists can share their creativity, the opera house said.
The National AcademicOpera and Ballet Theater in the southern port city of Odesa reopened on Friday for the first time since Russia's invasion began, defying months of anguish and deadly shelling.
And if you really believe that you will rob some land and then hope that the times will change and all the things will become normal again, this is a mistake. You have to withdraw your troops and you have to find an agreement with Ukraine which is acceptable and right for the people of Ukraine, Scholz added.
Tactical retreat: Ukrainian forces say they made a tactical retreat from the city. Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk region military administration, said the "Ukrainian military remains in the Lyman direction, but in new fortified positions to deter the enemy."
Lyman, an important rail hub, lays roughly 37 miles 60 kilometers west of the strategically important Ukrainian city of Severodonetsk.
The man,who asked to be identified with the code name "Pip,"said his team was sent out on a mission east of Kharkiv where afull scale Russian armored assault was underway.
CNN on Thursday reporteda third Americanwhom the State Department had identified as missing in action in Ukraine was US Marine veteran Grady Kurpasi. He served in the US Marine Corps for 20 years, retiring in November 2021.
Russians take control: On June 7, Russia's Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, using Lyman's Soviet era name Krasny Liman, announced the city "was liberated from Ukrainian forces," according to Russian state news agency TASS. The assault was led by General Mikhail Teplinsky, according to Russian state media.
The night of the reopening featured a performance by the Odesa National Opera orchestra and choir, the opera house said.
The bodycam video filmed by a soldier called "Rusak" on May 25 shows the incredible devastation all around the city as Russian troops move past destroyed buildings and down empty streets.
