Lavrov says Russias objectives in Ukraine now extend beyond eastern Donbas region
20220721
https://edition.cnn.com/2022/07/20/europe/russia-ukraine-military-objective-east-donbas-intl/
It is far from being only DPR Donetsk Peoples Republic and LPR Luhansk Peoples Republic, it is also Kherson Region, Zaporizhzhia Region and a number of other territories, and this process continues, it continues steadily and persistently, Lavrov said during an interview with RIA Novosti, published Wednesday.
I think this kind of talk is for the birds, as they say, he added.
Lavrov said that as the West continues to supply Ukraine with more long-range weaponry, including High Mobility Artillery Rocket System HIMARS, Russias geographical objectives in Ukraine would move further away from the current line.
Lavrov has also said that it is currently pointless to hold talks with Ukraine, in an interview with Russian state outlet Russia Today on Wednesday.
We cannot allow any weapons in the part of Ukraine controlled by Zelensky or whoever will replace him that pose a direct threat to our territory or the territory of the republics that declared independence or those that wish to determine their future independently, Lavrov said.
Just three months ago, Russian President Vladimir Putin shifted military efforts onto the countrys east after failing to capture Kyiv.
Russias objectives in Ukraine now extend beyond the eastern Donbas region into the countrys south, a senior government minister has said.
Earlier this month, there were huge explosions in several occupied areas in the Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. The available evidence, from satellite imagery and Western analysts, is that the targeting has been highly effective.
If Donetsk were to fall, Moscow would overrun the entire Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, which has harbored Russian-backed separatist factions since 2014.
Mykhailo Podolyak, advisor to the Ukrainian Presidents Chief of Staff, repeated calls for more HIMARS weapons on Ukrainian television on Wednesday.
He accused the West of pushing Ukraine to refrain from negotiations until it can start talking from a position of strength.
We handed them a document which, I emphasize again, was based on their logic, Lavrov said in the interview, which was published on the Russian Foreign Ministry website. They got this document on April 15, and weve heard nothing from them since.
As the war in Ukraine approaches its fifth month, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told state media that the geography is different.
The President was very clear, as you quoted: denazification and demilitarization in the sense that there should be no threat to our security, no military threat from Ukraines territory, and this objective remains, Lavrov said.
Lavrov claimed that Russia had been ready to strike a deal with Ukraine, but that nothing came of it.
However, recently supplied US HIMARS Multiple Launch Rocket Systems MLRS worth $400 million have bolstered the Ukrainian militarys ability to strike down Russian targets  a significant factor that has caused fresh problems for Moscow.
But weve heard other things, from Scholz, from Boris Johnson who obviously isnt saying it now, from Ursula von der Leyen and many others, including chief diplomat Borrell, that Ukraine must win on the battlefield, that Ukraine must not negotiate now because its in a weak position on the frontline, and that Ukraine must first improve this position and start to dominate over the Russian armed forces, the Donetsk and Luhansk militias, and only then start talking from a position of strength, Lavrov said.
When Russian forces followed through with Putins order and captured the last city in Luhansk region still in Ukrainian hands  Lysychansk  earlier this month, their next move was anticipated to be in the neighboring region of Donetsk.
