March 7 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220307
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-07-22/h_7b3d41a83df76db63d053538f3ceade1
Im still looking at transfer alternatives both home and abroad. I had just four months left to complete my studies and finding somewhere with the same tuition bracket as Ukraine is almost impossible. Even private universities here in Nigeria are more expensive, Adeniyi said. War is always protracted, not to talk of the fallout period for rebuilding  So, its a whole basket of uncertainty, but at least were alive.
In a video posted to Telegram, the regional administrator for the Mykolaiv area, Vitali Kim, claimed the Russians were retreating after they lost two tanks in a "tank battle" at the airport.Kim also said some of the Russian forces had been evacuated from the area by helicopter. CNN has been unable to verify Kim's claims, and he did not offer any evidence to support them.
The fallout of an import ban on Russian oil would have limited impact in the US given Russia represents less than 2 of its overall oil imports.
More from Dujarric: Dujarric also said that in a phone call between the secretary general and the minister of defense of the Russian Federation, it was confirmed a team from the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs had arrived in Moscow.
In a Facebook video posted Monday, he spoke of the substantial damage existing sanctions on Russia have had on its economy.
Another video shows a dark plume of smoke rising from the northern neighborhood of Solyani.
More than 400 Nigerian citizens fleeing the war in Ukraine were flown home over the weekend in chartered flights provided by the Nigerian government, according to the government agency Nigerians in Diaspora Commission NIDCOM.
An air support operation center will be deployed to Poland and Romania, and an ordinance company and a maintenance company will be sent to Germany, the official said.
The official said that while the airspace over Ukraine is still contested, the US assesses that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has the vast majority of his fixed-wing aircraft available, as well as surface-to-air weapons to defend Ukrainian airspace.
Meanwhile, Hungarys finance minister Mihaly Varga said his government would not support any sanctions on Russian energy.
Countries need to consider how to move away from Russian hydrocarbons "as fast as possible," Johnson added.
Im glad Im safe but Im sad that my education was cut short, said 27-year-old Oru Dominic Gabriel, who was one of many Nigerians evacuated from Romania on Friday, where they had fled to escape the war in Ukraine.
Russiawill"try again" to discuss evacuation routes with Ukraine during talks on Monday, according to Russia's chief negotiator for the discussions.
In one of the videos, taken in the Korabelnyi district  the southern-most neighborhood in Mykolaiv  explosions from military strikes are seen over a residential area. In recent days, fire fights between the Ukrainian and Russian militaries have centered around the military base on the southeastern side of the city.
Nigerias foreign minister Geoffrey Onyeama told CNN on Thursday that his office was aware of the plight of the stranded students, and that arrangements were being made for their evacuation.
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin ordered additional troops and US military assets to be deployed to different parts of Europe amid the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine to further support the USs NATO allies, a senior US defense official told reporters on Monday.
We have to consider how we can all move away as fast as possible from dependence, reliance on Russian hydrocarbons, Russian oil and gas.Everybody is doing that. Everybody is on the same journey. Some countries will find it faster and easier than others," he added.
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley met with the Romanian Chief of Defense Staff General Daniel Petrescu during a visit to Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base in Romania on Monday, according to a readout from Joint Staff spokesperson Col. Dave Butler.
"We're going to work together on making sure that we all have the substitutes and the supplies that we need," Johnson continued.
Speaking during a news conference alongside his Dutch and Canadian counterparts in London, Johnson said it was the "right thing" to move away from Russian hydrocarbons.
The Defense Department will send a total of 500 troops in this new deployment, the official said. The deployment will include sending KC-135 refueling aircraft to Greece, but the official could not say how many aircrafts would be sent or where in the US they will be coming from.
When asked about the potential for sanctions on Russia energy in a news conference Monday, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said options that were unthinkable three weeks ago, are now very much on the table."
The returnees were handed a stipend of $100 by the foreign ministry officials upon arrival in Abuja, Gabriel told CNN on Monday. He was in the final year of his medical studies at Ukraines Ternopil National Medical University.
The ordinance and maintenance companies will provide additional logistic support to the first armored brigade combat team, third infantry division in Germany which is already deployed there, the official said.
Milley also met with defense leaders from Latvia and Estonia on March 6, according to separate readouts. In Latvia, Milley met with Latvias Minister of Defense Artis Pabriks and Commander of the Latvian National Armed Forces Lieutenant General Leonids Kalnins during a visit to the Joint Headquarters of the Latvian National Armed Forces, the readout said.
The World Health Organization says that there have been nine attacks affecting health facilities, health care workers and ambulances since Feb. 24, according to Stephane Dujarric, UN spokesperson.
Adetomiwa Adeniyi, another returnee and final year medical student at the Ternopil University, told CNN that returning to Ukraine was the hope of many returnees.
Ukrainian Deputy Foreign MinisterIryna Vereshchuk respondedtothe statement, demanding thatRussia"accept options for our routes,aswellastoestablish a ceasefire, which wewillagree on."
Remember: The EU relies on Russia for 40 of its gas needs and about 27 of oil imports.
Some Nigerian evacuees from Ukraine have said they are relieved to be back home even though they anticipate a return to the eastern European country currently repelling Russian troops.
Energy was deliberately left out of previous rounds of sanctions, Scholz said in a news release Monday, adding Russia energy is of essential importance to the general, daily lives of its citizens.
UN Human Rights officials say just more than 1,200 civilian casualties have been recorded in the Ukraine, with 406 people killed, noting it is difficult to identify the actual number of deaths and injuries, a UN spokesman said Monday.
Hundreds of international students, many of them Nigerians, remain trapped in their hostels in Sumy, in northeast Ukraine, surrounded by Russian troops and amid explosions and gunfire.
Earlier Monday, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights reported the 406 civilians killed, but also acknowledged that the real figures are likely considerably higher.
However, he is considering study opportunities elsewhere given the uncertainty of the war in Ukraine.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Europe cannot secure its energy supplies without imports from Russia.
On Sunday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told CNN's Jake Tapper that the United States is now talking to our European allies and partners to look at a coordinated way tobanRussianoil.
Hungary is offering foreign students who escapedUkraineRussianWarIndia, Nigeria, other African countries to continue their studies at Hungarian universities, tweeted Dr. Attila Demk, the head of Hungarys Centre for Geopolitics.
The additional deployment were already kind of queued up to go, and again fully in support of our efforts to help defend NATO airspace if needed, the official added.
All third-country refugees mostly Africans were accepted without problems and repatriated if they wished so, Demk added in his Sunday tweet.
By Aditi Sangal, Mike Hayes, Amy Woodyatt, George Ramsay, Ed Upright, Jessie Yeung, Steve George and Maureen Chowdhury, CNN
Id go back to Ukraine to complete my education. I was just two months away from completing my classes. Ukraine is home to me, Gabriel said.
The United Nations continues to call for safe unimpeded sustained access to all conflict areas.
Intense fighting in Mykolaiv is continuing on Monday, as video shows new explosions from military strikes and large plumes of smoke around the Ukrainian city located about 250 miles south of Kyiv.
The military leaders discussed the ongoing invasion of Ukraine in their meetings, including the deployed US military forces in Latvia working with NATO allies and partners to deter Russian aggression, the readout said.
The first batch of returneesarrivedin the capital Abuja early Friday from Romania, according to NIDCOM. Thesecond batchof evacuees arrived from Poland later Friday, while thethird batchlanded in Abuja close to midnight Friday from Hungary, NIDCOM said in a series of tweets.
Coordinated energy sanctions against Moscow, including a ban on Russian oil, are still "very much on the table," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Monday.
At 3 p.m. ET Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, and the UNICEFS Executive Director, Catherine Russell will brief the Security Council on the situation in Ukraine.
On Monday, theRussian defense ministry announced in a statement that it will open evacuation corridors from2 a.m. ET fromthe Ukrainian citiesofKyiv, Kharkiv, Sumy and Mariupol.
Hungary has offered foreign students whose studies were disrupted as Russia invades Ukraine an opportunity to continue their education at Hungarian universities, authorities have said.
On Sunday, US Secretary State Antony Blinken told CNN that the US is working with its allies in Europe to look into the possibility of banning Russian oil imports in an effort to further punish the country.
The decision to send these troops and military assets were based on conversations that the secretary had with the chairman and with Gen. Tod Wolters,  the commander of US European command, that these additional enablers would be useful for the forces that are already in Europe, the official said.
Responding to a question as to whether Blinken was wrong in his remarks,Johnson replied, "No, I don't think Tony Blinken was wrong."
"We will try again" to discuss evacuation routes with the Ukrainian side, Medinsky said, lamenting their failureto come aboutlast week.
Speaking on his way intothe thirdroundoftalksin Belarus, Vladimir Medinsky said the two sideswilldiscuss"the same issues, political settlements, internationalhumanitarianissues and military settlement"aslast week'stalks.
Russia has committed nearly 100 of the combat power that had been staged on the border of Ukraine and in Belarus, according to a senior US defense official.
With these additional deployments, the US now has about 100,000 US military personnel either on rotational or permanent orders stationed in Europe right now, the official said.
In Estonia, Milley met with Estonias Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Martin Herem during a visit to mari Air Base, a separate readout said. The two leaders also discussed the ongoing invasion of Ukraine and NATOs response, the readout said.
