March 19 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220319
https://edition.cnn.com/webview/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-19-22/
The UK MoD said Russia has failed to gain air control over Ukraine and is largely depending on stand-off weapons, launched from the relative safety of Russian airspace to strike targets within Ukraine.
"And these corpses, these dead bodies, are not being picked up by anyone. New units are being sent to advance right over them," he said.
He said he urged Switzerland to take additional steps such as ensuring Swiss companies that have not yet left the Russian market would do so immediately.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Sunday said the Russian military has sustained unprecedented losses and that some Russian units have been "80 to 90 destroyed."
Modi did not comment directly on the situation in Ukraine, but acknowledged that geopolitical incidents were presenting new challenges.
By Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Luke McGee, Jeevan Ravindran, Joe Ruiz, Adrienne Vogt and Emma Tucker, CNN
Tatiana Borovik,who said on social media that she is afriend and colleague ofDatsishin said he was injured on Feb. 26 in the Russian attackand later died in hospital.
On Saturday, former Royal Ballet stars Alina Cojocaru and Ivan Putrov will reunite and be joined by several other international dance starts for a fundraising gala called "Dance for Ukraine" at the London Coliseum.
CNN cannot independently verify the Ukrainian claim. Ukraine says that five Russian generals have been killed since the invasion began on Feb. 24.
"Farewell my dear man !!I can't express my heartache that is overwhelming me!May your memory be bright!!" she wrote on Facebook Thursday.
He then switched from speaking Ukrainian to Russian and said in areas where heavy fighting have taken place, the front line of defense is "littered with corpses of the Russian soldiers."
Johnson said Putin was frightened of Ukraine because of the countrys free press, free elections, democracy and open markets, and feared the Ukrainian models implicit reproach to himself.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the sustained Russian attack on the besieged city ofMariupolis an "act of terror" that will be "remembered for centuries."
Datsishin was a "beautiful artist, a long-term soloist of the ballet corps"and "a wonderful man,"Anatoly Solovyanenko, stage director at the National Opera of Ukraine said in a Facebook post Thursday.
Images and video geolocated by CNN showed three helicopters and multiple vehicles on fire at the airport.
Soon after the attack, Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said, "Burning enemy helicopters in Chornobayivka in the Kherson region is a demonstration of what is now happening to the occupying forces."
Amid heavy fighting between the cities of Mykolaiv and Kherson, Ukrainian forces carried out an attack on the airport at Chornobayivka, just north of Kherson, on Wednesday.
Artem Datsishin, a ballet dancer with Ukraine's National Opera House,has died after being injuredin Russian shelling,according to social media posts from his friends and colleagues.
Authorities were also unable to deliver humanitarian aid to the cities in the southern Kherson region.
US officialsconfirmed to CNN that Russia launched hypersonic missiles against Ukraine last week, the first known use of such missiles in combat.
Evacuation corridors: Zelensky said eight evacuation corridors were operating on Saturday but due to Russian shelling, authorities were unable to rescue people from Borodyanka in the Kyiv region.
Earlier Saturday, Zelensky addressed the Swiss people via video link, saying Switzerland supported EU sanctions against Moscow and called for Switzerland to take further action against Russia.
The airport was occupied by Russian forces and served as aforward command post of Russia's 8th Guards Combined Arms Army, according to Ukrainian officials.
Britain's military on Saturday said Russian forces have still not managed to gain air superiority over Ukraine.
In the Saturday address, Zelensky singled out Swiss company Nestle, which has not left Russia.
Ukraine's General Staff later said, "according to preliminary data" Russian Lieutenant-General Andrei Mordvichev, commander of the 8th Guards, had been killed.
Both countries are members of Quad  an informal security grouping that includes the United States and Australia as well.
The two leaders were meeting in Indias capital New Delhi to improve economic partnerships and strengthen security amid the Ukraine crisis.
During the news conference Saturday, Kishida also announced a $42 billion investment in India over the next five years, adding to Japans ongoing support toward infrastructure development in India.
Alina Cojocaru, a former Royal Ballet dancerfrom Romania, told CNN affiliate ITN that she was dance partners with Datsishin when she was training in Ukraine.
Japan meanwhile has backed its condemnation of the Russian invasion with sanctions on Russian officials and oligarchs.
The Russian troops have blocked our convoy. Why? Their goal remains the same. Again, they are trying to create an image for their propaganda as if Ukraine has left its citizens without the essentials, as if Russia is constantly rescuing them from something, Zelensky said.
But India is the only country from the group that has not explicitly condemned Russias attacks, calling repeatedly instead for an immediate cessation of violence.
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida on Saturday told his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi that Russias invasion of Ukraine shakes the foundation of international order and required a stronger response.
"The Ukrainian Air Force and Air Defense Forces are continuing to effectively defend Ukrainian airspace," the UK's Ministry of Defense said in its latest defense intelligence update Saturday.
A Ukrainian attack on an airfield in the south of the country last week killed a Russian general, according to the Ukrainian military's General Staff.
In a video message posted to Facebook early Sunday, the Ukrainian President saidMariupolwill go down in history as an example of war crimes.
Russian President Vladimir Putin is in total panic over the idea of a revolution in Moscow, Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson said at a Conservative Party conference in Blackpool Saturday.
