March 9 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220310
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-09-22/h_0c634b68796ef942d5048fcd1d820720
The mayor said he is sure the time will come when all these occupiers will face justice at The Hague and said this war crime will be punished, and the perpetrators will burn in hell.
Europeans you won't be able to say you haven't seen what was going on to the Ukrainians, what was going on in Mariupol, to the residents of Mariupol, you have seen it and you know what's going on so you have to strengthen sanctions against Russia in a manner that leaves it no more chance to continue this genocide, he said.
Mariupol city council posted a video of the devastated hospital in the city and accused Russian forces of dropping several bombs on it from the air.
There has been another air strike in Zhytomyr, according to the citys mayor Serhii Sukhomlyn in two video messages posted to Facebook on Wednesday night.
Zelensky said at least 17 people were injured in the attack and authorities are continuing to through the rubble for more victims.
Vice President Kamala Harris has arrived in Poland ahead of a high stakes visit that became more complicated by what the White House calls a temporary breakdown in communications over sending fighter jets to Ukraine.
US Agency for International Development USAID Administrator Samantha Power tweeted Wednesday that a worker at one of USAIDs partner organizations was killed by the Russian military just shy of her 32nd birthday.
Zelensky repeated his call for the NATO military alliance to declare a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the bombing of a maternity hospital in Mariupol is proof of a genocide of Ukrainians taking place in a video message posted to Telegram late Wednesday night.
At her regular briefing, Zakharova said that "in Mariupol, the Ukrainian national battalions, having expelled the staff and patients from the maternity hospital, equipped combat positions in it."
Sukhomlyn said the city is shutting off its streetlights after theUkrainian army advised officials to do so because the Russian air force changed its strategy with aircraft coming in very low.
The US does not support the transfer of combat aircraft to Ukraine, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said Wednesday.
The Ukrainian president addressed Europeans and called on them to ramp up sanctions on Russia.
Although Sherman does not say the US has itself determined Russia was behind the strike, it is significant that she calls the reports credible and they are the strongest condemnation so far from a US official.
While in Warsaw, Harris is also planning to meet with refugees from Ukraine and American diplomats from the US Embassy in Kyiv, who are now working out of Poland.
Zelensky called on Europeans to condemn the Russian war crime saying, Europeans! Ukrainians! Citizens of Mariupol!Today we have to be united in condemning this Russian war crime in which is reflected all the evil that Russian occupants brought to our land.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned earlier this year of the possibility of Russia carrying out a fake or real chemical weapons attack as a manufactured pretext for an invasion into Ukraine. But his comments came before Russias full invasion began.
We are holding on. Weve got a night ahead of us and we understand it can be very heated. Russians realize they are losing on all fronts. They dont demand what they used to demand any more. We should survive and continue to hold on, the mayor said.
So far, there are no casualties associated with the strike on the thermal power plant but the plant will most likely have to be shut down, according to the mayor. The plant powers a large portion of the city, he said, providing heat to 30 of Zhytomyr. Sukhomlyn said officials will do their best to get it up and running again.
In a video message posted to Telegram on Wednesday, Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boichenko called on the global community for help and called on them to close the sky over Ukraine following the bombing of a maternity hospital in the city.
More background: Poland said on Tuesday that it was ready to deploy  immediately and free of charge  all their MiG-29 fighter jets to the US Air Forces Ramstein Air Base in Germany and place them at the disposal of Washington to provide them to Ukraine, according to a statement from the Polish foreign ministry.
This comes after Sukhomlyn said an apartment building and a major textile factory in Zhytomyr were destroyed by Russian military strikes on Tuesday night.There was also a Russian military strike that leveled a part of a Ukrainian tank factory outside of Zhytomyr on Saturday, substantiated by geolocated video of the aftermath.
But Russia claims Ukraine was establishing combat positions at the hospital, something CNN has not been able to verify.
Russian forcesbombed a maternity and children's hospital in southernUkraine, authorities there said Wednesday, an attack described by the country's President Volodymyr Zelensky as an "atrocity."
Russian bombs fell on a hospital and maternity center in Mariupol. A childrens hospital, a working maternity hospital, those buildings are ruined! the president said.
"The destruction is enormous," said the council. "The building of the medical facility where the children were treated recently is completely destroyed."
Air Force Two landed at the Warsaw Chopin International Airport just after 10 p.m. local time 4 p.m. ET.
The video comes after a maternity hospital in Mariupol was bombed earlier in the day.
Lera, a trained medic, could've left Kyiv when the invasion began, but stayed to help others. Only when her mom Irina ran out of medicine did she evacuate. As Lera, Irina  their driver Yaroslav waited in a car for a Russian convoy to pass, a tank fired on themkilling all three, added Power.
Russia claims Ukraine was establishing combat positions at the hospital, something CNN has not been able to verify.
Power said Maksetskas death was devastating to USAID, her organization Chemonics, and all who knew her.
The reported attack came despite Russia agreeing to a 12-hour pause in hostilities to allow refugees to evacuate a number of towns and cities.
In the civilian building hit, the mayor said an elderly woman living there was hiding in the basement and came out alive with minor injuries, which she is being treated for at a hospital.
Harris is scheduled to begin meetings with Polish leaders on Thursday morning, where the issue of the jets is set to arise. Officials have said Polands surprise statement hours ahead of Harriss departure regarding the jets wont preclude a deal, though have downplayed the prospects of arriving at an agreement.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki, slamming what she called falseclaims from Russia that the US is developing chemical weapons in Ukraine, tweeted:
Psaki also noted Russias long and well-documented track record of using chemical weapons as well as its pattern of accusing the West of the very violations that Russia itself is perpetrating.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked why a maternity hospital was a threat to Russia, in a video message posted to Telegram late Wednesday night.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, George Ramsay, Jack Bantock, Ed Upright, Helen Regan, Adam Renton, Amir Vera, Maureen Chowdhury and Mike Hayes, CNN
The White House warned Wednesday that Russia could use chemical weapons in Ukraine or manufacture a "false flag" operation that uses them.
The mayor also said all the windows were blown out at two hospitals including a childrens hospital but that there were no casualties and everyone was in a bomb shelter. Sukhomlyn added that he would write an appreciation letter to the doctors for such a great job.
Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman said Wednesday that she is horrified, outraged, and heartbroken by credible reports that a Russian airstrike destroyed a maternity and children's hospital in Mariupol.
I'm enormously sad to share the death of Valeriia Lera Maksetska  proud Ukrainian, beloved USAID implementing partner  brilliant, compassionate leader on building social cohesion  fighting disinformation, Power wrote on Twitter.
Several hours before the maternity hospital in Mariupol was bombed, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova accused Ukraine of establishing combat positions at the hospital.
In Wednesdays message, the mayor said, An air strike has just been made. Thermal power plant of Zhytomir has been hit and a civilian building.
