March 13 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220314
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-13-22/h_8658e920ff20da0f0099b75632c93f1b
Initial reports from the Ukrainian government claimed they responded to a warning from a Russian naval ship to lay down their weapons or they would be bombed. Their reported reply was, Russian warship, go f yourself. The Ukrainian Navy had feared the soldiers on the island were dead, but now believe they are alive and well but are prisoners of war.
The Czech Republic plans to deliver further military aid to Ukraine, worth at least $31.5 million dollars, government spokesmanVclav Smolka told CNN Sunday.
Prime Minister Petr Fialasaid last month his country was sending "machine guns, submachine guns, sniper rifles and pistols and their corresponding ammunition valued at CZK 188 million," to support the Ukrainian government in its fight against Russia.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Sunday it is only a matter of time before Russias military assault on Ukraine expands to members of NATO unless the alliance installs a no-fly zone over his country.
Representatives of our countries delegations speak in video format every day. Our delegation has a clear task -- to do everything to ensure a meeting of the presidents, the meeting that I am sure people are waiting for, he said.
Zelensky also said his team is continuing diplomatic negotiations with Russia to arrange a meeting between him and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken condemned Russias attack near Ukraines border with Poland early Sunday, calling for the brutality to stop as war inches closer to NATOs doorstep.
The Ukrainian military has thwarted an attempt by Russian military vehicles to cross the Irpin River on a pontoon bridge near Hostomel, a new satellite image from Maxar Technologies shows.
The bridge first appeared in satellite imagery from Maxar on Thursday, March 10, and in that photo, it appears to have been destroyed. An additional photo, published on social media on March 13, also shows the pontoon bridge destroyed, in addition to nearby Russian military vehicles.
Smolka declined to elaborate on the details of the aid package but said the time of delivery depends on when his government will be able to get "the required material."
On the call with Zelensky, Macron, reviewed the situation with him. He expressed his full support and detailed the additional aid that the European Union decided to provide at the Versailles Summit. They exchanged views on the continuation of negotiations between Russia and Ukraine," the source said, adding the two leaders will continue to coordinate in the coming days.
He added, We were right  now I repeat again -- if you do not close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian missiles fall on your territory. NATO territory. On the homes of citizens of NATO countries.
The defiant soldiers who were stationed on the island quickly became lauded as heroes at the start of the Russian invasion into Ukraine.
In the image, some of the red-roofed buildings in the island's center are shown to have been significantly damaged by the Russian shelling of the island. The ship seen offshore was identified by Maxar as a Ropucha-class landing ship. Although parts of it are snow-covered, there are impact craters dotting parts of the island.
The Czech Republic already committed on Feb. 26 to send a shipment of weapons to Ukraine worth over $8.5 million to a place of Ukrainians choice."
It's the second known location where the Russians have built a pontoon bridge to move vehicles. Before the invasion began, Russia constructed a pontoon bridge across the Pripyat River in the greater Chernobyl exclusion zone and later moved dozens of forces across it.
The two men "reviewed recent diplomatic engagements," according to a White House readout of the call.
US President Joe Biden spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron Sunday evening to discuss Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Snake Island, also known as Zmiinyi Island, sits about 30 miles 48 kilometers off the Ukrainian mainland's southern tip in the northwestern Black Sea. It's about 185 miles west of Crimea, the Ukrainian territory that Russia annexed in 2014.
We condemn the Russian Federations missile attack on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security in Yavoriv, close to Ukraines border with Poland, Blinken tweeted Sunday.
Over 328,000 refugees have arrived in Moldova from Ukraine since Russia's invasion began on February 24, the country's Foreign Affairs Minister Nicu Popescu tweeted Sunday.
The image, taken on Sunday by Maxar Technologies, is the first clear look of the island since it was bombed at the beginning of the Russian invasion.
A French source familiar with the call said Macron, presented his condolences for the death of the journalist Brent Renaud. They agreed to strengthen the sanctions already taken against Russia, to support Ukraine and to take all initiatives to stop the fighting. They will remain in close contact on all this in the days to come."
An American journalist was killed in the Kyiv region today. Brent Renaud. His colleague was wounded. It was a deliberate attack by the Russian military. They knew what they were doing. But not everyone in the West seems to know what they are doing, he said.
Some of the buildings on Snake Island appear damaged from Russian military strikes, and a Russian Naval ship is seen anchored off the island in the first clear satellite image of the Ukrainian island in the middle of the Black Sea.
According to the World Trade Organization, trade by sea accounts for more than 80 of the world's trade volume.
Ukrainian forces in Kyiv's suburb of Irpin have so far repelled Russian advances toward the Ukrainian capital city. With the main bridge crossing the Irpin River having been destroyed by Ukrainians to thwart a Russian advance, the Irpin River poses a significant obstacle for the Russian military.
The UK Ministry of Defense said Russian forces have blockaded Ukraines Black Sea coast, cutting the nation off from international maritime trade.
The UK MOD intelligence briefing also said Russian naval forces are continuing to conduct missile strikes against targets throughout Ukraine" and that Moscow has conducted one amphibious landing in the Sea of Azov and could look to conduct further such operations in the coming weeks.
An intelligence update posted to the Ministrys Twitter on Sunday said, Russian naval forces have established a distant blockade of Ukraines Black Sea coast, effectively isolating Ukraine from international maritime trade.
In addressing NATO countries, Zelensky cited the killing of American journalist Brent Renaud in Irpin, Ukraine, on Sunday.
French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and US President Joe Biden in separate calls Sunday, discussing the efforts to reach a ceasefire and ongoing negotiations, according to a French source familiar with the calls.
Thirty-five people were killed and 134 injured after more than 30 missiles were fired at a military base early Sunday morning. The International Peacekeeping and Security Center is a huge military base that includes a training center for soldiers, and has housed US and NATO forces in the past.
The pontoon bridge was located in an open field roughly five miles eight kilometers north of the main bridge across the Irpin River.
"About 101K refugees are in shelters or private homes across the country, including 48,254 minors," Popescu tweeted.
