March 3 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220303
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_7f7e296659990ca6eb283136e76b74bc
By Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Jack Guy, Laura Smith-Spark, Adrienne Vogt, Melissa Macaya and Maureen Chowdhury, CNN
Now, they are finding their voice. But Russian authorities are intent on shutting down any public dissent against the attack on Ukraine. Police clamp down on demonstrations almost as quickly as they pop up, dragging some protesters away and roughing up others.
Founded in 2005, RT, which operates multiple channels, including RT America, has served as one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's largest megaphones across the world. It offers insight into how the Kremlin would like to portray the world and its role in it.
Missing from coverage: Noticeably left out of the coverage was a focus on howunbearablelife has been for Ukrainians whose cities are under attack by unrelenting Russian forces. I did not see much coverage showing thedamagethat Russian forces have caused as they try to seize control of the country. Or coverage about the residents of cities such as Kyiv who live in terror and sleep underground inbomb shelters. Or coverage about the hundreds of thousands who have simplychosen to fleethe country for their safety. Those inconvenient facts were not the emphasis of the narrative RT pushed.
Together we really will survive this. We will be victorious. I think we deserve it. We are Ukrainians. We love our country. We love our city. Glory to the heroes! Glory to Ukraine! he said.
As dawn breaks in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, Thursday marks one week since the Russian invasion began. Here's the latest:
In a statement posted late Wednesday on Telegram, Mayor Vadym Boychenko addressed the citizens of Mariupol and said Ukrainian forces fought back valiantly against those who were shooting at homes.
In Chernihiv, a bridge across the Stryzhen River appears to have been destroyed, while residential buildings and a factory nearby seem to have sustained damage. A Russian military convoy was also seen on a nearby roadway.
Videos from the embattled city of Kherson show residents defiantly waving the Ukrainian flag in front of what appear to be Russian troops and tanks.
This comes after the city's mayor, Ihor Kolykhaiev, indicated on Wednesday that Kherson had fallen under Russian control following several days of heavy fighting.
Protests are continuing across Russia as young citizens, along with middle-age and even retired people, take to the streets to speak out against a military conflict ordered by their President  a decision in which, they claim, they had no say.
The images were captured on February 28 by Maxar Technologies.Since then, dense cloud cover has prevented most satellites from observing anything on the ground across the country.
Injuries mount: Russian and Russian-backed troops had surrounded the city of some 400,000 residents from three sides as of Wednesday afternoon, as the Kremlin looks to complete a land border that would link Crimea with southern Russia.
As police in Russia clamp down on anti-war protests emerging around the country, many citizens do not fully know what is happening in Ukraine.
Tasya, 19, stood with her friends on a cold morning in St. Petersburg as they joined protesters' chants against the Russian invasion of Ukraine: "Nyet Voine!" "No to War!".
The US State Department criticized the Kremlin on Wednesday for cracking down on Russian media and for its disinformation campaign on the invasion of Ukraine.
In Sukachi, a small town 70 kilometers about 43.5 miles northwest of Kyiv, a large impact crater is seen in the middle of a roadway, with houses nearby appearing significantly damaged.
As of Wednesday, more than 17,000 Indians have been evacuated from Ukraine with a few thousand remaining, according to Indias Foreign Ministry.
Intellectuals speak out: Members of Russia's "intelligentsia"  academics, writers, journalists and others  have issued public appeals decrying the war, including a rare "open letter" to Putin signed by 1,200 students, faculty and staff of MGIMO University, the prestigious Moscow State Institute of International Relations, affiliated with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which produces most of Russia's government and foreign service elite.
But Russian young people like 25-year-old Arina, who lives in Moscow, aren't watching TV. She's on the internet, reading blogs and listening to vloggers. She, too, is having difficulty comprehending why this war is happening and what it will mean for her own life as a young Russian.
The mayor of the southern Ukrainian city Mariupol called Wednesday the most difficult day yet of the Russian invasion, amid heavy shelling and growing numbers of wounded civilians in hospitals.
Divided reaction: As Arina and her friends follow news about Ukraine on social media, Russians have had contradictory reactions, she said.
New satellite images of areas in Ukraine hit by Russian military strikes show the extent of the damage in the first five days of the invasion.
After Russian President Vladimir Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the phone Wednesday, the Kremlin released a statement saying Putin had warned of Indian students being "taken hostage by the Ukrainian security forces."
Early Wednesday morning, Boychenko said there were 128 people in hospitals, with doctors working nonstop "for the lives ofMariupolresidents."
Earlier this week, the Russian Prosecutor General blocked access to two independent media outlets, Echo of Moscow and TV Rain, accusing them of reporting "false" information about the invasion.
Price added that Russia's Parliament will meet on Friday to consider a bill to criminalize 'unofficial' reporting on the invasion.
"The outlets were baselessly accused of calling for extremist activity and violence and sharing deliberately false information about the actions of Russian military personnel in Ukraine, Price said, adding thatEcho of Moscowhas been respected for its even-handed treatment of breaking news since its founding 32 years ago."
Battle for Kherson: The strategically important port city of nearly 300,000 residents is located on an inlet from the Black Sea in southern Ukraine.
The satellite images also show the burned remains of Russian military vehicles in a residential area in Bucha, a town outside of Kyiv. On Sunday, Ukrainian officials claimed they had thwarted the advance of a Russian column in Bucha.
The mayor said Wednesday on Facebook that the Ukrainian military is no longer in Kherson, and its inhabitants must now carry out the instructions of armed people who came to the citys administration  indicating that the city has fallen under Russian control.
CNN has not been able to independently verify the reports of Russian soldiers shooting at civilian homes.
"They are fing walking away with our flag," a man is heard saying in the video."Aholes!"
"Then a group of cops walked past me ... and suddenly one of them looked at me and then they turned around, walked towards me and detained me," she said of the February 24 protest.
The images also captured scenes of daily life amid the war in both Chernihiv and Kyiv, with dozens of people lining up outside supermarkets.
For several hours I watched the channel and was struck by how brazenly its hosts and personalities worked to mislead its audience and deflect from the issues at hand. The main thrust of RT's coverage presented Russia as a mere victim of Western aggression, a country forced to launch a limited "military operation" after its hand was forced by a high-and-mighty NATO that showed no interest in taking Moscow's security concerns seriously.
"It's always safer to stand together with others ... to look over your shoulder, in case you need to run," said Tasya, who asked that her last name not be used for her safety. At some point, Tasya said her friends left the protest to go home or somewhere else to warm up, leaving her standing alone in the street.
But Arina's mother sees it completely differently, believing the war is a "necessary measure" against Western threat, Arina said. She checked out a guide suggesting how young Russians can talk with their parents and others about the war in Ukraine  and read it just in time before it was removed online.
Also left out of RT's coverage: The ramifications the West's sanctions and other actions are having on Russia's economy.
Boychenko also said critical infrastructure was compromised in the city, and that citizens are without water and electricity until utility services restore them on Thursday.
The videos, posted online on Wednesday, show what appear to be Russian troops and tanks in front of the Kherson Regional Administration building, with one of the soldiers holding Ukrainian flags.
As the soldier returns to the line of tanks, the civilians raise the Ukrainian flags to jubilant cheers from onlookers.
State-controlled television shows almost no reports of Russian bombing and shelling in Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities. Instead, it focuses on so-called Ukrainian "nationalists" and "neo-fascists."
Police in St. Petersburg arrested at least 350 anti-war protesters on Wednesday, taking the total number of protesters detained or arrested to 7,624 since the invasion began, according to an independent organization that tracks human rights violations in Russia.
Russia the "liberator": Peter John Lavelle, the host of RT's signature talk program, "Crosstalk," put it like this: He said that the failed "liberal order" implemented by the West was to blame. "It is so irritating," Lavelle said on his show. "The way it is being framed: Ukraine's democracy. Well, it has nothing to do with Ukraine's democracy  if you can say it even has one... This is about security... There is only security for other countries."
Bagchi thanked authorities in Ukraine and neighboring countries for facilitating the evacuation of Indian nationals.
The images show homes on fire in the village of Rivnopillya in the Chernhiv region, roughly 80 kilometers about 50 miles north of the capital, Kyiv.Dozens of impact craters can be seen dotting the fields surrounding the village.
The video then shows a group of civilians begin walking toward the soldiers outside the Regional Administration building."They went to get the flag," the man says.
India on Thursday denied Russia's claims that Indian students stranded in Ukraine were being held hostage by Ukrainian forces and used as human shields.
On Wednesday morning, asRussia's unprovoked war on Ukraineentered its seventh day, I turned on RT, the Russia-controlled network that has in recent days been banned in Europe anddropped by television carriersacross the world.
"The first one is, everyone says, 'Yes, we should be ashamed.' The second one is, 'No, let's not be ashamed of ourselves and let's not pin decisions on ourselves that were not made by us.'"
Arina and her mother "had a very fierce argument," she said. "We have very different sources of information: I learn everything from the independent media, which have mostly long been blocked in Russia, and she watches TV."
The announcement on his Facebook page follows several days of pressure on Kherson by Russian forces who had surrounded the city.
