March 2 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220322
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-02-22/h_beef094616bde632d840036dc57c281c
South Korea will ban financial transactions with seven major Russian banks and their affiliates as part of its economic sanctions on Russia.
Standing ovation: Speaking to political leaders in Washington, Biden started his State of the Union address by sending a resounding message to the world: The West is united in its response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and condemns the Russian leader for his aggression. Near the beginning of the speech, Biden encouraged all in the chamber to show that support with a resounding standing ovation and said the US and its allies have "an unwavering resolve that freedom will always triumph over tyranny."
Gyrin also posted photos on his Facebook page that show the damaged building of the Adonis clinic.
The United Kingdom on Tuesday introduced new sanctions against Russia, including a ban on ships with Russian connections from accessing British ports, the government said in astatement.
US Strategic Command Admiral Charles Richardmade the comments during a House Armed Services committee hearing.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Meg Wagner, Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Maureen Chowdhury, Jason Kurtz and Mike Hayes, CNN
Finally, all sanctions aimed at individuals responsible for "high-level corruption" in Russia and Belarus including oligarchs and officials should be adopted "swiftly," it said.
"Putin has unleashed violence and chaos.But while he may make gains on the battlefield  he will pay a continuing high price over the long run," Biden said.
In a speech that focused on the war in Ukraine before pivoting to domestic challenges, Biden said the American people are ready for the task ahead of them in keeping the world united in the face of autocracy.
Biden noted that Putin's aggression had only made the world's democracies strengthen their resolve to counter rising autocracies.
CNNs Matthew Chance was interviewing Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky when Yermak advised Zelensky that the Holocaust memorial was struck.The exchange between Yermak and Zelensky was captured by a CNN camera.
They also called on EU countries to send Ukraine "defensive weapons more swiftly, in line with Article 51 of the UN Charter, which allows for individual and collective self-defense."
US President Joe Biden sounded an optimistic note in wrapping his first State of the Union address, citing the response of the American people and lawmakers in the House chamber to Russia's invasion of Ukraine as a reason to be confident in the face of a critical moment.
The ministry strongly recommended local public and financial institutions stop their investments in Russian government bonds issued after Wednesday.
"We are joining with our European allies to find and seizetheiryachts, their luxury apartments, and their private jets. We are coming for your ill-begotten gains," he said.
The Babyn Yar Holocaust Memorial Site has since released a statement confirming the remembrance site was struck by Russian forces.
Borodjanka, located about 50 kilometers 30 miles from the center of Kyiv, is the latest civilian area facing a hail of Russian munitions as President Vladimir Putin's forces advance on the capital.
Videos showed a restaurant on the first floor of the complex reduced to rubble. A number of people, bundled in heavy coats, are shown running away.Additional videos show the extent of the destruction, with the ground behind the complex littered with burning cars.
Richard participated in the hearing virtually from US Strategic Command headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska. He told lawmakers he stayed in Nebraska to make sure he can assess and be satisfied in terms of our defensive posture.
A Russian military strike in the small Ukrainian town of Borodjanka on Tuesday tore through two apartment blocks, videos on social media show.
Back in front, near the destroyed walls of the restaurant, another video shows the roadway littered with debris and the twisted metal frame of a vehicle.
EU countries operating residence by investment schemes or golden visas as they are commonly known should "review all beneficiaries of such residence status and revoke those attributed to Russian high-net-worth individuals and their families, in particular those linked to sanctioned individuals and companies."
The resolution, which also demanded the EU to impose "tougher sanctions" on Russia, was voted in favor by637 Members of the European Parliament MEPs. It condemned "in the strongest possible terms Russias illegal invasion of Ukraine and demands that the Kremlin end all military activities in the country."
The members also stressed that the EU's financial sanctions against Russia should go further, stating that "all Russian banks should be blocked from the European financial system and Russia should be banned from the SWIFT system."
The lawmakers pushed for the extension of a range of sanctions including the SWIFT ban on Belarus in return for its "direct support of the Russian invasion of Ukraine."
Parts of the apartment buildings have collapsed, with significant portions missing from the facades. A playground nearby is on fire, with the swinging benches and slides strewn with rubble and splintered trees.
The statement continues, We remind the Russian leadership that Kyiv, Kharkiv, Kherson, Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities were last subjected to massive bombing by Nazi Germany during World War II, now they are burning under the blows of Putin's army, under the false and outrageous narrative of 'denazifying' Ukraine and its people.
South Korea will also immediately block Russian banks from the SWIFT global payments system as soon as the European Union specifies its detailed plan, the ministry added.
Gyrin also specifically asked people not to come to the clinic, "Most important is do not come now to get anyone from here. Everyone is in a secure place and in safety. This is for sure."
Starting on Tuesday, "Im instructing all UK ports to turn away any vessel that is flagged, registered, owned, or operated by Russia," British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said.
"By banning Russian ships from our ports, we are further isolating Russia and crushing its economic capabilities, starving Putins war machine."
CNN is unable to verify whether there were any injuries or fatalities in the military strike in Borodjanka. CNN has reached out to the Ukrainian Interior Ministry for comment but has not yet received a response.
US President Joe Biden on Tuesday condemned Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine  and warned of further measures to punish Russia.
The US is also closing its airspace to Russian aircraft, joining a number of countries that took similar measures this past week, "further isolating Russia," Biden said.
A missile hit a private maternity clinic near Kyiv, Ukraine, on Tuesday, according to the Adonis maternity clinic chief Vitaliy Gyrin's Facebookpost.
The ban will followthe US grace period for sanctions, and exceptional transactions will be allowed for agriculture, Covid-19 medication and energy support.
Additional economic measures, "including against the Russian Central Bank and the states sovereign wealth fund, also mean the majority of Russias financial system is now covered by UK sanctions, the statement read.
Airstrikes that targeted Kyiv on Tuesday hit the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial site in the city, according to the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Andriy Yermak.The memorial is located near the Kyiv TV Tower, which was also damaged on Tuesday.
"A plane flew by twice dropping three or four bombs here," another man says in the one of the videos. "Cries can be heard from inside the rubble. We are trying to find out if anyone's still alive in there, based on their sounds. Good Lord!"
The countrys Finance Ministry on Tuesday released a detailed plan on the sanctions after consulting with the US Department of the Treasury.
The European Parliament adopted a resolution on Tuesday calling on theEuropean Union institutions "to work towards granting" Ukraine the status of EU candidate country,it said in a statement.
The top general who oversees the US nuclear weapons and nuclear capabilities said Tuesday that he is satisfied with the US defensive posture right now, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine and President Vladimir Putins recent announcement he has put his countrys deterrence forces on high alert.
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Sasha Baker said the Defense Department is comfortable with our strategic defensive posture, echoing Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austins previous statements.
