March 4 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220304
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_e771e9b9e01af8b1ebf881c5e5a199cc
The resident shared with CNN a video of a convoy of civilian cars, accompanied by some Russian military vehicles, arriving in Kherson Wednesday night.
We have no bad intentions, there is no need to escalate the situation, impose restrictions, we fulfil all obligations, Putin said during a flag raising ceremony of a new Russian ferry, a joint venture between Russia and Turkey.
Le Drian also tweeted on Friday his full support for IAEAs initiatives to monitor the situation of Ukrainian civilian nuclear facilities.
Independent Russian news outlet TV Rain ended its final broadcast with the words "no to war" on Thursday.
The news comes after at least three schools in Ukraine's second-largest city, Kharkiv, were hit by Russian military strikes on Tuesday, according to videos and photos posted to social media. CNN has geolocated and confirmed the authenticity of the videos and photos.
In a video statement, Zhytomyr MayorSergei Sukhomlin also confirmed the strike saying the Russian attackers"do not stop at anything. This is a school. Rather these ruins are a former school in the Ukrainian city of Zhytomyr."
The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA earlier called for a stop to fighting around the facility but said Ukrainian authorities had reported background radiation levels were normal and the fire had not affected "essential" equipment.
Accusations fly: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky led a chorus of leaders who condemned the Kremlin for intentionally firing on the plant. NATO chief Jens Stoltenbergsaid the clashes at the nuclear facility showed "the recklessness of this war," while UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said "its very difficult to believe that it wasnt done deliberately."
France strongly condemns Russias attack on UkrainesZaporizhzhianuclear power plant, the country's Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told reporters in Brussels on Friday.
By Jessie Yeung, Julia Hollingsworth, Adam Renton, Joshua Berlinger, Sana Noor Haq, Blathnaid Healy, Adrienne Vogt, Meg Wagner and Melissa Macaya, CNN
The network then broadcast Tchaikovsky'sballet Swan Lake, a nod to the 1991 coup attempt against the government of then-Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. As that coup was taking place, the ballet played repeatedly on television, an indication to viewers that something was wrong.
The station was forced to shut down because of the Russian governments crackdown on local media over unfavorable coverage of the war in Ukraine.
The bombings last night that hit theZaporizhzhiapower plant are dangerous and unacceptable, he said in a Twitter post.
Nuclear plant blaze extinguished:A fire at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power complex initially sparked fears of a potential accident but the blaze has since been put out. The International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA also said the reactors at the plant are safe and no radioactive material was released.
He joins a chorus of global leaders who have criticized the strikes on the Zaporizhzhia plant, where afire that had threatened potential disasterwas extinguished in the early hours of Friday morning, according to Ukraine's nuclear regulator.
Zelensky drew parallels with the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the world's worst-ever nuclear accident, but there is no indication that any of the reactors atZaporizhzia have been affected by the shelling.
Kotin said staff were "were admitted in the morning to perform their duties." He said the company does not have "a direct connection to the station" and is getting information from sources there.
Petro Kotin, the head of the state-owned nuclear power generator Energoatom, said on Telegram that Russian forces "entered the territory of the nuclear power plant, took control of the personnel and management of the nuclear power plant."
Putin went on to say the Russian economy would have adapt to the current situation.
Yesterday 50 buses from Crimea drove past us, and settled in the local administration, the resident said, although CNN has not been able to verify that the cars came from Crimea.
Russia's Ministry of Defense denied those allegations. A spokesman said that its forces took control of the plant and territory adjacent to it on Monday but was attacked by a "a Ukrainian sabotage group" early Friday morning.
Zelensky also reiterated his appeal for a NATO no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying "an immediate closure of the skies over Ukraine is needed."
"Hundreds of innocent victims, the total destruction of churches, cathedrals and museums - is the price of the still opened sky over Ukraine."
In northeastern Ukraine, 34 civilians were killed by Russian attacks on theKharkiv regionwithin a 24 hour period, emergency services said Thursday. Kharkiv's mayor said the Russian military is "intentionally trying to eliminate Ukrainian people" as it targets civilian spaces. Russian troops are also advancing towardOdessa, the strategically significant city on the southern coast.
"Most of Putin's war crimes in Ukraine have been committed from the air," the ministry said in a statement.
People in the Ukrainian city of Kherson have been subjected to violence by Russian troops, a local resident told CNN on Friday.
However, the head of the IAEA, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said it was "unprecedented" to run a nuclear plant while military operations raged nearby.
"The Russian tanks knew that they were firing with a direct fire at the station," Zelensky alleged.
Management at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Enerhodar is now working at gunpoint, the company that runs the station said.
We fully support the International Atomic Energy Agencys initiative to demand Russia to stop all assaults of this kind.
Russian forces have now "occupied" the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine. Earlier, a fire broke out at the facility, according to Ukrainian nuclear authorities. The blaze had sparked fears of an accident.
Khersons mayor, Ihor Kolykhaiev,saidon Wednesday that the Ukrainian military was no longer in the city and that its inhabitants must now carry out the instructions of armed people who came to the citys administration -- indicating that Kherson had fallen under Russian control.
Images geolocated by CNN of the school after the attack show significant damage and partial collapse of the building.
Other buildings that have been reported as destroyed during Russian's invasion of Ukraine include cultural sites such as churches, cathedrals and museums, namely in the cities of Kyiv and Kharkiv, according to statement from the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture and Information Policy.
In Ivankov, near Kyiv, the museum of "world-famous artist Maria Pryimachenko, whose works were admired by Pablo Picasso" was also shelled. The Kyiv State Academy of Decorative Arts and Design has also been damaged by the "occupiers."
Countries across the world have leveled sanctions against Russia in an effort to squeeze Putin as the invasion of Ukraine advances.
While "ordinary Ukrainians stop Russian tanks with their bare hands," the ministry said, "Russian missiles and planes vilely and dishonestly continue to bomb our beautiful peaceful cities."
"The Russian tanks knew that they were firing with a direct fire at the station," Zelensky alleged."
A school in Zhytomyr, northern Ukraine, was hit by a Russian rocket on Friday morning, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Status of the reactors: Kotin said the six reactors at the plant have fuel in each of them, while pre-reactor pools are storing spent nuclear fuel, the irradiated byproduct of the reactors.
The United States has previously ruled out using troops to create a no-fly zone. Such a move could put American forces in direct combat with Russia.
UkrainePresident Volodymyr Zelensky said that the Kremlin's efforts to take over a massive nuclear power plant was "terror at an unprecedented level," and again called for NATO to implement a no-fly zone over his country.
Key cities under assault: Russia is laying siege to the key Ukrainian city of Mariupol. The southeastern city's deputy mayor said it was "surrounded" by Russian forces and in desperate need of military and humanitarian aid.
Growing humanitarian crisis: The UN estimates that more than10 million people may end up fleeing their homesin Ukraine, including 4 million who may cross the border into neighboring countries. More than 1 million have fled already. Want to help? You can learn how to support humanitarian efforts in Ukraine here.
CNN's Radina Gigova, Paul P. Murphy, Celine Alkhaldi and Katie Polglase contributed reporting to this post.
"Russia's missiles and planes are deliberately destroying historic centers of big cities. Putin wants to destroy Europe's heritage and culture, wipe it from the face of the earth."
The Russian government has routinely and without evidence claimed the Ukrainian government is staging "provocations" to provoke a military response by Western governments.
A fire that broke out at one of Europe's largest nuclear power plants following heavy shelling by Russian forces was extinguished early Friday, as key Ukrainian cities come under attack from invading troops.
The White House, as well as the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and Canada, announced last weekend they would expel certain Russian banks from SWIFT, the high-security network that connects thousands of financial institutions around the world.
President Joe Biden imposed new sanctions Thursday oneight members of the Russian elite,along with members of their families, as he warnedRussia is intensifying its bloody invasion of Ukrainewith indiscriminate bombing.
Ukraine'sMinister of Culture and Information Policy, Oleksandr Tkachenko, called Friday "for closing the skies over Ukraine, because Russian aggressors are destroying Ukrainian cultural sites."
We strongly condemn this damage to the integrity of a nuclear structure, Le Drian said.
Talks end with no breakthrough: A Ukrainian negotiator on Thursday said that a second round of talks with Russia didnt deliver any results that Ukraine needed.
In a statement on Thursday, Hennadii Lahuta -- the head of the Kherson Regional State Administration -- said Russian forces had completely occupied the regional state administration building, but stressed that local officials had not given up their responsibilities.
Le Drian is in Brussels for a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers which he said will be an occasion to show the allies unity to continue isolating Russia in the international community.
And Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Russia's efforts to take over the massive nuclear power plant was "terror at an unprecedented level."
"A mad dictator threatens to destroy St. Sophia Cathedral in Kyiv, a UNESCO church built in the 11th century," the ministry warned.
The ministry said in the city of Kharkiv, Russian forces shelled the Assumption Cathedral parts of the Kharkiv National University of Arts and dormitories of the Kharkiv State Academy of Culture. People had used the cathedral to seek refuge from the violence, the ministry said.
However, humanitarian corridors for civilianswere agreed onby both sides. Zelensky said the world will see today if those corridors work.
Intelligence from the British military that was released early Thursday noted that some Russian forces have entered the city of Kherson, but cautioned that the military situation on the ground remains unclear.
If someone does not want to cooperate with us within the framework of single cooperation, and by doing so harms themselves, they will, of course, harm us too," Putin added.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has called on the international community to normalize relations with his country, while claiming it could benefit from sanctions.
In a major break from its longstanding neutrality, Switzerland also announced it would join the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russia.
Kotin said that if the nuclear facilities were hit by shelling, it "will lead to nuclear disaster."
TV Rain had already been forced off television airwaves but continued operating a YouTube broadcast. Its staff signed off, saying no to war, before walking off the stations set.
