March 29 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220329
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-29-22/h_05b5d57fd38ef2bd90c0be7fb3481f4a
At least 45 cases of civilian detentions have been recorded by the HRMMU since the war began on February 24, according to aHRMMUspokesperson.
Eight of the country's 15 reactors continue to operate, "including two at the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhya NPP, three at Rivne, one at Khmelnytskyy, and two at South Ukraine," the IAEA said in its latest update posted Monday. The other reactors remain closed for regular maintenance, they added.
Some background: The port city of Mariupol has reported thousands of deaths as a result of Russia's constant bombardment. Before the invasion on February 24, the city was home to more than 400,000 people. Around 160,000 people remain, living without water, electricity and heat, said the mayor Vadym Boichenko.
Some of those who have disappeared were taken during protests against the Russian invasion or for openly expressing their support for Ukraine.
He claimed the whereabouts of more than 2,000 Ukrainian children is unknown and said they have been abducted and taken into Russia.
Its monitors have also recorded the disappearances of 21 journalists, civil society activists, protesters and civilians, who "vocally opposed the invasion in Kyiv, Kherson, Luhansk andZaporizhzhia regions."
"Our whole intention is to find a way of functionally working with Iran  our whole intention is that there is an agenda of stability or prosperity in the region that includes Iran and others."
Zelensky accused Russian forces of forcibly deporting people, as well as committing rape and looting.
Commenting on CNNs reporting, Peskov said the Kremlin is unaware of such cases but said they needed to be examined carefully individually.
In the fifth week of the Russian invasion, the heroic Ukrainian resistance is conducting a defence operation in the eastern, southeastern and northeastern directions, restrains the enemy in all directions, in some directions - displaces the enemy, it said.
Peskov's comments come after CNN reported that local Ukrainian officials had been arrested, and journalists and civil society members had disappeared and are still missing.
Atroshenko described how his city, which is about 90 miles northeast of Kyiv, had been under constant attack since the Russian invasion began.
"It is very important to consider each specific case, each name and surname," Peskov told CNN. "Nobody contacted us about it and we do not have such information," he added.
"But I think we do really need to find a political solution. And it starts with a ceasefire and a political solution ASAP. We need to do that because the danger of horizontal or vertical escalation is real," Gargash told CNN on Tuesday.
On Monday the mission said it had so far documented 24 cases of conflict-related detentions of local officials in Russian-occupied regions, 13 of whom have subsequently been released.
Thirty people had been moved out of Rubizhne on Tuesday morning, as well as people from other nearby towns, Gov. Serhii Haidai said.
Earlier, Haidai reported that about 20 residential buildings had been damaged by recent Russian artillery fire. Each destroyed building could mean anything from 30 to 100 homeless families, he added.
"We need to turn the page and start a new page. And that new page is basically reaching out to friends of course, but adversaries also. And to make sure that you know, we rebuild these bridges, we were not going to agree with everything they want to do," Gargash added.
The second set of issues, Podolyak added, "is the issue of a ceasefire, so that all humanitarian problems can be resolved."
In the statement, Grossi said that"the military conflict is putting Ukraines nuclear power plants and other facilities with radioactive material in unprecedented danger."
Russian Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin confirmed "to radically, at times, reduce military activity," according to state media RIA.
In addition to CNN reporting, the United Nations Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine HRMMU said that dozens of Ukrainians, including local officials, activists and journalists, are being arbitrarily detained and subjected to forced disappearances.
The conflict in Ukraine is going to cause a "significant change in the international order" and will have "prolonged" and "deep" repercussions, according to Anwar Gargash, the United Arab Emirates diplomatic adviser to the president.
The governor said people were being taken to the town of Sloviansk where they could get a train to take them to the west of Ukraine.
"Absolutely nowhere is safe in the city now," he said. "The enemy is striking everywhere."
Chernihiv has been under sustained attack from air strikes and mortar shelling, he said, adding that the Russians are not using high-precision weapons.
In a statement Tuesday, the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA said the talks with senior government officials will center on the agency's plans to deliver "urgent technical assistance to ensure the safety and security of the countrys nuclear facilities and help avert the risk of an accident that could endanger people and the environment."
Grossi posted a photo of himself on Twitter standing in front of an official UN vehicle on Tuesday, saying he had "just crossed the border into Ukraine to start the IAEA's mission to ensure the safety and security of the country's nuclear facilities."
"We cant afford to lose any more time," he continued, adding that the IAEA's expertise is needed urgently to prevent a nuclear accident taking place.
Gargash, who previously served as the Emirati Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, spoke at the landmark regional meeting in Israel's Negev desert, where top diplomats from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco, Egypt, Israel and the United States met to discuss security issues.
Podolyak also alluded to videos and other evidence that have surfaced of the apparent mistreatment of prisoners and other potential violations of the laws of armed conflict.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said he is not aware of cases of missing Ukrainian journalistsandactivists,or of reports ofarrested officialsinRussian-held territories of Ukraine.
The watchdog has drawn up "concrete and detailed plans for safety and security assistance" to Ukraine's nuclear sites, whichinclude 15 nuclear power reactors at four plants as well as the Chernobyl NPP,according to the statement.
Some 300-400 people are estimated to have been killed in the city, but the exact figure is unclear, said the mayor. CNN cannot immediately verify any death toll.
"We shall not surrender," he said as an explosion could be heard in the background. The noise was from a Russian munition, Atroshenko said.
"We ask you and the whole democratic community in the world: We need to step up sanctions against Russia. We must give up Russian oil. No trade with the Russian Federation. Close ports to Russian ships. And this must be a policy of solidarity in the European Union among all member states," he said.
Families are often denied any information about the fate of those being held. Many are often too terrified to speak out about the disappearance of their relatives, for fear that it could trigger a backlash against themselves or their loved ones.
On Saturday, Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the Ukrainian government estimated the number of Ukrainians forcibly deported to Russia since the invasion was nearly 40,000.
Dialogue between Russia and the USisstill needed, despite recent statementsfrom US President Joe Bidenthatdamage the relations, said Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday.
On Sunday Bidensaid that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power, but on Monday he told CNNs Kaitlan Collins he was "talking to Russian people" with the line, rather than announcing a change in policy.
A handful have subsequently been released, the spokesperson said, although exact numbers are still being verified by the mission.
"Sometimes calls on air from both sides to destroy one or another nation. All this leads to conflicts, to videos of violating the Geneva Convention regarding the prisoners of war," he added, saying that the Ukrainian military is committed to making sure that it does not happen again, and "that it has legal consequences for people who violate the rules of war."
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine earlier claimed certain units of Russias military are withdrawing from battlefronts in the capital, Kyiv, and from the northern city of Chernihiv.
Russian forces have occupied Ukraine's largest nuclear power plant,Zaporizhzhia, since March 4, andthe site of the infamous 1986 accident,the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, since February24.
"The key one is the agreement on international security guarantees for Ukraine. Only with this agreement we can end the war as Ukraine needs," Podolyak said, referring to a longstanding position of the Ukrainian government that Ukraine would adopt neutral status only if provided binding security guarantees.
Rafael Mariano Grossi, the chief of the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, is in Ukraine for urgent talks with the Ukrainian government about the safety of the country's nuclear facilities.
One person had been killed by shelling in Nyzhnie, while rescuers had managed to pull 20 people alive from the rubble of a building strike in Severodonetsk, the governor said.
"Information regarding the number of released individuals is pending verification. HRMMU has received many complaints about missing civilian persons, which are also pending corroboration," said the spokesperson.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has called for even tighter sanctions against Russia and warned that almost all of the besieged city of Mariupol has been destroyed in an address to the Danish Parliament on Tuesday.
The Russian enemy did not meet the goal of its offensive operation, it said in an official Facebook update Tuesday.
Moscow says it will drastically reduce military activity on two fronts  Kyiv and Chernihiv  according to the Russian Ministry of Defense Telegram channel.
About 100,000-110,000 of the city's 290,000 residents remain in Chernihiv, said the mayor, who said the city would continue to hold off the Russian armed forces.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak on Tuesday outlined some of the issues that were discussed in talks betweenRussia and Ukraine inIstanbulon Tuesday  which have now ended  saying there were "intensive consultations" on several issues.
Photos posted on the governors Telegram channel showed people gathered round a small bus ready to board, with their belongings packed in bags.
However, it warned of a high risk of Russian troops attacking military and civilian infrastructure. The Russian military, it claimed, is struggling to reinforce and rotate in new soldiers, due to the refusal of personnel to participate in the so-called special operation, and are not able to staff even one battalion-tactical group.
Nevertheless, dialogue between Russia and the United States is necessary in any case, not only in the interests of our the two countries but also in the interests of the whole world, he added.
Grossi, who is set to visit one of the country's power plants during his trip,warnedthat "there have already been several close calls" when it comes to the country's nuclear facilities.
More than 100,000 people are still trapped in Mariupol and are forced to "have to melt snow to drink water," he added.
By Maureen Chowdhury, Adrienne Vogt, Aditi Sangal, Mike Hayes, Jason Kurtz, Meg Wagner, Melissa Macaya, Travis Caldwell, Sen Federico O'Murch, Jack Guy and Hafsa Khalil, CNN
Ukrainian officials have said there is a major humanitarian crisis in cities that have been under heavy Russian bombardment, including the besieged port of Mariupol.
He spoke to CNN from in front of a bombed-out cinema, which he said was struck by a missile.
Speaking at the World Government Summit in Dubai, Gargash said that "the Middle East region  is witnessing the sort of upper structure changing, but it has to catch up and it has to catch up by emphasizing, in my opinion, non-political issues."
At the meeting on Monday, Israels Foreign MinisterYair Lapid spoke about the effect the new regional alliance will have on deterring Iran, but Gargash said the "Middle East is not really only about Iran  and Israel."
An explosion could be heard during a CNN interview with Vladyslav Atroshenko, the mayor of Chernihiv, on Tuesday.
One way or another, sooner or later, Russia and the US will have to talk about issues of strategic stability, security, and other issues that only we can discuss," he said.
Local officials are working to evacuate people living in towns suffering heavy Russian shelling despite the failure of fighting parties to formally agree a humanitarian corridor, the regional governor of Luhansk in Ukraines far east said.
"There are grounds to believe that some of them may have also been detained, and possibly subjected to enforced disappearance," they added.
Abu Dhabi has worked to improve ties with its regional neighbors, including Turkey and Iran, and normalized relations with Israel in 2020.
