March 25 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220326
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-25-22/h_8dbf626f9c725d05cd6d9caa68d80287
Ukrainian forces have been able to launch attacks from the Mykolaiv region just to the north, intoKhersonregion, for over a week.While the residents of the city continue to hold large protests, the Russians remain firmly in control of it and much of the region at this time.
Lubkivskyi says that Ukrainian intelligence has tracked the group inside and outside of Ukraine and that several Wagner operatives have been killed inside the country, identified by their unique ID tags.
The Russian military has claimed it is not targeting civilians or residential areas, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary.
All these documents and the necessary proof will be presented to the International Court, he said, adding that he couldnt reveal more due to operational reasons.
The Wagner group first came to prominence during Russias invasion of eastern Ukraine in 2014. Since then, independent research and CNN investigations have found that the private military contractor has operated in Syria and multiple countries in Africa. They have been accused by US officials and human rights watchdogs of sustained human rights abuses.
The lead author on the letter was John Holdren, a professor of environmental science and policy at Harvard University. Holdren was previously the Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy under the Obama administration.
The Kremlin has repeatedly denied any links to the group. Prigozhin denies any involvement in Wagner.
A senior adviser to the Ukrainian Minister of Defense told CNN the notorious Russian private military group Wagner was involved in an alleged assassination plot against Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal.
OnFriday, Ukraines State Agency for the Management of the Exclusion Zone provided additional detailed technical information about the Central Analytical Laboratory in Chernobyl town, which it earlier this week said had been looted by marauders,' the IAEA said.
Meanwhile, two senior NATO military officials on Wednesday estimated the number of Russian soldiers killed in action in Ukraine to be between 7,000 and 15,000. Other US officials have put Russian losses in a similar range  between 7,000 and 14,000 Russian soldiers killed  but they have expressed low confidence in those estimates.
Tyler Jacob, an American living in Ukraine, was freed from detention in Russia on Friday, according to the office of Sen. Amy Klobuchar.
I was their only source of information. There were no clear instructions, Victoria told CNN. Meanwhile, her husbands family is still waiting in Poland.
The number of the Russian losses has exceeded 16,000 casualties, Zelensky said in a video message posted to social media on Friday. Among them are the high-ranking commanders. So far no reports of killed Russian general colonels or admirals. However, in that number we have a commander of one of the occupiers' armies and a second in command of the Black Sea Navy.
It is unclear if Rudskoy's statement implies a shifting of the goalposts for the Russian military, or just represents a change in public messaging.
French President Emmanuel Macron will speak with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to discuss the terms and conditions of an exceptional humanitarian operation to evacuate civilians in Mariupol, he announced at a press conference on Friday.
"Initially, we did not plan to storm them in order to prevent destruction and minimize losses among personnel and civilians," Rudskoy said. "And although we do not exclude such a possibility, however, as individual groupings complete the tasks set, and they are successfully solved, our forces and means will be concentrated on the main thing -- the complete liberation of Donbas."
There shouldn't be this kind of red tape when people are getting bombed every day, she said.Its a PR stunt  Its lovely on paper, but when you go through the process, it's nigh on impossible to actually do it."
The British government says Ukrainian refugees are welcome, and according to the Home Office, Britains visa application process has been streamlined in order to help refugees through the process as quickly as possible.
A top Russian general gave some of the most detailed public remarks to date onRussia's military strategyin Ukraine, claiming on Friday that the "first stage" of Russia's military plan is now complete, with their primary focus now centered on eastern Ukraine.
Zelensky has repeatedly committed to staying in Ukraine to marshal the countrys defense during the war, now in its second month.
All of these war crimes against the civilians in Mariupol and other cities of Ukraine will continue informing nations of the world, Zelensky said.
Ukrainian refugees hoping to settle in the UK say they are facing a host of obstacles in the process, including long lines at UK immigration centers, weeks spent paying for temporary housing and forms that require them to put their trust in strangers with sensitive personal documents.
But, they said, it would be a major setback if the world punished Russian scientists for the actions of their government.
The two are strangers, but they have been required to share sensitive personal documents as part of the application process.
Five Western scientists have written a letter that calls on US policymakers and the rest of the scientific community to avoid shunning all Russian scientists in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
The assessment that the city ofKhersonwas contested was based in part on images and media reports from the city showing the Ukrainian flag draped from city hall, according to two other defense officials.
The scientists noted that they had all participated in international collaborations, and welcomed the outpouring of support for Ukrainian scientists. However, they stressed that Russian scientists deserve the same security. The scientists noted the thousands of Russian academics and students living in the West who have criticized the Russian government publicly for their attack on Ukraine.
"We cant corroborate exactly who is in control ofKherson, but the point is, it doesnt appear to be as solidly in Russian control as it was before," the official said. "We would argue thatKhersonis actually contested territory again."
A separate scheme aims to connect Ukrainians with sponsors in the UK who are willing to host refugees. But would-be hosts say its riddled with red tape. The fine print says host applicants need to identify a refugee to sponsor on their own.
The Russian Ministry of Defense said in a briefing Friday that 1,351 military personnel had been killed in Ukraine and 3,825 had been wounded, during the first major casualty update since March 2.
In their letter,published Thursday in the journal Science, the scientists said Putin and his associates deserve every appropriately sized and targeted sanction against the Putin regime that the horrified world can devise.
Nina Federoff at the Pennsylvania State University, Neal Lane at Rice University, Nick Talbot at the Sainsbury Laboratory and Toby Spribille at the University of Alberta were also authors on the letter.
Ukraines regulatory authority told the IAEA on Thursdaythat Russian shelling of checkpoints in the nearby city of Slavutych, where many Chernobyl nuclear power plant staff live, prevented them from travelling to and from the plant, the statement read.
According to an IAEA statement, Ukraine also did not know when the next rotation might take place.
By Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Sana Noor Haq, Adrienne Vogt, Melissa Macaya, Ed Upright, George Ramsay, Aditi Sangal and Meg Wagner, CNN
While the UK government schemes are certainly more generous than previous re-settlement programs, it remains a complicated procedure, said Laura Kyrke-Smith, UK Executive Director of the International Rescue Committee IRC.
From CNN's Natalie Gallon, Gianluca Mezzofiore, Nick Paton Walsh, Tim Lister, Paul P. Murphy, Ellie Kaufman and Oren Liebermann
The US official told the outlets, including CNN, that "weve seen reports of resistance there in areas that were previously reported to be in Russian control."
The current staff who arrived at the plant on March 20-21 replaced the personnel who had been there since Russian forces took control of the site on Feb. 24, the IAEA said.
Lubkivskyi said the plot was confirmed by Ukraines intelligence service and special forces in charge of protecting Zelensky.
Klobuchars office said Jacob, who is originally from Winona, Minnesota, was taken by Russian forces about two weeks ago while trying to leave Ukraine. He was held in Russia for 10 days.
So far, the British government says it has issued 20,000 visas to Ukrainian refugees hoping to reunite with relatives through the Ukraine Family Scheme, which allows those fleeing Ukraine to apply for a special visa that would allow them to live and work in the UK for up to three years. But there are still thousands of applications waiting to be processed.
Victoria and Andriy, a Ukrainian-British couple who have lived in the UK for more than a decade, told CNN the process to bring Victorias elderly parents  who had fled their hometown of Berdyansk  was complicated.
De Jager told CNN she believes the British government has intentionally made the process difficult to deter Ukrainians from attempting to settle in the UK.
For example, residents in town draped a large Ukrainian flag on Thursday down the side of city hall.
Ukraine informed the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA that there has not been any rotation of technical staff at the Chernobyl nuclear plant since March 21, the UN nuclear watchdog said Friday.
The operation will be carried out with Turkey and Greece to evacuate the civilians who want to leave the besieged city, according to Macron.
The group is thought to be connected to  and financed by  Yevgeny Prigozhin, an oligarch so close to the Kremlin that he is known as Putin's "chef."
Rudskoy's remarks come as Russia's advances appear to have stalled around major Ukrainian cities such as Kyiv and Kharkiv. Russia has also failed to achieveair superiority in Ukraineand has suffered heavy losses of personnel since the start of the invasion.
The city ofKhersonremains under total Russian control, four residents of the city told CNN, contrary tonumber of reports from other media outlets, citing a senior US defense official.
"The public and individual experts are wondering what we are doing in the area of the blockaded Ukrainian cities," Rudskoy said. "These actions are carried out with the aim of causing such damage to military infrastructure, equipment, personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the results of which allow us not only to tie down their forces and prevent them from strengthening their grouping in the Donbas, but also will not allow them to do this until the Russian army completely liberates the territories of the DPR and LNR."
A State Department spokesman told CNN the department was aware of the reports but had no further comment due to privacy considerations.
The Ukrainian president on Friday also said authorities were able to ensure 18 humanitarian corridors over the past week and managed to rescue 37,606 people including 26,477 from the besieged city of Mariupol who were taken to Zaporizhzhia.
TheIAEAS Director General Rafael Grossisaid hehas in recent weeks expressed deep concern about the difficult situation facing staff operating Ukrainian nuclear facilities where the Russian military is present. He has stressed that their ability to carry out their important tasks without undue pressure is critical in order to maintain nuclear safety.
I am grateful that Tyler, his wife, and their daughter are in a safe place, said Jacobs father, John Quinn, in the statement by Klobuchars office.
Rudskoy was referring to the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics, separatist territories in eastern Ukraine that Russia recognized on the eve of its invasion.
During the Macron-Putin call, France will demand Russia to lift its siege of Mariupol so that civilians who wish to leave can evacuate and humanitarians aid can go in for those who chose to stay, the lyse Palace specified after the press conference.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has stated that the goal of what Russian officials refer to euphemistically as the "special military operation" in Ukraine is the complete demilitarization of the country. Putin has said the war is going according to plan, but Russian forces have incurred serious losses: Rudskoy said in the same briefing that 1,351 military personnel had been killed in Ukraine and 3,825 had been wounded. US, NATO and Ukrainian officials estimate the Russian casualty count is much higher.
Previous CNN reporting confirmed that the Ukrainian military counteroffensive has reached theKhersonregion's northernmost villages.A CNN crew in one of the northernmost villages in theKhersonregion, earlier this week, witnessed the Ukrainian counteroffensive there.
Ukrainian refugees and their families who spoke to CNN described the process as frustrating and difficult to understand, while others said they feared they would struggle to meet the UKs document requirements like having copies of their passports and birth certificates given their current circumstances  theyve fled a war.
Host Elsa De Jager took to Facebook and connected with Yana, a 32-year-old teacher who hopes to make it out of Ukraine with her 4-year-old.
