March 16 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220316
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-16-22/h_b895b473e5b16ef75a9d3f4423ac0b0e
GOP Sen. Rick Scott, a member of leadership, went further on a no-fly zone than most in his party, saying in a statement: "President Biden needs to make a decision TODAY: either give Ukraine access to the planes and anti-aircraft defense systems it needs to defend itself, or enforce a no-fly zone to close Ukrainian skies to Russian attacks."
Bash said that Zelensky deliberately referenced American heroes like Martin Luther King Jr., plus events like Pearl Harbor and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and then spoke in English directly addressing US President Joe Biden, after showing a video of attacks in Ukraine.
Kryshtal said people were having to rely on old recipes for preserving food. He was using his grandmother's recipes to stay alive because cooking food outside had become impossible.
The US also has a separate deconfliction hotline with Russia that it has tested and has determined is functioning but has not yet used in practice, officials have said.
But there are of course risks, the officials added, which is why there are now discussions about moving NATOs defensive systems further east.
One day recently it seemed that the shooting stopped for 15 minutes and I could go outside to cook on a fire," he said. "But as soon as I got out, a new shootout began, I had to run back to my basement.
The historic speech given as a virtual address comes as the United States isunder pressurefrom Ukraine to supply more military assistance to the embattled country as it fights back against Russia's deadly attack.
Vitaly Kryshtal said hisvillage of Nemeshaevo, some 20 miles north-west of Kyiv, was "now between two fires."Thousands of people remained trapped in the area, with opposing troops on both sides.
We are trying to communicate with them of course, one of the officials told reporters in a briefing at NATO headquarters. But it requires two sides to communicate.
This is not the first such incoming shell in the city, nor is it the first shelling of civilians by the enemy. The Russians are shelling and destroying mostly civilian infrastructure in the city of Chernihiv and other cities in the region, he said while speaking on Ukrainian television.
The current assessment of NATOs Supreme Allied Commander of Europe Gen. Tod Wolters, the officials said, is that currently there is no threat to NATO as such. Not a deliberate threat by Russia. Russia is occupied for the time being with Ukraine.
Sen. Roy Blunt, a member of GOP leadership, told CNN he is concerned about setting up a no-fly zone.
The officials comments followed Russias attacks on a Ukrainian military base earlier this week just 10 miles from the Polish border, which raised concerns about the conflict potentially spilling over into a NATO member country.
Weve got to support a humanitarian no-fly zone, said Fitzpatrick. Otherwise, the only other outcome is slaughtering innocent people.
Democratic Sen. Mark Kelly also raised concerns about imposing a no-fly zone  and he was skeptical of the idea of transferring aircrafts to Ukraine, suggesting it would not be an effective use of resources. Hes open to more sanctions and providing more defense systems such as surface to air missiles. Kelly, who is up for reelection, also said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is a war criminal and said that US President Joe Biden should absolutely call him that. Call it what is," he said.
Democratic Sen. Mark Warner, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said much more effective tools are anti-tanks, anti-aircraft missiles and Stinger missiles.
An inhabitant of a village north of Kyiv told CNN what life is like caught between opposing Russian and Ukrainian forces engaged in heavy attacks against each other for more than a week.
Asked about Polands call on Wednesday to send NATO forces into Ukraine on a peacekeepingmission, the NATO military officials suggested such a plan would be untenable.
She acknowledged his repeated calls for the West to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine but didn't elaborate.
GOP Rep. Mike McCaul, a ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, got very emotional about the video that was played during Zelenskys address, saying,We need to help Ukraine, give them everything they need to fight this war, and the video we saw was very reminiscent of Nazi Germany. ... And history will judge us. What did you do? What did you do when the bombing started? When the maternity hospitals were bombed and the pregnant women were taken out  blood, children, what did you do?
Ahead of Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelensky's virtual address, most US lawmakers were seen wearing a pin with the US and Ukraine flag that were handed out by a Capitol Hill staffer.
US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's remarks to lawmakers was "quite remarkable" and that they're "grateful" he was thankful for aid.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Meg Wagner, Melissa Macaya, Helen Regan, Adam Renton, George Ramsay, Ed Upright and Maureen Chowdhury, CNN
CNN's Dana Bash said the goal of Ukrainian President VolodymyrZelensky's speech to US lawmakers and Americans "was tomake it impossible for them notto help."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky received another standing ovation as he finished his remarks to bipartisan members of the US House and Senate. He also received a standing ovation before he spoke.
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell calledZelenskys address to Congressan incredibly effective speech and said the message to President Biden is that he needs to step up his game.This largely mirrored reaction from GOP senators after the speech and differed from Democrats who defended Bidens handling as effective and forward leaning.
In a powerful closing to his virtual address to the US Congress, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky switched from Ukrainian to English and said that being the leader of the world and the leader of peace means fighting for the life of people of the world and for their "right to die when your time comes."
Today, video footage of civilians who died in Chernihiv, who were allegedly shot by Russian servicemen, was distributed on all propaganda resources of the Kyiv regime. It was indicated that all the dead allegedly stood in line for bread. I would like to emphasize that there were no Russian servicemen in Chernihiv, Konashenkov said in a video message Wednesday.
At least 10 people queueing for bread were killed when Russian forces shelled the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv on Wednesday, according to the head of the regional administration, Vyacheslav Chaus.
We would then have to protect, the official explained, and then shoot, and then kill and then destroy.
NATO has tried unsuccessfully to connect with Russia via a deconfliction hotline and written letters as Russias invasion of Ukraine has spread further west toward NATO territory, senior NATO military officials said on Wednesday.
NATOs supreme allied commander currently has command and control over some 40,000 soldiers, the official said, as well as hundreds of aircraft and more than 200 ships at sea.
The speech was attended by Democratic and Republican members of the US House and Senate.
"Explosions sound non-stop, every two or three minutes. Often shells fly into people's yards," Kryshtal said. People were only able to leave shelters for a few minutes a day.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky directly addressed US President Joe Biden in his speech to Congress, calling on him to be "the leader of peace."
I mean, any time you put American pilots and American planes in the sky, with Russian pilots and planes in the sky, you're really taking a chance that we may engage at a level that I dont think were prepared to, Blunt said.
Russian Ministry of Defense spokesperson Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov refuted US embassy claims that Russian troops killed civilians in the bread line in Chernihiv.
We are looking at two nation states that are in a war. If they agree on a reliable and robust peace settlement, I do not necessarily see a need for a peacekeeping mission, one of the officials said. And if you are looking at the other version of peacekeeping, which is actually peace enforcement, I mean, that is war with Russia.
GOP Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick, co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus who stationed in Kyiv during his time as an FBI agent, supports a limited no-fly zone. He said there are other ways to enforce it besides shooting down planes, such as through technology like electro-magnetic pulse and sonar radar.
Chernihiv is surrounded by Russian forces and has seen repeated shelling over the last week, much of it hitting residential areas.
It also showed someone being carried to a vehicle close by. It is not clear whether the individual was alive.
She said the House of Representatives is working on legislation in the next couple of days, but she did not elaborate and didn't answer any more questions.
"Not only ... are those indeliblein American history and in ourpsyche, what were they?They were attacks from the sky.... And what he's trying to do is tobring it home," she said.
Video geolocated by CNN shows what appear to be lifeless bodies on the ground, but the images of the bodies had been blurred.
Some 1,200 people were evacuated from the area on March 12, but thousands more remain.
