March 28 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220328
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-28-22/h_b0f365b6f3c9f7e45554125f188cdb5c
Moments before, Biden likened the meaning of his comment to a person saying objectively, bad people shouldn't continue to do bad things, and not announcing a change in policy.
On Sunday, a video emerged showingwhat appear to be Ukrainian soldiers shooting men who are apparently Russian prisoners in the knees during an operation in the Kharkiv region. During the nearly six-minute-long video, the soldiers are heard saying that they have captured a Russian reconnaissance group operating from Olkhovka, a settlement in Kharkiv that's roughly 20 miles from the Russian border.
Debate over Red Cross office: Amid the disputes over the alleged Russian policy, there has also been wrangling over the role of humanitarian network the Red Cross.
The United Nations and its partners were able to safely deliver food rations, medical supplies, and household items to Kharkiv, Ukraine on Monday, according to a statement from Osnat Lubrani, the UN humanitarian coordinator in Ukraine.
Brendan Stickles, a former commander of an EA-18G squadron, told CNN that he wasn't surprised that an expeditionary NavyGrowlersquadron was deployed in response to Russia's aggression in Ukraine.
Johansson, who was speaking after a meeting of EU interior ministers in Brussels, added that 800,000 of the 3.8 million arrivals have already applied for temporary protection in the EU.
Zelensky also gave Johnson an update on the "appalling humanitarian situation" in the besieged city of Mariupol "where heavy fighting continues," the spokesperson said.
The UN is still "in the process of verifying all of the material that has been issued," Bogner said on Monday, adding that it "raises serious concerns." CNN has reached out to Bogner's office for comment on the video allegedly showing Russian soldiers with bleeding legs.
The NavyGrowlerjets are primarily used for flying electronic warfare missions, including radar jamming to help suppress air defenses.
Since then, estimates from Ukraine of the number of people deported to Russia have risen.
Warning for the need of further contingency planning for refugees, she said, we have to be prepared for many more millions that might need to flee from Ukraine.
Children make up half of the 3.8 million refugees from Ukraine that have arrived in the European Union since the Russian invasion, EU Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson says.
UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres also discussed UN's humanitarian work on Monday during a morning press briefing, saying there are now more than 1,000 UN personnel working in Ukraine across eight humanitarian hubs in Dnipro, Vinnytsia, Lviv, Uzhorod, Chernivitzi, Mukachevo, Luhansk and Donetsk.
"We do call on the authorities on both sides to do full investigations of the allegations that are raised by these videos," Bogner said.
The Russia-Ukraine talks are set to resume in-person in Istanbul, Russian Foreign Minister SergeyLavrovsaid Monday during a news conference.
"It is important that these types of videos and that any ill treatment that may happen is stopped immediately," she continued, adding that the UN hopes these investigations will ensure that any perpetrators are "held to account."
The supplies were provided by theWorld Food Programme WFP, World Health Organization WHO, UN Childrens Fund UNICEF and UN Refugee Agency UNHCR. In coordination with the Ukrainian Red Cross, the supplies will also be delivered to hard-to-reach areas like Izium, Balakliia and Chuhuiv,Lubrani said
"I'd just come from being with those families," he said, referring to Ukrainian refugees in Warsaw.
The Pentagon is deploying six US Navyelectronic warfarejets and more than 200 accompany troops to Germany as the US bolsters its forces in eastern Europe amid Russias war with Ukraine.
Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters today that six Navy EA-18GGrowlerjets were deploying from Naval Air Station Whidbey in Washington state to Spangdahlem Air Base in Germany, and the jets were expected to arrive today.
But the next day, Ukraines Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the same number of children had in fact been forcibly evacuated from the Donetsk and Luhansk regions by Russian forces. "Such actions are a gross violation of international law, in particular international humanitarian law," the ministry said.
US President Joe Biden said that he was talking to the Russian people when he made the off-the-cuff remark that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power during a speech over the weekend.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Sunday said that more than 2,000 children have been "stolen" from the besieged port city of Mariupol, which has been under sustained Russian attack since the early days of the invasion.
Calling the situation in the city a "humanitarian catastrophe," Zelensky told a collection of independent Russian journalists that "according to our information, more than two thousand children were taken out. That means stolen."
She reminded both countries of their obligations under international humanitarian law and international human rights law to treat POWs humanely and ensure they "are not exposed to public curiosity and are treated with dignity."
"Residents of Mariupol and other settlements that are being liberated from the occupation of the Kyiv regime arrive here," Pushilin said. "People are provided with basic necessities, medical care, and then evacuated to the Russian Federation."
The lack of a uniform approach to managing the influx of refugees during and since the 2015 migration crisis has been a point of contention in the bloc.
"An average of about 1,700 people are arriving to the Volodar temporary accommodation center for evacuees every day and, in turn, the same number of people are leaving it," Pushilin said in a statement on Telegram, referring to a settlement known in Ukrainian as Nikolske, about 13 miles northwest of Mariupol.
Those claims were bolstered by Denis Pushilin, the leader of the pro-Russian Donetsk People's Republic, who said Sunday that around 1,700 people are being "evacuated" daily from the besieged Ukrainian port city of Mariupol and other towns.
During a call with journalists, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said the negotiations between the two sides are likely to resume Tuesday.
On Saturday, Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the Ukrainian government estimated the number of Ukrainians forcibly deported to Russia since the invasion was nearly 40,000.
In a tweet Monday, Zelensky also said that the two countries "discussed strengthening sanctions against Russia."
The US President dismissed the suggestion that his remarks might escalate the conflict in Ukraine, telling reporters, No, I'm not.
"The sixGrowlers provide a unique electronic warfare capability to NATO that can help defend our partners and allies from any future aggression. Just as importantly, tactical deployments of non-kinetic forces  like theGrowler  can expand our preparedness while avoiding any unintentional escalation," Stickles said.
Speaking in an interview posted on YouTube Sunday, senior Ukrainian Presidential adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych stressed that the Ukrainian government is taking this very seriously and will carry out an immediate investigation into the video in question.
On Friday, Vereshchuk accused the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC head Peter Maurer of taking a "very questionable decision" to open an office in Rostov  which lies about 60 kilometers 37 miles from the border with Ukraine. Such an office "legitimized" Russias deportations, she suggested.
It said it had no office in Rostov but is "scaling up our regional set up to be able respond to needs where we see them. Our priority is to ensure a steady supply of lifesaving aid reaches people, wherever they are."
The EU commissioner noted that common guidance for the reception and support of children, including unaccompanied minors, as well as an anti-trafficking plan had been approved by the EU ministers.
Biden continued, I was expressing just what I said  I was expressing the moral outrage I felt towards this man. I wasn't articulating a policy change. And I think that you know, if he continues on this course, he is going to become a pariah worldwide, and who knows what it can become at home in terms of support.
The Prime Minister offered his full support to Ukraine in the face of Russias continued aggression, including with humanitarian support and more defensive equipment," they added.
Finally, as the latest round of talks between Russia and Ukraine are set to kick off in Istanbul on Tuesday, the Ukrainian leader also briefed his British counterpart on the talks, according to Downing Street.
The official also announced that the EU interior ministers had agreed on an EU-wide platform for registering refugees arriving and applying for temporary protection in the bloc, with EU-level coordination for hubs of transport and information.
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Monday thanked Turkey for hosting the next round of talks between Ukraine and Russia.
The Red Cross issued a statement rejecting those claims. The ICRC, which generally keeps a low public profile, responded following what it called "false information circulating online" that it was helping Russia move tens of thousands of people out of the country.
Ukrainian officials have made similar claims regarding other regions. CNN cannot independently verify claims about the number of children taken out of Mariupol and other towns into Russia.
Biden said the suggestion that other leaders may take issue with Bidens unscripted remarks during his address in Poland has not borne, nor has it weakened NATO.
By Aditi Sangal, Travis Caldwell, Helen Regan, Amy Woodyatt, Maureen Chowdhury, Jason Kurtz and Kathryn Snowdon, CNN
I wastalking to the Russian people, Biden said, when asked on Monday by CNNs Kaitlan Collins why he ad-libbed the line.
The Navy deployment adds to the thousands of US troops that have deployed to NATO countries in eastern Europe over the past five weeks since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian officials have accused the Russian government of engaging in a policy of deportation, moving civilians -- including thousands of children -- into Russia against their will and detaining them "like souls for an exchange fund."
In addition, they would be accompanied by about 240 Navy air crew, pilots and maintenance staff, he said.
US President Joe Biden says he isn't walking back his remarks that President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
BritishPrime Minister Boris Johnson spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday as part of their "ongoing dialogue," and told him that the UK will "strengthen economic pressure" on Russia, a Downing Street spokesperson said.
The prime minister "reiterated the UK would maintain and strengthen economic pressure on Putins regime," the spokesperson continued.
NATO has never ever, ever, ever, ever, ever been as strong as it is today, Biden said.
"I'm not walking anything back," President Biden said Monday at the White House, emphasizing he wasn't voicing a policy change but that he was expressing an opinion based on his emotions from the day. "I was expressing the moral outrage I felt toward the way Putin is dealing and theactions of this man.
Kirby said that theGrowlers were not being sent to be used against Russian forces fighting in Ukraine, and the deployment was not being made in response to any incident.
During the video, a group of Russian soldiers can be seen lying on the ground with at least two of the soldiers' legs bleeding heavily. One man is heard crying out in Russian my leg, my leg.
What has been claimed? The Russian Defense Ministry first said on March 20 that 16,434 people, including 2,389 children, had been evacuated from various locations a day before. Those locations included the Russia-backed Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic, according to the ministry, which said that people left of their own volition.
The United Nations has called on both Russia and Ukraine to launch an investigation after videos emerged of prisoners of war POWs being allegedly mistreated.
