March 30 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220330
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-30-22/h_992fc89a0be076206f1f151fbf26280e
Mariupol's mayor estimated that as many as 160,000 people remain in the city as of Monday.
The video shows they remain where they were struck dead in the street, in wind-filled silence, among the charred buildings and splintered trees.
The top US general in Europe said Tuesday there "could be" a gap inUS intelligence gathering that caused the US to overestimateRussia's capability and underestimate Ukraine'sdefensive abilities before Russia attacked Ukraine.
Outside the Metro supermarket in western Mariupol, hundreds of people are seen gathered in lines, waiting to enter the building. Its roof has holes from military strikes.
Entire city blocks in central Mariupol have been obliterated  a level of destruction previously not seen in the besieged Ukrainian city new satellite images from Maxar Technologies show.
Talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul, Turkey on Tuesday covered an array of important issues, including the future of the eastern Donbas region, the fate of Crimea, a broad alliance of security guarantors and a potential meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
The area just east of the bombed drama theater  where authorities believe about 300 people died in a Russian attack  is in ruins. Inonesatellite image, the roofs are either missing or have been significantly damaged on nearly every building.
While US intelligence was spot on in predicting Russia was planning to invade Ukraine  which the Biden administration aggressively released to turn global sentiment against the Kremlin  the intelligence community did not assess the poor performance of the Russian military.
The video shows that while the gunfire, the bombs and the war may have for now left Irpin, so has most of the life in the city.
Rafael Mariano Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA, is in Ukraine for urgent talks with the Ukrainian government about the safety of the country's nuclear facilities.
Grossi posted a photo of himself on Twitter standing in front of an official UN vehicle on Tuesday, saying he had "just crossed the border into Ukraine to start the IAEA's mission to ensure the safety and security of the country's nuclear facilities."
A wasteland: The video, filmed Tuesday, shows the wooded suburb akin to an apocalyptic wasteland.
In eastern Mariupol, another residential areahas sustained similar destruction. Every house surrounding two separate apartment complexes is destroyed.
Just northeast of the city, Russian military positions are seen, including vehicles parked directly next to homes.Towed artillery positionsare seen just northeast of those vehicles.
There are at least five bodies in the video. It is unclear how and when they died.
The full extent of the devastation in the city of Irpin can be seen in new video taken by a Ukrainian NGO and provided to CNN.
Ukraine echoed the announcement regarding the reduction in military action, saying some Russian troops were pulling back from Kyiv and Chernihiv.
Despite the announcement, intense fighting continued around the suburbs of Kyiv on Tuesday afternoon, especially in the northwest and northeast of the city.
With communications in and out of Mariupol non-existent, the images are the first visual update in the past few days thathave not come from Russian propaganda.
When Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine last month, US intelligence assessed that the country-wide assault could lead to Kyiv falling into Russian hands within days. But Russia's military has been bogged down around the capital as the war has entered its second month, beleaguered by sustainability and logistics problems, along with an unexpected stiff resistance from Ukrainian fighters.
The Russian Defense Ministry has decided to "radically, at times, reduce military activity" in the direction of Kyiv and Chernihiv, deputy defense minister Alexander Fomin said, state media RIA reported. The ministry's Telegram channel also said that Moscow would "drastically reduce military activity" in the cities.
President Joe Biden and other American officialsvoiced extreme caution Tuesdayat signals Russia is scaling back its military operationsnear Kyiv, suggesting they were waiting to see stronger signs of de-escalation before makingan assessment of Moscow's intentions.
It comes after Ukrainian forces pushed Russian troops out of the city in Kyiv's northwestern suburbs in the past 36 hours.
The images confirm what sensory satellite data from NASA has picked up: dozensofexplosions have taken place in and around Mariupol.
The announcement comes after Ukrainian and Western intelligence assessments suggested in recent days that Russia's advance on Kyiv was stalling.
Russiasaid it would "drastically reduce" its military assault on the Ukrainian cities ofKyivand Chernihiv after talks took place between representatives of the two nations on Tuesday that appeared to show signsof progress towards an off ramp to the conflict.
Biden's don't-trust-but-verify approach reflectsdeep American skepticismat Russian President Vladimir Putin's motives amid his monthlong invasion of Ukraine. While the US has observed movements of Russian forces away from Kyiv, there remains doubt the Russian assault on Ukraine will end soon.
Some context: CNN has geolocated and verified the authenticity of the video taken by Ukrainian WitnessProject,which ischronicling the war in Ukraine. This is one of the first videos in weeks from the eastern part of Irpin, as intense fighting there made it impossible to accesssafely.
An individual in a leather jacket,who had apparently been pullinga small cartwhen killed, is seenface down on the ground. Anothercasualtyis shownon their back in the backseat of a bullet-ridden car.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Meg Wagner, Melissa Macaya, Maureen Chowdhury, Travis Caldwell, Sen Federico O'Murch, Lianne Kolirin and Sana Noor Haq, CNN
Testifying at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing Tuesday, US European Command chief Gen. Tod Wolters was asked by Sen. Roger Wicker, a Mississippi Republican, if there was an intelligence gap that caused the US to overestimate Russia's strength and underestimate the Ukrainian defenses.
Another sprawling apartment complex in southeastern Mariupol, near the Azovstal iron and steel works factory, hasbeendestroyed. CNN has previously confirmed that Russian troops and Chechen fighters have been active near that apartment complex.
Wind passing through the remaining trees and the clangingof sheet metal against metal is the only thing that's heard in the video, save forthedull boom of a military strikein the distance.
Ongoing shelling: Russia claims it will reduce military activity near Kyiv, but CNN has seen no sign that's happening yet as military strikes continued on Tuesday evening around the Ukrainian capital.
Bodies in streets: Aside from debris and destructionof buildings, thebodies of civilians are the only thinginthe streets.
