March 1 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220301
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-01-22/h_d839bed2974aeb2e7d18a65436c21201
On Monday, Lithuania along with Estonia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia published an open letter urging the EU to immediately grant Ukraine candidate country status and to begin negotiations on its formal acceptance into the bloc.
I am absolutely convinced -- I am more convinced than ever -- as this hideous conflict progresses, that Putin will fail. I believe that Putin must fail, and that we will succeed in protecting and preserving a sovereign, independent and democratic Ukraine, he added.
Ukraine's Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova described the situation in Kharkiv as "hellish" and shared a video on Facebook of a missile that hit a kitchen window and tore off the leg of a woman, who she said later died in hospital.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russia of war crimes over the attacks. He said that in five days, 56 missile strikes and 113 cruise missiles were launched in Ukraine by Russian forces. On Monday, he said Russian forces "brutally fired on Kharkiv from jet artillery. It was clearly a war crime."
In any other circumstances, it would be a beautiful sight: pristine white snow blanketing the roofs of old Kyiv.
Ukrainian President VolodymyrZelensky has said the protection of the country's capital, Kyiv, is the key priority for the state.
Pushilin claimed without offering any evidence that nationalist elements in Mariupol were terrorizing the civilian population and were using them as a human shield. The city has a population of some 400,000.
The blast destroyed the building, according to videos of the incident posted by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs MOFA and Ukrainian government officials. The clips were posted on social media early Tuesday local time and have been verified by CNN.
Kharkiv and Kyiv are currently the most important targets for Russia. Terror is meant to break us. To break our resistance. They are heading to our capital, as well as to Kharkiv, he said in a Facebook message Tuesday.
In his message to Ukrainians, Zelensky also described Tuesday's attack on the central square in Kharkiv as an act of terror.
It is plainly already having a dramatic effect. We are ready to intensify and to keep going for as long as it takes, he added.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Helen Regan, Adam Renton, Jessie Yeung, Rob Picheta, Ed Upright, Melissa Macaya and Meg Wagner, CNN
In the days before the invasion started, the skies were blue and the city sunny. On some days, sitting outside in the sun, winter jackets started to become obsolete. Spring appeared to be in the air.
Ukraine has accused Russia of committing war crimes by targeting civilians, and on Monday, the International Criminal Court said it would open an investigation into Russia's invasion of Ukraine -- a move that was welcomed by Kyiv.
Russia maintains that it isn't targeting civilian infrastructure in Ukraine, and that there is no evidence of civilian deaths caused by the Russia military. Russia's outgoing President of the UN Security Council Vassily Nebenzia repeated these claims on Monday, stating the "tide of dirty lies replicated in Western mass media unfortunately have become a dangerous mark of our time."
Russia maintains that it isn't targeting civilian infrastructure in Ukraine, and that there is no evidence of civilian deaths caused by the Russia military.
The leader of the self-declared separatist region in Donetsk, Denis Pushilin, says he expects his forces to surround the port city of Mariupol on Tuesday, adding in a television interview that the town of Volnovakha  which is half-way between Mariupol and Donetsk  was almost completely surrounded.
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kubela said that "Russian missile strikes" caused an explosion in the nation's second biggest city, Kharkiv, Tuesday.
More than 20 people have been injured in an explosion in Ukraines second biggest city, Kharkiv, Ukraines State Emergency Service said in a video posted on its official Facebook account Tuesday.
Becoming a member of the bloc is acomplex procedureand Ukraine is currently not an official candidate for EU accession.
We call on all countries of the world to respond immediately and effectively to this criminal tactic of the aggressor and to declare that Russia is committing state terrorism. We demand full responsibility for terrorists in international courts,Zelenskysaid.
When asked about his support for Ukraines EU membership bid, Nausda told CNN Europe had a moral duty to include the country in the bloc.
But today, the best sons of their fatherland on the borders of our city are doing everything, not to give Mariupol away, Boichenko said.
Johnson also said that Russian President Putin had underestimated the passionate desire of the Ukrainian people to defend and protect their own country.
But the temperatures started to drop over the weekend and it is now freezing in Kyiv. People have spent hours waiting in long lines at grocery stores and pharmacies in the city after they opened for the first time following a 36-hour curfew.
Basurin said several towns in the region had already fallen to the militia of the DPR.
On Monday, the International Criminal Court said it would open an investigation into Russia's invasion of Ukraine
With thousands of people sheltering in unheated basements, underground carparks and subway stations across the city, the sudden cold snap is concerning. Temperatures have been hovering above 0 degrees Celsius for the past two weeks in Kyiv.
They have destroyed important infrastructure, there is no electricity in the city, there is no heat. We are fighting to the last bullet."
Vadym Boichenko, the mayor of Mariupol, said on Ukrainian television that residential areas had been shelled for five days  with heavy artillery, rockets and aircraft.
But there is a growing body of evidence to show that civilians are being targeted, and the UN said Monday that 406 civilian casualties in Ukraine have been reported.
There are eight emergency rescue squads on site working, with 80 staff and volunteers sorting the debris, dragging it away to find the injured and the dead. Work continues, he said.
At least six people were injured, including a child, in the explosion, according to Ukraine's State Emergency Service.
"As a result of artillery shelling, a state administration building and adjacent building were damaged. People are trapped under the rubble. The head of rescue operations has learned that over 20 people have been wounded, a service member said in the video.
Im afraid to say that the tragedy that we predicted has come to pass and, if anything, it is worse than our predictions. We are seeing an unfolding disaster in the European continent, Johnson said.
It's just gone midday in Kyiv, where icy temperatures have added to Ukrainians' woes as the city braces for a huge Russian attack.
No country in the European Union EU, in Europe can feel safe right now. Yes, Ukraine is target number one, but if we cannot support Ukraine, if Ukraine will fall -- be sure that well be next, that Russia will stay at our doors, Nausda told CNN when asked if Putin could turn his attention to the Baltic states of Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia at some point.
Therefore, the defense of the capital today is the key priority for the state, Zelensky said.
For now, the city's key infrastructure is holding up. Electricity, heat and water are available as normal, but fears of potential disruptions to supplies have ratcheted up, as a long Russian military convoy closes in on the city.
ICC Prosecutor, Karim A.A. Khan said in a statement that, following a preliminary examination into the situation, there is a reasonable basis to "believe that both alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity have been committed in Ukraine."
On the topic of economic sanctions imposed on Russia by Europe, Johnson said this marks one of the most powerful packet of sanctions ever advanced against any country in the last few decades.
Speaking alongside his Polish counterpart in Warsaw, the British Prime Minister paid tribute to the leadership and courage shown by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who he said has inspired and mobilized the world.
More than 20 people were injured, including a child, in an explosion at a government building in the city, Ukraine's State Emergency Service said in a Telegram post Tuesday.
But right now, the snow just adds to a long list of worries for the residents of the Ukrainian capital.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Tuesday that Russias invasion of Ukraine is worse than he expected it to be, adding that Europe is now witnessing an unfolding disaster.
Lithuania President Gitanas Nausda warned that no country in Europe can feel safe when it comes to President Putin, as the Russian invasion in Ukraine entered its sixth day.
Separately, the deputy head of the Donetsk Peoples Militia, Eduard Basurin, said the so-called Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR, along with Russian forces, would organize humanitarian corridors to allow civilians to leave Mariupol.
