March 10 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220310
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-10-22/h_19dc010ff02aad6a4571b07a4bce15c0
The UK system drew criticism after some refugees managed to reach the French port city of Calais before being told to travel toappointments in Paris or Brussels as part of the administrative procedures.
Security checks on Ukrainians entering the UK will also continue, Patel said.She added that hasreceived "assurances"which enabled the changes, saying thatprevious Russian poisonings of dissents in Britain, had made clear,"what Putin is willing to do on our soil."
These images show the extent of the damage to homes and stores across the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol.
"We need to take a tough stance as representatives of the free world," he said, adding that "we have to rescue Ukraine," and calling for an "all hands onboard" approach.
A ceasefire to the hostilities in Ukraine was never going to be agreed on Thursday during trilateral talks between Russia, Ukraine and Turkey, according to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
Duda went further, saying war crimes are "obvious" in Ukraine and that refugees coming to his country have evidence of it on their phones.
Polish President Andrzej Duda has called a Russian strike on a Ukrainian maternity and children's hospital an "act of barbarity and genocide" and called for further sanctions against Moscow.
BritishHome Secretary Priti Pateltoldlawmakers in the House of Commons ThursdaythatUkrainians with passports no longer need to go to a visa processing center before traveling to the UK, from next week.
During the last round of Belarus talks, Russia presented Belarus with a draft legal document detailing "extremely specific considerations" with the Ukrainian side assuring that they would give answers, he said.
Vatican Secretary of State Pietro Parolin has expressed dismay at the Russian bombing of a maternity and children's hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Vatican News reported Thursday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned Russian propagandists they will be held responsible for complicity with war crimes in a video message Thursday.
"Buses have already left, cargo vehicles are en route carrying food, water and medications," Zelensky said.
The UK has moved its visa application system for Ukrainian refugees online after receiving criticismforreported delays at application centers.
The World Health Organization said Thursday it had recorded 24 verified incidents of attacks on health care in Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion on Feb. 24.
US Vice President Kamala Harris stopped short of calling Russia's actions in Ukraine "war crimes" as civilians continue to be killed in the conflict
She added: "The UN has set up a process by which there will be a review and investigations and we will of course participate as appropriate and necessary."
The foreign minister added that he "wasn't surprised" that Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said it wasn't possible to reach a ceasefire during Thursdays talks.
The home secretary added that she had two key objectives when dealing with this issue: "first to keep the British people safe, second to do all we can to help Ukrainians."
Parolin said that the bombing of medical centers for women and children is unacceptable, Vatican News reported.
Speaking alongside Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw Thursday, Harris said: "We are also very clear that any intentional attack on innocent civilians is a violation."
Images from Ukraine clearly showed atrocities taking place, Harris said, even before an investigation determines what to call them.
It comes afterUkrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova on Wednesday called for a new model of investigative efforts to tackle alleged war crimes in Ukraine.
Russia wants to "have a serious conversation on the Belarusian site," Lavrov said, stressing the country's belief that the issue "should be resolved in the context of a comprehensive settlement of the Ukrainian crisis."
"No one was going to agree on a ceasefire at this meeting, these proposals and the sequence of steps outlined in these proposals are well known to the Ukrainian side," the Russian foreign minister continued.
The European Union's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell condemned Russia's bombing ofMariupol hospital as a war crime.
A deadly bombing of a maternity and children's hospital in Mariupol, which Ukrainian officials said killed three people, has been widely condemned.
Regarding the US rejection of a Polish plan to sendSoviet-era fighter jets to Ukraine by way of a US-NATO air base in Germany, hesaidPoland had been ready to supply the fighter jets to Ukraine but wanted it to be a common decision made by NATO. "We want Poland to remain a credible member of NATO," he said.
Zelensky claimed that Russia wants "to humiliate our people so they take bread and water on their knees from the occupants, so they can save lives only by going to the occupied territories or Russia. "
He mentioned corridors for the port city of Mariupol, the besieged city of Volnovaha in the east and the northeastern cities of Izyum and Sumy.
The parties "mainly talked about humanitarian issues at the initiative of our Turkish friends," Lavrov added.
A warning was reportedly issued to a number of people she called Russian propagandists, including several Russian celebrities who Venediktova described as Putin supporters.
"Ukrainians with passports will be able to get permission to come here fully online from wherever they are and will be able to give their biometrics once in Britain," Patel said.
More than 1.5 million Ukrainian refugees have entered Poland, Duda said, adding that he was "proud" of how ordinary Polish families have received them in their "private homes."None of the refugees are being housed in camps, he said.
"It is there that all practical issues are discussed, it is there that it was explained in the most detailed way what needs to be done in order to end this crisis. This includes demilitarization and denazification and ensuring the neutral status of Ukraine, Lavrov said, echoing rhetoric that Russian President Vladimir Putin has invoked to justify his invasion of Ukraine.
He reiterated the Vaticans desire to mediate peace talks between Ukraine and Russia, if requested.
"Mariupol is under siege.Russias shelling of maternity hospital is a heinous war crime," Borrell said Thursday on his verified Twitter account.
Parolin admitted that the space for negotiations is slight, but expressed hope some agreement could be reached.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Meg Wagner, George Ramsay, Jack Guy, Helen Regan, Adam Renton, Melissa Macaya, Jason Kurtz, Aditi Sangal and Amir Vera, CNN
Speaking in Warsaw following a bilateral meeting with US Vice President Kamala Harris, Duda thanked the US for imposing sanctions on Russia, calling it a "vanguard" while also urging for more help for Ukraine from the international community.
In a video message Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said his government was"securing humanitarian corridors again for our cities."
The prosecutor general said her office also took action against those who incited war and provoked further atrocities in Ukrainian territory.
These attacks have led to at least 12 deaths and 17 injuries. At least 8 of the injured and 2 of the killed were verified to be health workers.The attacks took place between 24 February and 8 March, the WHO said in an email to CNN.
Speaking in a news conference in Antalya after the talks, Lavrov said he had warned his Turkish and Ukrainian counterparts that Russia did not want to create a "parallel track" to talks already taking place alongside the Belarusian border.
It's unclear whether these corridors have allowed safe passage for civilians and aid on Thursday. As of 3:30 p.m. local time 8:30 a.m. ET, there was no sign that a relief column had reached Mariupol, which saw further bombing Thursday morning.
