May 13 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220513
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-13-22/h_16200867d8232fa51a8a1002824ff24b
After weeks of resistance, Ukrainian troops have pulled back from the city of Rubizhne in Luhansk region, according to multiple reports from the area.
The images from Black Sky, taken on May 12, show collapsed sections of the bridges crossing the Siverskyi Donets River near the villages ofRubizhne and Staryi Saltiv, which are about 10 miles south of the Russian border.
Calling the invasion a "special military operation," Ambassador Vladimir Chizhov told Sky News Russia could have "steamrolled" Ukraine by now if it had wanted.
The village of Rubizhne is near Staryi Saltiv, although it shares the same name with the city further south in Luhansk.
The images from Maxar Technologies, taken on May 12, show the heavily damaged plant from above.
The fighting is taking place along the same bend in the river where the Russiansconstructed two pontoon bridges, which the Ukrainians blew up.
A Ukrainian officer inside the facility said on Thursday that all the trapped civilians have likely been evacuated, though he added it was difficult to make a full assessment of the situation across the plant given the constant shelling.
Elsewhere in Kharkiv region, the Russians appear to be using artillery sporadically but with deadly effect.
Satellite images of the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol show the extent of the destruction the Russian bombardment has had on the complex.
Ukrainian troops continue to defend Severodonetsk, which has been pummelled by Russian shelling and air attacks for weeks.Some 15,000 civilians are still thought to be in Severodonetsk, out of a pre-war population of 100,000. The city is more than 70 destroyed according to the local government.
Near the island, a barge with a heavy-lift crane is seen next to another sunken vessel, which Maxar has also identified as a Serna-class landing ship.
There has been no official confirmation from the Ukrainian General Staff that Ukrainian troops have left the outskirts of Rubizhne.
A new satellite image from Maxar Technology appears to show a missile strike Thursday near Snake Island, in southern Ukraine.
Two battlegrounds are emerging in Ukraine, with the Russians trying to take the Luhansk and Donetsk regions, while the Ukrainians are trying to both hold them back and cut them off. And the boundaries of one river in the east are hindering both sides.
Although the air base is deep within Russian-occupied territory, it doesn't mean the aircraft there are safe. In late March, Ukrainian forces successfully targeted the airport outside of Kherson, blowing up a number of Russian military helicopters.
Russia's Ambassador to the European Union said Moscow's invasion of Ukraine is on track but not proceeding at the speed certain people in the country wanted.
Another satellite image, taken on May 8, by the European Space Agency shows the bridge across thePecheneg hydroelectric power station  the nearest bridge to the south  has also been blown up.
Bratchuk also claimed the Ukrainian military had destroyed a Russian helicopter on the island.The Ukraine Armed Forces Southern Operational Command released video showing a helicopter being destroyed by a missile on Sunday.
Some context:The use of the air base by the Russians is important, given its strategic location between the occupied cities of Kherson, Mariupol and parts of the Russian-backed separatist-held Donbas region.
Chizhov said he is "deeply disappointed and saddened" by Finland and Sweden making moves to join NATO.
The Ukrainians are continuing to pushback a Russian advance across theSiverskyi Donets Rivernear Bilohorivka, a satellite image from BlackSky shows.
Bratchuk claimed on Thursdaythata Russian support ship, the 'Vsevolod Bobrov' was on fire and being towed to Sevastopol from the area of Snake Island. That support ship is not seen in this satellite image, and the claim remains unverified by CNN.
Ukrainian officials reported earlier on Thursday that a nearby town had fallen to advancing Russian forces. And in its latest analysis, the Institute for the Study of War said that "Russian forces likely control almost all of Rubizhne as of May 12, and have likely seized the town of Voevodivka, north of Severdonetsk."
As a result of that successful Ukrainian military strike, the Russian military has had to largely abandon the airport as a base for its aircraft.
It's unclear how the ship sank, but on Sunday,spokesman for Odesa region military administrationSerhiy Bratchuk said that a landing boat was hit, in addition to two Raptor-class patrol boats.
It's not just momentum that's important for the Ukrainian forces.Major Russian supply lines, which are vital to the Russian military advance near the city of Izium and into the Luhansk region, are just east of the Siverskyi Donets River in the Kharkiv region.
Why the bridges are important: If those bridges are compromised, the momentum of the Ukrainian advance will be significantly hampered.
As the Russian forces retreated due to a sustained Ukrainian counteroffensive in the Kharkiv region, three bridges vital to continuing the Ukrainian advance were blown up, satellite images from BlackSky and the European Space Agency show.
On Thursday, shelling of the town of Derhachi killed two people, according to the local administration, and destroyed the humanitarian center and medical facilities.
While it's not entirely clear when the bridges were blown, or who is responsible for doing so, it's unlikely the Ukrainians are responsible for their destruction.The bridges are just too vital to their counteroffensive, and to targeting the supply lines.
The Russian military is continuing to use a Ukrainian air base outside the occupied city of Melitopol, satellite images from BlackSky show.
Prior to evacuation efforts, hundreds of civilians had been sheltering in the complex along with the last remaining Ukrainian defenders of the city.
There are only two smaller bridges to the north, in the currently Russian-occupied villages ofOhirtseve and Buhrukuvatka, which cross the river.Their current status is unknown, as clouds have obscured any recent satellite imaging.
By Aditi Sangal, Helen Regan, George Ramsay, Lianne Kolirin, Hannah Strange and Adrienne Vogt, CNN
Two plumes of smoke are seen near to a Russian Serna-class landing ship in the Black Sea, identified by Maxar.
In recent weeks, the Ukrainians have repeatedly  and successfully  destroyed Russian forces and vehicles on the island.
CNN reported early on Friday that at least three bridges in the area had been demolished, according to satellite imagery. It seems likely that Russian units destroyed the bridges in an effort to protect their supply lines from further Ukrainian advances.
Smoke is obscuring much of that area, but through it, an object  a possible third Russian pontoon bridge  is seen bridging the river.The object seen crosses the entire river drone photos of the first two destroyed pontoon bridges show they no longer cross the body of water.
Serhiy Hayday, the Luhansk regional military administrator, said on Wednesday the Russians are continuing to try to constructbridges across the Siverskyi Donets River. He also said that the Ukrainians have repeatedly blown them up.
"Why the current Finish government has chosen to turn the country into a backwater periphery of NATO, I cannot understand," he said.
The satellite image, taken Thursday afternoon, shows large plumes of smoke rising from a dense forest just west of the river. Fighting also appears to be occurring in the area where the Russian pontoon bridges were deployed.
Derhachi is about 10 miles 16 kilometers north of Kharkiv, which is Ukraine's second-largest city.
At least seven helicopters are seen at the air base in a satellite image taken on May 12 at 3:58 p.m. local time.Only one helicopter is seen in a satellite image from May 7 at 6:02 a.m.
The ship appears to be making a sharp turn where the missile hits the water.
A bridge linking Rubizhne with neighboring Severodonetsk has been destroyed, suggesting the Ukrainians are taking up new defensive lines.
Their families have sent an emotional appeal to Turkish PresidentRecep Tayyip Erdogan, urging him to "be a hero" and initiate an extraction procedure for all remaining fighters at the plant.
Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Thursday that "very difficult negotiations" are ongoing on the evacuation of seriously wounded fighters from the plant in exchange for Russian prisoners of war.
