May 18 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220518
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-18-22/h_e6f12ee8287effbc816028550986f3c5
Ibrahim Kalin, the spokesperson for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, held phone calls with his counterparts from Sweden and Finland as well as Germany, the US and the UK to discuss NATO membership applications of Sweden and Finland, among other topics.
The victim died from fractured skull injuries after the five soldiers left the scene, the prosecutor said. After several days of hiding, the group eventually surrendered to local residents, the prosecutor added.
In Kharkiv, the general staff said Wednesday that "as a result of the offensive of our troops, the settlement of Dementiivka was liberated."
In a third video, a shoulder fired-missile was seen almost hitting the tank.Suddenly, the tank was seen firing and then crashing into a line of trees on the side of the road.
The three videos show a Russian tank near a network of trenches dug on the western shoulder of Highway 105.Troops are seen in the trenches, but it's unclear whether they are Russian or Ukrainian.
Hultqvist called Swedens decision to apply for NATO membership a manifestation of our commitment to transatlantic security and transatlantic cooperation.
The leaders are expected todiscuss Finland and Sweden's NATO applications,European security and support for Ukraine amid Russia's invasion, White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said in a statement.
Speaking at a press conference in Germany, Yellen said it is reasonably likely to expect the license will be allowed to expire on May 25.
During the meetings, it was also emphasized that it is unacceptable to allow the terrorist organization PKKPYDYPG and FETO members to exist in NATO members and other countries. It was stated that there should be no discrimination between terrorist organizations and that all forms of terrorism should be fought in a spirit of unity and solidarity, the readout added.
Erdogan said last week that he does not view the NATO applications of Sweden and Finland positively and would not support it if they sanction Turkey.
In a detailed outline of events, the prosecutor told the court that Shishimarin, along with four other Russian servicemen, stole a vehicle to hide from the shelling by Ukrainian forces. The group drove into the village of Chupakhivka, where they encountered an unarmed resident riding a bicycle and talking on a mobile phone.
According to the official,the current NATO discussion is thatthe momentum has shifted significantly in favor of Ukraine and the debate within NATO circles is now over whetherit is possible forKyivto retake Crimea and the Donbas territories seized by Russia and Russian-backed separatists, respectively, in 2014.
According to the readout, the reversal of defense export bans and of sanctions against Turkey were also addressed.
A Kyiv district court heard charges against a captured Russian soldier on Wednesday, as the countrys first war crime trial of symbolic importance gathers pace.
NATO's enlargement is meaningful to us only to the extent that our sensitivities are respected. Asking us for support to NATO membership while providing every kind of support to the PKKYPG terrorist organization amounts to incoherence, to say the least, Erdogan added.
Erdogan accused the two countries of harboring members of the separatist militant Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, and supporters of US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of masterminding a 2016 coup attempt, which Gulen denies.
Sweden has decided to formally apply to NATO for membership this week, along with Finland.
In the context of Sweden and Finland's membership applications to NATO, the expectation that concrete steps will be taken to address Turkey's national security concerns was communicated. It was underlined that if Turkey's expectations were not met, the progress of the process would not be possible, according to a readout of the meeting.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Helen Regan, Jack Guy, Matias Grez and Ed Upright, CNN
Although it's unclear how the tank caught on fire, the second video gives some indication of what may have started it.In the video, the tank was seen heading north back toward the border and Russian-occupied territory, as well as toward a Ukrainian soldier equipped with a shoulder-fired missile.
Austin thanked Sweden for its help in supporting Ukraine through the past two-and-a-half months of the war.
In tying our security even more closely to the security of the United States and others, we are exercising our right to make our own choices in providing for our security, Hultqvist added.
It is the first war crimes trial held since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. The prosecutor expects there to be many more. So far, more than 12,000 war crimes have been recorded by Ukrainian authorities.
Russia is not able right now to borrow in global financial markets. It has no access to capital markets, Yellen said. If Russia is unable to find a legal way to make these payments and they technically default on their debt, I dont think that really represents a significant change in Russias situation. Theyre already cut off from global capital markets and that would continue.
Erdogan has accused the two countries of harboring members of the separatist militant Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, and supporters of US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of masterminding a2016 coup attempt,which Gulen denies.The PKK has been designated a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.Erdogan also said Sweden did not extradite 30 people whom Turkey sees linked to terrorism.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told his party's members of parliament in Ankara that he expects NATO member countries to understand Turkeys security issues over Finland and Sweden's bids to join the alliance.
The PKK has been designated a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.
Earlier on Wednesday,Erdogan told his party's members of parliament in Ankara that he expects NATO member countries to understand Turkeys security issues.
Elsewhere the Ukrainian National Guard reported that in Luhansk region, itsRapid Reaction Brigade had destroyed bridges to stop the advance of Russian forces towards the cities ofSeverodonetsk and Lysychansk. Video posted by the National Guard indicates the bridges were destroyed in the past few days.
Ukrainian forces in the northeastern Kharkiv region targeted a Russian tank, with the tank firing back as well, according to new videos circulating on social media.
"I think they could retake Crimea and the Donbas, yes," the official said. "Not now, not soon, but if they can keep up the fight I think so."
The Russians appear to be trying to block Ukrainian forces from advancing towards their nearby supply lines inside Ukraine.
If Sweden joins NATO, the country will make the alliance better at defending ourselves, US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said during opening remarks ahead of a bilateral meeting with Swedish Defense Minister Peter Hultqvist at the Pentagon on Wednesday.
The Ukrainian armed forces say they have recaptured another settlement in the Kharkiv region, as troops continue their counter-attacks in the area.
Ukrainian units also continue to hold off Russian forces trying to advance south into Donetsk region, according to the general staff, which said they inflicted losses on the Russians around Dovhenke, north-west of the strategically important city of Sloviansk. The Russians have been trying to break through in that area for more than a month.
Your capabilities are modern, relevant and significant, and your addition to the alliance will make us all better at defending ourselves. And of course, thats especially important at this crucial time, Austin said, as the war in Ukraine continues.
The judges will hear testimony from Shishimarin on Thursday, as well as from the victims widow. Two other witnesses will testify on behalf of the prosecution, including a Russian soldier present at the scene of the crime.
It said that blowing up the bridges would help the defense of areas still under Ukrainian control.
US President Joe Biden on Thursday is set to welcome the Prime Minister of Sweden andthe President of Finland to the White Housein a key show of support.
The general staff said fighting continued in other parts of the area and Russian forces were advancing around the village of Ternova, close to the border north-east of Kharkiv.
Weve done a lot together to make interoperability to exercise together and to develop the relationship between our armed forces, Hultqvist said. From our point of view, weve seen it as something that has given stability to our part of Europe, but the war in Ukraine is a reality and things have changed.
In the same area, the general staff reported air strikes against several towns along the front lines, as well as areas around the town of Bakhmut, a key hub for Ukrainian defensive efforts. It said that attempts to break through Ukrainian lines in the Adviivka area had been repelled.
US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen on Wednesday signaled US officials will likely end a carve-out in Western sanctions that has allowed Russia to continue making payments on its debt and avoid a default.
If you are catching up on the latest developments on Russian invasion of Ukraine on Wednesday, here's what you need to know:
The NATO alliance doesn't expect significant gains for either side of the battlefield in Ukraine in coming weeks, a NATO military official with knowledge of the intelligence told CNN on Wednesday.
Yellen signaled she is not concerned about the potential spillover caused by ending the license.
Erdogan also said Sweden did not extradite 30 people whom Turkey sees linked to terrorism.
Hultqvist said Russias war in Ukraine poses a long-term threat to European security, and called it a time where the democracies of Europe and North America must stand together against Russias naked aggression.
There has not been a final decision on that. But I think its unlikely it would continue, Yellen said.
While the US and Sweden already work together militarily, Hultqvist said that things have changed because of Russias invasion.
The trial has been adjourned until Thursday because too many members of the media were crowding the courtroom.
We expect our allies to understand, respect and support our sensitivity. We have a sensitivity to protect our borders against terrorism. None of our allies showed respect to this sensitivity as we expected, he said.
US sanctions introduced after Russia invaded Ukraine ban transactions with Russias central bank, finance ministry and national wealth fund. However, theTreasury Department issued a licensethat allows for transactions related to debt payments.
"I do question if they actually should fightto get their territory back," referencing a potential backlash by the local population in some of those areas.
CNN has geolocated and verified the authenticity of the videos.It's unclear when the firefight with the tank happened, but it took place near the village of Nove, just 8 miles about 12 kilometers south of the Ukraine-Russia border.
Citing articles 50 and 51 of the 1949 Geneva Convention, the prosecutor accused Shishimarin of firing several targeted shots using a Kalashnikov rifle from the back window of his car, hitting the victim in the head.
They wanted to come on Monday. Do not bother, there is no need, he added, regarding the high-level diplomatic delegation that was expected to come for the talks over the issue.
They also reported heavy fighting in the Luhansk region, where Russian forces continue attempts to destroy Ukrainian defenses.
Such a move would effectively block Russia from paying US bondholders, raising the risk of a default. Russia has not defaulted on its foreign debtsince the Bolshevik revolutionmore than a century ago.
The Russian soldier stands accused of murder and violating the laws and customs of war under Article 438 of Ukraine's Criminal Code.
