May 17 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220517
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-17-22/h_42385b9307441640228e68c4c4d419b8
Erdogan reiterated the same stance last week when he told a news conference in Istanbul that he was not looking at the prospect of Finland and Sweden joining NATO positively, accusing both countries of housing Kurdish terrorist organizations.
Fifty-three seriously injured people were evacuated from Azovstal to a medical facility in Novoazovsk for medical care, she said. Another 211 people were taken to Olenivka through the humanitarian corridor.
By Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Rhea Mogul, Lianne Kolirin, Sana Noor Haq and Matias Grez, CNN
Turkeys foreign minister held some meetings with Swedish and Finnish counterparts, Erdogan said, adding that none of the two countries had a clear stance against terror organizations.
Ukraines Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar described the evacuation operation in a separate video statement, noting that some Ukrainian forces remain at Azovstal.
Hundreds of people were evacuated on Monday from the steel plant, the last holdout in a city that had become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance under relentless Russian bombardment.
Speaking at a news conference in Ankara, Erdogan said Swedish and Finnish delegations should not bother coming to Turkey to try to convince Turkey to approve the countrys NATO membership.
Ukrainian forces have completed their combat mission in the besieged city of Mariupol, according to a statement by the countrys military.
The Russian Defense Ministry had earlier said that a ceasefire had been established to allow the passage of wounded Ukrainian servicemen, according to state news agency RIA Novosti.
Commanders of units stationed at the citys massive Azovstal steelworks plant have been ordered to save the lives of their personnel, the statement by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine also said.
The PKK, or Kurdistan Worker's Party, which seeks an independent state in Turkey, has been in an armed struggle with Turkey for decades and has been designated a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States and European Union.
Turkeys President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday that he would not approveSweden and Finlands NATO membershipif they sanction Ankara.
