May 31 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220601
https://edition.cnn.com/webview/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-31-22/h_44a053d68a416a0f32e45095b38c4542
"Russia is almost certainly failing to gain legitimacy for proxy governments in newly seized territories in Ukraine, as protests persist, and residents refuse to cooperate," Price added.
Biden sought to spell out clearly what the US aims in Ukraine were, and was careful to note the US is not looking to directly engage Russia.
He will also give a speech at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies SAIS,NATOsaid.
He continued: "Russia's initial objectives of controlling large swaths of Ukraine has been nothing short of a complete failure. The Kremlin probably views that forcibly holding Kherson would provide Russia a land bridge to Crimea, as well as gaining some kind of so called victory and attempt to justify Russia to Russia's domestic audiences of the thousands of lives Putin's war of choice has destroyed. We will continue to spotlight Russia's territorial designs in Ukraine as well as its ongoing aggression, just as we hold to account those who facilitate it, including with additional punitive economic measures."
Failures to take Kyiv and central Ukrainian regions in the invasion's early months meant Donbas became the centerpiece of Russian President Vladimir Putin's military ambition.
More background: On Friday, Zelensky said that 22 million tons ofgrain, accounting for nearly half of Ukrainesgrainexport supply, is being held up by Russia's blockade of the main export routes through the Black Sea and Azov Sea.
What Donbas means to Putin: Despite its move into independence along with the rest of Ukraine in 1991, Donbas has maintained a place in the psyche of Russian leadership.
The so-called "liberation" of Ukraine's Donbas region was described as an "absolute priority" for Russia by its foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, in an interview with French broadcaster TFI in late May.
Brent crude oil closed on Tuesday to the highest level in nearly three months after the European Union reached a deal to ban 90 of its Russian oil imports by the end of the year.
The programrequires Ukrainians seeking entry to the US to be sponsored by a US citizen or individual, which could include resettlement organizations and non-profit organizations. Applicants must also undergo rigorous security vetting and checks, including biographic and biometric screening, and complete vaccinations and other public health requirements, including receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, to be eligible.
However, oil finished well off its highs of the day after a new report signaled OPEC could be preparing to finally ramp up badly-needed production.
Ukraine is working on an UN-led naval operation with navies of partnering countries to ensure a safe trade route for exporting its agricultural products, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Tuesday.
This comes after the EU forged an agreement on apartial ban on Russian oil importsin a bid to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine. Although new sanctions were widely expected, this move will further scramble global energy supplies.
In the tweet, the foreign minister blamed Russia of playing "hunger games with the world by blocking Ukrainian food exports with one hand and trying to shift the blame on Ukraine with the other."
Writing in a New York Times op-ed, Biden said the US goal in Ukraine is "to see a democratic, independent, sovereign and prosperous Ukraine with the means to deter and defend itself against further aggression."
This would allow OPEC some maneuvering room to make up for production shortfalls. It would give them cover, Lipow said.
A famous Soviet propagandaposterfrom 1921 dubbed Donbas "the heart of Russia," depicting the region as a beating organ with vessels stretching across the Russian empire. Before then, the region was part of the concept of "Novorossiya," or New Russia, a term given to territories towards the west of which the Russian empire had expansionist ideas.
Biden said that US officials "currently see no indication that Russia has intent to use nuclear weapons in Ukraine, though Russias occasional rhetoric to rattle the nuclear saber is itself dangerous and extremely irresponsible."
Such a move could pave the way for Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to accelerate the return of production sidelined when Covid-19 erupted in the spring of 2020.
A Russian victory in the region would appall the West but could salvage Putin's war aims, while a defeat could cement his invasion as a historic failure. Either way, it is almost certain to devastate yet more of the Donbas region, a historically and culturally significant place whose proximity to Russia has dictated much of its turbulent existence.
But now its people, already scarred by eight years of fighting, are enduring an assault even more intense. Russian forces are closing in on the city of Severodonetsk, and are making gradual progress in some parts of the region. Some assaults have been repelled by stubborn Ukrainian counteroffensives.
Stoltenberg will be in the US capital until Friday and is expected to meet with top US officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, according to the statement.
The good news for consumers is that the oil market cooled off after The Wall Street Journal reported that some OPEC members are considering suspending Russias participationfrom an oil-production deal. A spokesperson for OPEC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Thats why Lipow expectsgasoline prices to continue to march higher, reaching his forecast of $4.75 a gallon nationally within the next 10 days.
As far as Moscow's cooperation is concerned, earlier on Tuesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov stressed that if Ukraine clears its coastal waters from mines,Russian naval forces will guarantee the passage of grain ships to the Mediterranean Sea.
Cities like Luhansk and Donetsk are historically "places that Russians could see a certain version of themselves," Finnin said.
After initially rallying, US crude closed at $114.67 a barrel, down 0.4 on the day.
Those who have lived in and studied the region describe it as an independent and gritty center of industry that has remained suspicious of outside forces for decades.
Brent crude, the world benchmark, gained 1 on the day, settling at $122.84 a barrel  the highest close since March 8. Earlier in the session, Brent traded as high as $125.28.
As of May 31, US Citizenship and Immigration Services has received more than 42,000 requests from applicants agreeing to support Ukrainians, according to DHS. More than 5,800 Ukrainians have arrived in the US under the program. After clearance, Ukrainians have some time to purchase a plane ticket and travel to the US.
During a phone call on Monday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky that Ankara places a particular importance on efforts to establish a safe corridor to export Ukrainian agricultural products by sea, according to a Turkish readout of the call.
A new Russian assault: Whether the raging battle for Donbas will be the final chapter of Russia's war, or merely its current phase, remains to be seen. But by zeroing in on the region, Putin has brought his assault on Ukraine full circle.
Hit by the war and sanctions, Russias oil production is projected to fall significantly this year. Thats on top of supply shortfalls within OPEC that have prevented supply from meeting demand.
Ukrainian forces have made progress in the regions of Kherson and Kharkiv and are holding back Russian forces in Zaporizhzhia, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an address on Tuesday night.
The United States remains "concernedabout steps Russia is taking to attempt to institutionalize control over sovereign Ukrainian territory, particularly in Ukraine's Kherson region," State Department spokesperson Ned Price said Tuesday.
But the waves of conflict there since 2014 have reshaped and wounded its cities, and it is along its line of contact that both the Ukrainian and Russian military are most dug in  making for a familiar but unpredictable new phase of war.
The Kremlin has repeatedly rejected the accusations that it has blocked grain supplies from Ukraine and has accused the West of actions that have led to this crisis.
He went on to say that the US is "not encouraging or enabling Ukraine to strike beyond its borders. We do not want to prolong the war just to inflict pain on Russia."
Zelensky also applauded the new sanctions package approved by the European Council, which would cut down on imports of Russian oil, as well as suspend Russia propaganda channels and remove Sberbank from SWIFT, the international bank messaging system.
More than 23,000 Ukrainians have been authorized to come to the United States as part of the Biden administrations streamlined process for Ukrainian refugees seeking to come to the US, according to the Department of Homeland Security.
But Russia has made a number of advancements into parts of the Donbas in the weeks since the battle there began.
I am thankful for everyone to reach this agreement, Zelensky said, It will leave Russia at the outskirts of the world economy. Russia will not be able to adapt and this means it will be defeated.
Fighting in Ukraine has rounded onDonbas, a sprawling and beleaguered heartland region that has suffered years of conflict and now serves as the bloody stage on which Russia's war could be decided.
The national price for regulargasoline hit afresh record of $4.62 a gallonon Tuesday, according to AAA, up 52 from a year ago.
The US welcomes the European Unions announcement of a proposed ban of Russian oil, according to a State Department spokesperson.
By Helen Regan, Andrew Raine, Jack Guy, Hannah Ryan, Adrienne Vogt, Meg Wagner, Melissa Macaya and Mike Hayes, CNN
The secessionist conflict in Donbas had been costly but stagnant since the initial surges of pro-Russian forces in 2014 the lines of the conflict barely moved in several years, with trenches running along the point of contact from the southern coast to the Ukrainian-Russian border north of Luhansk.
In April, US President Joe Biden announced Uniting for Ukraine, a program that provides a pathway for Ukrainians interested in coming to the US for a temporary period.
He said the new shipment of arms would "enable them to more precisely strike key targets on the battlefield in Ukraine."
NATOchief Jens Stoltenberg is traveling to Washington, DC, on Tuesday for a working visit, the alliance said in a statement.
Donbas blankets much of eastern Ukraine, and has been the front line of the country's conflict with Moscow since 2014.
Speaking at a briefing, Price said that "the Kremlin is probably weighing a few approaches, from recognizing a so-called People's Republic, as Russia forcibly did in Donetsk and Luhansk, to an attempted annexation, just as Russia did in Crimea."
US President Joe Biden said the United States is providing Ukraine "more advanced rocket systems and munitions" as its war with Russia grinds on.
Observers have often suggested that Putin's desired endgame is to rebuild the Soviet Union in which he first rose up the ranks. Anna Makanju, former director for Russia at the US National Security Council,suggestedthat Putin "believes he is like the czars," the imperial dynasties that ruled Russia for centuries, "potentially called by God in order to control and restore the glory of the Russian empire."
Europe is the biggest buyer of Russian energy, with about 2.4 million barrels of Russian crude getting sent to Europe every day in 2021, according to the International Energy Agency.
