May 25 2022 RussiaUkraine news
20220525
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-25-22/
According to the state news agency TASS, Putin made the announcement at a meeting of the State Council.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Wednesday the president "constantly takes interest in and keeps under his control the topic of conditions provided for those wounded in the course of the special military operation," according to Russian state news agency TASS.
Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned a move by Moscow that makes it easier for Ukrainians in some Russian-occupied regions to obtain Russian citizenship.
Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky has made a blistering attack on former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who suggested on Tuesday that peace negotiations should be aimed at creating borders along the "line of contact" in Donbas as it existed on the eve of the Russian invasion.
He added that the ACA will liaise with the Department of Justice as it pursues accountability in US courts.
In his remarks, Kissinger said of the conflict that:Negotiations need to begin in the next two months before it creates upheavals and tensions that will not be easily overcome. Ideally, the dividing line should be a return to the status quo ante, apparently suggesting that Ukraine agree to give up much of the Donbas and Crimea.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is traveling to Bosnia and Herzegovina on Thursday, where she will use an address to the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina BiH to urge the UK's Western partners to ensure Russian President Vladimir Putin loses in Ukraine, the Foreign Office said in a statement late Wednesday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin met Wednesday with soldiers wounded in fighting in Ukraine during a rare visit to a military hospital, according to footage released by the Kremlin.
The center has been seeing a steady increase in the number of Ukrainian refugees it has welcomed since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, Clarence House said.
On Wednesday, Putin also visitedthe National Crisis Management Center of the Ministry of Emergencies, according to the Kremlin.
A few days after Yanukovych's ouster, the Swiss cabinet had ordered the freezing of any assets in Switzerland of the deposed president and his entourage, including Ivanyushchenko, a former member of parliament whom it described as a close confidant of the former leader.
The finance ministry will now ask the Federal Administrative Court of Switzerland to approve confiscating the assets so that they can be returned to Ukraine, the government said.
The new mechanism, called the Atrocity Crimes Advisory Group ACA,will provide strategic advice and operational assistance to the War Crimes Units of the OPG, the legally constituted authority responsible for prosecuting war crimes and other atrocities in Ukraine," Blinken said. "Although the United States and our partners are supporting a range of international efforts to pursue accountability for atrocities, the OPG will play a crucial role in ensuring that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are held accountable."
Zelensky called those who advise that Ukraine give something to Russia, the "'great geo-politicians,' do not always want to see ordinary people. Ordinary Ukrainians. Millions of those who actually live in the territory they are proposing to exchange for the illusion of peace. You always have to see people."
President Vladimir Putin has announced that state pensions and the minimum wage will rise substantially in Russia from June 1.
This latest visit from Prince Charles follows a series of engagements undertaken in recent months in support of the Ukrainian community, according to the news release.
Romania has welcomed one of the highest numbers of Ukrainian refugees in Europe, according to data from the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR. As of May 24, 972,203 Ukrainian refugees have arrived in Romania, according to the latest UNHCR update.
"The current year is not easy. Since its beginning, cumulative inflation has exceeded 11. But when I say 'not easy' this does not mean at all that all these difficulties are associated with this special military operation, because in countries that do not conduct any operations, say, across the ocean, in North America, in Europe, inflation is comparable. And if you look at the structure of their economy  its even more than ours, and in some neighboring countries, its many times higher," Putin said.
However, Ukrainian authorities have not been able to issue judgements ordering the confiscation of those assets, according to the Swiss government.
Some background: Pensions were raised by 8.6 at the beginning of the year, but inflation has risen sharply this year. Putin said it was currently 17.5 but would decline to 15 by the end of the year. However, he denied that the spike in inflation was related to the conflict in Ukraine.
Putin visitedthe Mandryk Central Military Clinical Hospital of the Russian Defense Ministry in Moscow and "spoke with members of the Russian Armed Forces undergoing treatment after being wounded during the special military operation, as well as with the hospitals medical personnel," according to the Kremlin.
Putin, wearing a medical gown, askedthe servicemen how they felt, where they were from and how their families were doing, the video showed.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced the launch of a new joint UK, EU and US group to help support efforts of theUkrainian Prosecutor General OPG to document war crimes and other atrocities committed in Ukraine.
In addition to streamlining efforts, the ACA will also provide expanded funding for the team of international prosecutors and other war crimes experts already deployed to the region, Blinken said.
"We discussed this issue with the government for a long time, there were differences within the government and a solution was worked out," he said according to TASS. I propose to increase the pensions of non-working pensioners by 10 from June 1."
Prince Charles has paid a visit to a Ukrainian refugee center in Romania, according to a news release from Clarence House.
The Swiss government plans to seize more than 100 million Swiss francs $104 million worth of assets from an associate of Ukraine's former president, Viktor Yanukovych, who was deposed in 2014, it said on Wednesday.
The proceedings concern assets of Yuriy Ivanyushchenko and his family that were frozen after Ukraine's 2014 revolution, the Swiss government said in a statement, stressing the move was unrelated to sanctions that Switzerland imposed against Russians this year.
Russia's President Vladimir Putin signed a decree on Wednesdaystreamlining the process for providing passports to Ukrainians in the occupied portions of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia.Russia has already handed out hundreds of thousands of passports to residents of separatist areas in Ukraine's east and in the annexed Ukrainian territory of Crimea, as well as to residents of the breakaway republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia and Transnistria in Moldova. Analysts say those moves have helped Moscow create a pretext for continued intervention in those areas.
"Our main task is to ensure a further increase in the minimum wage, so that the citizens income level would significantly exceed the size of the subsistence rate," he added.
Earlier this week, a 21-year-old Russian soldier was sentenced to life in prison for killing an unarmed man in Ukraine's first war crimes trial since Russia's invasion.
The Swiss government said since the war in Ukraine severely compounded criminal proceedings against Ivanyushchenko, it now considers confiscation proceedings in Switzerland both possible and appropriate.
"Pursuing the war beyond that point would not be about the freedom of Ukraine, but a new war against Russia itself," Kissinger said.
Prince Charles joined Her Majesty Margareta, custodian of Romanian Crown, in the visit to the Romexpo Donation Center for Ukrainian refugees in Bucharest, to see at first hand the excellent response of the Romanian authorities and of international and local organizations to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, according to the news release.
Yevhen Yaroshenko, an analyst for the human rights organization Crimea SOS, said Russia's policy of "passportization" may also serve an agenda of providing conscripts for Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
As part of the visit, they spoke to Ukrainians who have fled the horrors of war in Ukraine, Clarence House said.
