Russia attacks Ukraine
20220224
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-23-22/h_d7f501514c591c253821a582e37bb459
By Jessie Yeung, Adam Renton, Rob Picheta, Ed Upright, Aditi Sangal, Adrienne Vogt, Melissa Macaya and Maureen Chowdhury, CNN
Kirby said if Putin chooses war, hell be doing so with diplomacy and options still left on the table.
CNN has geolocated social media videos in several of these areas in recent days, showing Russian armor, trucks and other equipment at the side of roads or moving in convoy.
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE says its mission in eastern Ukraine was threatened and harassed on Wednesday by militia of the self-declared Luhansk People's Republic.
At a second location, "patrol members saw a green Lada approaching at speed with two armed members of the armed formations who were shouting at the patrol and threatening to destroy the UAV."
The heads of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic DPR and Luhansk Peoples Republic LPR, two separatist regions in Ukraine, recently recognized by Russia as independent, have formally asked Russian President Vladimir Putin for help repelling the aggression of Ukrainian Armed Forces, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told Russian state news agency RIA-Novosti on Wednesday.
The hack hit at least one Ukrainian financial institution and one Ukrainian government contractor with a presence in Latvia, Vikram Thakur, technical director at Broadcoms cybersecurity unit Symantec, told CNN.
Kirby said Russia has continued to make no indication that hes willing to de-escalate the conflict, instead the Pentagon has seen quite the opposite.
It wasnt immediately clear who was responsible for the hacking incident, which followed a different cyberattack earlier Wednesday on Ukrainian government websites.The Ukrainian government did not immediately respond to CNNs request for comment.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russian leadership has approved a military incursion into Ukraine, according to an address posted to his official Facebook account in early hours Thursday local time.
The images released by Maxar show field deployment and military convoys in and around Golovchino, approximately 10 miles north of the border with Ukraine.
It confirmed its previous observations that "most of the troops and equipment are now field-deployed positioned in smaller unit-sized formations in farmland and along tree lines."
This would include, if necessary, the introduction of a curfew and a special entry and exit regime, and if required the restriction of the movement of vehicles.
New satellite imagery gathered Wednesday show a number of new deployments among Russian forces, especially in and around the Belgorod region, which is adjacent to the Ukrainian border.
According to Peskov, the appeal said: Kyiv continues to build up its military presence on the line of contact, while receiving comprehensive support, including military support, from the United States and other Western states. The Kyiv regime is focused on resolving the conflict by force.
Russia's parliament has given consent for the deployment of Russian troops on foreign territory in connection with the Donbas conflict.
A data-wiping hacking tool was found on hundreds of computers in Ukraine Wednesday, according to cybersecurity researchers, raising concerns that a destructive cyberattack was unfolding as the Russian military moved into Ukraines separatist regions.
She warned the threat of a full-scale attack on Ukraine remains, and added that the administration would remain vigilant in watching what is happening there
Military "conscripts and reservists are prohibited from changing their place of residence without notifying the relevant authorities," the message also said.
Russias military buildup on Ukraines border is now at a state of readiness where they could attack at any time, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said during an on-camera briefing at the Pentagon on Wednesday.
"We will impose far-reaching financial sanctions and export controls. We will target Russia's financial institutions and key industries. And we will target those who are complicit and those who aid and abet this unprovoked invasion," Harris said as she took center stage at the security conference.
Given the foregoing, the heads of the two republics, in connection with the current situation, as well as in order to prevent civilian casualties and a humanitarian catastrophe, on the basis of Articles 3 and 4 of the treaties on friendship, cooperation and mutual assistance between the Russian Federation and the republics, ask the president of Russia to assist in repelling aggression of the armed forces and formations of Ukraine," Peskov added, according to RIA.
Zelensky added: Your leadership approved for them to take a step further, to the territory of another country."
The OSCE said its team of monitors "was approached by twoarmed members of the armed formations," some 6 miles from the line of contact which divides separatist and Ukrainian forces as it was about to launch a surveillance drone UAV.
US officials have warned that Russia will very likely use cyber operations in conjunction with military action in Ukraine. The White House blamed Russias military intelligence directorate, the GRU, for a separate set of cyberattacks on Ukrainian websites last week.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky says he tried to call Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday but was unsuccessful, he said in an address posted on his official Facebook account in the early hours of Thursday local time.
The Ukraine president concluded, This step can become a beginning of a great war at the European continent."
Kirby stressed that if Russian President Vladimir Putin decides to fully invade Ukraine, it will be a war of choice and it wont be bloodless.
Vice President Kamala Harris threatened further sanctions on Russia for the countrys aggressive actions in Ukraine if Russia goes further in the region, calling the situation on the ground a reinvasion.
"The patrol members also saw a third individual, wearing a uniform with a Russian Federation flag patch on his shoulder," the OSCE said.
The mayor of Kyiv, Vitaly Klitschko, has declared an emergency for the Ukrainian capital effective midnight local time.
In remarks at the Munich Security Conference in Germany, Harris laid out retaliatory measures in a manner befitting her past career as a prosecutor, promising "significant and unprecedented" economic costs.
The heads of the two separatist regions claimed that citizens were fleeing from the area due to the aggravation of the situation and threats from Kyiv."
"Armed formations" is the term the OSCE uses to describe the separatist militia in Donetsk and Luhansk.
A battle group armored personnel carriers with support equipment, troops is deployed near Krasnaya Yaruga, approximately 9 miles east of the border with Ukraine.
Today I initiated a telephone conversation with the President of the Russian Federation. Silence. Although there should be silence in the Donbas, Zelensky said.
There will be suffering, Kirby added. There will be sacrifice. And all of that must and should be laid at his feet. Because hes doing this by choice.
The so-called wiper malware discovered Wednesday is typically designed to delete data from computers and render them inoperable.
The actions of the Kyiv regime testify to the unwillingness to end the war in Donbas, the appeal said, according to Peskov.
In a message posted on his official Telegram channel, he said an "operational headquarters has been set up to coordinate the actions of the executive branch, the military command and law enforcement agencies."
At a third location, one of the separatists "loaded his rifle. Another forcibly took the UAVs control panel."
Troops and support equipment are observed deployed along tree lines near Kupino, approximately 11 miles north of the border, and artillery, troops and logistics deployment are seen near Malakeevo, approximately 20 miles north of the border with Ukraine.
Last week: Harris vowed there would be a "swift, severe and united" response if Russia invades Ukraine and assured Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky the US "stands with Ukraine, as CNN reported.
The malicious code affected large organizations in Ukraine, according to cybersecurity firm ESET, which has multiple clients in the country. The hacking tool appears to have been created two months ago, but was deployed only today and we have seen it only in Ukraine, said Jean-Ian Boutin, head of threat research ESET.
If Russia goes further, Harris said, we will impose more costs that will be swift and severe.
