Russias war in Ukraine
20220624
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-06-24-22/h_32749f641e3b3cc3612c553da6421eec
Russian forces have targeted and destroyed some of the roads leading into the encircled Ukrainian city of Lysychansk, according to the head of the Luhansk regional military administration.
Dmitry Savluchenko, head of the Department of Youth and Sports for the region, was killed "as a result of a terrorist attack," according to RIA.
"The Russian Federation is not creating any obstacles for the passage of ships or vessels. We are not preventing anything," Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in early June.
According to the Institute for War, a US think tank that follows the campaign closely, "The loss of Severodonetsk is a loss for Ukraine in the sense that any terrain captured by Russian forces is a loss -- but the battle of Severodonetsk will not be a decisive Russian victory."
The European Council also urged Russia to immediately stop targeting agricultural facilities and removing cereals, and to unblock the Black Sea, in particular the port of Odesa, so as to allow the export of grain and commercial shipping operations, blaming Russia for the global food security crisis.
The Biden administration on Thursday announced the additional military aid for Ukraine, with the United States giving the war-stricken country four more multiple launch rocket systems and artillery ammunition for other systems.
But the Ukrainian military has clearly made the decision that there was nothing more to defend -- and that hundreds of civilians sheltering at the plant were in greater danger with every passing day.
Serhiy Hayday, the head of the Luhansk regional military administration, noted Friday:"There is a lot of military equipment. According to our information, at least six Tochka-U left in the direction of Lysychansk from Starobilsk only. One is enough destructive power --six is a total disaster."
The question is whether the losses inflicted on Russian forces in recent weeks will impair their ability and desire to gobble up more territory, especially as Ukraine deploys more accurate western weapons such as the HIMARS rocket systems.
Western officials have accused Moscow of "weaponizing" food supplies as leaders and experts warn of a looming food crisis with millions of tons of Ukrainian grain unable to reach to global market due to the war.
The Kremlin has not veered from its ultimate objective of taking all of Donetsk and Luhansk. It now has almost all the latter. Completing the "special military operation" will still take weeks, and more likely months, if at all. It has become a classic war of attrition.
Forces from the self-proclaimed Luhansk Peoples Republic LPR said on Friday they had captured the villages of Hirske and Zolote.
They really succeed in some settlements, he said. Lysychansk is logistically stretched, the landscape is complex. Therefore, it is difficult to take it immediately.
There are not many obvious defensive positions west of Lysychansk, in an area of open countryside. Ukrainian commanders will have to decide whether the whole pocket -- courageously defended for weeks -- is better abandoned for a more consolidated defense of Sloviansk, Kramatorsk and Kostiantynivka, the industrial belt of Donetsk.
On a call with reporters Thursday, hosted by the US State Department's Africa Regional Media Hub, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said, "We shouldnt be buying the argument that its Ukraine who blocked the sea with its mines in order not to allow the shipment or the vessels to come in and out."
A Russian-installed politician in the occupied southern Ukrainian city of Kherson was killed on Friday, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti.
The head of the Luhansk regional military administration, Serhiy Hayday, conceded that Russian forces had made gains south of Lysychansk.
According to Hayday, Russian attempts to infiltrate the city with sabotage and reconnaissance groups had been repelled. He added that evacuations and deliveries of military and humanitarian aid to the city were ongoing.
The package, which will be drawn from existing Defense Department stocks, also includes 18 patrol boats for monitoring coasts and rivers, and small arms.
Hayday said the situation in Severodonetsk was unsustainable after round the clock shelling by Russian forces over several months.
Four people died when a Il-76 military transport plane crashed in the city of Ryazan, western Russia, during a training flight on Friday, state-run news agency TASS reported, citing the Russian Defense Ministry.
The European Union says it will swiftly work on increasing military support to Ukraine and will work on further financial assistance.
Ukrainian forces will have to withdraw from Severodonetsk, the head of the Luhansk regional military administration, Serhiy Hayday, said Friday, accusing Russia of destroying most of the citys infrastructure.
Now the battle moves across the Siverskiy Donets river to Lysychansk, the last city in Luhansk held by Ukrainian forces. And there are already signs that the Russians will use the same merciless tactic of area bombardment to grind down Ukrainian forces, deploying combat planes, multiple launch rocket systems and even short-range ballistic missiles such as the Tochka-U.
Russian forces have made some gains in the past 24 hours, claiming two villages to the south of the neighboring Donbas cities of Lysychansk and Severodonetsk.
There are still large areas of the neighboring Donetsk region under Ukrainian control. The regional military administration says about 45 of Donetsk is held by Ukrainian forces, including the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk.
The European Council also condemned Russias indiscriminate attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, adding that international humanitarian law, including on the treatment of prisoners of war, must be respected.
Zelensky tweeted on Friday: "We're grateful to US President Joe Biden and the American people for the decision to provide another $450 million defense aid package to Ukraine. This support, including additional HIMARS, is now more important than ever.
Equally, it's unclear whether the punishment endured by Ukrainian units in the Donbas region over the last two months has left them with enough resources to launch counter-attacks against Russian flanks as they have attempted against Russian forces advancing from Kharkiv region in the north.
The United States has information that the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Navy "is under orders to effectively blockade the Ukrainian ports of Odesa and Ochakiv,"a US official told CNN, citing what was described as recently declassified intelligence.
Hayday went on to say Russia was now targeting neighboring Lysychansk from Zolote and Toshkivka, around 30 kilometers 18.6 miles to the south.
Moscow has claimed it is not impeding agricultural shipments from Ukraine and has said Kyiv must de-mine the waters for the ships to transit.
The most significant part of the package is the four additional High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS, wheeled vehicles capable of launching barrages of guided rockets at targets up to approximately 40 miles away.
For the last several weeks, Russian forces have simply destroyed every defensive position the Ukrainians have adopted, pushing them into a few square blocks in and around the citys Azot chemical plant.
Russian forces have been attempting to cut off supply lines into Lysychansk and Severodonetsk for weeks as they closed in on the two population centers.
It was more a question of when, rather than if, the remaining Ukrainian units in the eastern city of Severodonetsk would be withdrawn.
According to the Defense Ministry, the plane crashed due to an engine malfunction there was no cargo on board.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says his country is grateful to US President Biden and the American people for the latest package of $450 million in military aid.
The enemy is advancing towards Lysychansk from the side of Zolote and Toshkivka, he said. They really succeed in some settlements.
The post, which included video of one of the targeted bridges, continued: The bridge is damaged, only cars will be able to pass it now, the truck will not pass into the city.
According to this official, that intelligence also revealed indications that Russian forces are deploying mines in the Black Seaand have previously mined the Dnipro River.
