Russia says it will reduce military operations around Kyiv following talks with Ukraine
20220329
https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/29/europe/russia-reduce-assault-kyiv-plan-intl/
Brig. Gen. Kyrylo Budanov, the head of Ukraines Defense Intelligence Agency, said Russias operations around Kyiv had failed and it was now impossible for the Russian army to overthrow the Ukrainian government. Putins war is now focused on the south and the east of the country, he said.
US intel assess 'major' strategy shift by Russia as it moves some forces away from Kyiv
The Russian forces are now pulling back in some areas of the north to focus on gains in the south and east, the US believes. The US has already observed these movements underway, including Russian Battalion Tactical Groups BTGs leaving the surrounding areas around Kyiv, according to the US intelligence.
However it warned of a high risk of Russian troops attacking military and civilian infrastructure. The Russian military, it claimed, was struggling to reinforce and rotate in new soldiers, due to the refusal of personnel to participate in the so-called special operation, and are not able to staff even one battalion-tactical group.
Russia says first phase of war is over as its advances in Ukraine appear to have stalled
Podolyak also said that talks between the two parties will continue online 247, adding that Ukraine needs clear legal wording.
The announcement comes after Ukrainian and Western intelligence assessments suggested in recent days that Russias advance on Kyiv was stalling.
The trickier issues are now to be discussed at higher levels, with a meeting between the Russian and Ukrainian Foreign Ministers to make final adjustments to the common approach, he said.
Talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul, Turkey on Tuesday covered an array of important issues, including the future of the eastern Donbas region, the fate of Crimea, a broad alliance of security guarantors and a potential meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Fomin told reporters that the ongoing discussions regarding the neutrality and non-nuclear status of Ukraine had contributed to the decision. More details on the steps to reduce hostilities will follow after the Russian delegation returns from Istanbul, Fomin said in remarks carried by Russian state news agency TASS.
On Saturday, Chernihiv Mayor Vladyslav Atroshenko announced the city was surrounded by Russian forces, leaving no safe pathways in or out.
Meanwhile, Turkeys Foreign Minister Mevlt Cavusoglu said consensus and common understanding was reached between the opposing delegations on some issues, hailing progress made in particular on  the top priority of achieving a ceasefire as soon as possible to pave the way for a permanent political solution.
The United States also believes Russia is executing a major strategy shift and withdrawing some forces from the area around Kyiv, two senior US officials told CNN on Tuesday.
Ukraine and the West have refused to recognize the Russian annexation of the Crimean peninsula, and the pause could be a formula for taking the issue off the table for now.
The issue of security guarantees was also discussed. Another member of the Ukrainian team, Davyd Arakhamia said, We insist that this be an international treaty, signing all the guarantors of security, which will be ratified. This would be comparable to NATOs Article 5, which enshrines the principle of collective defense, he said.
Russias suggestion of a reduction in its military action was met with cynicism in the West.
Ukraine echoed the announcement regarding the reduction in military action, saying some Russian troops were pulling back from Kyiv and Chernihiv.
Despite the announcement, intense fighting continued around the suburbs of Kyiv on Tuesday afternoon, especially in the northwest and northeast of the city.
There is what Russia says, and there is what Russia does. Were focused on the latter, Blinken said.
Podolyak added that they had separately discussed that no military hostilities take place over those 15 years.
Chernihiv, which lies about halfway between Kyiv and the Russian border, has endured intense shelling in recent weeks. Videos geolocated by CNN show heavy damage in civilian areas.
He told CNN on Tuesday that between 300 and 400 people, mostly civilians, had been killed in the last three weeks.
We dont have the exact figure because we can only count those who died in a hospital, but if people die from an explosion, we cannot always identify them, Atroshenko said.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he had not seen signs the talks between the two sides were moving forward in an effective way.
Over 3.9 million refugees have fled Ukraine since the start of the war, according to UNHCR.
The Russian defense ministry has decided to radically, at times, reduce military activity in the direction of Kyiv and Chernihiv, deputy defense minister Alexander Fomin said, state media RIA reported. The ministrys Telegram channel also said that Moscow would drastically reduce military activity in the cities.
Anastasia Graham-Yooll, Yusuf Gezer, Benjamin Brown, Michael Conte, Jeremy Herb, Arnaud Siad and Luke McGee contributed to this report.
The UK agreed with those sentiments, with Prime Minister Boris Johnsons spokesman saying on Tuesday that Britain will judge Russia by its actions rather than words and that they do not want to see anything less than a complete withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukrainian territory.
The Russian enemy did not meet the goal of its offensive operation, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said in an official Facebook update Tuesday, adding that certain units of Russias military were withdrawing from battlefronts in the cities.
It was agreed in bilateral format to take a pause for 15 years and conduct bilateral talks on the status of these territories Crimea and Sevastopol, he said.
In the US view, this is not a short-term adjustment to regroup, but a longer-term move as Russia comes to grips with failure to advance in the north.
The US assesses Russia will cover their retreat with air and artillery bombardment of the capital, one of the officials said. US officials caution that Russia could always reverse again if the battle conditions allow.
Russian state news agency RIA-Novosti, citing the Russian delegation, also reported the possibility of a meeting between Putin and Zelensky. The head of the Russian delegation, presidential aide Vladimir Medinsky, called the negotiations constructive, RIA reported.
There is reason to believe that he is considering a Korean scenario for Ukraine, said Budanov. That is, Russian forces will try to impose a dividing line between the unoccupied and occupied regions of our country. In fact, it is an attempt to create North and South Korea in Ukraine.
Podolyak also said that both sides are still discussing a humanitarian ceasefire, stressing there are many places where humanitarian corridors are needed.
Still, enough progress was made during Tuesdays talks between the Russian and Ukrainian delegations to allow Putin and Zelensky to meet, Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said.
Speaking in Istanbul after the talks between the two sides ended, Podolyak said there was now a likelihood that the two presidents may meet. We have documents prepared now which allow the presidents to meet on a bilateral basis, he said.
Russia said it would drastically reduce its military assault on the Ukrainian cities of Kyiv and Chernihiv after talks took place between representatives of the two nations on Tuesday that appeared to show signs of progress towards an off ramp to the conflict.
