Tensions simmer in UkraineRussia border crisis
20220127
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-01-27-22/
A source familiar with Zelenskys thinking told CNN that Ukraine's leader is expected to air his concerns about the public rhetoric the US and its allies have engaged in surrounding a potential war between Ukraine and Russia.
It will be the second conversation the presidents have had this monthand the third in two months, Zelensky's spokesperson said.
Lawmakers are looking to bridge the long-held divide between Republicans and Democrats as to when sanctions ought to be deployed. According to a source close to the process, the legislation would include not only immediate sanctions but also more crushing and far-reaching sanctionsto be deployed if Russia went through with an invasion or tried to topple Ukraines government.
The Defense Department said that the buildup of Russian forces near the Ukrainian border has increased in the last 24 hours.
President Putin gratefully accepted this invitation, Peskov said. They agreed that as soon as there is a resolution on a the epidemiological situation and b schedules, he will definitely take advantage of this invitation."
The White House, however, disputed the official's account, warning that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods." They did state that Biden warned Zelensky an imminent invasion is a "distinct possibility."
The White House confirmed the call would be occurring this afternoon and a readout of the conversation is expected.
Zelensky, however, restated his position that the threat from Russia remains "dangerous but ambiguous," saying it's not certain that an attack will take place, the official added.
It will be the first venue at the UN where American and Russian officials both speak about what is happening, as Russiashows no signs of de-escalation.
Speaking in a TV interview broadcast live on Turkish news channel NTV Wednesday, Erdoan invited Putin for a summit as part of Turkeys High Level Strategic Cooperation Council Mechanisms, which it shares with both Russia and Ukraine.
Our live coverage has ended for the day. Read more about the Ukraine-Russia border crisis here.
The Biden-Zelensky call lasted an hour and 20 minutes Thursday, according to a US national security official, and was highlighted by the extensive issues the two leaders had to discuss amid the Russian troop buildup. The official described the call as "long and serious," but "productive," as Biden and Zelensky discussed Russia's recent aggressions.
Earlier in the day, another source from the US side said there is a recognition in the White House that Zelensky has "multiple audiences" and is trying to balance them.
Germany has so far refused to send arms to Ukraine, promising instead to give Kyiv a field hospital, medical training and 5,000 military helmets.
The same member told CNN there will probably be some mention of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline in the legislation, but the negotiators are being careful not to relitigate the bitter disagreements between the two parties on that issue.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will hold a call with President Biden today, his office told CNN.
Von der Leyen pointed to Russias reliance on trade with the European Union and said that the EU held significant economic leverage.
We had a clear stance against Russia when it targets Ukraine's territorial integrity such as Crimea annexation. Our attitude is not going to change. I hope that Russia will not conduct an armed attack or occupation of Ukraine. This is not rational for Russia and the region, Erdoan continued.
The conversation is expected to be a logical continuation of close cooperation, coordination of actions and evidence of support to Ukraine from its reliable partner, Zelensky's spokesperson Serhiy Nikiforov said on Facebook.
As Republican and Democratic senators continue to make progress in their efforts to put together a comprehensive Russian sanctions bill, a pair of sources are telling CNN the bill could be ready by the time lawmakers return to work next week.
National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne, however, disputed the senior Ukrainian official's description of the call.
Berlin has come under criticism recently for its policy of not exporting weapons to crisis areas.
Zelensky is expected to convey to Biden that he believes the US and its allies have to be more careful with their messaging surrounding the conflict, the source added.
Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit Turkey for annual talks with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Thursday.
Democrats have long said they support sanctions as a deterrent but largely prefer to hold off on immediately issuing them so as to leave room for diplomacy. Republicans, meanwhile, have been fighting to immediately issue sanctions as a preemptive threat against Russian President Vladimir Putin. This bill would bridge that political divide by enacting smaller sanctions immediately, while also allowing for further, more robust sanctions should invasions occur.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that nothing is off the table when it comes to sanctions  including killing the mooted
The bill would include robust economic and technological sanctions against Russia as well as provisions to provide Ukraine with additional weapons support and supplies.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance is prepared to rapidly reinforce that presence further by sending additional forces and capabilities into the area.
Ukrainian officials have been similarly unhappy about the US decision to order the evacuation of families from the US Embassy in Kyiv, CNN previously reported, which Zelensky warned beforehand would be an overreaction.
Erdoan also offered to mediate talks between Russia and Ukraine as global efforts continue to de-escalate tensions.
More than 100,000 Russian troops are deployed on the Ukrainian border and Russia is engaging in other destabilizing acts aimed at Ukraine, posing a clear threat to international peace and security and the UN Charter, Thomas-Greenfield wrote.
These battlegroups are led by the UK, Canada, Germany and the US.NATO saidon Jan. 7 they are "robust and combat-ready forces."
Biden told Zelensky that US officials feel an invasion could potentially happen in February but did not say that it definitely would, the official said.
CNN's Manu Raju reported earlier this week that Menendez, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, convened a meeting Monday evening with a small group of bipartisan senators in hopes of making this final push. Since that time, members have been communicating in smaller groups with another potential meeting possible by the end of the week.
Its also not clear at this point whether the administration will back the bill the senators are working on.
NATO already had troops in eastern Europe before the most recent increase in tensions with Russia, but it has boosted its presence there in recent weeks.
On the call, which the Ukrainian official described as "long and frank," Biden warned his Ukrainian counterpart that a Russian attack may be imminent, saying that an invasion was now virtually certain once the ground freezes later in February, according to the official.
A national security official described the call as "long and serious" but "productive," as Biden and Zelensky discussed Russia's recent aggressions.
According to NATO, there are currently four multinational battalion-size battlegroups in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland on a rotational basis.
Additionally, Zelensky hopes to brief Biden on progress made during talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials in Paris this week, which was very positive and is being met with cautious optimism by the Ukrainian government, the source said.
The leaders can be expected to address issues of peace, security, including energy, defence cooperation, macro-financial support, and anti-oligarchic reform. However, the list of topics is not exhaustive, he said.
Lawmakers are also eyeing a smaller bipartisan bill from Republican Sen. John Cornyn and Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen that would enhance the Presidents lend-lease authority. This would more easily and swiftly allow arms to be sent to Ukraine in the event of an invasion.
A call between US President Joe Biden and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday "did not go well," as the pair disagree on the "risk levels" of a Russian attack, a senior Ukrainian official told CNN.
NATO  short for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization  is a non-aggressive European and North American defense alliance set up to promote peace and stability and to safeguard the security of its members.
Nord Stream 2 pipeline and removing Russia from SWIFT, a high security network that connect thousands of financial institutions around the world  should Moscow invade Ukraine.
No date has been arranged yet, but Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlt avuolu told reporters Thursday he had been informed by the Kremlin it will be after Putin returns from the Beijing Olympic Games, which begin Feb. 4.
It is our greatest wish that the efforts of NATO on this issue will be successful. Our country has supported Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty from the very beginning," he said.
The commission is responsiblefor designing, shaping and developing thesanctions, the EU commission president told CNN.
The frank discussion between the two leaders comes as the US and NATO continue to brace for the prospect of a Russian invasion. Though they have stressed the need for diplomacy, the White House has warned an invasion could be imminent as tens of thousands of Russian troops have been amassed on the Ukrainian border.
As we continue our relentless pursuit of diplomacy to de-escalate tensions in the face of this serious threat to European and global peace and security, the UN Security Council is a crucial venue for diplomacy," she added.
It was created as the Cold War escalated. Its aim was to protect Western European countries from the threat posed by the Soviet Union and to counter the spread of Communism after World War II. Over the decades, the alliance has grown, with 30 members today.
Germany's complicated history means its governments have always been cautious about military spending, and the idea of getting directly involved in a conflict is a difficult one to sell there. It has also been criticized for failing to reach the 2 GDP spending target, along with other countries.
President Biden's phone call with Ukrainian President Zelensky lasted for an hour and 20 minutes Thursday, highlighting the extensive issues the two leaders had to discuss amid a Russian troop buildup on Ukraine's border.
I want to be very clear  nothing is off of the table, von der Leyen told CNNs Christiane Amanpour in an exclusive interview when pressed on whether the EU would axe the prospective energy deal.
Zelensky has been particularly concerned about the US rhetoric that war could be imminent  a word White House press secretary Jen Psaki used earlier this week to describe the US assessment of Russias plans  and the recent disclosures of intelligence to US media, the source said, which is causing panic and economic disaster for Ukraine.
Erdoan warned that war between two countries will cause harm to the region and reaffirmed Turkey  a NATO member  will continue to support Ukraines territorial integrity.
One area the lawmakers are looking at is that of a technological sanction, on items like semi-conductor chips, something for which Russia heavily depends upon the US.
The Biden administration has called for the first UN Security Council UNSC meeting on the situation along the Russia-Ukraine border, US ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said in a statement on Thursday.
Today, after weeks of close consultation with Ukraine and partners on the Security Council, the United States called an open meeting of the Security Council to discuss a matter of crucial importance to international peace and security: Russias threatening behavior against Ukraine and the build-up of Russian troops on Ukraines borders and in Belarus, Thomas-Greenfield wrote.
