The latest on the UkraineRussia crisis
20220221
https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-21-22/h_4a15381adeb222b25c85ebee16aae8a3
Russias clear weak point" is an economy based on fossil fuel energy, she said, with two thirds of exports being oil, coal and gas.
The Kremlin said after the vote it had no plans to recognize the two regions, stating: "No one remains indifferent to the fate of Donbas. But still, Russia has repeatedly declared that it remains committed to the Minsk package of measures, and that Russia is in favor of the implementation of the entire Minsk plan as soon as possible, in the sequence that exists."
The messaging platform preserves metadata for the videos posted there and it cannot be changed.
It supposedly showeda barrage ofgunfire and shellingbyPolish-speakingsaboteurs trying to blow up a chlorinetanknear the city of Horlivka a week earlier -- onFebruary11. Horlivka is in territory controlled by the separatists of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic.
The sequence of booms is remarkably similar in timing, Maher concluded. For the particular boom I compared, the timing is not exactly identical, but it is inexplicably similar.
Measures would hit all goods we make that Russia urgently needs to modernize and diversify its economy, where we are globally dominant and they have no replacement, she added.
The US has written to the top United Nationshuman rights official that it has credible information that Russia has been identifying Ukrainians "to be killed or sent to camps" if it further invades Ukraine and occupies it, according to a letter to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights obtained by CNN.
The letter is signed by Ambassador Bathsheba Nell Crocker, the US representative to the office of the United Nations and other international organizations in Geneva, and addressed to Michelle Bachelet, the UN high commissioner for human rights.
Ukraineis not witnessing the withdrawal of Russian forces from positions close to the Ukrainian border, its defense minister Oleksii Reznikov said Monday.
Mahers findings are corroborated by other sound designers and experts on Twitter such as Ciaran Walsh, who compared the spectral analysis of the explosions in the two videos,andarrived atsimilar conclusions.
Russian President VladimirPutinwill hold a large meeting of the Russian SecurityCouncilon Monday, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said in a call with journalists on Monday.
The attacks, the violent conflict we have experienced in the last 72 hours is really alarming, the ceasefire is being interrupted repeatedly and people's lives are highly threatened because of disrupted water and power supplies, Baerbock said.
The crisis was induced by Russia, that's why Russia has to solve this crisis now. We can only solve this crisis at the negotiation table. It is a matter of our common security, Baerbock reiterated at the European summit on Monday.
But that is not all. Another section of the metadata -- calledapantry creator tool -- revealed that Adobe Premiere Pro was used to edit the video using different assets -- called ingredients -- from a separate repository.
If the geometry was different the relative time of arrival of the various boom sounds would be different because the boom soundwouldpropagateat different speeds tothe microphone.
I thinktheresplenty of evidence indicating that audio is added from that YouTube video, Gigitashvili said.
Last week, Russian lawmakers appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to recognize the breakaway republics in Donbas as independent.
But like their Russian counterparts, American officials have downplayed the likelihood of the summit actually taking place, given what they say is the high probability that Putin could launch an invasion soon.
There are no no concrete plans for a meeting between US President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said in a call with journalists on Monday.
"We are observing the Russian units, which number today 127,000 people on the ground component, and with the naval and aviation component 147,000 people," Reznikov said Monday.
"This new activity represents a change in the pattern of the previously observed deployments of battle groups tanks, armored personnel carriers, artillery and support equipment," Maxar observed.
The statement of the Russian Federation FSB about the shelling from the territory ofUkraine-- as a result of which the duty location of the border guards of the Russian Federation was destroyed -- is a deliberate provocation,Ukraines State Border Guard said Monday.
"It will mean that, in fact, this is a pretext for a potential invasion through the introduction of some peacekeepers or something like that, as they will call it."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is due to speak with his French counterpart, Jean-Yves Le Drian, on Monday and US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken on Thursday.
By Helen Regan, Brad Lendon, Rob Picheta, Mike Hayes, Maureen Chowdhury, Melissa Macaya and Meg Wagner, CNN
CNNaskedRob Maher,anaudio forensics expert at MontanaStateUniversity, to analyze the media assets.Hecompared the boom sequence audio from one of the shots in the YouTube videowith similar audioin the Telegram video.
In particular, the exact place where it took place is not specified, except mentioning 150 meters from the Russian-Ukrainian border within the Rostov region, the statement added.
The State Border Guard Service ofUkrainehas accused Russian authorities of deliberate provocation afterRussia's Federal Security Service FSB claimed on Monday that a shell fired from Ukrainian territory had destroyed a border guard post in Russia's southern Rostov region.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to not play with human lives inUkraineon Monday, at the beginning of another week of tense diplomacy in Europe.
The truly irresponsible game with the civil society and with people in the occupied areas  on both sides  is irresponsible, she added.
A substantive understanding has been reached that it is necessary to continue dialogue at the ministers level. It is too early to talk about concrete plans for organising summits, Peskov said during his briefing.
The Russian and US leaders have agreed in principle to a bilateral meeting to discuss the tensions around Ukraine, following calls with French President Emmanuel Macron, including three hours of discussion with Putin, according to Beaune.
Crocker added that the aim for sharing this information with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was to give an early warning that a further Russian invasion of Ukraine may create a human rights catastrophe.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen earlier told Germanys ARD public television that Russia would "in principle be cut off from the international financial markets" if it invades Ukraine again.
She urged Russia to come back to the negotiating table," but affirmed that if Putin picks a quarrel, we will answer with massive consequences."
Our live coverage has moved.Head here for the latest updates on the tensions between Ukraine and Russia.
When asked if this was an emergency meeting or a regular one, Peskov said that it is "not regular," refusing to elaborate further on the agenda of the meeting.
Reznikov added on Monday: "We do not underestimate the threat in any case, it is really high."
Its update comes as new satellite imagery collected by Maxar on Sunday shows intensified activity among Russian units close to Ukraine's northeastern border, with units that were in garrisons appearing to take up field positions.
"If they recognize these terrorist groups, which call themselves republics, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, they will directly violate the territorial integrity and sovereignty ofUkraine," he said.
Among these assets, also in the Pantry section of the metadata,isafilename M72A5 LAW and AIPLAS live fire.mp4.
Peskov said the situation at the border remains "extremely tense" and refused to comment on the possibility of Russia providing military assistance to Donbas if requested.
If talks do transpire, they would represent a major diplomatic development at a time of frenzied negotiating. US officials have consistently said Biden is willing to engage with Putin, even as he prepares withering economic sanctions should another Russian invasion of Ukraine take place.
"We are always ready for diplomacy. We are also ready to impose swift and severe consequences should Russia instead choose war. And currently, Russia appears to be continuing preparations for a full-scale assault on Ukraine very soon," Biden's press secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement on Sunday night.
On Monday it said "an unidentified shell fired from the territory ofUkrainecompletely destroyed" a border control station about 150 meters from the border.
The press service of thePeoples Militia of the DPR picked it up andclaimed that the saboteurs were killed and the video was recovered from their bodies.
Earlier on Monday, Ukraine's defense minister Oleksii Reznikov said the country is not witnessing the withdrawal of Russian forces from positions close to the Ukrainian border.
It seems to be a composed video, meaning that it is a collection of several assets,for example,when you add audio to a video or build a collection of smaller clips, images etc., said Givi Gigitashvili, research associate at the Atlantic Councils Digital Forensic Research Lab.
I will call for the extraordinary meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, and I will present the sanctions at the right moment ... we are ready to do that when the moment comes," he said.
However, metadata from the video file reveals a creation date of February 8, ten days before it was shared on Telegram, a CNN analysis shows.And three days before the alleged date of the attack.
If Russia invades Ukraine it would "in principle be cut off from the international financial markets," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told Germanys ARD public television late Sunday.
The minister also broached the possibility that Russia might recognize the self-declared republics in easternUkraine as independent.
According to Maher,in order for the boom sequencesinboth videos to be thatsimilar,the geometrical relationship between the artillery piece, target, and microphone would have to be the same -- meaning that they would havetobe in the exact same position in both videos.
EU Foreign Affairs Chief JosepBorrelltold reporters on Monday that the EU would present "sanctions at the right moment."
As first noticed by Eliot Higgins, founder and creative director of Bellingcat, the filename corresponds to a YouTube video with the same name, featuring explosions and gunfire at a location in Finland.
CNN was not able to independently verify the incident or the point of origin of any shellfire.
Biden has agreed in principle to talks, brokered by French President Emmanuel Macron, but the White House said Sunday it will go ahead only "if an invasion hasn't happened."
Europe remains poised for a potential Russian invasion and Western leaders have warned that one remains imminent.
It is not the first time that separatists have beenseen postingquestionablevideos on Telegram. A CNN analysis of the Friday video statements by the leaders of the DPR and Luhansk People's Republic revealed that the footage was recorded 2 days earlier.
It was a dramatic video, widely shared when it appeared last Friday byTelegram channels sympathetic to Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.
"We do not see a withdrawal and we are not talking about the number being reduced, because the units can be quickly returned to their previous places or transferred to another area."
Our military can only fire back if there is a threat to the lives of our military. We are not shelling, Danilov said.
The location of that and other video assets also has 2021 and February 2 as names for project folders, againsuggesting that theoriginal timeframedates back to last year.
I am appealing insistently to the Russian government, to the Russian President: Do not play with human lives! Baerbock said in Brussels on arrival to the European Foreign Affairs Council meeting.
Only hours before news of the possible summit emerged -- after late-night calls between Macron and Putin, and between the French President and Biden -- the US warned it had intelligence suggesting that Putin had already given his field commanders orders to invade Ukraine.
She said US Secretary of State Antony Blinken raised these concerns to the Security Council on Feb. 17. "In particular, he stated that the United States has information that indicates Russia will target specific groups of Ukrainians," Crocker added.
The ingredients file path of this particular video contains a name2021-02-04 - .mp4,which may indicate that some ingredients are from 2021, he added.
"Until recently, most of the deployments had been seen primarily positioned at or near existing military garrisons and training areas," it said.
Of course, we do not rule out that, if necessary, the presidents of Russia and US can make a decision at any time to have contacts, by telephone or in person. It will be their decision, Peskov added.
French European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune said a summit between the US and Russian presidents will not happen before Thursday.
It seems pretty unexpected and coincidental that those acoustic arrival times would be so similar in these two unrelated videos, Maher concluded. If the assertion is that the separatists video contains edited sound, this might be one explanation."
Crocker alleges "disturbing informationrecently obtained by the United States that indicates that human rights violations and abuses in the aftermath of a further invasion are being planned."
It is absolutely important that we stand united as Europeans with our American friends," she said.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz is expected to speak with Putin on Monday as part of continued diplomatic efforts to find a resolution to the ongoingUkrainecrisis.The call was announced by Germangovernment spokesman Steffen Hebestreit during a press briefing in Berlin on Monday.
