The latest on tensions at the UkraineRussia border
20220121
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-01-21-22/h_410a96c85147529259caa9d719f98c02
Blinken's meeting with Lavrov on Friday followed his meetings in Berlin with his German, UK and French counterparts and Kyiv, where he met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
At a news conference following the meeting with Blinken, Lavrov said that the US had agreed to send written answers to all of Russia's security demands.
This was the first high-level meeting between Russia and the United States since thediplomatic engagements last week, which failed to deliver breakthroughs on the situation at Ukraine's border where Russia has amassed tens of thousands of troops.
The United States and NATO have described the movements and concentrations of troops in and around Ukraine as "unusual."
The two top diplomats ended their hour and a half bilateral meeting Friday, during which the US tried to convince Russia to de-escalate the situation at the Ukrainian border where Russia has amassed tens of thousands of troops and shown signs of a potential invasion into Ukraine.
Both sides admitted before their talks that neither was expecting a breakthrough on Russia's security demands, which the US and allies have deemed nonstarters.
The Kremlin denies it is planning to attack and argues that NATO support for Ukraine  including increased weapons supplies and military training  constitutes a growing threat on Russia's western flank.
Blinken reiterated he didn't expect the US and Russia to resolve their differences in the meeting but said he hoped to keep a diplomatic path to addressing those issues open.
Ukraine has warned thatRussiais trying to destabilize the country ahead of any planned military invasion. Western powers have repeatedly warned Russia against further aggressive moves against Ukraine.
As many as 100,000 Russian troops have remained amassed at the Ukrainian border, despite warnings fromUS President Bidenand European leaders of serious consequences should Putin move ahead with an invasion. AndUS intelligence findings in December estimatedthat Russia could begin a military offensive in Ukraine "as soon as early 2022."
Blinken said there was no trade space when it came to the principle of the sovereign right of the Ukrainian people to write their own future.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov during a meeting in Geneva, Friday that Washington is committed to a "united, swift and severe response" ifMoscow commits further aggressionagainst Ukraine.
"We are, all of us, all equally committed to the path of diplomacy and dialogue to try to resolve our differences," Blinken said Friday."But we're also committed, if that proves impossible and Russia decides to pursue aggression against Ukraine, to a united, swift and severe response."
Tensions between Ukraine and Russia, both former Soviet states, escalated in late 2013 over a landmark political and trade deal with the European Union. After the pro-Russian then-President, Viktor Yanukovych,suspended the talks reportedly under pressure from Moscow  weeks of protests in Kyiv erupted into violence.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met in Geneva on Friday as theRussian threat toward Ukraine continues to loom.
Tensions between Ukraine and Russiaare at their highest in years, with a Russian troop build-up near the two nations' borders spurring fears that Moscow could launch an invasion.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said his meeting today with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Geneva was not a negotiation, but was instead a candid exchange of concerns and ideas.
After the meeting, the top US diplomat will then travel to Ukraine and Germany to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and his foreign counterparts.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has said "there will be a high price to pay for Russia" if it once again invades Ukraine, a NATO partner.
Then, in March 2014, Russiaannexed Crimea, an autonomous peninsula in southern Ukraine with strong Russian loyalties, on the pretext that it was defending its interests and those of Russian-speaking citizens.
