The latest on the UkraineRussia border crisis
20220210
https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-news-02-17-22-intl/h_3be85a9e046cefef196fe34cd12d2682
Russia expelled the second-most senior diplomat at the US embassy in Moscow without any justification in what the Biden administration views as an "escalatory" move, the State Department said on Thursday.
The result, Minsk II, was signed by representatives of Russia, Ukraine, the separatist leaders and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe OSCE. It was subsequently endorsed by a UN Security Council resolution.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Thursday accused Russia offabricating apretext to invade Ukraineby attacking a kindergarten in Donbas.
Johnson reiterated that that the UK will apply heavy economic sanctions on Russia should it invade Ukraine, but continued: I do think there is still time for the Putin regime to step back.
British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Thursday that despite Russias claims, its military buildup around Ukraine shows no signs of slowing down.
Our live coverage has ended for the day. You can follow our latest coverage here.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken addressed misinformation that he said Russia continues to spread as it targets Ukraine and possible ways Moscow may attack, saying he hoped to influence Russia to abandon the path of war and choose a different path while there's still time.
As world leaders scramble to find a diplomatic solution over the ongoingRussia-Ukraine tensions, talk has turned to the 2015Minsk Agreementas a possible way out of the crisis.
Blinken said he sent a letter to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov proposing they meet next week in Europe. He is also proposing meetings of the NATO-Russia Council and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.
"These meetings can pave the wayfor a summit of key leaders inthe context of deescalation toreach understandings on ourmutual security concerns.As lead diplomats for ournations, we have aresponsibility to make everyeffort for diplomacy to succeed,to leave no diplomatic stoneunturned," he said.
While Johnson told reporters the attack was a false flagoperation designed to discredit the Ukrainians, designed to create a pretext, a spurious provocation for Russian action,this particular incident shouldnot be conclusivelytermed a false flag operationby Russiaintended toblame Ukraine for an attack on its own community.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he was speaking to the United Nations about Russia and Ukraine "not to start a war, but to prevent one."
"And Russia isn't only hearingfrom us.Theinternational chorus hasgrown louder and louder," the US official said. "If Russia doesn't invadeUkraine, then we will berelieved that Russia changedcourse and proved ourpredictions wrong.That would be a far betteroutcome thanthecourse we'recurrently on, and we'll gladlyaccept any criticism that anyonedirects at us."
"First, Russia plans tomanufacture a pretext for itsattack.... We don't know exactly the formit will take.It could be a fabricatedso-called terrorist bombinginside Russia.The invented discovery of themass grave, a staged dronestrike against civilians or afake, even a real attack usingchemical weapons," he said.
If Russia was so mad as to invade, I don't think people should imagine that this will be a brief business. This will be a bloody and protracted conflict in which I'm afraid that there will be many casualties, including many Russian casualties and I just hope that people in Russia can see that for what it is, Johnson said.
Russia thinks that NATO should not expandthe truth is that countries want to join NATO. People want insurance and they see safety in numbers, and this is only accelerated by Russias belligerence, the foreign secretary added.
Truss said she was surprised by seeing Chinas leaders aligning themselves with the Kremlin as Beijing claims "a policy of non-interference.
US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield said Blinken was addressing the UN because "this is a crucial moment."
Ukrainian armed forces and separatists controlling parts of eastern Ukraine have said there has been renewed shelling in the Donbas region, withUkrainian PresidentVolodymyrZelensky calling the kindergarten shelling "a big provocation."
"We don't know precisely howthings will play out.But here's what the world canexpect to see unfold," Blinken said.
During a press conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels, Austin said the US is seeing Russia move some troops closer to the border, "fly in more combat and support aircraft," "sharpen their readiness in the Black Sea" and even "stocking up their blood supplies.
Truss blamed Russia for violating its commitments, and probing our weaknesses for years and urged the West to wise up.
Meanwhile, US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin today also said the US government is not seeing any kind of withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine's border, instead seeing Russia adding to its capabilities and troops "even in the last couple of days."
That the OSCE  a 57-member security organization that also includes the US and Canada  monitor the frontlines.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called the Ukraine-Russia crisis a "moment of peril"  while addressing the United Nations Security Council in New York Thursday.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he proposed meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Europe next week in a letter to continue the diplomatic path to resolving the crisis created by Russia massing troops near Ukraines borders, as well as meetings of the NATO-Russia Council and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
We fear very much that that is the kind of thing we'll see more of over the next few days, Johnson warned, adding that ifRussia was so mad as to invade,it would result in a bloody and protracted conflict.
"Every indication that we have is that they are prepared to go into Ukraine, attack Ukraine," President Biden told reporters as he left the White House on Thursday.
This diplomatic issue comes to the fore amid growing concerns about a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Who are the key players? A rare meeting between Russian, Ukrainian, German and French leaders in February 2015 sought to bring peace to areas of Ukraine that had been taken over by pro-Russian separatists the year before. Those areas, in Ukraine'sDonbas region, became known as the Luhansk People's Republic LPR and the Donetsk People's Republic DPR. The Ukrainian government in Kyiv asserted the two regions were in effect Russian-occupied.
Russia expelled the second-most senior diplomat at the US embassy in Moscow without any justification Thursday, in what the Biden administration views as an escalatory move, the State Department said.
If China wants to be seen as a responsible global actor, they should be doing everything possible to ensure that Russia steps back, she added.
More background: Russia has continually forced the US to reduce the size of its diplomatic footprint in the country in recent years. Gormans tour in Russia had not ended, he had a valid visa, and he had been in Russia less than three years, the spokesperson added.
Blinken said that intelligence clearly indicates that the buildup of Russian forces signals an attack against Ukraine in "the coming days."
She went on to say that even if Russia pulls back from its border with Ukraine, the problem will not have gone away. The free world needs to draw a line under a decade of drift.
There is currently no evidence that forces are withdrawing. Russia must step back from the brink. The Kremlin has had every offer of diplomacy Time after time, they have chosen not to engage with these proposals but to obfuscate and object, Truss said in Kyiv following a meeting with her Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba.
Constitutional reform that would provide some autonomy to the regions of Ukraine's eastern Donbas region no longer under the central government's control.
Video and images confirmed by CNN show that it was hit by a shell in the attack on the community.
"The Russian government canannounce today with noqualifications, equivocation ordeflection that Russia will notinvade Ukraine, stated clearly,stated plainly to the world  andthen demonstrate it by sendingyour troops, your tanks, yourplanes, back to hangars andsending diplomats to thenegotiating table.In the coming days, the worldwill remember that commitment.Or the refusal to make it," he concluded.
However, world leaders including US President Biden, have accused Russia of carrying out false flag operations in recent daysdesigned to blunt the impact of any pretext Russia may use to invade Ukraine.
We call on Russia to end its baseless expulsions of U.S. diplomats and staff and to work productively to rebuild our missions. Now more than ever, it is critical that our countries have the necessary diplomatic personnel in place to facilitate communication between our governments, the spokesperson said.
There may be conventional attacks, or they could take the form of cyberattacks and could target specific groups of Ukrainians, he said.
The restoration of full economic and social links between the two sides, so that, for example, pensions could be paid.
In dangerous times, we have to take a hard-headed approach. That includes being ready to accept short-term pain for long-term gain, whether through imposing tough sanctions, for cutting strategic dependence by opposing Nord Stream 2, she added.
Blinken said these meetings present every opportunity for Russia to demonstrate its commitment to a diplomatic resolution.
Then, he said, "thehighest levels of the Russiangovernment may theatricallyconvene crisis and Russia mustrespond to defend citizens orethnic Russians in Ukraine."
What were the conditions of the agreement? A ceasefire. In February 2015, there was still heavy fighting in some areas between Ukrainian forces and Russian-supported rebels, with the Ukrainians taking heavy losses.
The agreement, the second of its kind and the one that matters, was hammered out in the Belarusian capital in a bid to end what was then a bloody 10-month conflict in eastern Ukraine.
According to theUkrainian armed forces,in a shelling by Russian occupation troops on the settlement of Stanytsia Luhanska,the kindergarten in the Ukrainian-controlled territory was hit by Thursday.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken is addressing the United Nations Security Councilas Ukraine-Russia tensions continue to unfold and the US warns an invasion could be near.
Gorman departed Moscow last week, according to a senior State Department official, and returned to the US.He was expelled by Moscow earlier this year and was given two weeks to depart.
