Why the US isnt sending troops into Ukraine
20220228
https://www.cnn.com/2022/02/27/politics/us-troops-ukraine-russia-what-matters/
Though the US has condemned Russias actions at every chance, President Joe Biden has gone to great lengths to make clear that US forces will not enter Ukraine and engage Russia directly.
Previous drawdowns have been for $60 million and $250 million, putting the total over the last year at more than a billion dollars, according to an administration official.
Sanctions, blockades, economic influence, building of alliances against Putins actions while simultaneously supplying Ukraine with weapons and other aide will hopefully prevent escalations and unintended worldwide consequences, Hertling said.
The scale of the central bank sanctions are still under discussion and could have even more bite than officials have telegraphed, CNNs Phil Mattingly has reported.
Additionally, Blinken announced Sunday that the US is sending nearly $54 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine to assist those affected by Russias invasion.
Whys that? As Biden told NBC News earlier this month, Thats a world war when Americans and Russia start shooting at one another. In other words, the US entrance into the conflict has the potential to touch off a global war.
US forces are not and will not be engaged in a conflict with Russia in Ukraine, Biden said from the White House Thursday.
On Friday, the US  along with the European Union, United Kingdom and Canada  announced it would impose sanctions directly on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.
US and European officials have discussed targeting the Russian Central Bank with sanctions, a step without precedent for an economy of Russias size. Thomas-Greenfield did not give precise timing for that but said, This is happening very, very quickly.
As we wrote about last week, Americans are wary of US intervention in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, according to polls taken in the run-up to Russias invasion.
A version of this story appeared in CNNs What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here.
While some Ukrainian officials have called on NATO countries to close the sky over Ukraine, establishing a no-fly zone would put the US in direct engagement with the Russian military which the White House has made clear it is not interested in doing.
Thomas-Greenfield said Sunday that the US has not taken anything off the table when asked about targeting the Russian energy sector with sanctions, which so far has not happened.
But what other factors are keeping US troops out of Ukraine? Heres what you need to know:
Retired Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling, a national security and military analyst for CNN, told What Matters on Sunday, The key to diplomacy is to limit the potential for war. While the current war of Russian illegal invasion into Ukraine is tragic, chaotic and devastating, it is still a regional conflict.
The United States will not put US pilots in the air to create a no-fly zone in Ukraine, Thomas-Greenfield said Sunday.
CNNs Barbara Starr reported Sunday that more than 4,000 US Army troops who deployed to Europe on a temporary basis will now have their tour of duty extended  most likely for several weeks  as part of the US effort to reassure east European allies during the current crisis.
Rather, US troops are tasked with defending our NATO allies and reassure those allies in the east. As I made crystal clear, the United States will defend every inch of NATO territory with the full force of American power, Biden added.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Saturday he has authorized $350 million in new US military assistance to Ukraine.
If NATO or the US sent troops into Ukraine to help them fight the Russians, the dynamic would shift to a multinational conflict with potential global implications due to the nuclear power status of both US and Russia. Because of that, the US and NATO  and other nations around the world  are attempting to influence the success of Ukraine and the defeat of Russia by providing other types of support, Hertling said.
The US and Western countries have imposed several rounds of sanctions on Russia, targeting its banking, aerospace and technology sectors. These sanctions enact penalties across industries, including:
Article 5 guarantees that the resources of the whole alliance can be used to protect any single member nation. The first and only time it has been invoked was in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the US as a result, NATO allies joined the invasion of Afghanistan.
US Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield told CNNs Dana Bash on State of the Union on Sunday that the Biden administration has made clear the US will not put boots on the ground.
The Biden administrations posture of keeping US forces out of Ukraine means were not going to put American troops in the air as well, but we will work with the Ukrainians to give them the ability to defend themselves, she said.
Russias unprovoked assault on Ukraine, now in its fourth day, has faced universal condemnation from Western powers.
Sanctions against Russia and aid to Ukraine have come from many directions. But putting troops on the ground in Ukraine, which is not a member of NATO, is a line that the US and other Western allies have not been willing to cross.
Were ramping up as the Russians ramp up, so theres more to come, she told Bash.
Today, as Ukraine fights with courage and pride against Russias brutal and unprovoked assault, I have authorized, pursuant to a delegation by the President, an unprecedented third Presidential Drawdown of up to $350 million for immediate support to Ukraines defense, the top US diplomat said in a statement.
And on Saturday, the US and the European Commission, along with France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and Canada, announced they would expel certain Russian banks from SWIFT, the high-security network that connects thousands of financial institutions around the world.
Ukraine borders the NATO member countries of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. If Russia threatened one of these countries, the US  along with France, Germany, the UK and the rest of the 30-member NATO alliance  would be required by Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty to respond.
The US has deployed thousands of troops throughout Europe, both before and during Russias invasion of Ukraine.
