Terran Orbital Begins Trading on the New York Stock Exchange Under Ticker Symbol LLAP and Announces Revenue Backlog Now Exceeds 200 million
20220328
https://www.prnewswire.com:443/news-releases/terran-orbital-begins-trading-on-the-new-york-stock-exchange-under-ticker-symbol-llap-and-announces-revenue-backlog-now-exceeds-200-million-301511543.html
Terran Orbital to Ring Opening Bell at the New York Stock Exchange Today, March 28, 2022, at 9:30 a.m. in Celebration of the New Listing
DisclaimersThe preliminary results included in this press release are preliminary, unaudited and subject to completion, reflect management's current views, and may change as a result of management's review of results and other information, which may not be currently available. Such preliminary results are subject to the finalization of year-end financial and accounting procedures and should not be viewed as a substitute for audited results prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles "GAAP". The actual results may be materially different from the preliminary results. See the factors discussed under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Market Ranking and Other Industry Data"
Terran Orbital Co-Founder, Chairman, and CEO Marc Bell announced, "We are thrilled to bring Terran Orbital forward as a public company. This day marks the latest milestone in a history of achievement and outperformance in the space industry. We expect that as we advance, Terran Orbital will continue to define the small satellite market by combining high-volume manufacturing with fully integrated operations and mission planning capabilities. We are also planning to build one of the world's largest, most advanced persistent earth observation constellations and one of the world's largest vertically integrated satellite manufacturing facilities."
Bell continued: "Our innovative, cost-effective satellite solutions and real-time data offering are validated by our suite of marquee military, commercial and civil customers an experienced, solutions-focused management team featuring former senior leaders in the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, and U.S. Army. As a public company, we expect to leverage our industry position to capitalize on the exponentially rising demand for small satellites and earth observation data to meet critical government, national security and commercial needs, support human space exploration, and deliver long-term value to our partners and investors."
BOCA RATON, Fla., March 28, 2022 PRNewswire --Terran Orbital Corporation NYSE: LLAP "Terran Orbital" or the "Company", a leading small satellite manufacturer primarily serving the United States aerospace and defense industry, announced that its common stock and warrants will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange today, March 28, 2022, under the ticker symbols "LLAP" and "LLAP WS", respectively.
Terran Orbital Corporation "Terran Orbital" is a leading satellite manufacturer of small satellitesprimarily serving the United States aerospace and defense industry and a pioneer in end-to-end small satellite solutions, fully integrated operations, satellite design, scale manufacturing, launch planning, mission operations, and in-orbit support to the most demanding military, intelligence community, civil and commercial customers. Terran Orbital is leveraging its fully integrated manufacturing capabilities to develop one of the world's largest, most advanced NextGen Earth Observation constellation of small satellites to provide real-time earth imagery as a service, enabling the Company to meet numerous defense and private sector needs through advanced space-based observation. The Company is additionally planning to build one of the world's largest vertically integrated satellite manufacturing facilities, capable of producing over 1,000 satellites and space vehicles annually, on the Space Coast of Florida. Learn more at www.terranorbital.com.
in the Company's definitive proxy statementprospectus the "Proxy StatementProspectus" filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 14, 2022.
Terran Orbital has made significant progress over recent months as it prepared to emerge as a public company. Some of the Company's recent accomplishments include:
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release includes certain forward-looking statements, estimates, and projections provided by Terran Orbital that reflect management's views regarding the anticipated future financial and operating performance of Terran Orbital. Forward-looking statements are not historical, including statements regarding operational and financial plans, terms and performance of Terran Orbital, and other projections or predictions of the future. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by such words as "project," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "may," "will," "should," and "could" and similar expressions. Such statements, estimates, and projections reflect numerous assumptions concerning anticipated results. Forward-looking statements in this press release may include, for example statements about Terran Orbital's industry and market sizes future opportunities expectations and projections concerning future financial and operational performance and results of Terran Orbital, and those factors set forth in the section entitled "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Market Ranking and Other Industry Data" in the Proxy StatementProspectus. As these assumptions may or may not prove correct and there are numerous factors that will affect Terran Orbital's actual results many of which are beyond Terran Orbital's control, there can be no assurances that any projected results are attainable or will be realized. Terran Orbital disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Terran Orbital's actual results may differ materially from those set forth in this press release. Accordingly, no representations are made as to the accuracy, reasonableness or completeness of such statements, estimates, or projections.
In order to meet this growing demand, in February 2022 the Company announced its plans to significantly expand its manufacturing capability in Irvine, CA, by leasing a 60,000 square-foot commercial facility adjacent to the Company's existing facility. The announcement marked Terran Orbital's commitment to maintaining its leadership as a top small satellite manufacturer in the country and will complement the Company's previously announced plans to build the world's largest and most advanced "Industry 4.0" space vehicle manufacturing facility, a $300 million, 660,000 square foot facility on the Space Coast of Florida.
Terran Orbital also announced the formation of a highly-respected board of directors. In addition to Mr. Bell, the Board of Directors of the newly public Company includes:
