THE PREMISE POLL MAJORITY OF UKRAINIANS BELIEVE THEY ARE WINNING THE WAR WITH RUSSIA AND 8 IN 10 BELIEVE UKRAINE WILL RECLAIM ALL TERRITORY HELD BEFORE THE WAR
20220603
https://www.prnewswire.com:443/news-releases/the-premise-poll-majority-of-ukrainians-believe-they-are-winning-the-war-with-russia-and-8-in-10-believe-ukraine-will-reclaim-all-territory-held-before-the-war-301560801.html
"These results show that not only is Ukraine united but the will to resist Russian occupation is high in spite of significant devastation to the country," said Maury Blackman, CEO of Premise. "These findings also show that, despite the historical and cultural differences between Eastern and Western Ukraine, Russian President Putin has united the entire country of Ukraine. Even in Eastern Ukraine, which due to its geography has been historically pro-Russia, a vast majority of Ukrainian adults 72 think Putin should be prosecuted as a war criminal."
Premiseis an on demand insights company. Its technology mobilizes communities of global smartphone users to source actionable data in real-time, cost-effectively, and with the visibility needed. In more than 135 countries and 37 languages, Premise finds Data for Every Decision. To learn more, please visitwww.premise.com.
SAN FRANCISCO, June 3, 2022 PRNewswire -- Premise, the innovative platform that democratizes the way data is sourced, analyzed, and applied, recently surveyed 941 Ukrainian adult contributors about the ongoing war in Ukraine. Premise announced the results of that survey today, finding a high degree of confidence among Ukrainians about the outcome of the war.
In show of confidence, Premise survey of Ukrainians found that most 53 don't believe Ukraine should negotiate with Russia to end the war
Those surveyed shared their thoughts on the current state of the war, likely outcomes, what concessions Ukraine should or shouldn't make to end the war, and more. Here are some of the most significant findings:
These results are based on responses from 941 Ukrainian adults aged 18 years and older, surveyed from May 24th to May 27th, 2022. Respondents were randomly chosen to complete the survey based on a stratified random sampling plan incorporating region, age, and gender based on theUkraine Crisis: Monitoring population displacement through social media activitypopulation estimates and were compensated for their time. Respondents completed the survey in Ukrainian and Russian on the Premise app.
