Blinken United States ready to continue providing defense support to Ukraine
20220305
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/3421414-blinken-united-states-ready-to-continue-providing-defense-support-to-ukraine.html
On February 24, Russian president Vladimir Putin declared war on Ukraine and launched a large-scale invasion. Russian troops are shelling and destroying infrastructure, conducting massive shelling of residential areas of Ukrainian cities and towns using artillery, multiple launch rocket systems, and ballistic missiles. Martial law was imposed in the country and general mobilization was announced. Ukraine filed a lawsuit against the Russian Federation at the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague.
The key talking points were further painful sanctions against Russia, supply of additional weapons to defend Ukraine, isolation of Russia from the world for its aggression against Ukraine.
"Putin has made a terrible mistake in many ways. He believed that Ukraine did not exist as an independent state. Today, the Ukrainian people are proving the exact opposite every day. The strength, determination, and resolve of Ukrainians with the support of the United States and the world will eventually win. I say this directly. I agree with Minister Kuleba that the point is the price of victory. The United States is determined to make every effort to keep it as small as possible," Blinken stressed.
The parties discussed the urgent strengthening of Ukraine's defense capabilities, in particular in protecting the skies from Russian aircraft and missiles that bomb residential areas of cities and civilians. Kuleba and Blinken agreed on further steps to strengthen Ukraine's defense against Russia's barbaric actions in the air.
The Secretary of State reaffirmed that the United States was ready to continue its defense support to Ukraine and was considering further strengthening its defense capabilities. He drew attention to the unprecedented global wave of support for Ukraine in the world.
As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine posted on Facebook, Kuleba arrived at the negotiating site from the Ukrainian side, and his American counterpart  from Poland.
The U.S. Secretary of State expressed admiration for the actions of the Ukrainian people, including President Zelensky, the Armed Forces of Ukraine and all Ukrainian defense forces, who effectively repel Russian aggression.
The minister expressed gratitude for the unprecedented and prompt steps taken by the United States and its partners to defend Ukraine over the ten days of Russia's invasion, including the provision of weapons: "We are working to ensure that these steps are taken further and that the pressure on Russia continues to grow. To ensure that Ukraine receives all the necessary weapons for protection."
"Ukraine will win this war because the Ukrainians rose to the People's War for their land, and the truth is on our side. The point is the price of victory. If the partners continue to act decisively, increase economic and political pressure on Russia, provide us with the weapons we need, the price will be lower for Ukraine. It will save many lives," Kuleba said.
