Enemy keeps Ka52 helicopter squadron ready near Izium
20220530
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/3495367-enemy-keeps-ka52-helicopter-squadron-ready-near-izium.html
In the Southern Buh direction, the enemy continues to focus on holding the occupied frontiers, restraining the actions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and preventing the redeployment of the Defense Forces' reserves to other directions.
Over the past 24 hours, 14 enemy attacks were repulsed in Donetsk and Luhansk directions. Two artillery systems, 11 armored personnel vehicles, 10 enemy vehicles were destroyed. The air defense units shot down two cruise missiles and three Kub UAVs.
In Siversky direction, the enemy launched airstrikes on objects in Sumy region in the areas of Zapsillia, Myropillia and shelled artillery near Kindrativka.
Ukrainian aircraft also launched an air strike on the Russian units in Dovhenke area. The enemy suffered losses in other directions as well.
In Kryvyi Rih direction, the enemy continues firing artillery on the Ukrainian positions and carrying out counter-battery activities.
The enemy did not wage active hostilities in Kurakhove and Novopavlivsk directions. Fire damage is inflicted to Ukrainian troops, in particular, involving operational-tactical and army aircraft.
In Zaporizhzhia direction, the Russians strengthen the group by redeploying up to 120 weapons and military equipment from Melitopol area towards Vasylivka.
To make up for the losses, Russian troops redeploy military equipment removed from storage from the territory of Russia and the temporarily occupied Crimea.
In Slovyansk direction, the Russians regroup troops to resume the offensive in the directions of Izium  Barvinkove, Izium  Slovyansk.
No significant changes have been observed in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov operational zones.
The Russians also gain foothold on the northeastern and southeastern outskirts of Sievierodonetsk. To strengthen the group, ammunition and equipment were redeployed from the territory of Russia to certain areas.
In Donetsk direction, the aggressor's units focus on offensive operations to encircle Ukrainian troops in Lysychansk and Sievierodonetsk districts and to block the main logistics routes.
In Kharkiv direction, the enemy fired on the areas north and northeast of Kharkiv, as well as the populated localities of Ruski Tyshky, Cherkaski Tyshky, Ruska Lozova, Pytomnyk, Borshchova, and Peremoha.
As reported, in the southern direction, Ukrainian defenders eliminated 67 Russian aggressors, destroyed an enemy command post and a large number of military equipment.
The enemy does not stop conducting offensive operations in the Eastern Operational Zone. The situation in Volyn and Polissya directions has no significant changes, reads the report of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine as of 06:00, May 30, posted on Facebook.
As part of the logistics support and replenishment of the units that suffered losses, the enemy redeployed more than 250 units of weapons and military equipment to the temporarily occupied localities. To make the redeployment of its troops and equipment more efficient, the Russian army restored a railway bridge in the area of Kupyansk, Kharkiv region.
In Mykolayiv direction, the enemy redeployed separate divisions to launch offensive on certain directions to regain the positions lost.
