G7 ministers EU call on Russia to withdraw troops from Ukraine
20220407
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-polytics/3451340-g7-ministers-eu-call-on-russia-to-withdraw-troops-from-ukraine.html
The statement expresses the gravest concern with Russia forcefully seizing control of nuclear facilities, and other violent actions in connection with a number of nuclear facilities, nuclear and other radioactive material, which have caused and continue to pose serious and direct threats to the safety and security of these facilities and their civilian personnel, significantly raising the risk of a nuclear accident or incident, which endangers the population of Ukraine, neighbouring States and the international community.
Moreover, the G7 ministers and the EU High Representative underline that Russia must immediately comply with the legally binding order of the International Court of Justice ICJ to suspend the military operations that it commenced on 24 February 2022 in the territory of Ukraine.
We, the G7 Foreign Ministers of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America, and the High Representative of the European Union, condemn in the strongest terms the atrocities committed by the Russian armed forces in Bucha and a number of other Ukrainian towns. Haunting images of civilian deaths, victims of torture, and apparent executions, as well as reports of sexual violence and destruction of civilian infrastructure show the true face of Russias brutal war of aggression against Ukraine and its people, reads the joint statement by G7 foreign ministers and the High Representative of the European Union issued following todays NATO meeting.
The G7 ministers and the EU High Representative warn against any threat or use of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. They recall Russias obligations under international treaties of which it is a party, and which protect us all.
Further, we urge Russia to withdraw completely its military forces and equipment from the entire territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders, the officials state.
In addition, the statement underscored the need to further increase economic pressure on Russia and the Lukashenko regime in Belarus. "Together with international partners, the G7 will sustain and increase pressure on Russia by imposing coordinated additional restrictive measures to effectively thwart Russian abilities to continue the aggression against Ukraine. We will work together to stop any attempts to circumvent sanctions or to aid Russia by other means. We are taking further steps to expedite plans to reduce our reliance on Russian energy, and will work together to this end," the statement says.
It is underscored that the massacres in the town of Bucha and other Ukrainian towns will be inscribed in the list of atrocities and severe violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, committed by the aggressor on Ukrainian soil.
The G7 ministers and the EU High Representative pledge to support Ukraine with humanitarian aid and funding.
We will provide investigative support, technical experts and funding. We will continue to promote accountability for all those complicit in Moscows war of choice, including the Lukashenka regime in Belarus. We are convinced that now is the time to suspend Russian membership of the UN Human Rights Council, the statement says.
Any use by Russia of such a weapon would be unacceptable and result in severe consequences. We condemn Russias unsubstantiated claims and false allegations against Ukraine, a respected member of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention that is in compliance with its legal obligations under those instruments. We express concern about other countries and actors that have amplified Russias disinformation campaign, the statement reads.
As noted, the G7 ministers and the EU High Representative expressed their heart-felt solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their deepest condolences to the victims of this war and their families in the presence of Foreign Minister of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba.
It is also noted that those responsible for the heinous acts and atrocities, including any attacks targeting civilians and destruction of civilian infrastructure, will be held accountable and prosecuted.
The G7 ministers and the EU High Representative also reiterate their demand that Russia upholds its obligations under international humanitarian law and provides for safe, rapid and unimpeded humanitarian access to besieged cities.
We underline our unwavering support for Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders and express our readiness to assist further, including with military equipment and financial means, to allow Ukraine to defend itself against Russias aggression and to rebuild Ukraine, reads the statement.
