Invaders forcibly deport to Russia nearly 40000 Ukrainians  minister
20220327
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/3441008-invaders-forcibly-deport-to-russia-nearly-40000-ukrainians-minister.html
This was announced by the Minister of Reintegration of the Occupied Territories, Iryna Vereshchuk, Ukrinform reports.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a new phase of Russias war against Ukraine. The Ukrainian Army, territorial defense units, and the entire nation have risen up against the invaders, inflicting significant losses on the Russian forces.
"We are constantly and strongly signaling to the international community and institutions that these Russian 'corridors' are illegal and inconsistent with our efforts. Especially since on the other side  both near Donetsk and Luhansk  forced migrants are sifted through special filtration camps, in violation of the Geneva Convention. But for some reason, the International Committee of the Red Cross even decided to open a representative office in Rostov-on-Don to work with Ukrainians deported to Russia by force. Therefore, we demand that it facilitate the return of our citizens," Vereshchuk stressed.
The minister says the aggressors have already resettled approximately 40,000 Ukrainians. In addition, the occupiers are acting in a similar way in the temporarily occupied part of Kyiv region, trying to forcibly deport Ukrainians to Belarus.
Russia is creating an alternative humanitarian reality and trying to pave its own so-called evacuation routes for Mariupol residents  to Russia. Expectedly, most citizens are unwilling to flee to the aggressors territory. As a result, Russian troops are forcibly taking civilians deep into the occupied territories or to Russia. We are already talking about tens of thousands of Ukrainians forcibly resettled this way," Vereshchuk said on Saturday, March 26, according to the government's press service.
Earlier it became known that the Russian invaders took orphans out of besieged Mariupol and placed them in one of the hospitals in the occupied Donetsk.
