Kremlin says reports on movement of forces near Ukraine border Russias lowquality media spin
20211102
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-polytics/3343354-kremlin-says-movement-of-forces-near-ukraine-border-russias-lowquality-media-spin.html
The Washington Post was the first to break the news on October 30 on the alleged build-up of Russian forces on the border with Ukraine. The newspaper said certain officials in the United States and the European Union recorded unusual movements of hardware and forces on Russias western flank, which did not seem to be a drill.
You see, probably, the quality of these publications shouldnt even be commented on and shouldnt be a subject of anyones attention. Were talking about the border with Ukraine, while theyre showing the border with Belarus, Peskov said, dismissing the report. He stated that "it is not worth wasting time on looking into such low-quality spins."
Speaking with journalists, the Kremlin spox was asked to comment on a recent article by Politico, where satellite images were published of the alleged movement of Russian military hardware near the town of Yelnya, Smolensk region, noting that Russia is amassing its forces near the border with Ukraine the town is located some 250 km from the Ukrainian border and 100 km from the Belarusian one.
Earlier, Politico wrote that the pictures were taken by Maxar Technologies on November 1. In addition, citing data from the British-based Janes, the outlet reported that the military hardware from Russias 4th Panzer Division was being moved closer to the border with Ukraine, to the areas near Kursk and Bryansk.
The publication also referred to videos being posted on the Internet showing cargo trains and convoys transport hardware to the south and west of the country.
At the same time, commenting on the WaPo report, the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ukrainian Defense Ministry said it had recorded no additional movements of Russian units, weapons, and military hardware along Ukraine's state border, adding that the analysts saw the reports on the amassing of Russian troops as an element of aninformation psy-op.
