Kuleba speaks of new points in UkraineUS Strategic Partnership Charter
20211110
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-polytics/3347979-kuleba-speaks-of-new-points-in-ukraineus-strategic-partnership-charter.html
At the same time, Kuleba added, Ukraine and the United States are already working out concrete steps for cooperation not only in the strategic future, but also in the short-term perspective.
The parties are set to sign an updated Ukraine-U.S. Strategic Partnership Charter, which will replace the previous document the two countries signed in 2008.
"We have already signed this year a security agreement with the United States, and our Ministry of Defense is working with their American colleagues to unbundle them into specific programs and cooperation projects," Kuleba said.
As Ukrinform reported earlier, a meeting of the Ukraine-U.S. Strategic Partnership Commission is scheduled for Wednesday, November 10, to be chaired by diplomacy chiefs Dmytro Kuleba and Anthony Blinken.
Thats according to Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, who arrived in Washington to participate in a meeting of the Ukraine-U.S. Strategic Partnership Commission, Ukrinform's own correspondent reports.
"We agreed on the text with the American side, and there are several things that were fundamentally important for us to lay down in terms of countering Russian aggression. When you see this text and the part devoted to Russian aggression, it will be evidence of the irreversibility of the U.S. policy to support Ukraine in countering Russia and Russian aggression," the minister said, answering Ukrinforms question.
He has stressed the Charter is a strategic document that will determine for decades the areas that will be developing in relations between Ukraine and the United States. "That is, theoretically, administrations in the White House may change, but the Charter will continue to operate," the top diplomat said.
In this regard, the foreign minister also stressed that during the current visit to Washington, the Ukrainian delegation will also hold meetings at the Pentagon, the U.S. National Security Council, and with expert circles known to influence policy-making in the U.S.
