Polands Sejm condemns Russian aggression in Ukraine
20220224
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-polytics/3410357-polands-sejm-condemns-russian-aggression-in-ukraine.html
According to the resolution, Russia's actions, which have intensified in recent weeks, are "aggression against an independent state."
According to the resolution, the principle of sovereignty and the right to self-determination of nations are among the core values of Western civilization.
"We call on the governments of the EU and NATO countries and the entire international community to stand in solidarity with the freedom and right of the Ukrainian people to live in an independent state," the resolution said.
It is noted that ordinary citizens of Ukraine are already paying the price for Putin's neo-imperial policy, Russia's gas and energy policy, and this also affects the living standards of hundreds of millions of European citizens, including millions of Polish families.
"The decision by the Russian Federation to recognize the independence of two territories, which are integral parts of Ukraine, openly violates the norms adopted by the international community and means that Russia rejects all avenues of understanding in accordance with international law," the resolution said.
On February 22, at a press conference in the Kremlin, Putin said that Russia was recognizing "DPR" and "LPR" within the borders of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
It says that Putin's decision violates the fundamental principles of international law, so it cannot be recognized by any other state.
The document was adopted unanimously by acclamation standing applause from Polish lawmakers, according to an Ukrinform correspondent.
"Vladimir Putin's next steps prove that his policy is to end more than 30 years of peace in Europe after the fall of communism. Russia is deliberately resurrecting the demons of the past and rejecting any rules other than the rules of force, cruelty and readiness to kill innocent people," the resolution said.
The resolution was read out by Marshal of the Sejm Elzbieta Witek, who wore a badge with Ukrainian and Polish flags. The flag of Ukraine was unfurled in the hall.
"Ukraine is an independent, sovereign and democratic state. Russia's recognition of the constitutions of the self-proclaimed so-called Luhansk and Donetsk republics actually means their intention to seize Ukrainian territory, so these are actions of a purely military nature," the document reads.
On February 21, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed decrees recognizing the independence of puppet entities "LPR" and "DPR."
"The Polish Sejm once again strongly condemns all actions by the Russian Federation aimed at encroaching on Ukraine's sovereignty. The international community must do everything possible to prevent a war. The integrity of Ukraine's territory, the inviolability of its borders and the right to self-determination are the source of security for the whole of Europe," the resolution reads.
The lower house of the Polish parliament also called on the international community to impose tough economic and diplomatic sanctions against the aggressor.
