Russians voracious terrorists unwilling to end war  Zelensky
20220817
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-polytics/3552674-russia-doesnt-seek-to-end-war-so-no-mediators-can-be-found-for-peace-talks-zelensky.html
"They came to our land, started this war just to destroy us. No mediators will fit them as they are only interested in one thing  complete domination in our country, total annihilation of Ukrainians, so that there are no people left who would seek to be independent," the leader emphasized.
He said that Ukraine had been seeking negotiations for years, knowing that a full-scale invasion could begin at any moment, but Russia chose the path of destroying the neighboring country and its people.
In Zelenskys opinion, Russians are worse than terrorists. "When terrorists capture something, they want to get something in return and retreat. But these people arent of this kind. They are voracious terrorists. They captured people, children, tortured them, and then put forward an ultimatum on what else we must do but after that, theyll never leave. They arent going to go anywhere. This indicates that Russia doesnt want to stop this war," the president explained.
Thats according to President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky, who spoke with Chile university students via video link, an Ukrinform correspondent reports.
In this context, Zelensky added that Russians do not see Ukraine a future member of the European Union, and neither do they see it as a democratic and independent state.
"In their logic, we are a colony. Therefore, to have or seek a mediator between a country that protects its land and a country that has decided to completely destroy it, regardless of whether there are adults or children there. Do you realize what they did and are still doing? They would rape children and force their parents to watch. There are plenty of such cases and testimonies. What mediators could there be between humans and beasts? You wont find mediators because Russia doesnt want to end this war," the head of the Ukrainian state stressed.
