Russian troops begin offensive operations in eastern Ukraine
20220418
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/3460933-russian-troops-begin-offensive-operations-in-eastern-ukraine.html
"In order to strengthen their offensive capabilities, the invaders continue to form additional units in Rostov region and in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It is planned to use them to support the military operations of the main forces in the second echelon, protection of administrative buildings and important infrastructure facilities in the occupied territories. According to available information, the approximate date of formation is April 24 this year," the report reads.
It is noted that the main efforts of the enemy are focused on establishing full control over the territory of Donetsk and Luhansk regions and holding the previously captured territory.
In the Southern Buh direction, some enemy units continue to focus their efforts on holding the occupied frontiers and shelling the positions of Ukraines Defense Forces. The enemy does not stop trying to establish full control over the territory of Kherson region. The invaders conduct unsuccessful military operations in the area of Oleksandrivka.
The defense forces continue to hold certain frontiers, eliminate the enemy, and liberate Ukrainian lands from invaders in some areas.
According to operative information, as of 18:00 on April 18, the enemy continues to launch missile and bomb strikes on industrial and civilian infrastructure, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine notes that enemy naval groups continue to isolate Ukraines sea coast and conduct reconnaissance in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.
Provocative actions and the use of enemy aircraft in UkraineRussia border areas are not ruled out, including strikes on civilian objects.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine records the signs of the start of the offensive operations in eastern Ukraine.
The signs of the start of the offensive operation in the Eastern Operational Zone are recorded. In Slobozhansky and Donetsk operational districts, the aggressor intensified offensive and assault operations in some directions.
In Slobozhansky direction, the enemy group, which includes separate units of the 6th Combined Arms Army of the Western Military District, the Baltic and the Northern Fleet coastal forces, continues to partially block Kharkiv and destroy residential areas of the city with artillery fire.
In Izium direction, the aggressor operates with separate units of the 1st Guards Tank Army, the 20th Combined Arms Army of the Western Military District, the 35th and 68th Combined Arms Armies of the Eastern Military District and the air assault forces. Attempts to advance in Izium-Slovyansk and Izium-Barvinkove directions are expected to continue.
In addition, Russian aggressors continue to cynically violate international humanitarian law, block initiatives to evacuate civilians from occupied localities, refuse to coordinate humanitarian routes, and fire on areas near possible "green corridors".
No significant changes in the activities of enemy troops were noted in Volyn, Polissia, and Siversky directions.
In Donetsk and Tavriysky directions, a group of Russian troops continues to focus their efforts on capturing the localities of Lyman, Kreminna, Popasna, and Rubizhne, as well as establishing full control over Mariupol.
The helipads are rolled out in Russias Belgorod region, close to the state border with Ukraine.
"In the occupied territories, the enemy steals and takes out to the Russian Federation equipment, machinery and products of local enterprises, mines agricultural fields," the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reports.
