Ukraines EU membership bid European Commission has to submit its opinion
20220325
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-polytics/3439278-ukraines-eu-membership-bid-european-commission-has-to-submit-its-opinion.html
As reported, on March 24, EU foreign ministers held a summit in Brussels, during which they expressed unity in their intention to continue full support for Ukraine and in increasing pressure on Russia and its isolation as an aggressor country.
The European Council recognises all the efforts already made to welcome refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine, and calls on all Member States to intensify their efforts in a continued spirit of unity and solidarity, and invites the Commission to take any necessary initiatives to facilitate such efforts, reads the statement.
On February 24, 2022, Putin's Russia launched an unprovoked war against Ukraine, carrying out massive shelling and bombing of peaceful Ukrainian cities and towns. The entire people of Ukraine rose up to fight against the invaders, and its Armed Forces and Territorial Defense Forces stopped the enemy's offensive and inflicted heavy losses on it.
It is also underscored that the safety of Ukrainian nuclear facilities must be ensured, including with the support of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The European Council calls on all countries to align with those sanctions. Any attempts to circumvent sanctions or to aid Russia by other means must be stopped.
The European Union stands by Ukraine and its people and the European Council reaffirms the Versailles Declaration, acknowledging the European aspirations and the European choice of Ukraine, as stated in the Association Agreement. The European Council reiterates its invitation to the Commission to submit its opinion in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaties, reads the document.
This is stated in the European Council conclusions on the Russian military aggression against Ukraine released on 24 March 2022.
The European Union has so far adopted significant sanctions that are having a massive impact on Russia and Belarus, and remains ready to close loopholes and target actual and possible circumvention as well as to move quickly with further coordinated robust sanctions on Russia and Belarus to effectively thwart Russian abilities to continue the aggression, the statement says.
The EU leaders also noted that Russian military aggression against Ukraine had forced millions of people to flee their homes. Many of them have found shelter and safety in the European Union, facilitated by the temporary protection mechanism. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of the most vulnerable and measures to prevent and detect human trafficking, the conclusions note.
The European Union also expresses readiness to provide support to the Ukrainian Government for its immediate needs and, once the Russian onslaught has ceased, for the reconstruction of a democratic Ukraine. To that end, the European Council agrees to develop a Ukraine Solidarity Trust Fund and invites its international partners to participate, and calls for preparations to start without delay. The European Council calls for an international conference to be organised in due time to raise funding under the Ukraine Solidarity Trust Fund.
As noted, this crisis represents a significant challenge for the infrastructure and public services of hosting States, notably at the borders with Ukraine.
As underscored, the European Union will continue to provide coordinated political, financial, material and humanitarian support.
The European Council demands that Russia immediately stop its military aggression in the territory of Ukraine, immediately and unconditionally withdraw all forces and military equipment from the entire territory of Ukraine, and fully respect Ukraines territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence within its internationally recognised borders, read the conclusion.
The EU also underscored that the siege of Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities, and the denial of humanitarian access by Russian military forces are unacceptable. Russian forces must immediately provide for safe pathways to other parts of Ukraine, as well as humanitarian aid to be delivered to Mariupol and other besieged cities, the document says.
The European Union has already imposed four packages of harsh sanctions on Russia, isolating the aggressor from the world economic system, and develops a fifth package of sanctions to stop funding Russia's "war machine" through payments for Russia's energy resources.
