Ukraines GTS capable of fully covering Nord Stream 1 capacities  minister
20220727
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-economy/3537567-ukraines-gts-capable-of-fully-covering-nord-stream-1-capacities-minister.html
Foreign Minister of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba said an ongoing gas war waged by Russian President Vladimir Putin against Europe is a "direct continuation of his war on Ukraine."
As reported earlier, Russian energy monopoly Gazprom said, it would stop another turbine on its Nord Stream 1 pipeline, thus reducing the pressure of gas flow to 33 million cubic meters per day. Speaking of the reason behind the move, Gazprom cited repair needs.
"The Ukrainian gas transmission system can guarantee shipment in volumes that will fully cover those of Nord Stream 1. Even amid the war, we ensure safety and security for gas getting into the Ukrainian pipes. This was the obligation undertaken before our European partners and European companies. We have fulfilled them. Thats because we are aware of what an obligation is in international relations and international law," Galushchenko emphasized.
As already reported, an extraordinary meeting of the EU Council of Ministers on energy was held in Brussels July 26. European officials gathered to address the threat of a complete interruption in Russian gas supplies. They agreed to the emergency plan, put forward by the European Commission, envisaging a 15 gas consumption curb to pump the relevant volume into underground storage facilities ahead of the upcoming winter period.
Ukraines Energy Minister German Galushchenko stated this at a press conference in Brussels on Tuesday following an informal meeting with energy ministers of the EU member states, answering an Ukrinform correspondents question.
During an informal lunch held as part of the European energy ministerial, dedicated specifically to issues of energy supply security, German Galushchenko told EU counterparts of Ukraine's experience in repelling Russia's provocations and other malign actions in the energy sector.
