Zelensky calls on Dutch parliament to force Russia into peace
20220331
https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/3444710-zelensky-calls-on-dutch-parliament-to-force-russia-into-peace.html
Martial law was imposed in Ukraine and general mobilization was announced. The country is repelling the invaders.
After his speech, Zelensky was given a standing ovation. Almost everyone present wore a blue and yellow ribbon on their clothes.
The speech by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky before the Parliament of the Netherlands is a unique event, as the head of a foreign state has never addressed the House of Representatives before.
At the same time, the far-right party PVV Party for Freedom, led by Geert Wilders, and the FVD Forum for Democracy, led by Thierry Baudet, who are occasionally criticized for their pro-Russian views, ignored a speech by Zelensky in the Dutch parliament.
Those present at the event included Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, Foreign Minister Wopke Hoekstra and Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren, as well as Ukraine's Ambassador to the Netherlands Maksym Kononenko and Dutch Ambassador to Ukraine Jennes de Mol.
He stated this in his address to the Parliament of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, according to Ukrinform's correspondent in The Hague.
On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the beginning of an all-out invasion of Ukraine. Russian troops have been shelling and destroying critical infrastructure, residential areas of Ukrainian cities, towns and villages using artillery, multiple rocket launchers, ballistic missiles and air bombs.
He also called on the Netherlands to make a decision to give Ukraine the weapons it needs for protection against the aggressor and strengthen sanctions against Russia.
"We have no right to give this war another 36 days. We must all work together to force Russia to seek peace as soon as possible. Hundreds of children were killed, thousands of people were killed, tens of thousands of houses were destroyed, cities and villages were burned. The Russian occupiers rape women in the occupied areas and steal everything they find," Zelensky said.
