The Mail
20220523
https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2022/05/30/letters-from-the-may-30-2022-issue
I always find Masha Gessens work thought-provoking, and their piece about Babyn Yar, where German soldiers massacred tens of thousands of Jews in 1941, is no exception The Memorial, April18th. Im sure that many other people were first jolted, as I was, into an understanding of that atrocity by DmitriShostakovichs Symphony No. 13, from 1962. Subtitled Babi Yar, the composition opened with a movement set to Yevgeny Yevtushenkos searing poem about the massacre. The symphony was greeted with alarm by Soviet authorities. Yevgeny Mravinsky, who had conducted many of Shostakovichs premires, refused to conduct the Thirteenth he was replaced by Kirill Kondrashin, who faced pressure to withdraw but resisted. Yevtushenko was compelled to alter his poem, replacing lines expressing solidarity with the murdered Jews with a reference to Russians and Ukrainians lying together with Jews in the same ground. Although the Soviet government succeeded in censoring the poem and the symphony, this artistic collaboration stands as a powerful work of historical memory and moral outrage.
Letters should be sent with the writers name, address, and daytime phone number via e-mail to themailnewyorker.com. Letters may be edited for length and clarity, and may be published in any medium. We regret that owing to the volume of correspondence we cannot reply to every letter.
Hannah Goldfield, in her review of the restaurant the Commerce Inn, touches on the contested origins of the term Welsh rarebit Tables for Two, April18th. She writes, Though rarebit may have once been rabbit, linguisticallytheres evidence that the British standard was originally named after the animal, for reasons uncleartheres nothing leporine about the dish. In my book How to Tell Fate from Destiny and Other Skillful Word Distinctions, I cite one possible theory linking the food to the creature, found within Mark Mortons Cupboard Love: A Dictionary of Culinary Curiosities. Welsh rabbit, Morton writes, contains no rabbit and is not Welsh in origin instead, it is a dish of melted cheese poured over toast, invented by the British and given its name to mock the Welsh, who were supposedly so gullible that they would accept such a dish as real rabbit. This eighteenth-century culinary jest was soon forgotten, but the dish survived, leaving people wondering why they were calling cheese toast rabbit. Thus was born the sanitized rarebit, as in a rare bit of food. Morton observes that this explanation was promoted, no doubt, by the Welsh themselves and by restaurateurs who feared that a customer might order Welsh rabbit and actually expect to receive a rabbit.
Last year, I was invited by the Babyn Yar Holocaust Memorial Center to lend two paintings by the artist Felix Lembersky, my grandfather, to an exhibition in Kyiv. His series Execution: Babyn Yar, painted between 1944 and 1952, features the earliest known artistic representations of the massacre. Banned in the Soviet Union, the paintings were brought to the United States by my family in the nineteen-eighties the exhibition, which was scheduled to open this spring, would have been the canvases first public viewing in Eastern Europe. I was heartened by this opportunity, and by the chance to collaborate with the center, whose invaluable workwhich includes the establishment of a museum, the planning of exhibitions, the publication of Holocaust-related material, and the facilitation of educational programs about the crimes committed during the Nazi occupation of Ukrainehelps to undo decades of Soviet suppression of Holocaust research, as Gessen attests. Yet, once again, a dictator inMoscow has replaced progress with devastation.
