Glasgow City Chambers flies national flag of Ukraine in solidarity
20220225
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/19954106.glasgow-city-chambers-flies-national-flag-ukraine-solidarity/
"We must stand also with the Ukrainian community in Glasgow who will be suffering greatly today."
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
In a show of support for Ukrainians, Glasgow City Council leader Susan Aitken tweeted:"I have this morning written toLordProvostGCC to urge him to immediately suspend the citys twinning link with Rostov-on-Don.
The Facebook post read: "The National flag ofUkraineflies from the City Chambers in solidarity with the Ukrainian people suffering Russian aggression and invasion."
"While this is a small thing in the circumstances Glasgow must join theworldin unequivocally condemning the acts of war unleashed on Ukraine by Russia.
I have this morning written to LordProvostGCC to urge him to immediately suspend the citys twinning link with Rostov-on-Don. While this is a small thing in the circumstances Glasgow must join the world in unequivocally condemning the acts of war unleashed on Ukraine by Russia
Yesterday, it was announced Glasgow will end its twin city agreement with Rostov-on-Don in Russia following the invasion of Ukraine.
"Glasgow must show that we stand in solidarity with the people and government of Ukraine as they defend their national sovereignty and now their lives from unprovoked aggression.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
In a post on social media, Glasgow City Council said the decision to fly the flag is to show solidarity with the people of Ukraine.
