Netherlands and Australia launch case against Russia over downing of MH17 plane
20220314
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/19990881.netherlands-australia-launch-case-russia-downing-mh17-plane/
The Dutch and Australian governments have launched a legal case against Russia at the International Civil Aviation Organisation ICAO seeking to hold Moscow accountable for its alleged role in the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17.
Three of the suspects have boycotted the trial one is represented by a Dutch legal team, which insists he is innocent.
An international investigation concluded that the Amsterdam-to-Kuala Lumpur flight was shot down from territory held by separatist rebels using a Buk missile system that was driven into Ukraine from a Russian military base and then returned to the base.
The latest legal action comes as the Dutch murder trial in absentia of three Russians and a Ukrainian for their alleged roles in the downing of MH17 continues.
Dutch infrastructure minister Mark Harbers said the latest legal action is aimed at securing international recognition that Russia is responsible for the MH17 disaster. Next of kin have a right to that.
The Dutch government said the timing of the case is not connected to Russias invasion of Ukraine, but alluded to the devastating conflict in its announcement.
The case announced in The Hague and Canberra is the latest bid to hold Russia legally responsible for the missile strike that brought down the passenger jet over eastern Ukraine on July 17 2014, killing all 298 people on board.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
The new ICAO case follows Russias decision to walk away in October 2020 from negotiations with the Netherlands and Australia over state responsibility for the flights downing.
Foreign affairs minister Wopke Hoekstra stressed that the Dutch government would continue to do all it can to hold Russia responsible.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
The deaths of 298 civilians, including 196 Dutch citizens, cannot remain without consequences, he said.
The Australian government said in a statement that Russias unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine and the escalation of its aggression underscores the need to continue our enduring efforts to hold Russia to account for its blatant violation of international law and the UN Charter, including threats to Ukraines sovereignty and airspace.
