Russia orders Ukrainians to lay down arms in besieged Mariupol
20220321
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/20007444.russia-orders-ukrainians-lay-arms-besieged-mariupol/
It cited a statement from Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev, head of the Russian National Defence Control Centre.
We have already informed the Russian side about this, she told the news outlet Ukrainian Pravda.
Tass reported that Mariupol residents had been given until 5am on Monday to respond to the offer.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
I wrote: Instead of wasting time on eight pages of letters, just open the corridor.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
The demand came hours after Ukrainian authorities said Moscows forces bombed an art school that was sheltering about 400 people.
Previous bids to allow residents to evacuate Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities have failed or have been only partially successful, with bombardments continuing as civilians sought to flee.
Russian forces would allow two corridors out of the coastal city, heading either east toward Russia or west to other parts of Ukraine, the Russian news agency Tass reported.
Western military analysts say that even if the city is taken, the troops battling for control there may be too depleted to secure Russian breakthroughs on other fronts.
Three weeks into the invasion, many see the conflict shifting to a war of attrition, with bogged down Russian forces launching long-range rockets as Ukrainian forces carry out hit-and-run attacks.
Russia demanded that Ukrainians in the besieged city of Mariupol lay down their arms on Monday in exchange for safe passage out of town.
