Russian stateowned media stopped from advertising or monetising on Facebook
20220226
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/19954444.russian-state-owned-media-stopped-advertising-monetising-facebook/
Russian authorities announced the partial restriction when Facebook limited the accounts of several Kremlin-backed outlets over the invasion of Ukraine.
Facebook is prohibiting Russian state media from advertising or monetising on its platform amid the invasion of Ukraine.
Russian state communications watchdog Roskomnadzor said it had demanded that Facebook lifts the restrictions it placed on Thursday on state news agency RIA Novosti, state TV channel Zvezda, and pro-Kremlin news sites Lenta.Ru and Gazeta.Ru.
Meta has drawn up rules to deal with transparency around state-controlled media outlets because it believes people should know if the news they read is coming from a publication that may be under the influence of a government.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
Mr Gleicher added Facebook was closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine and would keep sharing steps were taking to protect people on our platform.
Sir Nick said that ordinary Russians are using our apps to express themselves and organise for action and the company wants them to continue to make their voices heard.
Former deputy prime minister Sir Nick Clegg, vice president of global affairs at Facebooks parent company Meta, shared Mr Gleichers post with the caption: We are taking additional steps in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Labels are also put on various sections of the social media pages including on the Instagram profiles, the About this Account section of Instagram accounts and thetransparency section of their Facebook page.
Earlier, Sir Nick said Russia had limited access to Facebook after the social media provider refused to stop fact-checking and labelling content from state-owned organisations.
The firms head of security policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, said in a statement: We are now prohibiting Russian state media from running ads or monetising on our platform anywhere in the world.
