Street fighting begins in Kyiv as Ukraine president refuses to leave
20220226
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/national/19954443.street-fighting-begins-kyiv-ukraine-president-refuses-leave/
His office later released a video of him standing with senior aides outside the presidential office and saying that he and other government officials would stay in the capital.
Kyiv officials are warning residents that street fighting is under way against Russian forces as Ukraines president refused to leave the city.
A second Russian military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles south of Kyiv, according to two American officials who spoke to the Associated Press.
Mr Zelensky tweeted that he and US President Joe Biden spoke by phone and discussed strengthening sanctions, concrete defence assistance and an antiwar coalition.
The resolutions failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the 193-member UN General Assembly, where there are no vetoes.
The military operations in Ukraine have caused families to flee their homes for neighbouring countries.Refugees remains firmly committed to supporting all those affected.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
Russian troops continued towards Ukraines capital early on Saturday as explosions reverberated through the city and the president urged the country to stand firm against the siege that could determine its future. He refused American help to leave, saying: The fight is here.
Spearheaded by the US and Albania, the Security Council resolution would have deplored Russias aggression against Ukraine.
Ukraine is fighting the invader with weapons in hands, defending its freedom and European future. Discussed with vonderleyen effective assistance to our country from  in this heroic struggle. I believe that the EU also chooses Ukraine.
This night we have to stand firm, he said. The fate of Ukraine is being decided right now.
It remains unclear how many people have died so far. Ukrainian officials reported at least 137 deaths on their side from the first full day of fighting and claimed hundreds on the Russian one. Russian authorities released no casualty figures.
The Kremlin accepted Kyivs offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraines embattled leader instead of a gesture towards a diplomatic solution.
The warning issued on Saturday advised residents to remain in shelters, to avoid going near windows or on balconies and to take precautions against being hit by debris or bullets.
In an Assembly meeting on Wednesday as Moscows invasion loomed, dozens of countries condemned Russia or expressed solidarity with Ukraine.
As his country confronted explosions and gunfire, and as the fate of Kyiv hung in the balance, Mr Zelensky appealed for a ceasefire and warned in a bleak statement that multiple cities were under attack.
Mr Zelensky was urged to leave Kyiv by the US government but turned down the offer, according to a senior American intelligence official, who quoted the president as saying that the fight is here and that he needed anti-tank ammunition but not a ride.
Russia vetoed a UN Security Council resolution telling Moscow to stop attacking Ukraine and withdraw all troops immediately.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
As fighting persisted, Ukraines military reported shooting down an II-76 Russian transport plane carrying paratroopers near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv, an account confirmed by a senior American intelligence official. It was unclear how many were on board, with transport planes able to carry up to 125 troops.
The veto was expected, but the US and its supporters argued that the effort would highlight Moscows international isolation.
Unlike Security Council resolutions, General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding, but they can function as statements of world opinion.
Mr Zelenskys whereabouts were kept secret after he told European leaders in a call on Thursday that he was Russias number one target  and that they might not see him again alive.
It called for Moscow immediately to pull out its military and stop using force against Ukraine, and to reverse a decision to recognise two separatist areas in eastern Ukraine as independent.
In a statement issued several hours earlier, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said of Russia: This is the night they will storm.
UN officials reported 25 civilian deaths, mostly from shelling and air strikes, and said 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes. They estimate that up to four million could flee if the fighting escalates.
The 11-1 vote  with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining  showed significant but not total opposition to Russias invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbour.
US defence officials believe the Russian offensive has encountered considerable resistance and is proceeding slower than Moscow had envisioned, though that could change quickly.
He later appealed for a ceasefire and warned in a bleak statement that multiple cities were under attack, but also posted a video just before 8am 6am London time to show he was still alive.
Mr Biden subsequently signed a memo clearing the way for the US to expedite up to 600 million dollars 448 million in emergency military assistance to the Ukrainian government, though it was not immediately clear how quickly the aid would flow.
Hundreds of casualties were reported in the fighting, which included shelling that sliced through a Kyiv apartment building and pummelled bridges and schools. There also were growing signs that Russia may be seeking to overthrow Ukraines government, which US officials have described as Russian President Vladimir Putins ultimate objective.
