Superyacht owned by Russian businessman detained in London
20220329
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/national/20028466.superyacht-owned-russian-businessman-detained-london/
It refused to reveal the name of her owner, stating that he is a Russian businessman.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
The vessel is the first to be detained in the UK under sanctions imposed because of the war in Ukraine.
She is bright blue and features what is described as an infinite wine cellar and a freshwater swimming pool.
UK officials boarded Phi  owned by a Russian businessman  in Canary Wharf, east London, on Tuesday.
Mr Shapps told the PA news agency the ship was in London for a refit but wont be going anywhere.
At 58.5 metres long, she is twice as long as the other boats docked around her in Canary Wharf.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
She is registered to a company based in the Caribbean dual-island nation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, and carries a Maltese flag.
A 38 million superyacht has been detained in London as part of sanctions against Russia, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has announced.
He said: Its just another indication that we will not stand by whilst Putins cronies are allowed to sail around the world in these kinds of yachts and people in Ukraine are suffering.
The Department for Transport DfT said it worked with the National Crime Agency and the Border Force Maritime Investigation Bureau to identify and detain Phi.
Phi  named after the mathematical concept  made her maiden voyage last year after being built in the Netherlands.
Someone thought to be a member of crew stuck a paper sign reading PO JUSTICE FOR THE 800 to the side of the boat.
When you see what hes doing to Ukraine, when you see what hes doing to peoples lives, it cant be right to have a yacht like this here in London, able to just sail away, and that is why weve impounded it and denied its ability to go anywhere right now.
The DfT said it is looking at a number of other vessels and hopes its strong stance sends an example to international partners.
