Thomas Kerr The West must stand united against Putin
20220228
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/19956253.thomas-kerr-west-must-stand-united-putin/
Never again can the West sit back and allow this tinpot dictator annex off parts of other countries. We must call him out for what he is  a bully, a thug and a murderer.
My colleagues Euan Blockley and Robert Connelly backed an emergency motion on this at the City Administration Committee last Thursday.
We also supported the decision taken by our Lord Provost, Philip Braat, to fly the Ukrainian flag from our City Chambers over the weekend as a sign of solidarity with our friends in Ukraine.
He will never be able to wipe the blood of Ukraine from his hands and we must never allow him to do so either.
I was humbled to stand with fellow Glaswegians on Saturday in George Square, and I wont lie it was very emotional to watch people clearly scared about their loved ones.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
LAST Thursday we all woke up in a world much darker and more dangerous than when we went to sleep on Wednesday evening.
For Glasgow has a sizeable population of Ukrainians who will be worried about their friends and family back home and it is important we show a sign of unity and say in no uncertain terms that we stand with them against Putin and his thugs.
I must also commend the thousands of brave Russians who took to the streets in Moscow and Saint Petersburgs last week to protest Putins invasion despite knowing they could face fines, prison, beatings or worse.
READ MORE:Ukraine: Call to kick out Russian Consul in Scotland by Glasgow MSP as EU ramps up sanctions
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
For the Glasgow Conservatives that meant supporting our council leader, Susan Aitken, when she called for the citys twinning with the Russian city of Rostov-on-Don to be suspended.
This illegal act of aggression by the Russians is devastating for those in Ukraine now fighting for their homeland and will have shaken all of us  especially Glasgows Ukrainian community.
While the world had been bracing for weeks that Vladimir Putin was planning an assault on Ukraine, it still came as a shock as we woke up to the images of bombs and children crying.
Thats why it was so important for all politicians to put down their party rosettes last week and stand in unity.
Thats why I welcome the sanctions outlined by Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week and I am glad other EU nations like Italy and Germany are finally coming on board with calls he made to kick Russia out of the SWIFT banking system.
Thats what we have shown in the past week and I am so proud of our city and how we have united to say in no uncertain words  we stand with Ukraine.
However, that fear turned to anger and hope when they stood together and sang songs. No matter your politics, now is the time to stand together.
