Ukrainian Catholic bishop warns British people to avoid disinformation about war
20220302
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/19964697.ukrainian-catholic-bishop-warns-british-people-avoid-disinformation-war/
At a press conference at the Ukrainian Catholic Cathedral in London, Bishop Kenneth Nowakowski said that Britons should speak to their neighbours about the conflict.
One of the big things is that the people of the United Kingdom can make sure that they are listening to the truth and make a distinction between truth and disinformation, he said.
They met with Ukrainian volunteers who have been working very hard since the beginning of the war eight years ago.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
Olesya Khromeychuk, director of the Ukrainian Institute London, told the press conference that Ukrainian refugees were not a threat to the UKs national security.
They had an opportunity to be in the cathedral and light candles and say a prayer.
They can donate to reputable organisations assisting the humanitarian aid efforts both now and when refugees will be coming in, he said.
They can speak to their neighbours and speak to each other about what is going.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
Instead she said that the influence of Russian oligarchs was the real threat to the UK.
Earlier, The Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall lit a candle and left floral tributes at the cathedral.
At the press conference, the bishop said the prince and the duchess had come to the cathedral to express their solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
British peoples can help the people of Ukraine by avoiding disinformation, the Ukrainian Catholic Bishop of London has said.
It is the second time in the past two days that the prince has spoken out about the conflict.
In this country we have a lot of individuals who spend a lot of money, especially in London, on property, and invest it in banks knowing that it will be safe because this is a country that respects the rule of law while they themselves do not.
Surely that is the real security threat, and not just to Ukrainians but to the people of the UK.
The prince told those invited: I must say my wife and I have been deeply moved by everything weve heard today during our visit and above all by the extraordinary bravery, generosity and fortitude of the Ukrainian community in the face of such truly terrible aggression.
