Visa applications for Ukrainians to come to Scotland paused due to high demand
20220711
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/20270633.visa-applications-ukrainians-come-scotland-paused-due-high-demand/
Visa applications listing the Scottish Government as a sponsor has increased by 21 as of July 5, while visas issued to Ukrainians have risen by 27.
In the meantime, we are taking significant action to increase the capacity of our temporary accommodation and are also boosting our matching system to maximise the number of displaced people placed with volunteer hosts who have completed the necessary safeguarding checks.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
Scottish Liberal Democrats deputy leader Wendy Chamberlain said the decision will put Ukrainian lives at risk.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
Scottish Liberal Democrats have been warning for months that the Governments efforts to secure housing and vet hosts were woefully inadequate. Local authorities have been crying out for more help.
A total of 21,256 visas have been issued to Ukraine nationals listing a Scottish sponsor  more than 20 of the UK total and the highest number per head of the population.
NEW visa applications from Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion are set to be paused for three months due to unprecedented demand, the Scottish Government has announced.
And arrivals under the super sponsor scheme have gone up by 20, resulting in the need for a temporary extension to the scheme, the Scottish Government said.
Mr Gray added: I am proud that thanks in a large part to our super sponsor scheme, we are now providing safe accommodation to the most Ukrainians per head of population in the UK.
For this reason, we have taken the incredibly difficult decision to follow Wales in pausing our scheme so we can continue to provide a high level of support and care to everyone who has already been granted a visa.
It is understood those who have already made their application or been granted their visa will be unaffected by the change.
The pause will allow the Scottish Government to ensure safe accommodation can continue to be provided to those who have already applied and may now travel to Scotland.
We have been able to ensure thousands of people displaced by Russias horrific and illegal war were able to travel immediately and receive support and a place to stay without the need to be matched with a private host first.
We will review our position in three months but, of course, if circumstances change during that time, we will bring that date forward.
Mr Gray said: With a recent decrease in people applying for private sponsorship in England, and Wales having paused their own scheme, the number of applications naming the Scottish Government has increased considerably in recent weeks.
Our absolute priority has been to respond quickly to support those forced to flee their homeland and I thank all local authorities, third sector organisations, the private sector and the public, who have all mobilised in a major effort to help  together, we have co-ordinated accommodation and delivered essential services at a large scale and in a very short space of time.
She said: Vladimir Putin is not going to pause his assault on Ukraine for three months while Neil Gray and co iron out the bureaucratic kinks. This decision is going to put lives at risk.
Neil Gray, minister with special responsibility for refugees from Ukraine, has said it was an incredibly difficult decision to pause the super sponsor scheme.
