Volodymyr Zelensky calls for worldwide demonstrations on Thursday
20220324
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/20016786.volodymyr-zelensky-calls-worldwide-demonstrations-thursday/
He said: Come from your offices, your homes, your schools and universities. Come in the name of peace. Come with Ukrainian symbols to support Ukraine, to support freedom, to support life.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has called on people around the world to come to your squares, your streets to stand with Ukraine and against the war on Thursday.
Come to your squares, your streets. Make yourselves visible and heard. Say that people matter. Freedom matters. Peace matters. Ukraine matters.
He appealed to Western countries to stay united in the face what he says are Russias efforts to lobby its interests with some partners to bring them over to its side.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
We ask that the alliance declare that it will fully assist Ukraine to win this war, clear our territory of the invaders and restore peace in Ukraine, he said.
Had a phone conversation with BorisJohnson. Received assurances of his support on the eve of tomorrow's important meetings. Discussed the course of hostilities and defense assistance to Ukraine. We will win together.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
Switching to Russian, Mr Zelensky appealed to Russians to leave Russia so as not to give your tax money to the war. Tens of thousands of Russians already have fled Russia since the war began, fearing the intensifying crackdown at home.
Elsewhere on Wednesday, on the eve of a Nato summit, Mr Zelensky called on the alliance to provide effective and unrestricted support to Ukraine, including any weapons the country needs to fend off the Russian invasion.
He said in a late video address shot near the presidential offices in Kyiv that the war breaks my heart, the hearts of all Ukrainians and every free person on the planet. He called for people to visibly show their support for Ukraine starting from Thursday, exactly one month after Russia launched its invasion.
We will see who is a friend, who is a partner and who has sold out and betrayed us, he said in an emotional speech. Together we should not allow Russia to break anyone in Nato, the EU or G7, to break them and drag them to the side of war.
