What is Nord Stream 2 How RussiaUkraine crisis could affect UK gas prices
20220215
https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/trendingacrossscotland/19942748.nord-stream-2-pipeline-russia-ukraine-crisis-affect-uk-gas-prices/
It comes after Boris Johnsonsaid Vladimir Putin appears bent on a full-scale invasion of Ukraine as he vowed to swiftly introduce the first barrage of sanctions against Russia.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
Johnson has previously said: What I think all European countries need to do now is get Nord Stream out of the bloodstream."
What weve done in the UK is weve frozen petrol duty for a number of years, saving people 15 on their filling-up of petrol. And were working to support families with the cost of living but, of course, awar in Ukrainewould do further damage to the European gas market.
However, the US has consistently said it will bring and end to the pipeline if Russia invades Ukraine.
The pipelines have been a source of tension among western allies drawing up sanctions against Russia should they invade Ukraine.
She added:In fact, in the United Kingdom only 3 of our gas is fromRussia, which is different from continental Europe.
After an emergency meeting on Tuesday, Boris Johnson said shifting away from Russian oil and gas would help with energy security.
He added: The faster this country can be more self-reliant on our own energy, the more prosperous we will be, but also, of course, the more sustainable our energy prices will be, and that will benefit the UK consumer.
Johnson said the response includes granting licences for UK gas reserves but also shifting to low-carbon energy, including nuclear power.
Readers comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the report this post link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
She told BBC Breakfast:First of all, if we did see awar in Ukraine, that would have a very damaging impact on oil and gas prices across Europe. This is why we need to reduce dependence on Russian gas, find alternative sources."
GERMANY has halted the approval of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline amid Russias actions in Ukraine.
Last week, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss warned Russian's invasion of Ukraine would come at a high economic cost.
The Prime Minister said on Tuesday that the Russian president had completely torn up international law and is seemingly intent on capturing the capital of Kyiv.
It was thought the pipeline could be pivotal in solving gas shortages and rising energy prices on the continent.
The Prime Minister said: In the UK we have been able to reduce our dependency on Russian gas very substantially.
The Nord Stream Pipeline can carry enough natural gas from Russia to supply 26 million households in Europe.
But what is Nord Stream 2? Here is all you need to know and why it is so significant.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said the gas pipe will not be certified and has ordered the withdrawal of documents needed.
Last week, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss warned Russian's invasion of Ukraine would come at a high economic cost.PA
The move from Germany comes amid pressure from Western allies to rethink its energy strategy due to the Ukraine crisis.
