Ukraine the reversal of expectations
20220429
https://www.gisborneherald.co.nz/column/opinion/20220429/ukraine-the-reversal-of-expectations/
The rival scenario, in which the Ukrainians eventually stop the Russian advance and then drive them back, is more likely, but it would bring its own difficult and dangerous choices.
There is still political interference driven by Putins impatience  Russian troops withdrawn from the abandoned Kyiv front are being thrown back into combat in the east with no time to rest and regroup  but they are slowly gaining ground.
This presupposes, of course, that Russia has already suffered a decisive defeat at the hands of the Ukrainian army in the current war. It also implicitly assumes that the devastating economic sanctions that NATO and other countries have placed on Russia will continue after the war ends.
They will continue to advance for at least some weeks to come. There are more and better weapons on their way to the Ukrainians, but it will take time to match the weapons with crews and get them to the front. Its now unlikely, but Ukraine could still lose this war.
Ukraine has successfully seen off the initial Russian attack, which was a simultaneous offensive on far too many different fronts with inadequate numbers on each of them. But the war is far from over  the second round is starting and it will be more difficult.
What has given them the confidence to move the goal-posts so dramatically? Not the military situation, certainly.
Two months ago, when Russian tanks first rolled into Ukraine, every message from Washington or NATO about the invasion included a prominent passage saying what the western alliance would not do.
It would not send NATO troops to help Ukraine. It would give Ukraine some defensive weapons but no offensive ones  eg, anti-tank missiles but no tanks. It would, in other words, allow Ukraine to lose, but only slowly.
Far better to stop at the 2022 border, declare a unilateral ceasefire, and leave Putin to twist in the wind. The Russians would get rid of him eventually, and then you could end sanctions in return for reparations for Ukraine.
To reach that highly desirable outcome, the Ukrainians first have to win their war. And then their friends will have to convince them that stopping short of total victory is in their own long-term interest. Not an easy sell.
How things have changed! In the past two weeks the United States has declared that some $2 billion worth of state-of-the-art weapons are on the way to Ukraine, including combat drones and self-propelled howitzers. Even Germany which originally offered Ukraine just 5000 helmets is sending modern anti-aircraft guns.
If the Ukrainians start taking territory back, where do they stop? On the line where the war started, leaving Crimea and some of Donetsk and Luhansk provinces in Russias hands. That would make sense, but it would be hard to convince bitter and vengeful Ukrainians to stop short of their pre-2014 border.
The Russians are now mostly concentrated on a single front in eastern Ukraine, which allows their traditional, methodical tactics, depending on bigger numbers and superior firepower, to function as designed.
It would also be hard to persuade the Washington crew to stop there at the moment, but they need to be persuaded. The alternative is a new Cold War with Russia that could extend even beyond this decade.
In a press briefing at the Polish border on Monday after a quick visit to Kyiv, US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin said: We want to see Russia weakened to the point where it cant do things like invade Ukraine.
