Biden Putin signal bigger confrontation ahead over UkraineBy Vladimir Isachenkov Yuras Karmanau Aamer Madhani And Eric Tucker The Associated PressPosted 527 AM CST Tuesday Feb 22 2022Last Modified 926 PM CST Tuesday Feb 22 2022
20220222
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/business/russia-recognizes-ukraine-held-areas-as-part-of-rebel-areas-576232772.html
Today there is no need for a full mobilization. We need to quickly add additional staff to the Ukrainian army and other military formations, he said. The head of the National Security and Defense Council, Oleksii Danilov, said earlier this year that Ukraine can call up up to 2.5 million people.
President Joe Biden also announced the U.S. would order heavy financial sanctions against Russian banks and oligarchs, declaring Moscow had flagrantly violated international law. The 27 European Union members unanimously agreed Tuesday to levy their own initial set of sanctions.
Biden, though, did hold back some of the broadest and toughest of the financial penalties contemplated by the U.S., including sanctions that would reinforce the hold that Germany put on any startup of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline an export ban that would deny Russia U.S. high tech for its industries and military and sweeping bans that could cripple Russias ability to do business with the rest of the world.
With tensions rising and a broader conflict looking more likely, the White House began referring to the Russian deployments in the region known as the Donbas as an invasion after initially hesitating to use the term  a red line that Biden had said would result in severe sanctions.
Western leaders have long warned Moscow would look for cover to invade  and just such a pretext appeared to come Monday, when Putin recognized the independence of the Donetsk and Luhansk separatist regions. The Kremlin then raised the stakes further by saying that recognition extends even to the large parts of those two regions now held by Ukrainian forces, including the major Azov Sea port of Mariupol. He added, however, that the rebels should eventually negotiate with Ukraine.
The U.S., meanwhile, moved to cut off Russias government from Western finance, sanctioning two of its banks and blocking it from trading in its debt on American and European markets. The administrations actions hit civilian leaders in Russias leadership hierarchy and two Russian banks considered especially close to the Kremlin and Russias military, with more than $80 billion in assets. That includes freezing all of those banks assets under U.S. jurisdictions.
On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, shortly after Russias parliament recognized Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region as independent republics  the latest in a series of escalations of the conflict between the two states.
We are united in our support of Ukraine, Biden said. We are united in our opposition to Russian aggression. When it comes to Russian claims of a justification or pretext for an invasion, Biden said, None of us should be fooled. None of us will be fooled. There is no justification.
Biden said he was moving additional U.S. troops to the Baltics, though he described the deployments as purely defensive, asserting, We have no intention of fighting Russia. The U.S. is sending about 800 infantry troops and 40 attack aircraft to NATOs eastern flank from other locations within Europe, according to a senior defense official. In addition, a contingent of F-35 strike fighters and AH-64 Apache attack helicopters will also be relocated.
The EU announced initial sanctions aimed at the 351 Russian lawmakers who voted for recognizing the two separatist regions in Ukraine, as well as 27 other Russian officials and institutions from the defense and banking sectors. They also sought to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
This article was published 22022022 373 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
Both leaders signaled that an even bigger confrontation could lie ahead. Putin has yet to unleash the force of the 150,000 troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, while Biden held back on even tougher sanctions  that could cause economic turmoil for Russia but said they would go ahead if there is further aggression.
The Ukrainian community in Manitoba has grown even more concerned over Russias escalating rhetoric and military actions against its neighbour, calling for swift action from the West.
Speaking at the White House, Biden said the Kremlin had flagrantly violated international law in what he called the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine. He warned of more sanctions if Putin went further.
The measures, accompanied by the repositioning of additional U.S. troops to the Baltic nations on NATOs eastern flank bordering Russia, came as Russian forces rolled into rebel-held areas in eastern Ukraine after Putin said he was recognizing the independence of the separatist regions in defiance of U.S. and European demands.
If Putin pushes farther into Ukraine, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg insisted the West would move in lockstep. If Russia decides once again to use force against Ukraine, there will be even stronger sanctions, even a higher price to pay, he said.
None of us should be fooled. None of us will be fooled. There is no justification.U.S. President Joe Biden
This story has been updated to correct that Mariupol is on the Azov Sea, not Black Sea.
On Tuesday, Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly said, via Twitter, Canada will move to impose economic sanctions on Russia.
In an address to the nation, Zelenskyy said his decree applied only to those assigned to the so-called operational reserve, which is typically activated during ongoing hostilities, and covers a special period of time, without clarifying what that means.
Hopes for a diplomatic resolution to the threat of invasion, which U.S. officials have for weeks portrayed as all but inevitable, appeared to evaporate. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken canceled plans for a Thursday meeting in Geneva with his Russian counterpart, saying it would not be productive and that Russias actions indicated Moscow was not serious about a peaceful path to resolving the crisis.
Shortly afterward, Putin laid out three conditions to end the crisis that has threatened to plunge Europe back into war, raising the specter of massive casualties, energy shortages across the continent and global economic chaos.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the U.K. would slap sanctions on five Russian banks and three wealthy individuals. He warned a full-scale offensive would bring further powerful sanctions.
Asked whether he has sent any Russian troops into Ukraine and how far they could go, Putin responded: I havent said that the troops will go there right now. He added that its impossible to forecast a specific pattern of action  it will depend on a concrete situation as it takes shape on the ground.
The White House announced limited sanctions targeting the rebel regions on Monday evening soon after Putin said he was sending in troops. A senior Biden administration official, who briefed reporters about those sanctions, noted that Russia has occupied these regions since 2014 and that Russian troops moving into Donbas would not itself be a new step.
Karmanau reported from Kyiv, Ukraine. Madhani and Tucker reported from Washington. Jill Lawless in London Lorne Cook in Brussels Barry Hatton in Lisbon, Portugal Dasha Litvinova in Moscow Geir Moulson and Frank Jordans in Berlin Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations Ellen Knickmeyer, Robert Burns, Matthew Lee, Zeke Miller, Chris Megerian and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed to this report.
Putin said the crisis could be resolved if Kyiv recognizes Russias sovereignty over Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that Moscow annexed after seizing it from Ukraine in 2014, renounces its bid to join NATO and partially demilitarizes. The West has decried the annexation of Crimea as a violation of international law and has previously flatly rejected permanently barring Ukraine from NATO.
We think this is, yes, the beginning of an invasion, Russias latest invasion into Ukraine, Jon Finer, principal deputy national security adviser, said on CNN. An invasion is an invasion, and that is what is underway.
Western nations sought to present a united front, with more than two dozen European Union members unanimously agreeing to levy  their own initial set of sanctions  against Russian officials. Germany also said it was halting the process of certifying the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia  a lucrative deal long sought by Moscow but criticized by the U.S. for increasing Europes reliance on Russian energy.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he would consider breaking diplomatic ties with Russia, and Kyiv recalled its ambassador in Moscow.
Condemnation from around the world was quick. In Washington, lawmakers from both parties in Congress vowed continued U.S. support for Ukraine, even as some pushed for swifter and even more severe sanctions on Russia. Senators had been considering a sanctions package but held off as the White House pursued its strategy.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, shortly after Russias parliament recognized Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region as independent republics.Posted: 4:45 PM CST Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022The Ukrainian community in Manitoba has grown even more concerned over Russias escalating rhetoric and military actions against its neighbour, calling for swift action from the West.On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, shortly after Russias parliament recognized Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region as independent republics  the latest in a series of escalations of the conflict between the two states.On Tuesday, Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly said, via Twitter, Canada will move to impose economic sanctions on Russia.President Joe Biden also announced the U.S. would order heavy financial sanctions against Russian banks and oligarchs, declaring Moscow had flagrantly violated international law. The 27 European Union members unanimously agreed Tuesday to levy their own initial set of sanctions.Read full story
Earlier Tuesday, members of Russias upper house, the Federation Council, voted unanimously to allow Putin to use military force outside the country  effectively formalizing a Russian military deployment to the rebel regions, where an eight-year conflict has killed nearly 14,000 people.
MOSCOW AP  The East-West faceoff over Ukraine escalated dramatically Tuesday, with Russian lawmakers authorizing President Vladimir Putin to use military force outside his country and U.S. President Joe Biden and European leaders responding by slapping sanctions on Russian oligarchs and banks.
Zelenskyy said he was calling up some of the countrys military reservists but added there was no need for a full military mobilization.
