EU envoy says unity prevails against Russia despite differences among 27 members
20220127
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/canada/eu-envoy-says-unity-prevails-against-russia-despite-differences-among-27-members-576131772.html
Gabri said the EU is coming together to show true solidarity in the face of Russias military buildup on Ukraines borders, though she allowed that its 27 member countries often have vigorous discussions. She suggested thats not a lot different from political differences between provinces in Canada.
Gabri said Canada and the EU are co-ordinating closely on imposing fresh sanctions on Russia in the event it invades Ukraine.
They reiterated, in no uncertain terms, that they are willing to take such measures that will be massively consequential and will inflict severe costs on Russia in case it decides to go ahead with further aggression, she said.
Gabri also said that EU countries are trying to find new sources of energy, so it is less dependent on Russian supplies.
OTTAWA - The European Union remains staunchly united in the face of a possible Russian invasion despite concern that some countries in Europe may be waffling due to economic self-interest, says the Canadian envoy of the 27-country bloc.
On the contrary, what weve seen is a show of unity, Gabri told The Canadian Press in an interview this week.
Overall, the EU has become ever more divided and less capable of speaking with one voice, wrote the councils research director Jeremy Shapiro.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and a host of others have repeated the mantra that Europe and its political and military allies need to speak with one voice in standing up to Russia in order to keep President Vladimir Putin from exploiting any perceived or real divisions.
One of the latest pronouncements came this week from the European Council on Foreign Relations, which blamed a host of factors for contributing to disunity on the content. It cited rising U.S. influence, Britains exit and internal national politics, along with French President Emmanuel Macrons desire to get re-elected and internal squabbling within Germanys new governing coalition.
One of the compounding factors is that about 40 per cent of Europe is dependent on natural gas from Russia that flows from pipelines, some of it through Ukraine. This makes many Europeans shudder at the memories of cold nights from the Kremlin cutting off supplies in the recent past to exert leverage.
As a result, there are regular pronouncements of a divided Europe in media reports and various analyses.
Its only natural that there would be discussions. We are 27 member states and European Union institutions. Im sure that your readers appreciate this point, as you know, you have a confederate system.
OTTAWA  The European Union remains staunchly united in the face of a possible Russian invasion despite concern that some countries in Europe may be waffling due to economic self-interest, says the Canadian envoy of the 27-country bloc.
Melita Gabri, the EU ambassador to Canada, rejected reports that the EU is divided on its possible response to a Russian invasion because some of its countries are more economically dependent on Russia than others, especially for energy.
This article was published 27012022 399 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
Russia has positioned 100,000 troops across Ukraines borders along with tanks, sparking invasion fears across Europe and in the NATO military alliance, but Russia has denied it has a hostile intent.
We have been co-ordinating our actions and co-ordinating what we are preparing in terms of deterrence. And we really see eye to eye. We appreciate Canadas role in support of European security.
Gabri countered by pointing to Mondays meeting of the EUs foreign affairs council that she said emerged with a strong, united consensus that declared Russia would face severe consequences if it invades.
Nonetheless, the EU has always been an unwieldy collection of political, bureaucratic and business interests, and its 27 member states have often held competing and differing views towards the Kremlin.
Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly added her voice to that chorus on Wednesday when she reflected on her recent meetings in Brussels with EU and NATO leaders. Were united and speaking with one voice in support of Ukraine and its people, and were working in lockstep.
Weve seen in the past that Russia uses its energy as a weapon, she said. We are working on contingency plans.
Gabri also rejected Russian claims that new sanctions from the West would have no effect, saying they would have massive economic consequences for the Kremlin.
