EU plan aims to help get wheat from Ukraine to the world
20220512
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/business/eu-plan-aims-to-help-get-wheat-from-ukraine-to-the-world-576492392.html
A key challenge is the diverging rail gauge widths between Ukraine and EU countries. Since Ukrainian railroad cars dont fit with most of the EU network, goods need to be transferred to trucks or other rail cars adapted to the system.
The European Unions executive arm said the plan aims to establish alternative routes and ease congestion between borders that also should facilitate getting humanitarian aid and other goods into the war-torn country.
This article was published 12052022 294 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
To address this congestion, the commission said the most urgent priority is to ensure additional transport vehicles are available to get the grain to EU ports. It said grain-hopper trailers, cargo containers, and barges and vessels are urgently needed.
The commissions proposals are nonbinding and mostly intend to facilitate coordination between EU countries, transport operators and equipment suppliers.
The EU says the average wait time for the thousands of rail cars at Ukraines border with the 27-nation bloc is 16 days, reaching up to 30 days in some places.
The commission urged member nations to accelerate procedures at border crossing points and increase capacity on EU soil for the temporary storage of Ukrainian exports.
In addition to the port blockade, Ukraines Foreign Ministry has accused Russia of stealing grain and trying to sell some on global markets. It cited official estimates indicating that Russia already may have stolen 400,000 to 500,000 metric tons of grain that cost over $100 million. It asserted that practically all ships leaving Sevastopol with a load of grain are carrying the grain stolen from Ukraine, referring to a major port on the Black Sea.
The head of the European Investment Bank said this week that Ukraine is sitting on 8 billion euros worth of wheat it cant export.
BRUSSELS AP  The European Commission proposed helping Ukraine export its wheat and other grains by rail, road and river to get around a Russian blockade of Black Sea ports, which is preventing those critical supplies from reaching parts of the world at risk of food insecurity.
The potential loss of affordable grain supplies that Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia rely on has raised the risk of global food shortages and political instability in countries where many people already were not getting enough to eat. The disruptions from the war have  further raised food prices, with the high cost of fertilizers  of which Russia is a top exporter  and cooking oils further squeezing the global food chain.
Twenty million tons of grains have to leave Ukraine in less than three months using the EU infrastructure, said Adina Valean, EU commissioner for transport. This is a gigantesque challenge, so it is essential to coordinate and optimize the logistic chains, put in place new routes, and avoid, as much as possible, the bottlenecks.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has provoked disruptions of global food supplies, with both countries two of the worlds biggest exporters of wheat, barley and sunflower oil. The blockade of Ukrainian ports has been particularly harmful, having accounted for 90 of grain and oilseed exports before the war, the commission said.
In the medium to long term, the commission will also work on increasing the infrastructure capacity of new export corridors and on establishing new infrastructure connections, it said.
To get Ukraines food supplies to the world, Europe is looking to increase shipments by railroads and trucks. Trains have started carrying loads of grain to Austria and Germany via other EU countries but amount to only a fraction of the Black Sea port capacity.
With nonmilitary flights grounded in Ukraine, the commission said the new supply routes should be organized mainly via land and river transport, using for instance Ukraines ports on the Danube River.
