Gasoline prices surge past 2 per litre
20220607
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/business/gasoline-prices-surge-past-2-per-litre-576570522.html
On Monday, Shell stations posted regular unleaded gasoline at $2.07.9. It was on par with Canadas average of $2.072 per litre, according to GasBuddy, a fuel tracking website.
British Columbia, Ontario, Quebec and the Maritimes posted averages above $2 per litre Monday, according to GasBuddy.
Gabby is a big fan of people, writing and learning. She graduated from Red River Colleges Creative Communications program in the spring of 2020.
There was not a lot of margin in the past week, so it looks like gas stations are looking to recover some of that, McTeague said.
Late last week, Winnipeg gas stations began to pay about $1.95 per litre of gasoline, he said. The wholesale price per litre was $1.507, and taxes added another 45 cents, he said.
It does make you think more about electric or hybrid, he said, adding hell fly to Regina to visit family instead of driving because the cost difference is small.
James Pullar, at the same gas station, said hes driven his premium gas-fuelled SUV for 11 years. He called the price spikes unfortunate but pretty uncontrollable.
I think the likelihood of gas prices going higher is greater than them falling, McTeague said. This is probably where were going to be for the foreseeable future.
Fuel prices might slightly decline in the short-term because oil prices dropped Monday, he said.
Helen Kelly stopped at a Shell off Pembina Highway Monday afternoon. A $40 fuel-up might have filled half her Ford Escapes tank last year, she said. Now, it fills a quarter.
What goes up might come down, said Dan McTeague, fuel analyst and president of Canadians for Affordable Energy.
A shortage of supply, pipeline interruptions and Canadas divestment from oil and gas have played roles in higher prices, he said.
This article was published 06062022 269 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
Gas prices in Winnipeg surged beyond the $2 a litre mark on Monday, setting another local record at $2.07.9 for one litre of regular gasoline.
A Shell gas station on Jefferson Avenue joins other local stations with a posted price for regular gasoline at above two dollars on Monday.
Russia withdrawing from Ukraine might bring prices down. A global recession could also knock costs back, McTeague said.
Last year, Manitoba averaged $1.274 per litre of regular gas. The Shell price Monday was 80 cents higher.
Stations typically keep a retail margin of 11 cents per litre, which in part covers operational expenses, McTeague said.
