Opening Black Sea corridor is crucial
20220723
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/opinion/analysis/opening-black-sea-corridor-is-crucial-576689352.html
So reopening the Black Sea to ships carrying Ukrainian grain is not just a local issue it is an international priority. On the reasonable assumption the war is not going to stop any time soon, it was essential to find a way to open up a safe corridor across the Black Sea from the Ukrainian coast to the Turkish Straits and the open Mediterranean.
There wont be dancing in the streets in Kyiv about this, but there could be some dancing in the several dozen countries in the Middle East and Africa that have been facing the threat of mass hunger  in some cases even famine.
Before the war, more than 90 per cent of Ukrainian agrifood export was done by sea,said Mariia Didukh, director of the Ukrainian National Agrarian Forum. Ukraine tried to get some of the grain out by rail and road, but by railway or trucks it is very expensive, it is longer, and very, very small capacities.
There will also have to be special war insurance for those 500 ships  and it will need to be a continuous high-volume operation, because the next Ukrainian grain harvest starts late next month and the grain elevators are still full with last years harvest.
It would be good news, although unfortunately not news of a ceasefire in Ukraine. Both men were talking about a deal to let ships take out the 25 million tonnes of grain that is trapped in Ukrainian ports by the Russian blockade  a deal that was formally announced Friday morning in Istanbul.
It will take around 500 big-bulk cargo vessels to deliver that blocked 25 million tonnes of grain to its destinations. The remaining Ukrainian-controlled ports  Odesa, Yuzhne and Chornomorsk  could just about handle it, but it will take at least a month to bring those ships into the Black Sea and set the operation in motion.
We feel that incrementally, theres been a little bit more progress made, but theres nothing to announce at this stage, countered Farhan Haq, spokesman for United Nations Secretary-General Antnio Guterres.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea, Guterres said Friday. A beacon of hope possibility and relief in a world that needs it more than ever.
In fact, Ukraine has been only getting one-fifth of the normal monthly amount out. It cant expand the rail route because the countrys rail system uses a slightly wider gauge than its western neighbours, Romania and Poland. It would take 9,000 trucks a day to do the job, and the grain they delivered would be very, very expensive.
It really is that serious. Arif Husain, chief economist at the UN World Food Programme, says the war has more than doubled the number of people in food crisis to 345 million, of whom 50 million are one step away from famine.
Normally, Ukraines Black Sea ports export five to six million tonnes of grain a month, but most are now under Russian occupation and the biggest, Odesa, has been blockaded by the Russian navy for five months.
This years harvest is down by 35 per cent the eastern part of Ukraines wheat belt is within range of Russian artillery and rocket fire, but if the silos are not emptied soon, a substantial part of it will just rot in the fields and millions in food-insecure parts of the world will move closer to starvation.
Egypt, for example, is the worlds biggest wheat importer. It grows less than half the food it eats, and about 80 per cent of the grain it imports to cover the shortfall comes from Ukraine and Russia. However, none of the Ukrainian grain has been getting out for five months, and the price of bread in Egypt has been climbing fast.
It will also take at least that long to clear the mines that have closed Ukraines ports and to set up protected corridors across the Black Sea. The Turkish navy will presumably provide the protection, but the Russians will want to have incoming ships checked for clandestine weapons deliveries.
Not all issues have yet been resolved, but the fact that there is movement is already good, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in Tehran last Tuesday.
Its also a serious political problem: high food prices 12 years ago triggered the anti-regime riots that led to the Arab Spring, the overthrow of the Mubarak dictatorship in Egypt, and various second-order effects such as the Syrian civil war. But the biggest impact of closing the Black Sea to Ukrainian grain exports has been humanitarian.
This article was published 23072022 222 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
