Russia refuses to acknowledge atrocities
20220415
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/opinion/analysis/russia-refuses-to-acknowledge-atrocities-576398922.html
The atrocities that are being uncovered in northern Ukraine as the Russian army moves its troops east are different in scale and in style. The number of civilians murdered in the occupied towns is in the low thousands at most, and the rapes probably in the hundreds or less. There are few reports of gang rapes. Yet it is essentially the same phenomenon.
The Russian soldiers are young, frightened, and often drunk. No excuse. They have been lied to, and keep asking villagers where the Nazis are. No excuse. They serve in an army that cant feed them, doesnt supervise them, didnt even make them get rid of the evidence before they left. No excuse.
Sergeitsev may even be Moscows candidate for puppet ruler of occupied Ukraine once resistance is crushed. In any case, everybody now knows exactly where they stand, which means this war will go on until Ukraine is destroyed or Russia is defeated.
Russians are not evil. War is such an extreme situation that many evil things become possible, and it is an armys duty to prevent them from happening. The Russian army is too corrupt and incompetent to try, so its soldiers ended up with the unlimited, unsupervised power of life or death over innocent civilians.
As Soviet troops fought their way into the eastern half of Nazi Germany in the winter and spring of 1945, a great atrocity took place. The Russian soldiers were raping every German female from eight to eighty, wrote Natalya Geese, a war correspondent with the Red Army. It was an army of rapists.
For Ukraine, they have virtually eliminated the possibility of a negotiated peace with Moscow so long as Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil.
Dont be surprised if we have soldiers in cinemas, supermarkets  people with weaponsSecurity will be issue No. 1 for the next 10 years. Thats Ukraines future: armed to the teeth and permanently awaiting the next attack.
FOUR years after the Soviet Army fought its way into Berlin in 1945, Moscow built a huge memorial in Treptower Park to the 80,000 Russian and other Soviet soldiers who died taking the city. Five thousand of them are actually buried in the park. And Berliners instantly took to calling it the Tomb of the Unknown Rapist.
They flagrantly abused it, and in doing so they have wrought irreversible changes in two countries: Ukraine and their own.
Ukraine, as history has shown, is unviable as a national state, and attempts to build one logically lead to Nazism, Sergeitsev wrote. Even the name Ukraine must be abolished, and the country will become part of the Motherland after victory under the name Little Russia Malorossia.
Sergeitsev is not some nutcase nobody. He was the political adviser to Ukrainian ex-president Viktor Yanukovych, a Russian puppet who was overthrown in a popular uprising in 2014 after he cancelled an association agreement with the European Union and started negotiating a trade deal with Russia instead.
The new narrative is already on display in an article that was published April 3 by the state news agency RIA Novosti entitled What should Russia do with Ukraine? The author, Timofei Sergeitsev, explained that Denazification is inevitably also De-Ukrainianization, because the very idea of Ukrainian culture and identity is fake.
Russian film director Zakhar Agranenko, who fought in Germany in 1945, wrote in his diary that Red Army soldiers dont believe in individual liaisons with German women. Nine, ten, twelve men at a time  they rape them on a collective basis. Historian Antony Beevor estimated that up to two million German females were raped, many of them multiple times.
Listen to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaking to Ukrainian journalists on April 4: Ukraine will definitely not be what we wanted it to be from the beginning. It is impossible.
And Russia is stuck with the big lie for a generation. Perhaps Russians could find a way to apologize for invading Ukraine if they got rid of President Vladimir Putin, but its unthinkable that they will ever acknowledge how their army has behaved in Ukraine. Theyre still denying what happened in Berlin in 1945.
It will then require a strong military presence for 30 years to re-educate the Nazified mass of the population, which technically cannot be subjected to direct punishment as war criminals. Collaborators with the Nazi regime will be sentenced to death or imprisonment, and everybody else will live happily ever after.
The stakes are getting higher, and we can no longer exclude the possibility that Russia will use poison gas or mini-nukes in Ukraine if it faces defeat in the conventional war. Yet knowing all this, how can NATO abandon Ukraine to its fate now?
This article was published 15042022 321 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
