Russia pushes into Ukraine West hits back with sanctionsBy Raf Casert The Associated PressPosted 1137 AM CST Tuesday Feb 22 2022Last Modified 546 PM CST Tuesday Feb 22 2022
20220222
https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/business/european-union-nations-unanimously-approve-russian-sanctions-576233492.html
Russia said it was sending what it called peacekeepers into eastern Ukraine, but EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell stressed they were troops on sovereign Ukrainian territory.
President Joe Biden also announced the U.S. would order heavy financial sanctions against Russian banks and oligarchs, declaring Moscow had flagrantly violated international law. The 27 European Union members unanimously agreed Tuesday to levy their own initial set of sanctions.
Andrea Shalay and three American staff members of MCC scrambled to leave Ukraine.Posted: 4:16 PM CST Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022Andrea Shalay was given little notice to gather her things and leave Ukraine as Russia escalated tension between the two countries.I had just 36 hours to pack up and go, she said Shalay, 42, who has lived in Winnipeg since 2003, and was in Ukraine as the charitys peace engagement co-ordinator for Europe.It was very stressful leaving under those circumstances. There wasnt time to say proper farewells to people I love and care about, Shalay said.The Mennonite Central Committee made the decision to evacuate its North American staff from the country about a week ago after both the U.S. and Canada urged their citizens to leave the country.Read full story
Outside the EU, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson named five Russian banks and three wealth individuals who the UK hit with sanctions on Tuesday.
This package of sanctions  will hurt Russia and it will hurt a lot, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after chairing a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Paris.
The global condemnation came amid rising skirmishes in the eastern regions of Ukraine that Western powers believe Russia could use as a pretext for an attack on the Europe-leaning democracy that has defied Moscows attempts to pull it back into its orbit.
I had just 36 hours to pack up and go, she said Shalay, 42, who has lived in Winnipeg since 2003, and was in Ukraine as the charitys peace engagement co-ordinator for Europe.
Andrea Shalay was given little notice to gather her things and leave Ukraine as Russia escalated tension between the two countries.
I wouldnt say thats a fully-fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil.  EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell
The West insisted Putins bold moves in Ukraine violated countless international agreements and since diplomacy has failed, it was time to move towards action.
It was very stressful leaving under those circumstances. There wasnt time to say proper farewells to people I love and care about, Shalay said.
On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, shortly after Russias parliament recognized Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region as independent republics  the latest in a series of escalations of the conflict between the two states.
They stopped short of the massive package threatened by the EU and Washington for a full military invasion into national territory that Kyiv still controls.
Putin has blamed NATO for the current crisis and called the U.S.-led alliance an existential threat to Russia.
The rest of the European Union soon followed, with a first set of sanctions taking aim at the 351 Duma legislators who voted in favor of recognizing separatist regions in Ukraine, as well as 27 other Russian officials and institutions from the defense and banking world. They also sought to limit Moscows access to EU capital and financial markets.
Whatever the description, the latest developments were enough to force the 27-nation bloc into a mode of high alert, and the EUs foreign ministers stressed the sanctions announced Tuesday were done in close consultation with the United States and other Western allies.
This article was published 22022022 373 days ago, so information in it may no longer be current.
The Ukrainian community in Manitoba has grown even more concerned over Russias escalating rhetoric and military actions against its neighbour, calling for swift action from the West.
Too much too soon, though, could also hurt the international response, said Britains Johnson. This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed, he told British lawmakers.
This is a first step, agreed French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian. We have more ammunition.
On Tuesday, Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly said, via Twitter, Canada will move to impose economic sanctions on Russia.
Western powers have long made clear the fate of Ukraine wasnt worth a direct military confrontation with Russia and the potential of a world war, so sanctions were the only, limited, option to channel their anger.
The United States was moving closer to sanctions too, with the White House calling Russias troop deployments an invasion  a red line that President Joe Biden has said would result in heavy U.S. sanctions against Moscow. Action could follow later Tuesday.
Germany made the first big move, taking steps to halt the process of certifying the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia  a massive, lucrative deal long sought by Moscow, but criticized by the U.S. for increasing Europes reliance on Russian energy supplies.
British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace didnt mince words. Russia has already invaded Ukraine. They did it in 2014, occupied illegally Crimea and Donbas. This is a further invasion of their sovereign territory, Wallace said.
However, Putin continued to knock the world off-kilter with a strategy where confusion about the true extent of an invasion, which would automatically kick in major sanctions, remained unclear and debatable.
No lows too low, no lies too blatant, no red lines too red to cross, Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte said in summing up the political disgust felt by nations from Europe to North America and the democracies hugging Russias borders in Asia like Japan and South Korea.
We will make it as difficult as possible for the Kremlin to pursue its aggressive policies, said EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
BRUSSELS AP  Shocked by Russian President Vladimir Putins order to deploy troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, world leaders moved quickly Tuesday to impose as forceful a response as possible in hopes of averting a full-blown war in Europe.
Hopes are dwindling that a major conflict can be averted. Putins directive came hours after he recognized the two Ukrainian separatist regions, setting up Russian military support and antagonizing Western leaders who regard it as a breach of world order.
The Mennonite Central Committee made the decision to evacuate its North American staff from the country about a week ago after both the U.S. and Canada urged their citizens to leave the country.
I wouldnt say thats a fully-fledged invasion, but Russian troops are on Ukrainian soil, Borrell said.
And if Putin pushes further into Ukraine, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg insisted the West would move in lockstep. If Russia decides once again to use force against Ukraine, there will be even stronger sanctions, even a higher price to pay, he said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, shortly after Russias parliament recognized Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region as independent republics.Posted: 4:45 PM CST Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022The Ukrainian community in Manitoba has grown even more concerned over Russias escalating rhetoric and military actions against its neighbour, calling for swift action from the West.On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops to separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, shortly after Russias parliament recognized Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region as independent republics  the latest in a series of escalations of the conflict between the two states.On Tuesday, Foreign Affairs Minister Mlanie Joly said, via Twitter, Canada will move to impose economic sanctions on Russia.President Joe Biden also announced the U.S. would order heavy financial sanctions against Russian banks and oligarchs, declaring Moscow had flagrantly violated international law. The 27 European Union members unanimously agreed Tuesday to levy their own initial set of sanctions.Read full story
We will make it as difficult as possible for the Kremlin to pursue its aggressive policies.  EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen
With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops massed on three sides of Ukraine, the U.S. has warned that Moscow has already decided to invade. Still, Biden and Putin tentatively agreed to a meeting brokered by French President Emmanuel Macron in a last-ditch effort to avoid war.
