Blinken Lavrov Meet on Ukraine
20220121
https://www.cambodiantimes.com/news/272218210/blinken-lavrov-meet-on-ukraine
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrapped a 90-minute meeting Friday with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Geneva, the fourth time in recent days that U.S. and Russian officials have engaged in direct talks.
At his news conference Wednesday, U.S. President Joe Biden made confusing remarks about the West's response to what he called a "minor incursion."
Russia has denied it has intentions of invading Ukraine, while it seeks security guarantees, such as Ukraine not joining the NATO, the seven-decade-old military alliance formed after World War II.
Blinken said the U.S. has been 'very clear throughout' that if any Russian military forces move across the Ukrainian border "that they will be met with a swift, severe united response from the U.S, and our allies and partners.'
Biden's comment about a "minor incursion" drew a sharp retort from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, who said on Twitter, "We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones. I say this as the president of a great power."
While the U.S. has been resolute in saying that a Russian military invasion of Ukraine would draw swift and significant economic sanctions, but no U.S. or NATO military response, it has been less clear what the West might do in the event of Russian cyberattacks or other actions against the Kyiv government.
Biden hedged on whether Putin will invade Ukraine, saying, "I'm not so sure he is certain what he's going to do. My guess is he will move in. He has to do something."
The West is demanding that Russia pull its troops and weapons away from the Ukraine border while Moscow is pushing for NATO to curtail its operations in eastern and central Europe and insisting that the Western military alliance reject Ukraine's membership bid.
She pointed to Britain delivering weapons to Ukraine in recent days, claiming that Ukraine perceives Western military assistance as a 'carte blanche for a military operation" in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki later said Biden "knows from long experience that the Russians have an extensive playbook of aggression short of military action, including cyberattacks and paramilitary tactics. And he affirmed today that those acts of Russian aggression will be met with a decisive, reciprocal, and united response."
Blinken vowed Thursday that the United States and its allies would inflict "swift and massive" costs on Russia if it invades Ukraine but said Russian President Vladimir Putin can still opt for a diplomatic solution to rising tensions in eastern Europe.
Blinken said the U.S. is committed to the path of diplomacy and dialogue, but is also committed to a united, swift and severe response if Russia commits aggression against Ukraine.
In remarks before they began their talks Friday each side said it expected no breakthroughs Friday.
Blinken said, "We're at a decisive juncture," referring to the standoff between Western countries and Moscow over Putin's massing of 100,000 troops along Ukraine's eastern flank.
On Thursday, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova alleged that Ukrainian and Western claims of an imminent Russian attack on Ukraine were a 'cover for staging large-scale provocations of their own, including those of military character.'
The U.S. leader said he does not believe Putin wants a "full-blown war" but does want to test the resolve of the United States and NATO.
After meeting with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock in Berlin, Blinken said Putin has a choice between "dialogue and diplomacy on the one hand and conflict and consequences on the other hand. He has to decide which course to take."
