European Union fears imminent end of Russian gas deliveries
20220614
https://www.cambodiantimes.com/news/272619274/european-union-fears-imminent-end-of-russian-gas-deliveries
Russia's finance ministry had said in June that it expected to receive $6.4 billion more in oil and gas revenues than forecasted in its budget planning. For July, it expects to take in $4.4 billion more than its budget plan projected.
Although maintenance is scheduled from July 11 to 21, with gas flows expected to stop for 10 days, governments, markets and companies are worried that the shutdown might be extended because of the war in Ukraine.
"The abrupt end of Russian gas imports would also have a significant impact on the workforce in Germany ... Around 5.6 million jobs would be affected by the consequences," said Bertram Brossardt, VWB's managing director, as reported by Reuters.
Others were not so sure. "The last few months have shown one thing: Putin knows no taboos. A complete halt to gas supplies through the Nord Stream pipeline cannot therefore be ruled out," said Timm Kehler, managing director of German industry association Zukunft Gas, as quoted by Reuters.
Germany, meanwhile, has moved to stage two of a three-tier emergency gas plan, and warned of a recession if Russian gas flows are halted. The blow to the economy could reach $195 billion in the second half of this year, data from the VBW industry association of the state of Bavaria showed last month.
Extended maintenance could also result in more Russian gas production shut-ins, relative to the 9 percent year-on-year decline in Gazprom production reported so far this year, Goldman Sachs said.
Last month, Russia reduced the volumes of gas to 40 percent of the pipeline's total capacity, citing the delayed return of equipment being serviced by Germany's Siemens Energy in Canada. Siemens Energy said it was working on further formal approvals and logistics, and would have the equipment in place as soon as possible. Zongqiang Luo, gas analyst at consultancy Rystad Energy, said it was "not impossible" Gazprom could use any delay as a justification to extend the maintenance period.
Meanwhile, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov dismissed claims that Russia was using oil and gas to exert political pressure, saying the maintenance shutdown was a regularly scheduled event and that no one was "inventing" any repairs.
Further, the halt of gas deliveries through Nord Stream 1 would hurt Russia, as well as western Europe.
"Based on the pattern we've seen, it would not be very surprising now if some small, technical detail is found and then they could say 'now we can't turn it on any more'," German Economy Minister Robert Habeck said at the end of June.
FRANKFURT, Germany: Russian gas was turned off this week during annual maintenance work on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline, the largest pipeline carrying gas to Germany.
Europe is concerned that Russia's scheduled maintenance could continue indefinitely, restricting European gas supplies further and throwing plans to fill storage for winter into disarray and heightening the gas crisis.
