Explosions rock Kyiv again as Russians rain fire on Ukraine
20220428
http://www.capitalgazette.com/news/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-russia-20220428-q5lp6735jja6pj75vxbwmh4dxi-story.html
IRPIN, Ukraine  Russia pounded targets from practically one end of Ukraine to the other Thursday, including Kyiv, bombarding the city while the head of the United Nations was visiting in the boldest attack on the capital since Moscows forces retreated weeks ago.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, center, reacts during his visit to Borodyanka, close to Kyiv, Ukraine, April 28, 2022. Efrem LukatskyAP
But so far, Russias troops and their allied separatist forces appear to have made only minor gains, taking several small towns as they try to advance in relatively small groups against staunch Ukrainian resistance.
Ukraines military said that Russian troops were subjecting several places in the Donbas to intense fire and that over the past 24 hours, Ukrainian forces had repelled six attacks in the region.
Deadly epidemics may break out in the city due to the lack of centralized water supply and sewers, the city council said on the messaging app Telegram. It reported bodies decaying under the rubble and a catastrophic shortage of drinking water and food.
In Zaporizhzhia, a crucial way station for tens of thousands of Ukrainians fleeing Mariupol,an 11-year-old boy was among at least three people woundedin a rocket attack that authorities said was the first to hit a residential area in the southern city since the war began. Shards of glass cut the boys leg to the bone.
Wherever there is a war, the highest price is paid by civilians, the U.N. chief lamented.
Separately, Ukraines prosecutor accused 10 Russian soldiers of being involved in the torture of peaceful people in Bucha. Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova did not say her office had filed criminal charges, and she appealed to the public for help in gathering evidence. Russia denies it targets civilians.
Getting a full picture of the unfolding battle in the east has been difficult because airstrikes and artillery barrages have made it extremely dangerous for reporters to move around. Several journalists have been killed in the war, now in its third month.
Also, both Ukraine and the Moscow-backed rebels fighting in the east have introduced tight restrictions on reporting from the combat zone.
Associated Press journalists Jon Gambrell and Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Mstyslav Chernov in Kharkiv, Yesica Fisch in Sloviansk, and AP staff around the world contributed to this report.
The explosions in northwest Kyivs Shevchenkivsky district came as residents have been increasingly returning to the city. Cafes and other businesses have reopened, and a growing numbers of people have been out and about, enjoying the spring weather.
Russian military units were mauled in the abortive bid to storm Kyiv and had to regroup and refit. Some analysts say the delay in launching a full-fledged offensive may reflect a decision by Russian President Vladimir Putin to wait until his forces are ready for a decisive battle, instead of rushing in and risking another failure that could shake his rule amid worsening economic conditions at home because of Western sanctions.
I was shocked to be informed that two rockets have exploded in the city where I am, the U.N. chief was quoted as telling the BBC. So this is a dramatic war, and we absolutely need to end this war and we absolutely need to have a solution for this war.
At least one person was killed and several were injured in the attack on Kyiv, including some who were trapped in the rubble when two buildings were hit, rescue officials said.
Ukrainian authorities also reported intense Russian fire in the Donbas  the eastern industrial heartland that the Kremlin says is its main objective  and near Kharkiv, a northeastern city outside the Donbas that is seen as key to the offensive.
Four civilians were killed in heavy shelling of residential areas in the Luhansk region of the Donbas, according to the regional governor.
Loud bangs were also reported in Russias Belgorod region bordering Ukraine, but there was no immediate explanation. In recent days, fuel and ammunition sites on Russian soil have been hit with explosions and fires, and suspicion has fallen on Ukraine.
The fresh attacks came as Guterres surveyed the destruction in small towns outside the capital that saw some of the worst horrors of thefirst onslaught of the war.He condemned the atrocities committed intowns like Bucha,where evidence of mass killings of civilians was found after Russia withdrew in early April in the face of unexpectedly stiff resistance.
Its not just scary. Its when your stomach contracts from pain, said Kharkiv resident Tatiana Pirogova. When they shoot during the day, its still OK, but when the evening comes, I cant describe how scary it is.
Vadym Vodostoyev, the boys father, said: It just takes one second and youre left with nothing.
Many observers suspect Putin wants to be able to claim a big victory in the east by Victory Day, on May 9, one of the proudest holidays on the Russian calendar, marking the defeat of Nazi Germany during World War II.
Ukraine has urged its allies to send even more military equipment to fend off the Russians. U.S. President Joe Biden asked Congress for an additional$33 billion to help Ukraine.
The bombardment came barely an hour after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy held a news conference with U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres, who said Ukraine has become an epicenter of unbearable heartache and pain. A spokesperson said Guterres and his team were safe.
Meanwhile, explosions were reported across the country, in Polonne in the west, Chernihiv near the border with Belarus, and Fastiv, a large railway hub southwest of the capital. The mayor of Odesa in southern Ukraine said rockets were intercepted by air defenses.
In the attack on Kyiv, explosions shook the city and flames poured out of windows in at least two buildings  including one residential one  in the capital, which has been relatively unscathed in recent weeks. Plumes of smoke could be seen over the city.
Columns of smoke could be seen rising at different points across the Donetsk region of the Donbas, and artillery and sirens were heard on and off.
In the ruined southern port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian fighters holed up in the steel plant that represents the last pocket of resistance said concentrated bombing overnight killed and wounded more people. And authorities warned that a lack of safe drinking water inside the city could lead to outbreaks of deadly diseases such as cholera and dysentery.
Western officials say the Kremlins apparent goal is to take the Donbas by encircling and crushing Ukrainian forces from the north, south and east.
In Mariupol, video posted online by Ukraines Azov Regiment inside the steel plant showed people combing through the rubble to remove the dead and help the wounded. The regiment said the Russians hit an improvised underground hospital and its surgery room, killing an unspecified number of people. The video couldnt be independently verified.
