Latvian actors say the show must go on performed at Harford Community College amid Ukraine crisis
20220414
http://www.capitalgazette.com/maryland/cng-ag-latvia-actors-at-hcc-20220413-lsss2sjjnnan3cnonuh2xq4b2a-story.html
The  actors for The Underwater Bubble Show, a family friendly underwater fantasy that takes place in Bubblelandia, were dedicated to keeping their commitments for the U.S. tour.
We knew about the war before we got on tour, said Enrico Pezzoli, Latvian actor and member of the theater troupe that performs The Underwater Bubble Show. It started a little bit before we arrived here.
While Ukraine fights to stop the Russian invasion, Latvian actors for The Underwater Bubble Show kept the tour rolling with their performance last Saturday night at Harford Community College.
For our work, it does not change anything,  Pezzoli said. We are just performers. Even during World War II, there were a lot of performers still performing.
Dear friends Show must go on. We are coming to America with our beautiful show www.underwaterbubbleshow.com, the actors  wrote on Facebook. We are very sad about our brothers and sisters in Ukraine,... but we are very happy that we can do our work that we love.
Latvia, like Ukraine, is a former Soviet republic which shares a border with Russia and is increasingly worried about the Russian invasion of  Ukraine. Riga, the Latvian capital,  is about 630 miles from Kyiv,  the Ukrainian capital under attack. The tiny country in the Baltic region  has taken in Ukrainian refugees and, as a member of NATO, has sent aid to Ukraine.
The show is considered a modern fairy tale and contains references from classics such as Pinocchio, The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, and Peter Pan.
The actors wants to keep the show going no matter what, Pezzoli said. Life needs to go and life should move forward in any case, Pezzoli said.
We were not happy about life stopping, Pezzoli said. Even if we are sad about the conflict, we need to still work and be happy. You can only live once and we can not waste it.
The character Mr. B finds himself transported as if by magic to Bubblelandia, a special, colorful, happy place to linger, savor and marvel but is, above all, a place to dream. The inhabitants carry Mr. B along his imaginary journey in the  underwater world where fantasy becomes reality, and the audience is invited to follow along.
