Russian forces shell Ukraines secondlargest city while closing in on Kyiv
20220228
http://www.capitalgazette.com/news/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-ukraine-russia-war-20220228-cm4ndcmnq5dpbfj7gtwwayfg2e-story.html
Authorities in Kharkiv said at least seven people had been killed and dozens injured. They warned that casualties could be far higher.
At this stage, Ukraine is many years away from reaching the standards for achieving EU membership. Any addition to the 27-nation bloc must be approved unanimously by its members, and Ukraines deep-seated corruption could make it hard for the country to win acceptance.
Video from Kharkiv, Ukraines second-biggest city, with a population of about 1.5 million, showed residential areas being shelled, with apartment buildings shaken by repeated, powerful blasts. Flashes of fire and gray plumes of smoke could be seen.
KYIV, Ukraine  Russian forces shelled Ukraines second-largest city on Monday, rocking a residential neighborhood, and closed in on the capital, Kyiv, in a 40-mile convoy of hundreds of tanks and other vehicles, as talks aimed at stopping the fighting yielded only an agreement to keep talking.
But while Ukraine sent its defense minister and other top officials, the Russian delegation was led by Putins adviser on culture  an unlikely envoy for ending a war and perhaps a sign of how seriously Moscow took the talks.
Meanwhile, an embattled Ukraine moved to solidify its ties to the West by applying to join the European Union  a largely symbolic move for now, but one that is unlikely to sit well with Putin, who has long accused the U.S. of trying to pull Ukraine out of Moscows orbit.
Frightened kids, frightened looks. They want to eat, Konstantin Maloletka, who runs a small shop, said by telephone. He said the soldiers went into a supermarket and grabbed canned meat, vodka and cigarettes.
People in Kyiv lined up for groceries after the end of a weekend curfew, standing beneath a building with a gaping hole blown in its side.
Footage released by the government from Kharkiv depicted what appeared to be a home with water gushing from a pierced ceiling. What looked like an undetonated projectile was on the floor.
A member of the Ukrainian territorial defense directs cars in a traffic jam ahead of a military checkpoint outside Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, Feb. 28, 2022.  VADIM GHIRDAAP
The Russian military has denied targeting residential areas despite abundant evidence of shelling of homes, schools and hospitals.
The U.N. human rights chief said at least 102 civilians have been killed and hundreds wounded  warning that figure is probably a vast undercount  and Ukraines president said at least 16 children were among the dead.
Messages aimed at the advancing Russian soldiers popped up on billboards, bus stops and electronic traffic signs across the capital. Some used profanity to encourage Russians to leave. Others appealed to their humanity.
Among the refugees in Hungary was Maria Pavlushko, 24, an information technology project manager from a city west of Kyiv. She said her father stayed behind to fight the Russians.
A top Putin aide and head of the Russian delegation, Vladimir Medinsky, said that the first talks held between the two sides since the invasion lasted nearly five hours and that the envoys found certain points on which common positions could be foreseen. He said they agreed to continue the discussions in the coming days.
The countrys embattled president said the stepped-up shelling was aimed at forcing him into concessions.
For the second day in a row, the Kremlin raised the specter of nuclear war, announcing that its nuclear-capable intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarines and long-range bombers had all been put on high alert, following President Vladimir Putins orders over the weekend.
 The chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court said he will open an investigation soon into possible war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine.
 The United States announced it is expelling 12 members of Russias U.N. mission, accusing them of spying.
In the seaside resort town of Berdyansk, dozens of protesters chanted angrily in the main square against Russian occupiers, yelling at them to go home and singing the Ukrainian national anthem. They described the soldiers as exhausted young conscripts.
Fighting raged in other towns and cities across the country. The strategic port city of Mariupol, on the Sea of Azov, is hanging on, said Zelenskyy adviser Oleksiy Arestovich. An oil depot was reported bombed in the eastern city of Sumy.
As the talks along the Belarusian border wrapped up, several blasts could be heard in Kyiv, and Russian troops advanced on the city of nearly 3 million. The vast convoy of armored vehicles, tanks, artillery and support vehicles was 17 miles from the center of the city, according to satellite imagery from Maxar Technologies.
They ate right in the store, he said. It looked like they havent been fed in recent days.
They wanted to have a blitzkrieg, but it failed, so they act this way, said 83-year-old Valentin Petrovich, who watched the shelling from his downtown apartment and gave just his first name and his Russian-style middle name out of fear for his safety.
But that did little to calm Russian fears. In Moscow, people lined up to withdraw cash as the sanctions threatened to drive up prices and reduce the standard of living for millions of ordinary Russians.
It wasnt immediately clear what Putin is seeking in the talks, or from the war itself, though Western officials believe he wants to overthrow Ukraines government and replace it with a regime of his own, reviving Moscows Cold War-era influence.
 The 193-nation U.N. General Assembly opened its first emergency session in decades, with Assembly President Abdulla Shahid calling for an immediate cease-fire and a full return to diplomacy and dialogue.
I believe Russia is trying to put pressure on Ukraine with this simple method,Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyysaid late Monday in a video address. He did not offer details of the hourslong talks that took place earlier, but said that Kyiv was not prepared to make concessions when one side is hitting each other with rocket artillery.
I sit and pray for these negotiations to end successfully, so that they reach an agreement to end the slaughter, said Alexandra Mikhailova, weeping as she clutched her cat in a shelter in Mariupol. Around her, parents tried to console children and keep them warm.
The negotiators at Mondays talks met at a long table with the blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flag on one side and the Russian tricolor on the other.
Isachenkov and Litvinova reported from Moscow. Robert Burns in Washington Francesca Ebel, Josef Federman and Andrew Drake in Kyiv Lorne Cook in Brussels and other AP journalists from around the world contributed to this report.
The economic sanctions, ordered by the U.S. and other allies, were just one contributor to Russias growing status as a pariah country.
Still, in an interview with Euronews on Sunday, EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said: We want them in the European Union.
More than a half-million people have fled the country since the invasion, another U.N. official said, many of them going to Poland, Romania and Hungary.
Stepping up his rhetoric, Putin denounced the U.S. and its allies as an empire of lies.
As far-reaching Western sanctions on Russian banks and other institutions took hold, the ruble plummeted, and Russias Central Bank scrambled to shore it up, as did Putin, signing a decree restricting foreign currency.
For many, Russias announcement of a nuclear high alert stirred fears that the West could be drawn into direct conflict with Russia. But a senior U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the United States had yet to see any appreciable change in Russias nuclear posture.
I am proud about him, she said, adding that many of her friends were planning to fight too.
In yet another blow to Russias economy, oil giant Shell said it is pulling out of the country because of the invasion. It announced it will withdraw from its joint ventures with state-owned gas company Gazprom and other entities and end its involvement in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project between Russia and Europe.
Russian soldier  Stop! Remember your family. Go home with a clean conscience, one read.
Russian airliners are banned from European airspace, Russian media is restricted in some countries, and some high-tech products can no longer be exported to the country. On Monday, in a major blow to a soccer-mad nation, Russian teams were suspended from all international soccer.
