Ukraine accuses Russia of medieval tactics as humanitarian crisis deepens
20220307
http://www.capitalgazette.com/news/nation-world/ct-aud-nw-russia-ukraine-war-20220307-bpek7pzapvhghhq7gxrbkm7epq-story.html
Well into the second week of the invasion, with Russian troops making significant advances in southern Ukraine but stalled in some other regions, a top U.S. official said multiple countries were discussing whether to provide the warplanes that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has been pleading for.
Russian President Vladimir Putins forces continued to pummel cities with rockets, and fierce fighting raged in places. In the face of the bombardments, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces were showing unprecedented courage.
What are they doing? rescue worker Vasyl Oksak asked of the Russian attackers. There were two little kids and two elderly people living here. Come in and see what they have done.
Russia snubbed the court proceedings, leaving its seats in the Great Hall of Justice empty.
Efforts to set up safe passage for civilians over the weekend fell apart amid continued Russian shelling. Before Mondays talks began, Russia announced a new plan, saying civilians would be allowed to leave Kyiv, Mariupol, Kharkiv and Sumy.
The U.N. humanitarian chief, Undersecretary-General Martin Griffiths, addressed the Security Council and urged safe passage for people to go in the direction they choose.
At The Hague, Netherlands, Ukraine pleaded with the International Court of Justice to order a halt to Russias invasion, saying Moscow is committing widespread war crimes.
The lack of phone service left anxious citizens approaching strangers to ask if they knew relatives living in other parts of the city and whether they were safe.
The problem is that for one soldier of Ukraine, we have 10 Russian soldiers, and for one Ukrainian tank, we have 50 Russian tanks, Zelenskyy told ABC News in an interview that aired Monday night. He noted that the gap in forces was diminishing and that even if Russian forces come into all our cities, they will be met with an insurgency.
The U.N. human rights office reported 406 confirmed civilian deaths but said the real number is much higher. The invasionhas also sent 1.7 million people fleeing Ukraine.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinkenbegan a lightning visitto the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, former Soviet republics that are NATO members. Blinken hoped to reassure them of the alliances protection.
A Ukrainian police officer runs while holding a child as the artillery echoes nearby, while fleeing Irpin on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, March 7, 2022. Emilio MorenattiAP
In Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, with 1.4 million people, heavy shelling slammed into apartment buildings.
But many of the evacuation routes headed toward Russia or its ally Belarus, which has served as a launch pad for the invasion. Ukraine instead proposed eight routes allowing civilians to travel to western regions of the country where there is no shelling.
The battle for Mariupol is crucial because its capture could allow Moscow to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.
A third round of talks between the two sides ended with a top Ukrainian official saying there had been minor, unspecified progress towardestablishing safe corridorsthat would allow civilians to escape the fighting. Russias chief negotiator said he expects those corridors to start operating Tuesday.
LVIV, Ukraine  The humanitarian crisis in Ukraine deepened Monday as Russian forces intensified their shelling and food, water, heat and medicine grew increasingly scarce, in what the country condemned as a medieval-style siege by Moscow to batter it into submission.
In the south, Russian forces also continued their offensive in Mykolaiv, opening fire on the Black Sea shipbuilding center of a half-million people, according to Ukraines military. Rescuers said they were putting out fires caused by rocket attacks in residential areas.
Hospitals in Mariupol are facing severe shortages of antibiotics and painkillers, and doctors performed some emergency procedures without them.
Zelenskyy has called for more punitive measures against Russia, including a global boycott of its oil exports, which are key to its economy.
Later, Russias U.N. Ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, told the U.N. Security Council that Russia would carry out a cease-fire Tuesday morning and appeared to suggest that humanitarian corridors leading away from Kyiv, Mariupol, Sumy and Chernigov could give people choice in where they want to go.
NATO has shown no interest in sending troops into the country and has rejected Zelenskyys pleas to establish a no-fly zone for fear of triggering a wider war.
The fighting has sentenergy prices surging worldwide and stocks plummeting, and threatens the food supply and livelihoodsof people around the globe who rely on crops farmed in the fertile Black Sea region.
One possible scenario under discussion: Former Soviet bloc nations that are now NATO members could send Ukraine their own Soviet-era MiGs, which Ukrainian pilots are trained to fly, and the U.S. would then replace those countries aircraft with American-made F-16s.
Russia is resorting to tactics reminiscent of medieval siege warfare, encircling cities, cutting off escape routes and pounding the civilian population with heavy ordnance, said Jonathan Gimblett, a member of Ukraines legal team.
While the West has been rushing weapons to Ukraine such as anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles, some officials fear that sending warplanes could be seen by Moscow as direct involvement in the war.
In the capital, Kyiv, soldiers and volunteers have built hundreds of checkpoints to protect the city of nearly 4 million, often using sandbags, stacked tires and spiked cables. Some barricades looked significant, with heavy concrete slabs and sandbags piled more than two stories high, while others appeared more haphazard, with hundreds of books used to weigh down stacks of tires.
I think it struck the fourth floor under us, Dmitry Sedorenko said from his Kharkiv hospital bed. Immediately, everything started burning and falling apart. When the floor collapsed beneath him, he crawled out through the third story, past the bodies of some of his neighbors.
In the Irpin area, which has been cut off from electricity, water and heat for three days, witnesses saw at least three tanks and said Russian soldiers were seizing houses and cars.
Police moved through the city, advising people to remain in shelters until they heard official messages broadcast over loudspeakers to evacuate.
A few miles away, in the small town of Horenka, where shelling reduced one area to ashes and shards of glass, rescuers and residents picked through the ruins as chickens pecked around them.
People cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing the town of Irpin close to Kyiv, Ukraine, March 7, 2022. Efrem LukatskyAP
Klitschko reported that fierce battles continued in the Kyiv region, notably around Bucha, Hostomel, Vorzel and Irpin.
In one of the most desperate cities, the encircled southern port of Mariupol, an estimated 200,000 people  nearly half the population of 430,000  were hoping to flee, and Red Cross officials waited to hear when a corridor would be established.
On Monday, Moscow again announced a series of demands to stop the invasion, including that Ukraine recognize Crimea as part of Russia and recognize the eastern regions controlled by Moscow-supported separatist fighters as independent. It also insisted that Ukraine change its constitution to guarantee it wont join international bodies like NATO and the EU. Ukraine has already rejected those demands.
If Russia doesnt want to abide by civilized rules, then they shouldnt receive goods and services from civilization, he said in a video address.
Every house, every street, every checkpoint, we will fight to the death if necessary, said Mayor Vitali Klitschko.
But that remained to be seen, given the failure of previous attempts to lead civilians to safety amid the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II.
He has also asked for more warplanes. Deputy U.S. Secretary of State Wendy Sherman said officials are trying to see whether this is possible and doable.
The city is short on water, food and power, and cellphone networks are down. Stores have been looted as residents search for essential goods.
Zelenskyys office would not comment on the Russian proposal, saying only that Moscows plans can be believed only if a safe evacuation begins. The office said Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk planned to make a statement on the issue Tuesday morning.
