Satellite images show severe damage to Ukrainian airbases after they were reportedly struck by missiles
20220227
https://www.businessinsider.in/thelife/news/satellite-images-show-severe-damage-to-ukrainian-airbases-after-they-were-reportedly-struck-by-missiles/articleshow/89856306.cms
The invasion has forced people in the country's capital, Kyiv, to flee. Others have been using the city's subway stations as bunkers.
Before Russia launched an attack, satellite images captured by Maxar Technologies showed Russian troops being deployed within miles of the Ukrainian border just hours before President Vladimir Putin ordered a "full scale invasion" of the country.
Planet says it provides daily satellite data that helps businesses, governments, and journalists understand the physical world and take action.
On Thursday morning, Russia attacked Ukraine in what was described as a "full-scale invasion." According to Ukraine's interior ministry, Russian tanks were pouring over the border from Belarus, as well as from occupied Crimea. Russian troops were reported to have attacked Ukrainian security forces with artillery and small arms.
Satellite images show destruction at Ukraine airbases after Russian forces attacked the country in an unprovoked invasion.
Shortly after publishing the photos, Planet Labs said in a tweet: "Sad to see the tragic and deteriorating events in Ukraine. We have and will continue to provide imagery from the region to our partners, aid, relief and human rights organizations, and the media to expose the situation as events unfold. Our thoughts are with the people of ."
US company Planet released the photos via Twitter and its website showing damage to two airbases in Ukraine, including Mykolaiv Airbase and the Chuhuiv Airbase.
The photos shared by Planet Labs show before and after images of Ukraine's damaged airbases captured on February 21 and February 24, respectively.
Maxar took images of Russian military vehicles in four locations, including Golovchino, Malakeevo, Krasnaya Yaruga, and Kupino.
Images show dark fumes of smoke billowing from Chuhuiv Airbase, situated outside of Kharkiv, Ukraine, which was reportedly struck by Russian missiles, per Sky News.
White smoke was also seen rising from Mykolaiv Airbase located in southern Ukraine, as pictured above. According to its website, Mykolaiv Airbase is a small airport housing three runways with other airfields nearby.
