Children trapped as Russian airstrike hits maternity hospital in Ukraine
20220309
https://www.thecable.ng/children-trapped-as-russian-airstrike-hits-maternity-hospital-in-ukraine
Since the invasion, there have been casualties from both parties, leading many Ukrainians, including Nigerians, to flee to neighbouring countries.
Mariupol city council accused Russian forces of dropping several bombs from the air despite agreeing to a 12-hour ceasefire to allow refugees to evacuate a number of towns and cities.
There are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless. The UK is exploring more support for Ukraine to defend against airstrikes and we will hold Putin to account for his terrible crimes, Johnson wrote on Twitter.
Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity.
Reacting to the attack, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the UK will hold Putin to account.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky described the incident as an atrocity, adding that children are among those trapped in the wreckage of the destroyed building.
On February 24, Russian troopsinvadedUkraine after Vladimir Putin ordered a special military operation inDonbas, a separatist-held region in the country.
Zelensky called on NATO military alliance to declare a no-fly zone over Ukraine, accusing them of seeming to be losing humanity.
Mariupol. Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital.  People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity! How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror? Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity. pic.twitter.comFoaNdbKH5k
At least 17 people are reported to be wounded, although the exact number of victims and casualties are not yet known.
A Russian airstrike hit a maternity and childrens hospital in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol on Wednesday.
Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital. People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity! How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror? Zelensky asked.
