Food crisis to ease as Russia Ukraine sign landmark deals on grain exports
20220722
https://www.thecable.ng/breaking-food-crisis-to-ease-as-russia-ukraine-sign-landmark-deals-on-grain-exports
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil, but Russias invasion of the country and naval blockade of its ports have halted shipments.
You have overcome obstacles and put aside differences to pave the way for an initiative that will serve the common interests of all.
Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea. A beacon of hope, a beacon of possibility, a beacon of relief in a world that needs it more than ever, Guterres said at the signing ceremony while addressing the Russian and Ukrainian representatives.
The deal follows a tentative agreement reached last week by Ukrainian and Russian military delegations on a UN plan that would allow Russia to export its grain and fertilisers.
Guterres said the plan, known as the Black Sea Initiative, would open a path for significant volumes of commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea: Odessa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
It would bring relief for developing countries on the edge of bankruptcy and the most vulnerable people on the edge of famine.
The deal hopes to restart grain exports from Ukraines Black Sea ports that have been blocked since Russias invasion and ease the ravaging global food crisis.
It will help stabilise global food prices, which were already at record levels even before the war  a true nightmare for developing countries, Guterres added.
From high oil prices to soaring food prices, low-income economies have been mostly affected by the cascading effects of the conflict.
Russia and Ukraine signed separate agreements with Turkey and the United Nations to enable the export of millions of tons of grains needed across the world.
The deal will enable Ukraine to export 22 million tons of grain and other agricultural products stuck in Black Sea ports due to the war.
Sergei Shoigu, Russian defence minister and Oleksandr Kubrakov, Ukrainian infrastructure minister, signed separate deals with Antonio Guterres, UN secretary-general and Hulusi Akar, the Turkish defence minister.
