From Ukraine to Romania and finally Nigeria returnees recount torturous journey back home
20220305
https://www.thecable.ng/from-ukraine-to-romania-and-finally-nigeria-returnees-recount-torturous-journey-back-home
Tosan and her fellow travellers reached the Ukraine-Poland border by 3am the next day when the weather temperature was -2 degrees.
On getting to Lviv, he tried to get to Poland because most people were going there and I didnt have any country in mind. I just heard most people saying Poland, and I decided to go along with them we waited and couldnt get to Poland.
We didnt even know the war was going to escalate to this level because when we were hearing the rumours, the Ukrainians were acting like nothing was happening so it was more like they knew something. We didnt know it was going to escalate to this, Bethel said, with pain and regret etched on his face.
They told us to stop, we were waiting in the line, they werent letting us through they were letting only Ukrainians go through, she said.
By Sunday, February 27, Bethel finally arrived at the Ukraine-Romania border where the Nigerian embassy officials were waiting to ease his burden.
Orishe Tosan, a teenager studying medicine at Ivano-Frankivsk National Medical University in Ukraine, had heard the news of Russian missile systems destroying the citys airport and fuel depots  but she was not really bothered.
But she still hopes to go back to Ukraine to continue her studies once normalcy returns to the country.
Bethel Onu schools in Kyiv, Ukraines capital and the most populous city in the Eastern European country. He was asleep in his dormitory on the night of February 24 when the sound of the explosions disrupted his rest.
Our legs were paining us at night. We just decided we should go to Romania. I was against Romania at first because to go to Romania, you have to get to another city in Ukraine, but we later decided to leave that night, he added.
On Friday, February 25, Tosan and her roommate, also a Nigerian, decided to move out of Ukraine, after it was evident that Vladimir Putin, President of Russia, had commenced the long-touted invasion of the country.
Just like Tosan, Bethel, who left Nigeria in May 2021, told TheCable that there was news about the Russian invasion but the school management debunked it while his Ukrainian peers referred to it as noise.
Her belief, and that of her friends, was that the war was just a mirage and would soon be doused.
According to Tosan, the Nigeria-Romania embassy received them on arrival, got them a train ride to the countrys capital, and checked them into a hotel after which they were flown back home.
She said only Ukrainians were allowed into Poland, especially women and children, while the Nigerians and other Africans were turned back with guns pointed at them.
We all decided to go to Poland, we paid money to get to the border but there was a lot of traffic so the cabman dropped us and told us to walk we walked 26 kilometres that day, we stopped for five minutes intervals or maybe at a landmark like a filling station to get maybe water or something, Tosan told TheCable upon arrival at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja.
They were pointing guns at us, threatening us that we should go back, so we went back, and then we got on a train, and we took another cab and walked another nine kilometres to Romania.
By Friday, February 25, Bethel said he became antsy when there were rumours of an airstrike  and that was when he realised it was time to leave town.
Reality dawned on Tosan when she realised that the bombing of the airport had affected flight operations as airlines cancelled all bookings.
Tosan, who left Nigeria in October 2020 with the hope of returning as a certified medical doctor, is traumatised by her experience.
Alongside other Africans in his hostel, Bethel left Kyiv for Lviv, another city in Ukraine with a population of over 717,510.
The whole house was shaking. We were worried that morning, people started moving out, even the Ukrainians that were behaving like nothing was happening everybody started moving out of the hostel, we saw long queues in front of filling stations, Bethel recounted.
Bethel said aside from the disruptive sound of the bombings, the siren blaring around the city made him more scared for his safety, which prompted him and his colleagues to find an abode in a bunker.
