Russian offensive turns to key Donbas city
20220523
https://www.hampshirechronicle.co.uk/news/20157767.russian-offensive-turns-key-donbas-city/
Russian forces are bombarding a key city in eastern Ukraine with artillery and missiles in an attempt to take more of the Donbas region.
Unfortunately, in Europe there have also been disturbing voices in recent times demanding that Ukraine yield to Putins demands, he said.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Ukrainian officials have said little since the war began about the extent of their countrys casualties, but Mr Zelensky said at a news conference on Sunday that 50 to 100 Ukrainian fighters were being killed, apparently each day, in the east.
It was the third straight day of apparent attacks in the Zhytomyr District, Ukrainian news agencies reported.
In Enerhodar, a Russian-held city 281 kilometres 174 miles northwest of Mariupol, an explosion on Sunday injured the Moscow-appointed mayor at his residence, Ukrainian and Russian news agencies reported.
The conflict was not confined to Ukraines east. Powerful explosions were heard early on Monday, for example, in Korosten, about 160 kilometres 100 miles west of Kyiv, the towns deputy mayor said.
In a general staff morning report, Russia said it was also preparing to resume its offensive on Slovyansk, a city in Donetsk province that saw fierce fighting last month after Moscows troops backed away from Kyiv.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called the visit a historic opportunity not to lose such strong relations, built through blood, through Russian aggression.
Poland is ramping up efforts to win over EU members who are more hesitant about accepting Ukraine into the bloc. Mr Zelensky has urged the 27-member EU to expedite his countrys request to join, and it is to be discussed at a Brussels summit in late June.
The 21-year-old sergeant, who has admitted to shooting a Ukrainian man in the head in a village in the north-eastern Sumy region on February 28, could get life in prison if convicted.
The Ukrainian military said Russian forces had mounted an unsuccessful attack on Oleksandrivka, a village outside of the city.
On Monday, a Ukrainian court was expected to reach a verdict for a Russian soldier who was the first to go on trial for an alleged war crime.
To bolster its defences, Ukraines parliament voted on Sunday to extend martial law and mobilise the armed forces for a third time, until August 23.
While Russian and Ukrainian forces battled along a 551-kilometre 342-mile wedge of Ukraines eastern industrial heartland, Polands president travelled to Kyiv on Sunday to support Ukraines European Union aspirations, becoming the first foreign leader to address the Ukrainian parliament since the start of the war.
It is also a transit point for some foreign fighters who have volunteered to fight the Russian forces.
President Andrzej Duda received a standing ovation when he thanked the lawmakers for letting him speak where the heart of a free, independent and democratic Ukraine beats. Mr Duda said Ukraine need not submit to conditions given by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
It was Mr Dudas second visit to Kyiv since April. Poland has become an important ally of Ukraine, welcoming millions of Ukrainian refugees and becoming a gateway for Western humanitarian aid and weapons.
Ukrainian prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova has said her office was prosecuting war crimes cases against 41 Russian soldiers for offenses that included bombing civilian infrastructure, killing civilians, rape and looting.
Mr Duda credited the US and President Joe Biden for unifying the West in supporting Ukraine and imposing sanctions against Moscow.
On the battlefield, grinding, town-by-town fighting continued as Russian troops try to expand the territory that Moscow-backed separatists have held since 2014 in the Donbas.
Sievierodonetsk is the main city under Ukrainian control in Luhansk province, which together with Donetsk province make up the Donbas.
Luhansks governor, Serhii Haidai, said on Sunday that the Russians were simply intentionally trying to destroy the city engaging in a scorched-earth approach.
Frances European Affairs minister Clement Beaune on Sunday told Radio J it would be a long time before Ukraine gains EU membership, perhaps up to two decades.
I want to say clearly: Only Ukraine has the right to decide about its future. Only Ukraine has the right to decide for itself.
We have to be honest, he said. If you say Ukraine is going to join the EU in six months, or a year or two, youre lying.
Ukraines Unian news agency said a bomb planted by local partisans wounded 48-year-old Andrei Shevchuk, whose lives near the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, Europes largest.
He said the Russians had occupied several towns and cities in Luhansk after indiscriminate, 24-hour shelling, adding Moscow was concentrating forces and weaponry there, bringing in forces from Kharkiv to the northwest, Mariupol to the south, and from inside Russia.
