Russian forces encircle thousands as Ukrainian troops begin surrender  Print This
20220625
http://axisoflogic.com/artman/publish/Article_92221.shtml
The Russian Air Force has also successfully hit a Ukrainian artillery battery equipped with the US-made M777 howitzers in the Kharkov region. Earlier, Washington vowed to supply 90 such artillery pieces to Kiev, according to a May report by the New York Times.
Up to 2,000 Ukrainian troops, nationalists and foreign fighters have been surrounded by the Russian forces and the Donbass militias, Moscow revealed on Friday. The forces were encircled in two neighboring towns in the Lugansk Peoples Republic.
The troops have been surrounded in the towns of Gorskoye and Zolotoye, located south of the major cities of Severodonetsk and Lisichansk, which have recently become one of the major targets for both sides amid the continued fighting for the territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics.
The Russian military has also claimed that the surrounded units have lost over 60 of their strength. According to the defense ministry, 41 Ukrainian soldiers encircled in the area have surrendered. The Defense Ministry has also published a video supposedly showing the surrendered soldiers.
Four Ukrainian battalions. as well as an artillery unit are among those trapped, Russias Defense Ministry announced. The encircled forces also include around 120 fighters from the notorious Ukrainian Right Sector, a neo-Nazi group of up to 80 foreign fighters, according to the ministry.
The news comes just days after the Russian military claimed to have killed hundreds of Ukrainian troops in a strike on a shipbuilding plant in the Ukrainian port of Nikolaev. Last week, the defense ministry also claimed to have killed scores of Ukrainian officers after striking a compound where a meeting of commanders of several Ukrainian units was taking place.
The head of the Ukrainian Gorskoye military administration, Aleksey Babchenko, confirmed to the Ukrainian media on Friday that the town has been fully seized by the Russian forces and the Donbass militias.
Sergey Gaidai, who Ukraine calls the head of the Lugansk Oblast, has also said on Telegram that the Ukrainian forces might soon retreat from Lisichansk since their defensive positions had been destroyed by the Russian forces and there is little sense in staying.
