Ohio Kentucky Indiana leaders react to Russia attack on Ukraine
20220224
https://www.wlwt.com/article/ohio-leaders-lawmakers-react-to-russia-attack-on-ukraine/39206112
You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.
Today, we pray for the people of Ukraine  in our sister city of Kharkiv and across the nation. Cincinnati stands with you.
Russian troops launched their anticipated attack on Ukraine on Thursday, as President Vladimir Putin cast aside international condemnation and sanctions.
Today, we pray for the people of Ukraine  in our sister city of Kharkiv and across the nation. Cincinnati stands with you. Aftab Pureval AftabPureval February 24, 2022
"Today, we pray for the people of Ukraine  in our sister city of Kharkiv and across the nation. Cincinnati stands with you."
Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana lawmakers are sharing their reactions following Russia's attack on Ukraine Thursday.
Russias invasion of Ukraine is an unprovoked, flagrant violation of international law, one that will result in senseless loss of life.My full statement: https:t.coTmXN1tOtCn pic.twitter.comNVwi3rGlKu
Though I hoped the administration would proactively shut down Russian energy assets such as Nord Stream 2 to deter further aggression as a majority of Senators voted to do, Putin and his cronies must now be punished with severe economic consequences for their unjustified invasion of Ukraine. The U.S. must unleash independent American energy production to lessen the pain of rising fuel prices on Americans, and the U.S. must be watchful to avoid endangering U.S. troops by involving them further in this volatile situation.
"This violent action by Russia is immoral, unjustified and completely incompatible with modern, civilized leadership. Russia must cease its hostilities and withdraw its forces to within its borders. My heart is with the Ukrainian people now for their safety and security."
Ohio Democratic Party Chair Elizabeth Walters issued a statement in support of Ohios Ukrainian American community following Russias attack:
"This is a foreign policy crisis not just for Ukraine, but for the United States and all freedom-loving countries around the globe. It has already begun to destabilize Eastern Europe in ways not seen since World War II and started a humanitarian crisis."
"As I stated several days ago, it was clear that Putins initial aggression was just a small foretaste of what this thug had planned for Ukraine. Now we are watching his full brutality unfold. But this behavior will not stop with Ukraine. Russias aggressive ambitions threaten the core interests of the United States, NATO, and the West, as strong voices like Senator Romney have been warning for years. Sadly, deterrence after the fact is not deterrence at all. The President should have exercised his extensive authorities to impose certain tough sanctions early enough to actually deter invasion and weaken Russia. We should have ensured that the pipeline of lethal aid to Ukraine was flowing far sooner. And we should have sent more reinforcements to support NATOs eastern flank allies earlier. The entire world is now watching how we respond. For its part, Congress would support truly devastating sanctions against the Kremlin and its enablers. As Ive said before, the United States and NATO must redouble our material support for Ukraines resistance, further shore up our allies, get serious about energy independence, and invest in the capabilities needed for long-term military competition with Russia and China. Here in Congress, upcoming defense spending measures will provide an opportunity to lead by example. Moving forward, how America leads the response from all freedom-loving nations will be measured carefully by our friends, by our adversaries, and by history itself. We cannot afford to fail this test."
"Today, we're waking up to the news that Russia has engaged in a full-fledged invasion of Ukraine," Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said.
Vladimir Putins insatiable pursuit of power has driven him to a decision that will kill innocent men, women and children in a democratic nation. The United States, in coordination with our European allies, must impose the strongest possible sanctions and work swiftly to make him pay for the pain and suffering he has already caused and will continue to cause. Andrea and I are praying for the Ukrainian people and our Ukrainian-American friends and neighbors who are watching these events unfold in horror. We stand with you today and every day. Make no mistake: Putin will regret this decision.
Ukraines leadership said at least 40 people had been killed so far in what it called a full-scale war targeting the country from the east, north and south. It said Russias intent was to destroy the state of Ukraine, a Western-looking democracy intent on moving out of Moscows orbit.
Ohio Democrats stand strong with Ohios Ukrainian American community amid Russias unprovoked attack on the nation of Ukraine. Our state is a stronger, richer place because of the Ukrainian Americans who call Ohio home. Our thoughts are with our fellow Ohioans during these difficult days ahead and we stand ready to offer any support we can.
Praying for the Ukrainian people and our Ukrainian-American friends and loved ones tonight. Putin has made his decision, and now we must make him pay.
Tonight, President Putin declared an illegal, unwarranted attack on the people of Ukraine. I condemn this latest Russian invasion of Ukraine in the strongest possible terms. This violation of the territorial integrity of a sovereign nation is unprovoked, is a flagrant violation of international law, and will result in senseless loss of life.
"Russias unprovoked assault on Ukraine is an affront to freedom and democracy the world over. This attack will be met with united, decisive action by the United States and our allies. Vladimir Putin chose war, he is unleashing senseless death and destruction on the Ukrainian people, and he will face the consequences. President Biden has made it clear the U.S. and our allies and partners will impose the strongest sanctions Russia has ever seen, and I will work with the Biden Administration to implement them against Russian officials and oligarchs who prop up Putins regime. Now is not the moment for partisan division  Americans stand united with all our NATO allies, and we pray for the people of Ukraine."
Russian troops launched a broad assault on Ukraine from three sides Thursday, an attack that brought explosions before dawn to the countrys capital, Kyiv, and other cities.
As civilians piled into trains and cars to flee, NATO and European leaders rushed to respond, if not directly in Ukraine, with strong financial sanctions against Russia and moves to strengthen their own borders.
"It's time for America to be united, every single one of us, against this external threat. We're tough enough...now is the time for patriotism," he said.
