Ukraine shows the EU must think beyond tomorrow
20220510
https://euobserver.com/opinion/154901
, your membership gives you access to all of our stories. We highly appreciate your support and value your feedback. If you have any thoughts on this story, we would love to hear it.
Even in the midst of war, it is vital to think beyond tomorrow. Ambitious and visionary organisers of the Bretton Woods Conference did just that almost 80 years ago.
It also means that the World Trade Organization's upcoming ministerial meeting must ensure that national measures to restrict trade in commodities do not impact the World Food Programme's ability to procure vital food.
At stake is the EU's global standing and influence, its hopes of revitalising deeply disrupted relations with Africa, remaining relevant in the Middle East and Latin America and ambitions of becoming an authentic actor in the Indo-Pacific.
Shada Islam is an independent EU analyst and commentator who runs her own strategy and advisory company New Horizons Project. She is also the editor of the EUobserver magazine.
Dealing with climate change, eliminating poverty and fighting pandemics requires working with all nations, not just the "like-minded".
Most countries today operate in "mix and match" mode where they can select and choose between the best available deals which align with their key interests.
Instead, the EU must evaluate ways in which the global transformation impacts on its foreign and security policy as well as in areas such as trade, development, migration and the green transition.
As reactions to the Ukraine war have shown, a multipolar world is not an easy place to navigate.
It is time, however, to stop hunting for headlines, to tone down whimsical references to the mythical prowess of "geopolitical Europe" and to take a cool-headed look at the reality of a deeply transformed world and its impact on Europe.
Understanding ongoing geopolitical mutations will take more time  but it must also be done.
There are also endless self-congratulatory declarations about Western unity and leadership which while necessary to tackle war-related disinformation are beginning to sound tediously repetitive.
EU attempts at lucid foresight are complicated by America's apparently changing war aims and the difficult quest to slap new sanctions on Russia while trying to enforce old ones.
EU policymakers must decide, however, whether a "one world, two systems" scenario  under which "good" nations are pitted against "bad" ones  is in the wider global interest.
That is why while America and China may believe they can lead such a puzzling configuration, it is the EU  if it plays its cards right  that is probably best placed to operate in a new multipolar world.
That means taking impactful decisions at the UN Security Council's meeting on "the nexus between conflict and food security" on 19 May.
This will require, however, an end to using an exclusive Eurocentric prism, jettisoning double standards  especially when it comes to dealing with refugees and migrants  and easing away from an excessive reliance on the transatlantic alliance as a main point of reference.
Given its multilateral credentials, the ability to juggle and compromise and well-honed negotiating skills, the EU is well-placed to operate in the emerging multipolar landscape.
This lesson needs to be learned quickly. EU policymakers have so far engaged in either cringe-worthy flattery or thinly-veiled threats to non-Western nations which refuse to align with West's policies on Russia and Ukraine.
Thinking ahead is certainly difficult in the face of urgent challenges. But the Ukraine war's devastating global economic fall-out, especially on the world's most vulnerable must not be ignored.
The war is playing havoc with the economies of already-fragile, pandemic-hit nations which now face a deadly combination of drought, high temperatures, higher oil prices and disruption in exports of commodities and fertiliser.
Shockwaves from the conflict have destroyed hopes of any quick post-Covid global economic recovery. Cozy assumptions about the sanctity of the multilateral "rules-based order" have been up-ended.
That is also why, even as they engage in Ukraine war efforts, EU policymakers must find the time, energy and foresight to kick-start an inclusive global conversation on the contours, rules and priorities for tomorrow's world.
Patchy EU solidarity during the Covid crisis must not be replicated when it comes to urgent action to bolster food security.
The Ukraine war has accelerated the emergence of a truly multipolar world where countries have the know-how, the agency as well as the self-confidence to reject a binary choice between two opposing camps.
It is complex mix of political systems and ideologies, different values and interests, further complicated by the existence of important business networks and an array of powerful civil society organisations.
International Monetary Fund managing director Kristalina Georgieva is among those who has warned that increases in food and energy prices will trigger social unrest. Pakistan and Sri Lanka are proof that this is already happening.
As Russia's aggression against Ukraine rages on and signs point to a painful prolongation of the war, the world is changing  has already changed  in myriad, irrevocable, ways.
