50m of damage for the ogres Jubilant Ukrainians post pictures of burning stateoftheart Russian fighter jet they say they shot down as war continues to go badly for Putins forces
20220403
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10681647/Ukrainians-post-pictures-burning-Russian-fighter-jet-say-shot-down.html
The missile has a range of more than 7km and carries a three dart payload.
It comes as Ukrainian forces drove Russia out of dozens of towns around Kyiv and the north in one of the most extraordinary days since the start of the invasion.
Britain has already sent thousands of anti-tank weapons to Ukraine, although Nato nations have continued to rebuff pleas from Zelensky for tanks and fighter aircraft.
Unlike the F-22 and F-35, the Su-35s is not a stealth fighter and relies far more on dog fighting skills like older aircraft such as the F-16.
Once hitting full speed it releases its three 'hittiles' which are then guided to the target.
Photos from the sceneremains of Russian fighting aircraft Su-35 believed to have been hit by the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
A man can be heard saying: 'Something is falling on the village. Fk! Fk! Here, here... Oh just right on the house.'
It accelerates to a speed of more than Mach 3 - approximately 2,300mph - in a 'fraction of a second'.
The use of lasers rather than being attracted to infrared energy means flares cannot counteract the three-pronged missile.
The Starstreak system is a shoulder-mounted missile that travels at more than three times the speed of sound to take down low-flying enemy aircraft
Ukrainians have shared pictures of a burning Russian fighter jet they say was shot out of the sky in the Kharkiv region as Putin's forces continue to take heavy damages.
The aircraft has a maximum speed of Mach 2.25 at 36,000 feet - approximately 1,500mph - and carry 8,000kg in weapons with a range of around 1,000 miles.
It comes after British Starstreak missiles made their first impact in the war, bringing down a Russian helicopter on Friday.
The weapon can be launched from lightweight land, sea or air platforms and can be unleashed as soon as a target is detected - there is no wait for 'lock on'.
Russian forces have now moved into a different stage of the conflict and are focussed on the eastern regions of the war-torn nation.
Pictured: Footage shared online purports to show the moment the jet was shot out of the sky
It comes as Putin's forces continue to withdraw from northern parts of the country as Ukrainian forces recapture regions that had previously been held by Russian troops, including the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
The Starstreak high-velocity surface-to-air missile is designed to defend against conventional air threats like fixed wing fighter planes and helicopters.
The Su-35, a hi-tech fighter jet worth an estimated 30million, was reduced to rubble. It is understood the plane was shot down in the Kharkiv region of the country.
The Su-35s is fitted with a 30mm cannon for air-to-air dog fighting as well as the capability of carrying rockets, missiles and bombs.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has repeatedly insisted the UK will provide further defensive support to Ukraine, including a new package of 6,000 more missiles.
A view shows remains of Russian fighting aircraft Su-35 hit by the Ukrainian Armed Forces
It is understood the plane was shot down by the anti-aircraft missile troops of the Air Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine who shared footage of the incident online.
But officials urged caution, saying the movement is part of Russia's 'tactics' to encircle Ukrainian troops in Donbas and split the country in two.
Russia claims the aircraft is better than the west's fourth generation aircraft, such as the US F-16 and French Rafaele and even the RAF's Typhoon interceptor.
In the footage, an aircraft can be seen falling from the sky while on fire before it hits the ground and bursts into flames with a thick black cloud of smoke.
The missiles are similar to the US-made Stinger which is already being used by Ukrainian forces.
Deputy Interior Minister Anton Gerashchenko confirmed the Su-35 was shot down by Ukrainian forces, reportedly writing: '50 million dollars worth of damage for the ogres!'
The SU-35s is Russia's single-seat multi-role attack jet. It is well suited to air superiority missions due to its excellent manoeuvrability and thrust vectoring engines to allow it to turn far tighter than a traditional jet aircraft.
And UK defence sources revealed on Friday that Kremlin forces have run out of vital weapons and cannot now replenish their stocks.
Mr Wallace said the first Ukrainian troops had been trained and were now deployed with Starstreak, adding that the UK was 'doing more than pretty much anyone else' to help the war-torn country.
The withdrawal has been coupled with attacks on Odessa in the south today as Russia weighs up an amphibious assault on the vital Black Sea port city.
Britain is supplying and training Ukrainian troops in the use of the high-velocity anti-air missiles as well as providing body armour, helmets and combat boots.
The MoD also gave a further update saying a fire has destroyed several oil tanks at a depot in the Russian city of Belgorod, which is close to the Ukrainian border.
The 30million plane was shot out of the sky by Ukrainian Armed Forces in the Kharkiv region
So far, 19 Russian planes are confirmed downed by Ukrainian forces since the outbreak of the war.
'One of the biggest challenges is that the more you go up in sophistication of weapons systems, the more training you require to use them, which is why the real focus of effort has to be helping the Ukrainians either refurbish or locate Russian or Soviet equipment that is already in their inventory,' he told the Mail on Sunday.
More than 30 settlements have been reclaimed with Vladimir Putin's forces retreating up to 25 miles in places.
The missile detaches into three darts mid-air, which are guided to the target by a laser operator on the ground.
Ukraine has taken back the 'whole Kyiv region' from Russian troops, the country's deputy defence minister said as the fightback against the invaders continues.
It uses a laser beam guidance system which the manufacturer says is 'immune to all known countermeasures'.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace previously said the Starstreak system  a shoulder-mounted missile that travels at more than three times the speed of sound to take down low-flying enemy jets  was ready to be used imminently.
