A city reduced to ash and smoke Drone footage reveals Mariupol hellscape as Russian forces continue to bombard buildings and civilians run out of food and water as Kyiv resembles a disaster movie after constant shelling
20220314
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10611627/A-city-reduced-ash-smoke-Drone-footage-reveals-Mariupol-hellscape.html
Later, a missile was intercepted by Ukrainian air defence systems, but debris fell on a bus and a car, killing another person and injuring six.
A woman holding a small dog walks in front of an apartment in a block which was destroyed by an artillery strike in Kyiv
Russia has denied intending to occupy Ukraine, but Peskov said it 'does not rule out the possibility of taking full control of large settlements that are now practically surrounded.'
A second piece of footage shows a string of high-rise buildings burning next to a row of charred structures that appear to have already been hit by Russian missile strikes in Moscow's relentless bombardment of the city
A firefighter walks over the debris of an apartment building after it was shelled in Kyiv
The US said Russia asked China for military equipment to use in Ukraine - a claim the Kremlin denied.
A man holds his dead cat after heading back into his shelled apartment building which was struck by a Russian missile this morning
Previous attempts to evacuate civilians and deliver humanitarian aid to the city of 430,000 were thwarted by continuing fighting.
Firemen help a man evacuate from an apartment building hit by shelling in the Obolon district of Kyiv
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from the bombs and guns.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
The drone also captured a tank being obliterated in a close-quarter skirmish, leaving the vehicle engulfed in a red-hot blaze and a thick cloud of black smoke.
An aerial view shows smoke rising from damaged residential buildings following an explosion in Mariupol, Ukraine
Donations to the Mail Force Ukraine Appeal will be used to help charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
But the general staff of Ukraine's armed forces said this morning that Russian troops have not made major advances over the past 24 hours, despite expanding strikes to the west.
Debris burns on the street after further attacks during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in Kharkiv
Wreckage and debris litter the pavement outside the hospital after the bombing last week, which took patients and medics by surprise
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
A view onto the yard of a maternity hospital damaged in a Russian shelling attack in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9
He tweeted Monday that the negotiators would discuss 'peace, ceasefire, immediate withdrawal of troops  security guarantees.'
'There was no warning. There was just a massive boom. It lasted one second and then everything was destroyed. We have lost everything.
The attack killed 35 people, Ukrainian officials said, and raised fears that NATO could be drawn into direct conflict with Russia.
Ukraine's defence minister Oleksii Reznikov said: 'Kyiv. One of the most beautiful cities in the EU today looks like a frame of an apocalypse movie.'
It was confirmed on Monday that an injured pregnant woman and her unborn baby - whose image being stretchered from her Putin-bombed maternity ward became one of the war's most shocking images - have both died.
Olexander warned the population are without mobile or internet connection and that many do not know what is happening in the rest of Ukraine, or even in the neighbouring district.
Drone footage has captured the moment Russian missiles hit buildings in the besieged southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol which has been encircled by Moscow's forces for a week and a half
The drone also captured a tank being obliterated in a close-quarter skirmish, leaving the vehicle engulfed in a red-hot blaze and a thick cloud of black smoke
Rescuers put out a fire by a destroyed building in Kharkiv today as Russia's offensive continues across Ukraine
He also said that people are dying because of the lack of supplies and depicted a grim reality of neighbours forced to digs holes and bury their friends as the Russian siege stretches on.
But Ukrainian forces have fought back, shooting down four planes, three helicopters and numerous 'unmanned aerial vehicles' in a single day, inflicting 'devastating blows' on Putin's military.
'We have nothing. Our TV, our laptops, everything has been destroyed. It was a really good flat. We had three rooms. We liked living there. We had been there since 2004. Now we have to stay with relatives
Russian troops are edging closer to the capital and fighting is still raging in the suburbs, with two killed and seven injured at a nearby aircraft factory.
A missile was intercepted in the air above Kyiv but debris fell on to the city, hitting a bus and a car
Olexander said residents are forced to search for water, some walking up to three kilometres to find supplies which they then have to boil before drinking.
Firefighters use a ladder to evacuate a man from a residential building that was struck, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues in Kyiv
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
The talks ended without a breakthrough after several hours, with Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak saying the negotiators took 'a technical pause' and planned to meet again Tuesday.
Ukraine's capital 'resembles a disaster movie' today after Russian forces brutally blitzed an apartment block and debris rained down from an intercepted missile on to the city in Putin's latest barbaric attack
Video filmed amid a blanket of black smoke rising above the surrounded port city appears to show a missile strike on a set of high-rise buildings, razing at least one of the properties to the ground.
Homeowners Natalya Melnyk and Sergyi Tulyncev returned to view their destroyed apartment which they had rented out.
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
National Guard chief Viktor Zolotov blamed the slower than expected progress on what he said were far-right Ukrainian forces hiding behind civilians
People and medics help a wounded resident of a house destroyed by shelling as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues in Kyiv
Drone footage has captured the moment Russian missiles turned the besieged southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol into a hellscape as Moscow's forces continue to bombard buildings and civilians run out of food and water.
A police officer guards an area around a bus destroyed by shelling as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in Kyiv,
A firefighter rescues a cat from an apartment building inObolon, northern Kyiv, after it was hit by Russian forces on Monday
Russian President Vladimir Putin meets with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Grigorenko at the Kremlin in Moscow today
Tanya, 45, was asleep with her husband in the corner flat on the seventh floor of the apartment block when the missile hit.
Pictures of the unnamed mother-to-be in agony as she was carried from the Mariupol hospital appalled the watching world. She had come under attack in the very place she had thought safe to bring new life into the world.
'But we are going towards our goal step by step and victory will be for us, and this icon will protect the Russian army and accelerate our victory.'
Millions more have fled their homes, with more than 2.8 million crossing into Poland and other neighboring countries in what the UN has called Europe's biggest refugee crisis since World War II.
The aftermath of Russia army bombardment on the children hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, which stunned and appalled the world
People walk past a crater from the explosion in Mira Avenue, or Avenue of Peace, in Mariupol, Ukraine on Sunday, March 13
A view of destruction after an apartment building was hit by Russian attack in Kyiv this morning, killing one civilian
The building, pictured before today's attack, was home to dozens of Ukrainians but it has now been reduced to rubble
Another clip shows plumes of black smoke rising above Mariupol while flashes of artillery fire continue to light-up the small port city, which has experienced some of the worst suffering of Moscow's 19-day war
It did notsay how many people were in the convoy of cars headed westward for the city of Zaporizhzhia, but officials confirmed that a cease-fire along the route appeared to be holding.
She told MailOnline: 'I woke up in a shower of glass. All of the windows were broken and the doors were flying through the air.
In video and photos shot last Wednesday after the attack, the woman was seen stroking her bloodied lower abdomen as rescuers rushed her through the rubble in the besieged city of Mariupol.
A resident climbs down a ladder to safety after a nine-storey residential apartment was shelled in Kyiv, killing one person, Ukrainian officials said
The Antonov factory is Ukraine's largest aircraft manufacturing plant and is best known for producing many of the world's biggest cargo planes.
The two sides had expressed some optimism in the past few days. Podolyak said over the weekend that Russia was 'listening carefully to our proposals.'
Russia's military is bigger and better equipped than Ukraine's, but its troops have faced stiffer-than-expected resistance, bolstered by arms supplied by the West.
Zolotov, who was once in charge of Putin's personal security, said: 'I would like to say that yes, not everything is going as fast as we would like.
Overnight, Russian forces fired artillery on the capital's northwestern and eastern suburbs, killing a town councillor in Brovary as shells rained down on Irpen, Bucha and Hostomel.
Ukrainian servicemen and firefighters stand in the area outside of a maternity hospital damaged in a shelling attack in Mariupol on March 9
Meanwhile two people were killed and seven were injured after Russian forces struck a plane factory near Kyiv, sparking a large fire.
A view of an apartment building heavily damaged after a Russian rocket exploded just outside it in Ukraine's second city Kharkiv
'My friend has given us the keys to her flat. But I don't know how long we can stay in Kyiv.'
It is the latest in Russia's brutal assault on Mariupol which has been left without food, drinking water or medication for up nearly two weeks, MSF staffer Olexander who is inside the city reported.
An elderly woman is evacuated from a burning apartment block in the suburbs of Kyiv after it was destroyed by a Russian air strike in the early hours of Monday
'Before this happened we had got used to being so close to the war. From my flat I can see the fires and the fighting in Irpin, which is not so far away. But what here was a total shock.
A woman cries during evacuations from Bucha near Kyiv as Russian attacks continue throughout the country
A woman is in tears as she stands outside the destroyed apartment blocks following shelling in Kyiv
Firefighters work through the rubble after further attacks during Russia's invasion of Ukraine in Kharkiv
The attack, which injured at least a dozen people, came as Russian troops edged closer to the city and kept up their siege of the southern port city of Mariupol, where officials said nearly 2,200 people have been killed
Previous discussions, held in person in Belarus, did not produce lasting humanitarian routes or agreements to end the fighting.
'More than 30 minutes of resuscitation of the mother didn't produce results,' Mr Marin said on Saturday. 'Both died.'
A pedestrian walks past as a missile lands just yards away from him during Russia's latest assault on Kyiv today
In the strongest public acknowledgement yet from Moscow that things were not going to plan, National Guard chief Viktor Zolotov blamed the slower than expected progress on what he said were far-right Ukrainian forces hiding behind civilians, an accusation repeatedly made by officials in Russia.
A crane removes a ruined car from in front of a destroyed apartment building after it was shelled in Kyiv
A woman walks past building obliterated by Russian shelling in the southern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol on Sunday, March 13
The woman was rushed to another hospital, closer to the frontline, where doctors worked to keep her alive.
His comments appeared at odds with an assessment on Friday by Russia's Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu who told Putin that 'everything is going according to plan'.
A fourth round of negotiations involving higher-level officials from Russia and Ukraine were held via video conference on Monday.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
The UN has recorded at least 596 civilian deaths since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, though it believes the true toll is much higher.
Another clip shows plumes of black smoke rising above Mariupol while flashes of artillery fire continue to light-up the small port city, which has experienced some of the worst suffering of Moscow's 19-day war.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that 'Russia has its own potential to continue the operation' and that it was 'unfolding in accordance with the plan and will be completed on time and in full.'
Speaking after this morning's attack, Volodymyr Zelensky vowed to rebuild every destroyed Ukrainian street and building.
Surgeon Timur Marin found the woman's pelvis crushed and hip detached. Medics delivered the baby via caesarean section, but it showed 'no signs of life', the surgeon said. They then began work on the mother.
People are helped out of damaged building of a children's hospital following a Russian air strike in the southeastern city of Mariupol
Calling upon that human spirit, we are supporting a huge push to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Mayor of Kyiv Vitali Klitschko surveys the damage after a strike this morning on a housing estate saw one person killed
Natalya, 62, said: 'That could have been our apartment. We were not there last night. We don't live there anyone more.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of this conflict will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
'We rent out our flat to a young. Now he has run away. He is so frightened. Our flat is on the first floor. Everything has been destroyed.'
Wiping back tears she said: 'I am still shaking. My head is all over the place. It's very difficult to talk about what happened.
Ukrainian servicemen work inside of the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine on the day of the attack
He said supplies of food, medicines and wood for making fires had run out and that residents have been forced to scrounge for supplies after the city was cut off by Vladimir Putin's men.
A wrecked car is seen suspended in a tree after Russian air strikes damaged a civilian apartment block in Obolon, Kyiv
A second piece of footage shows a string of high-rise buildings burning next to a row of charred structures that appear to have already been hit by Russian missile strikes in Moscow's relentless bombardment of the city.
It came asUkraine's capital of Kyiv 'resembles a disaster movie' today after Russian forces brutally blitzed an apartment block and debris rained down from an intercepted missile on to the city in Putin's latest barbaric attack.
As she sat on a patch of grass waiting for her relatives to take her to safety she described the horror of being caught up in the worsening battle for the city.
One person was killed and a dozen were injured after the residential building in the north of the capital was hit this morning, narrowly avoiding a passing pedestrian.
Lyudmila Evseskaya, 62, who lived in the flat with her husband Victor, 63, and son Sergey, 31, was asleep in her first floor apartment on Bohoatyrska Street when the missile stuck Kyiv after 5am this morning.
'My daughter lives in another flat in the block. They live there with my granddaughter. She is one and a half years old. All of their windows were smashed.
A man places a small Ukrainian flag on a burnt balcony of an apartment in a block which was destroyed by an artillery strike
A medical worker walks inside of the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9
Despite the blows, one of Putin's closest allies said Russia's invasion is not going as quickly as the Kremlin had wanted.
On Monday morning the doctors trying to save them both spoke of the huge efforts trying to keep them both alive.
'We only managed to grab our emergency bag with our documents passports and a little food. I managed to get the dog, Marta, but I couldn't find the cats, Misha and Msha.
A views shows a building and vehicles destroyed by shelling as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues in Kyiv
Firefighters help a man evacuate from an apartment building hit by shelling in the Obolon district of Kyiv this morning
The war expanded Sunday when Russian missiles pounded a military training base in western Ukraine, close to the Polish border, that previously served as a crucial hub for cooperation between Ukraine and NATO.
Russia has intensified its attacks on Kyiv with air strikes raining down on the city, while fighting and artillery fire rage around the suburbs
On Monday, a convoy of 160 civilian cars left the surrounded port city of Mariupol along a designated humanitarian route, the city council reported in a rare glimmer of hope for the citywhere the war has produced some of the greatest suffering.
People look at a burning apartment building in a yard after shelling in Mariupol, Ukraine, on Sunday, March 13
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry the injured pregnant woman from the maternity hospital that was damaged by shelling in Mariupol on March 9
Robert Mardini, director-general of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said the war has become 'nothing short of a nightmare' for those living in besieged cities, and he pleaded for safe passage for civilians to leave and humanitarian aid to be brought in through the front lines.
