ABC political panel show QA plunges to disastrous ratings low after THAT confrontation between Stan Grant and a proRussian university student
20220311
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10601395/ABC-political-panel-Q-plunges-disastrous-ratings-low.html
The Sunday Project's Hamish Macdonald was host from 2020 to mid-2021, and during this period QA lost ground with audiences.
Not a winner: Hamish McDonald left the QA hosting gig after 18 months in July 2021 to return to Channel 10
According to the Australian Institute of International Affairs,Sasha Gillies-Lekakis is an Honours Student in Spanish and Latin American Studies.
The current affairs panel show was once a ratings winner for the national broadcaster, attracting major political leaders of all persuasions.
Its website states he is passionate about Cuban history and politics and recently graduated from the University of Melbourne.
ABC's QA scored its worst ratings ever on Thursday night with a metro audience of just 175,000 viewers.
Grant addressed Gillies-Lekakis later in the show and repeatedly asked him to leave, explaining the advocacy of violence would not be tolerated.
His controversial take on the invasion sparked fierce debate on the panel, and ultimately saw him booted from the show, prompting raucous applause.
Gone:His controversial take on the invasion sparked fierce debate on the panel, and ultimately saw him booted from the show, prompting raucous applause
The broadcast saw an all-female panel discuss gender, equality and justice with anchor Stan Grant.
'Believe it or not, there are a lot of Russians here and around the world who support what Putin is doing in Ukraine, myself included.'
Grant, who hosts QA on a rotation with David Speers and Virginia Trioli, faced backlash on Twitter from media players who said his decision to boot Gillies-Lekakis was an affront to free speech.
Often controversial, QA divided opinion once again last week when host Grant, 58, took exception to remarks made by a Melbourne university student.
Toby Jones hosted QA from its inception in 2008. Some media commentators believe theshow lost its edge whenhe stepped down from the role in 2015.
Ejected: Melbourne university student Sasha Gillies-Lekakis was last week removed from the studio after he claimed on air that Russia was under threat from Ukrainian 'Nazi' killers
Decline:ABC's QA, hosted byStan Grant pictured, scored its worst ratings ever on Thursday night with a metro audience of just 175,000 viewers
Losing audience: QA currently has a rotating roster of hosts, including Grant, David Speers pictured and Virginia Trioli
But for the last few years there has been a major decline in its audience, and the show has frequently been under scrutiny for its perceived political bias.
Sasha Gillies-Lekakis was removed from the studio during the broadcast after he claimed on air thatRussiawas under threat from Ukrainian 'Nazi' killers.
'As someone who comes from the Russian community in Australia, I've been pretty outraged by the narrative created by the media depicting Ukraine as "the good guy" and Russia as the "bad guy",' he told the panel.
