Alessandra Ambrosio is the epitome of glamour in a dazzling white ball gown as she steps out for the Armageddon Time screening at Cannes Film Festival
20220519
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10834219/Alessandra-Ambrosio-epitome-glamour-ball-gown-poses-balcony-Cannes.html
'We are ready. The town hall has just redone everything - the whole place - so we hope it will go well,' said Jeremie Tripet, manager of 'L'Avenue', a bistro just off the main drag known as La Croisette.
Making a return: After Cannes was entirely cancelled in 2020 and held under strict health protocols in 2021, the red carpet returned in all its glamour on Tuesday night for the Opening Ceremony
Natural: The beauty went makeup free and scraped her dark locks back into a ponytail while enjoying her time in Cannes
But otherwise the festival is keen to put the pandemic in the past, with no mandatory masks or health passes this year - and no restrictions to partying.
In total, some 35,000 film professionals are expected to attend the festival between May 17 and 28, hoping for a return to form for cinema's most glamorous event after two years when it was hampered by Covid-19 restrictions.
Screening:The 75th Cannes Film Festival is well underway and celebrity guests arrived for the screening of Armageddon Time on Thursday, which stars Anthony Hopkins
He was shooting a follow-up to his celebrated documentary Mariupolis, about the conflict in Ukraine's Donbas region, when he was reportedly captured and killed.
The film written and directed by James Grey whose previous films include Little Odessa, The Immigrant and Ad Astra.
Stunning!The 41-year-old supermodel dazzled in a white ball gown with silver detail covering her ample assets as she looked down from the hotel Martinez
Kisses! Alessandra blew a kiss to onlookers as she arrived for the screening during the star-studded 75th instalment of Cannes Film Festival
The two-week annual event will see hotly-anticipated films Top Gun: Maverick and King of Rock 'N Roll' biopic Elvis shown.
There are only five women directors in the competition, hoping to follow the success of last year's winner, Titane, which made Julia Ducournau only the second female to win the Palme.
After Cannes was entirely cancelled in 2020 and held under strict health protocols in 2021, the red carpet returned in all its glamour on Tuesday night for the Opening Ceremony.
There is set to be an array of TikTok stars taking to the red carpet this year after organisers sought to refresh their image by partnering with the video streaming platform, which is sponsoring an award for short films.
Looking good:She added white silk gloves to the elegant ensemble and accessorised with a matching silver necklace and earrings
The final film by Lithuanian director Mantas Kvedaravicius, who was killed by Russian forces in Ukraine last month, will get a special screening.
One major exception is the absence of Russians, due to the impact of sanctions over the war in Ukraine and a ruling from the organisers that state-linked delegates are not welcome. China is also expected to have a limited presence due to its continuing Covid restrictions.
'Together we will have a great festival - we will think a lot about cinema without ever stopping thinking about Ukraine.'
Bombshell: Alessandra flaunted her natural good looks as she sported a light dusting of make-up, including a slick of eyeliner and pink lipstick
Casual: Earlier in the day, Alessandra cut a low-key figure in a pair of white joggers and a nude Almina Concept crop top as she took in the view while sipping on a Nespresso coffee
Earlier in the day, she had posed up a storm in the same glitzy outfit for a mini photoshoot on her balcony at the hotel Martinez.
Film fans can get stuck into the usual feast of new releases and competition entries, braving the festival's famously opinionated crowds, who are never shy about cheering and booing during screenings.
Dancing: Alessandra did not shy away from showing off her sensational skirt as she posed up a storm
Fairytale: Alessandra did not fail to make an entrance like a princess as she posed on a staircase in her sweeping gown
Glamorous: She added white silk gloves to the elegant ensemble and accessorised with a matching silver necklace and earrings
Stealing the show: The stunner complemented the puffy skirt with elegant gloves that stopped a fraction below her shoulders and she completed her look with a distinctive necklace
The jury charged with selecting the winners this year includes Indian superstar Deepika Padukone and Iran's two-time Oscar-winning director Asghar Farhadi, and is headed by French actor Vincent Lindon.
All smiles: Alessandra appeared to be in excellent spirits as she leant down to pick up her voluminous skirt to climb the stars
Princess: Alessandra was every inch the glamorous model as she posed on the stairs of her hotel
What a stunner:Arriving at Palais des Festival, Brazilian-American model Alessandra, 41, was bound to stand out from the crowd
Alessandra swept her brunette tresses back into a bun and sported a natural makeup palette as she captured attention on the red carpet.
Elvis, playing out of competition, sees newcomer Austin Butler stepping into The King's blue suede shoes. Tom Hanks plays his infamous manager, Colonel Tom Parker.
The film chosen to open the festival was Final Cut, a comedy love letter to filmmaking and Z-list zombie movies from the team behind the award-winning The Artist.
The main competition also includes exiled Russian Kirill Serebrennikov, who was unable to attend for his two previous nominations due to a politically charged conviction for embezzlement back home.
Alongside all the glitz, festival director Thierry Fremaux said Cannes aimed to keep the war in Ukraine in the spotlight.
The Victoria's Secret Angel arrived in Cannes on Wednesday for the the famous Film Festival which attracts all walks of life from the world of showbiz.
Incredible:Alessandra Ambrosio looked the epitome of glamour as she took to the red carpet for Armageddon Time screening at Cannes Film Festival on Thursday
Alessandra Ambrosio looked the epitome of glamour as she took to the red carpet forArmageddon Time screening at Cannes Film Festival onThursday.
Elegance:As Alessandra posed from the back, it gave the cameras a better glimpse of her elegant coiffure
The 41-year-old supermodel dazzled in a white ball gown with silver detail covering her ample assets as she captured attention at the Palais des Festivals.
Glamorous:The 41-year-old supermodel dazzled in a white ball gown with silver detail covering her ample assets as she captured attention on the star-studded red carpet
She added white silk gloves to the elegant ensemble and accessorised with a matching silver necklace and earrings.
Standout: The star complemented the embellishments by donning a billowing skirt which left an unmissable trail
The American period drama film is described as a coming-of-age story about growing up in Queens in the 1980s.
Figure: Alessandra showed off her physique in the barely-there top and let her dramatic train run behind her
Bold: The model accessorised her already eye-catching ensemble with a statement silver necklace and glitzy dangling earrings
The Canadian director told IndieWire it is likely to cause walkouts 'within the first five minutes'.
Popular: In total, some 35,000 film professionals are expected to attend the festival between May 17 and 28, hoping for a return to form for cinema's most glamorous event after two years when it was hampered by Covid-19 restrictions
As Alessandra posed from the back, it gave the cameras a better glimpse of her elegant coiffure.
There's a lot of excitement around the Elvis Presley biopic from Australia's Baz Luhrmann, hoping to recreate the buzz he generated when he brought the can-can to Cannes with Moulin Rouge! 20 years ago.
Gorgeous: Alessandra swept her brunette tresses back into a neat bun and sported a natural makeup palette during the mini photoshoot
Elsewhere on Thursday, Alessandra cut a low-key figure in a pair of white joggers and a nude Almina Concept crop top as she took in the view while sipping on a Nespresso coffee.
There are 21 films in the race for the Palme d'Or, including the latest body-horror fable from David Cronenberg, Crimes of the Future, starring Lea Seydoux and Kristen Stewart.
Fremaux said the festival wanted to lend a hand to 'the Russians who take risks to resist' while offering 'absolute and non-negotiable support to the Ukrainian people'.
Strike a pose: The Victoria's Secret Angel arrived in Cannes on Wednesday for the the famous Film Festival which attracts all walks of life from the world of showbiz
The 75th Cannes Film Festival is well underway and celebrity guests arrived for the screening ofArmageddon Time on Thursday, which stars Anne Hathaway,Anthony Hopkins and Succession star Jeremy Strong.
