Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her toned legs in a ruffled mini dress with a plunging neckline as she steps out during Cannes Film Festival
20220520
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10836735/Alessandra-Ambrosio-shows-toned-legs-ruffled-mini-dress-plunging-neckline.html
Elsewhere on Friday, Nieves Alvarez was seen in a white dress with a daring thigh-split, paired with statement stiletto heels featuring orange beaded detailing.
Unfortunately the pre-order window for this dress has closed but you can click the product image to shop a very similar new season style.
Angelic:The supermodel stunned in a cream-coloured frock - which featured a ruffled skirt and artfully exposed her midriff at the sides
This major mini dress hails from the collaboration. Crafted from crochet knit, it features tiered fringe trim, cutout detailing, a plunging neckline and sculptural hem.
In total, some 35,000 film professionals are expected to attend the festival between May 17 and 28, hoping for a return to form for cinema's most glamorous event after two years when it was hampered by Covid-19 restrictions.
But otherwise the festival is keen to put the pandemic in the past, with no mandatory masks or health passes this year - and no restrictions to partying.
Chic:Pearly earrings, a simple ring and a hand-watch added a chic flair to Alessandra's vibe as the stunner posed for photos outside the hotel
With summer in full swing, we're giddily throwing on all manner of dresses to make to most of the sunshine. If you're in the market for a new one, why not take some style inspiration from Alessandra Ambrosio...
The Victoria's Secret supermodel is a devoted fan of PatBO - the eponymous womenswear label founded by Patricia Bonaldi - so much so that she's collaborated with the designer on a collection of her own!
Pearly earrings, a simple ring and a hand-watch added a chic flair to Alessandra's vibe as the stunner posed for photos outside the hotel.
Summer chic:Alessandra was snapped outside the Martinez Hotel during the during the star-studded 75th Annual Cannes Film Festival currently taking place
After Cannes was entirely cancelled in 2020 and held under strict health protocols in 2021, the red carpet returned in all its glamour on Tuesday night for the Opening Ceremony.
There is set to be an array of TikTok stars taking to the red carpet this year after organisers sought to refresh their image by partnering with the video streaming platform, which is sponsoring an award for short films.
Bold: Nieves Alvarez, 47, was also snapped nearby on Friday, in a white dress with a daring thigh-split, paired with statement stiletto heels featuring orange beaded detailing
Alternatively, head to the carousel where you'll find a host of crochet mini dresses from the high-street and high-end.
Alessandra dazzled in a white ball gown with silver detail covering her cleavage as the star captured attention at the Palais des Festivals.
One major exception is the absence of Russians, due to the impact of sanctions over the war in Ukraine and a ruling from the organisers that state-linked delegates are not welcome.
The night before she was the epitome of glamour as she took to the red carpet for the Armageddon Time screening at the iconic film festival.
China is also expected to have a limited presence due to its continuing Covid restrictions.
Alessandra's tanned skin made for the perfect complement to her ensemble, which included tassel detailing.
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo star had her chestnut hair up in a top-bun, holding onto a toffee-coloured hanbag as she strutted forward in beige stiletto heels.
Pretty in pink:Kat Graham, 32, also showed off a trendy casual ensemble as she made an appearance by the hotel during the prestige film festival
The Swedish actress, 42, showed off her svelte figure by cinching the collared gown at the waist with a chunky brown leather belt.
Legs for days:Alessandra Ambrosio, 41, looked incredible as she showed off her toned legs in a cleavage-plunging multi-textured dress in Cannes, France, on Friday
The Vampire Diaries actress, 32, wore an eye-catching baby-pink two piece, made up of a matching set of a turtleneck and trousers.
Legs out:A bold red lip tied the look together as the star posed up a storm by the sea in a chic pair of sunglasses, putting her incredibly toned legs on display
The supermodel, 41, stunned in a cream-coloured frock - which featured a ruffled skirt and exposed her midriff at the sides.
The Victoria's Secret Angel wore her highlighted locks down in effortless waves, finishing the glam outfit off with a pair of shades.
Natural:Noomi accentuated her fresh face and sunny freckles with a simple pink lipstick as she popped some sunglasses on
The film chosen to open the festival was Final Cut, a comedy love letter to filmmaking and Z-list zombie movies from the team behind the award-winning The Artist.
Kat Graham also showed off a trendy casual ensemble as she made an appearance by the hotel during the prestige film festival.
Easy glam:The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo star had her chestnut hair up in a top-bun, holding onto a toffee-coloured hanbag as she strutted forward in beige stiletto heels
Noomi accentuated her fresh face and sunny freckles with a simple pink lipstick as she popped some sunglasses on.
Stunner:Noomi Rapace, 42, was also snapped as she stepped out of the Martinez Hotel on Friday, looking glam in a silky, collared caramel maxi-dress
She added white silk gloves to the elegant ensemble and accessorised with a matching silver necklace and earrings.
Head to toe: The Vampire Diaries actress wore an eye-catching baby-pink two piece, made up of a matching set of a turtleneck and trousers
Noomi Rapace was also snapped as she stepped out of theMartinez Hotel on Friday, looking glam in a silky, collared caramel maxi-dress.
Alessandra Ambrosio looked incredible as she showed off her toned legs in a plunging, multi-textured dress in Cannes, France, on Friday.
Kat had some sleek black shades on and her hair pulled back, revealing a fresh-faced dewy complexion.
The supermodel, 47, wore her sleek hair in a pin-straight style and accesorised with simple but elegant golden jewellery.
Details:The Victoria's Secret Angel wore her highlighted locks down in effortless waves, finishing the glam outfit off with a pair of shades
The cosy ribbed outfit was paired with some easy flipflops as the star carried an ornately printed black and yellow tote.
Wow: On Thursdayshe was the epitome of glamour as she took to the red carpet for the Armageddon Time screening at the iconic film festival
A bold red lip tied the look together as the star posed up a storm by the sea in a chic pair of sunglasses, putting her incredibly toned legs on display.
