And the award for worst dressed goes to Naomi Campbell and Lashana Lynch tone down the glam at bland BAFTAs as stars are advised to dress respectably
20220314
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10609075/Naomi-Campbell-Lashana-Lynch-tone-glam-bland-BAFTA-Emma-Watson-misses-memo.html
Dapper: At leastSebastian Stan accessorised the collar of his white shirt with edgy metal silver hoops
However the 2022 ceremony saw celebrity arrivals cause onlookers to sigh in disappointment with their surprisingly subdued and boring ensembles as they arrived atLondon's Royal Albert Hall on Sunday.
The nominations for the BAFTA awards were announced last month with Dune, The Power Of The Dog and Belfast leading with 11, eight and six respectively.
And the award for worst dressed goes to? Naomi Campbell left and Lashana Lynch centre toned down the glam at the bland BAFTAs on Sunday after reportedly being advised to 'dress respectably' but Emma Watson, right, missed the memo!
The event saw the likes ofBenedict Cumberbatch, Daisy Ridley and Jessie Buckley hit the star-studded photocall. But according to reports, celebrities were unanimously planning to dress in black in advance.
Initial reports suggested the base had been targeted by eight missiles, but Maksym Kozytskyi, Governor of the region later confirmed 30 cruise missiles had been fired, killing nine people and injuring 57.
And Janet Street Porter took aim at the events organisers writing: 'It's business as usual. The organisers clearly believe 'we've got through Covid, let's carry on enjoying ourselves'.
The base has previously been used to host Nato drills and up until recently has housed foreign military instructors, although its unclear if any have been caught up in the strike.
'The last thing they want is something like Lady Gaga's infamous meat dress or anything too controversial.'
It comes after explosions were heard on the outskirts of the western Ukrainian city of Lviv after Russian forces launched an attack on a military base just 12 miles from the Polish border, killing at least nine people and injuring dozens more.
It follows claims that celebrity attendees were advised to 'dress respectably' due to the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Age-defying:Joanna Scanlan also opted for a black dress, while accessorising her look with a gold purse
Vladimir Putin's forces launched a missile strike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security, also known as Yavoriv military complex, just before 6am this morning.
Suits you? The Crown star Emerald Fennell opted for an over-sized velvet tuxedo for her big night
Uninspired: A source said: 'Several senior showbiz agents have advised stars to dress respectably, amid fears attention-grabbing dresses and suits would appear distasteful in light of the Ukraine conflict' L-R: Ellie Bamber, Daisy Ridley and Jessica Plummer
Statement: Stephen Graham left wore a Ukraine ribbon to show his support for war-torn country Ukraine - howeverSimon Pegg right decided to go without
'Wouldn't we respect them more, if someone back at mission control had the guts to stand up and say - 'let's call the whole thing off until peace is restored in Ukraine. This backslapping and awarding is grotesque'.'
'Several senior showbiz agents have advised stars to dress respectably, amid fears attention-grabbing dresses and suits would appear distasteful in light of the Ukraine conflict,' a source told the Sun on Sunday.
Denis Villeneuve's star-studded sci-fi epic landed a slew of technical nods, along with a nod for the top prize for Best Film, while Jane Campion's dark Western and Kenneth Branagh's Irish biopic follows close behind with eight and six respectively.
Predictable: Many celebrities stuck to the suggested black dress code, with Lady Gaga left and Jessie Buckley right opting to go with the flow
