Another Russian ammo dump is obliterated with USsupplied HIMARS missiles paratrooper commander is killed and invading troops blown up by mortar strike in latest loses for Putins forces
20220713
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-11013453/Russian-ammo-dump-obliterated-supplied-HIMARS-missiles-troops-blown-mortar-strike.html
Ukrainian officials say the demand for such technology is 'immense' with crowdfunding efforts under way to raise the necessary cash for purchases.
The Office of Strategic Communications StratCom of the Armed Forces of Ukraine shared the footage yesterday
Footage shared by Ukrainian forces shows the storehouse exploding into a huge fireball, sending sparks shooting up into the sky.
Ukraine's commanders previously said they intended to use the artillery systems to strike deep behind the Russian frontline, destroying command posts and ammo dumps.
To add to the Ukrainian successes, anotherRussian colonel has been killed in the latest high-profile casualty of the invasion.
In another setback for the Kremlin, aerial footage shows Ukrainian special forces picking off Russian troops who had settled in civilian buildings.
Both sides are looking to procure jamming-resistant, advanced drones that could offer a decisive edge in battle.
In Nova Kakhovka, the site of a previous Ukrainian attack this week, multiple explosions rocked the warehouse overnight in the latest blow to Putin's barbaric war campaign.
The Ukrainian military, which reported Russian shelling and air strikes on Siversk and Kramatorsk, said it was holding the line on all fronts and that it was repelling all attempted assaults.
Colonel Maxim Kudrin, in his late 30s, a senior paratrooper, is the latest high profile casualty of Russia's invasion
The Office of Strategic Communications StratCom of the Armed Forces of Ukraine shared the footage yesterday which shows the mortar strikes on the occupying forces.
'The ageing vehicles, weapons and Soviet-era tactics used by Russian forces do not lend themselves to quickly regaining or building momentum unless used in overwhelming mass - which Russia is currently unable to bring to bear,' the MoD said.
America began sending the advanced long-range rocket artillery systems to Ukraine last month after repeated requests from Kyiv, which said it needed the weapons to level the playing field with Russian batteries in the Donbas.
The SSO is typically tasked with carrying out operations that involve gathering intelligence, undertaking special reconnaissance missions, performing acts of sabotage and conducting psychological warfare.
He is believed to have died in a strike by HIMARS missiles which have wreaked havoc in recent Ukrainian attacks on Russian positions.
The Russian soldiers were taken out by the Ukrainian Special Operations Forces SSO, which is a branch of the military that is made up exclusively of Spetsnaz - special forces - troops.
Earlier this week, the same city was targeted by Ukraine using HIMARS missiles, killing 52 people according to the Ukrainian military.
Russia routinely fails to announce its losses but his sister Irina Zheltukhia, 40, confirmed his funeral will be on Saturday in Siberian city Omsk.
The systems are in demand for their ability to carry out precision strikes over long distances - more than double the range of the howitzers the West has already sent.
Aerial footage shows Ukrainian special forces picking off Russian troops who had settled in civilian buildings
In Nova Kakhova, the site of a previous Ukrainian attack this week, multiple explosions rocked a warehouse overnight
The mortar fire shows the continued success of the Ukrainian military against the invading forces
The town of Soledar, seen as a gateway to the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut and Kramatorsk, had been bombed too, the Ukrainian military said.
Both the Russian forces and Ukrainian militaries are seeking to replenish their depleted stocks of unmanned aerial vehicles to pinpoint enemy positions and guide artillery strikes.
Footage shared by Ukrainian forces shows the storehouse exploding into a huge fireball, sending sparks shooting up into the sky
Britain's ministry of defence said it looked like Russian forces were struggling to make headway in eastern Ukraine as the war grinds towards the five-month mark because they were unable to marshal the necessary critical mass they needed to advance.
The attack in the Kherson region killed 13 'occupiers', Serhiy Bratchuk, spokesperson for the Odesa regional administration, quoted the Operational Command South as saying.
Ukraine has unleashed its renewed firepower on Russian forces, obliterating an ammo dump with US-supplied HIMARS missiles and shelling occupying troops with mortar fire.
