Australian woman embarks on a desperate international mission to rescue her adopted child from warravaged Ukraine after a twoyear ordeal
20220415
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10721053/Australian-woman-travels-Ukraine-rescue-adopted-son-amid-war-Russia.html
Ms Kuzma, left from Proserpine in the Whitsundays, arrived in the eastern European country this week hoping to wrap her arms around her biological nephew Maxim far right
Queensland mother,Yuliia Kuzma, pictured has embarked on a terrifying mission to rescue her adopted son from war-torn Ukraine
Ms Kuzma, a single mother who works at a bakery, said she will 'squash' Maxim in a big hug when she's finally reunited with her son.
Maxim has been looked after by his guardian, who is a close friend of Ms Kuzma, but who didn't want to flee Ukraine.
The adoption process was finalised in 2020 but due to Covid and border closures Maxim was unable to come to Australia - and in another blow just as the borders reopened, the conflict in Ukraine escalated.
Yuliia Kuzma, from Proserpine in the Whitsundays, arrived in the eastern European country this week hoping to wrap her arms around her biological nephew Maxim.
A passport and visa for Maxim had been organised but he still needs to secure a vaccine certificate.
A Queensland mother has embarked on a terrifying mission to rescue her adopted son from war-torn Ukraine.
'The twins ask me every day, ''Mum, Mum ... when will my big brother be here?'' Ms Kuzma told the ABC.
Ms Kuzma said she felt it was up to her to save Maxim, having had the heartbreaking task of saying goodbye to her two young children earlier this week
Sharing updates to her Instagram page, Ms Kuzma filmed herself sitting in a train station in Lviv on Thursday. Her latest post was her travelling on a train toKremenchuk, nearly 12 hours away.
Sharing updates to her Instagram page, Ms Kuzma filmed herself sitting in a cafe near a train station in Lviv on Thursday
She shared a photo of the curtains drawn on her carriage with the caption: 'all curtains closed for blackout'.
Ms Kuzma, who has seven-year-old twins of her own and migrated from Ukraine to Australia in 2015, made the decision to adopt the 12-year-old after her sister was unable to take care of him.
Maxim and his guardian have already had to flee their home inKharkiv for a safer city after it was left in ruins by Russian forces a month ago.
She has been planning with Maxim's guardian on when the best time to come was, and is hoping to escort the 12-year-old across the border and fly home to Australia next week.
