Bethenny Frankel details her fundraising efforts for Ukrainian refugees  as she cohosts Live with Kelly and Ryan
20220309
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10592563/Bethenny-Frankel-details-fundraising-efforts-Ukrainian-refugees-Live-Kelly-Ryan.html
Frankel previously spoke with TMZ about her ongoing humanitarian work on Monday, as she said that goods have been transported from 'two massive warehouses' based in Hungary and Poland to an undisclosed location in Ukraine.
Frankel opened up on her ongoing humanitarian efforts to co-host Ryan Seacrest as she filled in for Kelly Ripa on Tuesday's edition of the ABC talk show
The star joined Seacrest in a cooking segment on Tuesday's edition of the ABC show
Ukraine officials said Tuesday that around two million people, half of whom are children, have left the country in the period since Russia invaded less than two weeks ago.
'Weve seen such a group of people that stayed, and theres no food for them ... so were going back in.'
'The mission is refugees out and aid in,' Frankel told the outlet. 'We have to get people out, the onslaught of people in these places could debilitate them. It is not about keeping them there and keeping them happy there, because while that's kind, we have to get them out.'
She said that the aid was organized into medical supplies, food, and essential items such as wipes.
The former Real Housewives Of New York City star said she and her philanthropic colleagues have raised 'more than $4 million in cash and we brought $10 million in aid into those countries'
The Skinnygirl mogul said that the funds raised were mostly smaller amounts from American donors, which have gone a long way
The Skinnygirl mogul said that the funds raised were mostly smaller amounts from American donors, which have gone a long way.
The former Real Housewives Of New York City star said she and her philanthropic colleagues have raised 'more than $4 million in cash and we brought $10 million in aid into those countries, so its pretty crazy.'
Frankel, 51, opened up on her ongoing humanitarian efforts to co-host Ryan Seacrest as she filled in for Kelly Ripa on Tuesday's edition of the ABC talk show.
Frankel said those who want to donate can via her BStrong Foundation, which she has past aimed at causes including COVID-19 relief, natural disasters and helping small businesses rebuild.
'Weve been in Ukraine - initially we were in Poland to help the refugees, relocate them with travel logistics, give them survival kits, etc., and now we have a warehouse there and were collecting aid and bringing it back into Ukraine because so many people stayed.
Bethenny Frankel opened up about her charitable efforts toward helping Ukranian refugees amid the ongoing invasion from Russia while co-hosting Live with Kelly and Ryan Tuesday.
Frankel told the outlet that her daughter Bryn, 11, has also been involved in her fundraising, creating artwork of the Ukraine flag to be sold, with proceeds going to the cause.
'This is the American people, this is literally $50 donations, because a $50 donation could be a train ticket for someone to get to where they need to get to. So it's been all about small donations, so that's the thing, it's really inspiring.'
Frankel said those who want to donate can via her BStrong Foundation, which she has past aimed at causes including COVID-19 relief, natural disasters and helping small businesses
Frankel said of the situation,'Weve seen such a group of people that stayed, and theres no food for them ... so were going back in'
The latest:Bethenny Frankel, 51, opened up about her charitable efforts toward helping Ukranian refugees amid the ongoing invasion from Russia while co-hosting Live with Kelly and Ryan Tuesday
