Biden sanctions Vladimir Putin PERSONALLY US hits Russian leaders 200billion wealth and his foreign minister Sergei Lavrov after Joe spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky for 40 minutes
20220225
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10552765/Biden-calls-Zelensky-Ukrainian-president-took-streets-Kyiv.html
'We cannot take the luxury to be a discussion club,' Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda said overnight at an emergency summit of European Union leaders held to impose a 'heavy price' on Russia through sanctions. 'We need to take action.'
President Joe Biden will meet virtually with fellow NATO members on Friday morning to reassure eastern allies they will be protected
NATO began beefing up its defenses in northeastern Europe after Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula in 2014. Recently, some members have also sent troops, aircraft and warships to the Black Sea region, near allies Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey.
Lithuania declared a state of emergency Thursday after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops into Ukraine. Lithuania borders Russias Kaliningrad region to the southwest. NATO members Belarus is to the east, Latvia is to the north and Poland is to the south.
'Who is ready to fight alongside us? I don't see anyone,' he said on Thursday night. 'Who is ready to give Ukraine a guarantee of NATO membership? Everyone is afraid.'
'Strengthening sanctions, concrete defense assistance and an anti-war coalition have just been discussed with POTUS. Grateful to United States for the strong support to Ukraine!,' he wrote on Twitter.
Short-term, NATO has activated an emergency planning system to allow commanders to move forces more quickly. The Pentagon said Thursday that it is sending 7,000 troops to Europe in addition to 5,000 recently deployed personnel.
The European Union will freeze Putin's assets and those of the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, but will not impose a travel ban on them, the New York Times reported.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia was ready to send a delegation to Minsk. But Peskovmade it clear that Russia expected Ukraine's 'denazification and demilitarization' of Ukraine, meaning Kyiv's capitulation.
The Baltic members have said the West should 'urgently provide Ukrainian people with weapons, ammunition and any other kind of military support to defend itself as well as economic, financial and political assistance and support, humanitarian aid.'
'In alignment with the decision by our European allies, the United States will join them in sanctioning President Putin and Foreign Minister Lavrov and members of the Russian national security team,' White House press secretary Jen Psaki said at her press briefing.
'We are here. We are in Kyiv. We are defending Ukraine,' Zelensky said in a video posted to Facebook. He spoke in the streets of Kyiv, the night sky visible behind him.
President Joe Biden is planning to impose sanctions directly on Vladimir Putin center andRussian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov right
It's unclear what kind of support Biden offered to Zelensky, who said he is 'target number one' for Russian assassins and his wife and children are 'number two.'
Russian battle plans to take Kyiv and force an early end to the war in Ukraine have been revealed by US intelligence, who say troops and armour would be used to capture airfields, before a force of 10,000 paratroopers would be flown in to capture the city, round up the government, and force them to sign a peace deal handing control of the country back to Russia
Zelensky had been critical of a lack of support from the United States and its allies. He was also battling a Russian-disinformation campaign that he had fled Kyiv.
A brave Ukrainian citizen has been filmed apparently trying to stop a convoy of Russian Tigr-M fighting vehicles - similar to American Humvees - moving along a highway close to Crimea in scenes reminiscent of Tiananmen Square's 'tank man'
Amid reports the Kremlin is gunning for him,Zelenskyhad slammed the United States and its allies for leaving his country to fight alone.
Before the phone call, Biden met virtually with fellowNATO members on Friday morning to reassure eastern allies they will be protected as Russian troops prepared to enter Kyiv.
U.S. intelligence officials are worried the Ukrainian capitol could fall within days, CNN reported, as Russian forces are within 20 miles of its location and residents are being urged to makeMolotov cocktails to help defend the city.
Additionally, pressure is building on Biden to personally sanction Putin. The U.S. has already sanctioned several members of Putin's inner circle and many Russian oligarchs who made their money off his regime.
After the meeting, NATOSecretary General Jens Stoltenberg said the 30-nation organization will send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployable spearhead unit to the alliances eastern flank. Its the first time the force has been used to defend NATO allies.
A general view of a meeting room during a virtual summit called in by NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, after Russia launched a massive military operation against Ukraine, in Brussels, Belgium
President Joe Bidenis planning to impose sanctions directly on Vladimir Putin, the White House announced on Friday.
Meanwhile, the Kremlin offered to send a delegation to Belarus to negotiate with Ukraine but only under harsh conditions.
The Ukrainian president took to the streets of Kyiv to say 'we are still here' while Ukrainian forces slowed down Russian advances and civilians took up arms to fight for the capital Kyiv.
Biden said Thursday that sanctioning the Russian leader remained 'on the table' but refused to answer a question on why Putin has not yet been personally targeted.
The European Union and United Kingdom announced they would introduce sanctions targeting Putin and Lavrov on Friday.
Putin will become the highest target to be hit after the White House imposed measures on multiple Russian banks and oligarchs. Biden had been under pressure to target Putin personally for his attack of the Ukraine.
Bloomberg notes Putin's latest financial disclosure reveals that his annual income is about 10 million rubles $120,050, and he owns three cars and an apartment.
'We're defending our country alone. The most powerful forces in the world are watching this from a distance,' Zelensky said.
Ukrainian national guard were forming up on Kyiv's streets Friday as they prepared to defend the city from a Russian assault, shortly before heavy gunfire and explosions were heard
'We are now deploying the NATO Response Force for the first time in a collective defense context. We speak about thousands of troops. We speak about air and maritime capabilities,' Stoltenberg said.
She said travel ban 'would be a part of the US component' in sanctions on Putin and Lavrov.
But there are also reports Putin owns a superyatch worth $100 million. And that hisestimated worth is $200 billion.
The move will be largely symbolic as it remains unclear where Putin's money is and how much there is of it.
Zelensky said the two men discussed stronger sanctions on Russia and more support from the United States.
