Biden CANCELS test of Minuteman III nuclear missiles to demonstrate restraint and avoid angering Putin after his nuclear threat as Air Force puts on a show of force in Japan to deter China
20220302
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10570747/Pentagon-CANCELS-test-ballistic-missiles-restraint-avoid-Putins-misunderstanding.html
Police officers prepare to remove the bodies of passersby killed in yesterday's airstrike that hit Kyiv's main television tower
Klitschko said that fighting is still ongoing in the cities of Bucha and Hostomel, on the outskirts of Kyiv, where a large number of destroyed Russian vehicles were pictured on Wednesday. He implored people in the city 'not to lose endurance', saying all critical infrastructure is still running and humanitarian supplies are being handed out.
'Last weekend, as you saw, President Putin directed a special alert of Russian nuclear forces. Now, in this time of heightened tensions, the United States and other members of the international community rightly saw this as a dangerous and irresponsible and, as I said before, an unnecessary step.'
The delay of missile testing comes after the U.S. Air Force flexed its military muscles Tuesday at one of its airbases in Japan, showcasing a fleet of more than two dozen warplanes in an apparent effort to deter Chinese forces from invading the self-governing island of Taiwan.
Kirby said Monday that Putin now has three quarters of his resources, 120,000 of the 160,0000 troops amassed at the border deployed to Ukraine.
Kirby said the U.S. has not followed Putrin in putting its nuclear forces on heightened alert in a briefing conducted as a missile struck near Kyiv's southern main rail station - where thousands of women and children were being evacuated.
The president spent the first 12 minutes of his State of the Union speaking about Russia's invasion of Ukraine and announced 'strict' new measures against Moscow and its wealthy elite with a new task force to go after the 'crimes' of Russian oligarchs, while reaffirming that he would not send American forces into Kyiv.
A Russian air strike hit near Kyiv's southern rail station on Wednesday where thousands of women and children are being evacuated, Ukraine's state-run railway company Ukrzaliznytsya said in a statement. Pictured: Footage purportedly showing a blast in Kyiv on Wednesday night near a southern train station and Ukraine's Ministry of Defence
'We did not take this decision lightly but instead to demonstrate that we are a responsible nuclear power,' Kirby added.
The move raised concerns that the invasion of Ukraine could intentionally or mistakenly lead to a global nuclear war.
The $7,000,000 Minuteman III weighs 79,432 pounds and can travel 6,000 miles at 15,000mph. Above is a test launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California in October 2019
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's office reported the powerful explosion was also near the country's Defense Ministry.
'Russian terrorists launched an air strike on the South Railway Station in Kyiv, where thousands of Ukrainian women and children are being evacuated,' the national railway company said.
The formation also featured a $50 million KC-135 Stratotanker refueling plane, assigned to the 909th Air Refueling Squadron, as well as a $270million E-3 Sentry aerial command and control craft, assigned to the 961st Airborne Air Control Squadron.
Mariupol, located in the south of Ukraine on the Black Sea, has been surrounded by Russian forces and struck by artillery in an apparent attempt to bomb the city into submission as Putin's men resort to 'medieval' tactics. Sergiy Orlov, the deputy mayor, said entire districts had been leveled with such heavy barrages that medics cannot get in to retrieve the dead.
Meanwhile, the Russian missile struck near Kyiv's southern main rail station on Wednesday night where thousands of women and children are being evacuated, Ukraine's state-run railway company Ukrzaliznytsya said in a statement.
The Pentagon canceled an intercontinental ballistic missile test to show 'restraint' and avoid 'misunderstanding' with Russia. Pictured: The Air Force flexed its military muscles at and airbase in Japan Tuesday by showcasing a fleet of more than two dozen warplanes in an apparent effort to deter Chinese forces from invading Taiwan
Kharkiv, Ukraine's second city, also came under heavy barrage in the early hours of Wednesday as Russian troops try to surround and seize it after days of fighting - with a rocket slamming into a university building and police station in the early hours before the city council was also struck, with one of the explosions caught in a dramatic video.
Despite the missile testing delay, the U.S. is still showing its military force in other ways. Air Force craft participated in a so-called 'Elephant Walk' Tuesday at an air base in Japan in an apparent move to deter China from taking Russia's lead and invading Taiwan
The Minuteman entered service in 1962 as a deterrence weapon that could hit Soviet cities, with the Minuteman-II entering service in 1965 with a number of upgrades to its accuracy and survivability in the face of anti-ballistic missile AMB systems.
A Russian air strike hit near Kyiv's southern rail station on Wednesday where thousands of women and children are being evacuated, Pictured: Civilians are seen at the train station attempting to head west from Kyiv on March 2, 2022
Kyiv's mayor Vitali Klitschko defiantly vowed 'we will fight' to defend the city, amid fears it could soon be battered by artillery fire from a 40-mile long death convoy parked nearby. Along with his brother and fellow former boxerWladimir, the mayor called for more support from the west in an interview on Wednesday.
Ukrainian police said Wednesday they arrested a man who brought explosives hidden in a children's toy to one of the Kyiv subway stations where thousands of people have been sheltering. The police also said four other suspected saboteurs were arrested, including two who were carrying weapons.
Rubble is seen littering the streets of Kharkiv after a Russian missile struck the city in the early hours of Wednesday
'We are coming for your ill-begotten gains,' Biden said Tuesday night, prompting the rare sight of members of both parties standing to applaud.
The show of force comes after months of mounting and increased Chinese aggression directed at Taiwan, including nine Chinese aircraft entering the nation's airspace Thursday - the day Russian troops invaded Ukraine .
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki later said the White House sees 'no reason' to change its nuclear posture.
From 2027 onwards, Minuteman will be progressively replaced by the new Ground Based Strategic Deterrent GBSD ICBM from 2027 onwards to be built by Northrop Grumman.
'In an effort to demonstrate that we have no intention in engaging in any actions that can be misunderstood or misconstrued, the Secretary of Defense has directed that our Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missiles test launch scheduled for this week to be postponed,' he announced.
The display of military might at Kadena Air Base, which officials called a 'routine wing readiness exercise,' comes two days after President Joe Biden dispatched several former senior defense staffers to the island nation in a show of support, as many wonder whether Russia's invasion of Ukraine could trigger a Chinese invasion of the country.
The president warned Putin he 'has no idea what's coming' as he opened his national address Tuesday, declaring that invading a foreign country has 'costs around the world'.
The Southern Railway station is one of two stations that make up the main passenger rail complex that thousands have used to flee the war over the past week. The two stations are connected by an overhead corridor that crosses over about a dozen tracks.
The fleet of jets are assigned to the 44th and 67th Fighter Squadrons, better known by their colloquial epithets, the Vampires and the Fighting Cocks, respectively. The chopper belongs to the 33rd Rescue Squadron, which boasts the motto 'That Others May Live.'
'This is not a step backwards in our readiness,' he assured during his press briefing Wednesday announcing the testing of the $7,000,000 intercontinental Minuteman III ballistic missiles - that can travel up to 6,000 miles at 15,000 mph - would be scrapped at Vandenberg Air Force Base in southern California.
Paramedics walk at the residential area following recent shelling, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues, in the settlement of Borodyanka in the Kyiv region, Ukraine March 2, 2022
The so-called 'Elephant Walk'  a term referring to the taxiing of large numbers of military aircraft before takeoff, when they are in close formation  saw a grouping of two dozen F-15 fighter aircraft and an HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopter, collectively valued at just over a billion dollars.
At the top of the briefing Wednesday, Kirby detailed: 'I often come out here and tell you what we have done both in terms of exercises and operations. Today, I want to talk a little bit about something that we're not going to do, and I want to explain why.'
Ukraine's interior ministry adviser Anton Herashchenko said the blast was caused by wreckage from a downed Russian cruise missile, not a direct rocket strike. Trains continued to run. Herashchenko added the strike may have cut off central heating supply to parts of the Ukrainian capital amid freezing winter temperatures.
A woman cries outside houses damaged by a Russian airstrike, according to locals, in Gorenka, outside the capital Kyiv
A view shows damaged buildings following recent shelling, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues, in the settlement of Borodyanka in the Kyiv region, Ukraine on Wednesday
In recent days, thousands of civilians have been queuing at railway stations to flee the city, which has come under bombardment from invading Russian forces. Many fear the worst is yet to come.
Ukraine's emergency services estimate that 2,000 civilians have been killed so far during Russia's invasion, though that figure is likely to be an under-count considering it does not take into account Wednesday's figures.
In 1970, the Minuteman-III became the first deployed ICBM with multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles MIRV: three smaller warheads that improved the missile's ability to strike targets defended by AMBs.
The bombardment gives a dark taste of what is likely to come for other cities such as Kyiv after analysts warned Russia's military - having suffered heavy losses trying to pull off ambitious precision strikes - was likely to resort to surrounding cities and bombing them into submission to force a bloody victory.
Ukraine's interior ministry adviser Anton Herashchenko said the strike may have e cut off central heating supply to parts of the Ukrainian capital amid freezing winter temperatures
An opening salvo on Tuesday night struck the Ukrainian capital's largest TV tower and damaged a nearby Holocaust memorial, killing five bystanders in the process. Hours later, US intelligence said the huge Russian convoy appears to have stalled near Kyiv though it could just be regrouping for a more-determined attack.
'I ask everyone, for security reasons, not to go outside unnecessarily. At the alarm - go to the shelters,' he said. 'The enemy is gathering forces closer to the capital... We are preparing and will defend Kyiv!'
Despite Biden insisting shows of strength toward Russia during his State of the Union address on Tuesday evening, the move on Wednesday is an apparent ploy to appease Putin.
'We are assessing President Putin's directive and at this time we see no reason to change our own alert levels.'
Ukraine's military said Russia today renewed its assault 'on all fronts', with paratroopers landing in Kharkiv, tanks and trucks rolling into the centre of Kherson, and strikes in Mariupol and Zhytomyr
'We are near to a humanitarian catastrophe,' he said. 'Russian forces are several kilometers away on all sides,' he added. 'The Ukrainian army is brave and they will continue to defend the city, but Russia does not fight with their army, they just destroy districts... We are in a terrible situation.'
Ukrainian police forces remove the bodies of people killed during a Russian rocket attack on Kyiv's main TV tower on Tuesday, ahead of an expected assault on the capital
Biden also said matter-of-factly on Monday that Americans should not be concerned about nuclear war with Russia.
People stay inside Dorohozhychi subway station, which is used as a bomb shelter in Kyiv, Ukraine on Wednesday, March 2
The station building suffered minor damage and the number of any casualties was not yet known, it said, adding trains were still operating despite the blast and fears of another night of brutal attacks by Vladimir Putin 's forces.
A woman says goodbye as a train with evacuees is about to leave Kyiv's railway station on March 2, 2022
Biden declared Putin a 'Russian dictator' and said Moscow is 'more isolated than ever' as he added to already strict Western sanctions against Russia with the closure of U.S. air space to all Russian flights.
The office of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's reported the powerful explosion was also near the country's Defence Ministry. Zelenskyy's office said it was a missile strike and that it wasn't immediately clear how damaging the strike was or precisely where the missile hit.
He was met with applause after accusing Putin of 'underestimating' Western allies and the Ukrainian people.
The scrapping of the test flight is the first show of restraint from the U.S. after hitting Putin with a slew of sanctions as the world continued pushing him into international exile.
'We think provocative rhetoric like this is dangerous adds to the risk of miscalculation, should be avoided, and we'll not indulge in it.' Psaki said.
It isa strategic weapon system using a ballistic missile of intercontinental range. Missiles are dispersed in hardened silos to protect against attack and connected to an underground launch control center through a system of hardened cables.
Unverified reports said two missiles were launched towards the headquarters of Ukraine's Ministry of Defence, with one being shot down. The HQ and the railway station sit across a road from one-another in Kyiv.
The Minuteman III makes up the Unites States' land-based ICBM of the nation's nuclear triad, along with the Trident submarine-launched ballistic missile SLBM and nuclear weapons carried by long-range strategic bombers.
By 1970 during the Cold War, 1,000 Minuteman missiles were deployed, but by 2017, the number had shrunk to 400, deployed in missile silos around Malmstrom AFB, Montana Minot AFB, North Dakota and F.E. Warren AFB, Wyoming.
Putin explained that 'aggressive statements' by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO led him to ratchet up his nuclear defenses.
The Pentagon announced Wednesday it will delay its nuclear missile test scheduled for this weekend to avoid angering Russian President Vladimir Putin as he continued shelling Ukrainian cities and civilian and military casualties continued to climb.
Countries from across the world lined up against Russiaat the United Nations General Assembly on Wednesday to overwhelmingly pass a resolution that rebuked Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine and demanded the withdrawal of Russian forces.
Images showed areas of the city damaged in overnight strikes, as attacks resumed on Ukrainian cities elsewhere in the country - with paratroopers dropping into Kharkiv on Wednesday morning as missiles struck a university in the city having apparently missed a nearby police headquarters.
Russia stepped up its attacks on Ukraine's major cities on Wednesday as officials in Mariupol said a 'full-scale genocide' was underway as Putin's men unleashed a 15-hour artillery barrage while Kharkiv also came under heavy bombardment in a dark sign of what could come to be in the capital of Kyiv.
Kirby claimed the Defense Department Secretary Lloyd Austin is 'comfortable that the strategic deterrence posture that we have in place is up to the task of defending the homeland and our allies.'
Development of the missile began in the 1950s, and was named after the Colonial Minutemen of the American Revolutionary War, who could be ready to fight on short notice.
Defense Department Spokesperson John Kirby said the move is a show of 'restraint' after the Russian leader put his country's nuclear forces on high alert and amid warnings from the U.S. he is deploying vacuum bombs and cluster munitions across the border.
