Bidens awkward war footing Republicans demand President imposes Russia sanctions NOW while Dems try to avoid deployment saying no country has done more to help Ukraine defend itself than US
20220117
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10436079/Both-parties-Bidens-Ukraine-troop-deployment-plan-lukewarm-backing.html
'I completely disagree,' the Texas Republican replied. 'I think this has been a passive deterrence, right? I don't. I don't see Putin changing his course of action. It's getting very aggressive.'
On Sunday, Face the Nation host Margaret Brennan asked Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Michael McCaul: 'You heard the secretary say that if he uses the leverage of sanctions now, he gives up an important bit of deterrence. Do you disagree?'
Democratic Rep. Frank Pallone said the U.S. is ready to impose sanctions should Russia invade  but Biden is considering much more severe action as he considers deploying as many as 50,000 U.S. troops to the Baltic region and Eastern European countries that border Ukraine
'So US citizens, currently present in Ukraine should plan accordingly,' they added, suggesting people arrange commercial flights.
Democrat Representative Frank Pallone tweeted on Sunday: 'Putin should know that if Russia invades Ukraine, the House will quickly pass legislation to impose sanctions on Russia. The United States and our allies will stand with Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression.'
Republican Senator Marsha Blackburn from Tennessee wrote on Twitter: 'Just four days ago, Biden stood in front of the world and essentially gave Russia the green light to invade. Now, the State Department has ordered the families of US diplomats to evacuate Ukraine.'
The White House had to do clean up duty on those comments after it immediately raised alarms domestically and overseas.
Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov also tweeted on Sunday a picture of a dog sitting on crates of what is presumably equipment being sent to Ukraine from the US
'What's happening with Russia and Ukraine would never have happened under the Trump Administration. Not even a possibility!' former President Donald Trump sent in a statement Monday.
'Given that the President has said military action by Russia could come at any time, the US government will not be in a position to evacuate US citizens,' officials said during a State Department call on Sunday.
Former President Donald Trump insisted the situation with Russia 'would never have happened' under his administration
It was in response to a February 2020 from then-candidate Joe Biden who wrote at the time: 'Vladimir Putin doesn't want me to be President. He doesn't want me to be our nominee. If you're wondering why  it's because I'm the only person in this field who's ever gone toe-to-toe with him.'
'Biden is not only the America Last president, but the president who leaves Americans behind,' he added.
'The plan of action that I've seen in the classified space, as well as very specific, very aggressive, is timetable. If we don't do something strong right now, I'm afraid that he's going to invade Ukraine, which will have, as the secretary talked about, he's right and I think you and I did. It will have global ramifications here.'
Representative Elise Stefanik, the No. 3 ranking Republican in the House, blasted Biden for suggesting there would be less severe action if Russia engaged in a 'minor incursion' in Ukraine. She tweeted Monday: 'There is no such thing as a minor incursion  any attempt to encroach on a sovereign nation is an invasion'
Republican Representative Lisa McClain of Michigan tweeted on Monday: 'President Biden is enabling Russia to invade Ukraine by being all talk and no action.'
Both Democrats and Republicans are publicly pressuring Biden to apply sanctions on the Kremlin now instead of waiting to act until Russia invades Ukraine.
Republicans are demanding Russia de-escalate as both parties push for sanctions and try to avoid sending U.S. forces to Ukraine following reports President Biden is considering deploying up to 50,000 troops to the Baltic region.
The lukewarm tweets towards Biden's strategy on Russia comes after a report emerged over the weekend that the president is considering deploying up to 50,000 troops to the Eastern Europe and Baltic countries.
He was referencing Democrats on the House Foreign Affairs Committee introducing last week a companion bill to the Defending Ukraine Sovereignty Act of 2022 that would impose sanctions on Russia as it inches closer to invading Ukraine.
Biden suggested during his press briefing last week that if Russia made a 'minor incursion' there may be more debate over what to do next.
Republicans and Democrats alike have come out in a lukewarm fashion against Joe Biden strategy with Russia as it comes closer to invading Ukraine. The president returns to the White House Monday morning after spending the weekend at Camp David in Maryland
'We should be sanctioning Russia yesterday  not tomorrow, not next week, but right now!' he tweeted on Sunday.
Democrat Senator Chris Murphy claimed while the U.S. 'can and should do more' to help Ukraine, he also said 'no country has done more to help Ukraine defend itself than the U.S.'
He added in another tweet: 'If you listen real close, you can hear Putin laughing from Russia'
'The noose is tightening around Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky, as you mentioned, said he wants the sanctions now,' McCaul continued on Sunday. 'We can always remove the sanctions if it deters Putin's bad behavior, but if you reward that and there are no consequences, it's going to continue. And I think all along, there are so many things we can be doing to provide deterrence if we don't do this.'
Democrat Senator Chris Murphy from Connecticut claimed while the U.S. 'can and should do more' to help Ukraine, he also said 'no country has done more to help Ukraine defend itself than the U.S.'
Over the weekend, the State Department recalled U.S. embassy personnel from Ukraine over fears of invasion and warned private American citizens that they should immediately find their own way out of the country.
Representative Elise Stefanik, the No. 3 ranking Republican in the House, tweeted Monday: 'There is no such thing as a minor incursion  any attempt to encroach on a sovereign nation is an invasion. Russia must accept Ukraine's sovereignty and de-escalate immediately.'
Arizona pro-Trump Representative Andy Biggs tweeted: 'Americans are still stranded in Afghanistan, and thanks to Biden, we can't evacuate Americans from Ukraine.'
'I think what you're going to see is that Russia will be held accountable if it invades,' Biden said at the lengthy press conference  only the 10th of his presidency. 'And it depends on what it does. It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and then we end up having a fight about what to do and not do.'
Republican Representative Pat Fallon from Texas, who serves on the Armed Services Committee, said Biden should have already imposed sanctions on Russia.
