Blasts rock Moldova as fears rise that Vladimir Putin could be eyeing next target for invasion
20220502
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10773679/Fears-Putin-open-new-invade-Moldova-blasts-rock-Ukraines-tiny-neighb.html
Transnistria is a breakaway region in the east of Moldova where ethnic Ukrainians and Russians outnumber Moldovans.
But with Russian progress on the battlefield being less than conclusive, he may now seek to escalate further.
Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov pictured suggested that Moldova, which was hit with explosions, could be Russia's next target
UK's Defence Secretary Ben Wallace pictured believes that Russian president Vladimir Putin will escalate his military action on May 9
The explosions destroyed two powerful Soviet-era radio antennas that were re-broadcasting Russian stations in the region of Transnistria
Russia yesterday stoked fears that Moldova may be next in Putins firing line  after blasts rocked part of the tiny nation.
Mr Wallace said that the Russian president  whose advances in Ukraine are far behind expectations  might declare war on the worlds Nazis at the May 9 parade, which sees Moscow mark the Soviet Unions victory over Hitler.
Mr Wallace told LBC Radio: I would not be surprised... that he is probably going to declare on May Day that we are now at war with the worlds Nazis and we need to mass mobilise the Russian people.
He added: Putin, having failed in nearly all objectives, may seek to consolidate what hes got... and just be a sort of cancerous growth within the country.
We have to help Ukrainians effectively get the limpet off the rock and keep the momentum pushing them back.
When asked about the risks of war spilling into Ukraines neighbour after explosions rattled its Transnistria region, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov told a Saudi broadcaster: Moldova should worry about their own future. Because theyre being pulled into Nato.
Analysts had predicted that Putin wanted to be in a position where he could declare some form of victory on May 9.
Several explosions believed to be caused by rocket-propelled grenades were reported to hit the Ministry of State Security in the city of Tiraspol, the region's capital. No one was hurt in the explosions, officials said
The tensions come as Defence Secretary Ben Wallace predicted that Putin could use Russias Victory Day to announce an intensification of the Ukrainian onslaught  and perhaps an opening of new theatres of war.
