Bravery of zookeepers who moved in with animals they simply couldnt leave behind Amazing images reveal how 50 staff have defied Russian shelling to care for 4000 residents of sanctuary in Kyiv
20220307
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10587761/Amazing-images-reveal-50-staff-defied-Russian-shelling-care-4-000-residents.html
While many have fled Kyiv to escape Russian shelling, some have sought sanctuary at a more unusual location  the zoo.
Mr Trantin started preparing for a Russian invasion a week before it began, stocking up on food and materials. The zoo has enough feed for the animals for the next two weeks
'I'm taking care of giraffes, deer and horses, he said. 'So there's no way for me to join territorial defence because they would simply die. I'm afraid that any of the animals in the zoo will be killed.'
Zebras were moved inside permanently after loud explosions caused them to panic and run into a fence.
Staff at Kyiv Zoo say it is almost impossible to evacuate their animals, due to veterinary care and transport needed. Pictured: Alpacas at the zoo in Kyiv
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from Russia's invading armed forces.
When he wakes, panicked by loud bangs, his new zookeeper roommate has to chat to him and feed him apples to relax him.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
While many have fled Kyiv to escape Russian shelling, some have sought sanctuary at a more unusual location  the zoo. Pictured: Zoo directorKyrylo Trantin feeds Horace, a 17-year-old male Asian elephant, who has been terrified by explosions
Calling upon that human spirit, we are supporting a huge push to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
Ivan Rybchenko, 33, is one of the keepers who has chosen to stay, rather than join the fighting.
Donations to the Mail Force Ukraine Appeal will be used to help charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
'They have no space to hide or run,' said Mr Trantin, 49. 'Once they're out of the zoo, they have fewer options than any human.'
The zoo is home to more than 200 species including elephants, hyenas and Tony, Ukraine's only gorilla.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Mr Trantin started preparing for a Russian invasion a week before it began, stocking up on food and materials. The zoo has enough feed for the animals for the next two weeks.
'If a rocket or shell lands, they know how to calm him down,' Kyiv Zoo director Kyrylo Trantin explained.
Among those in their care is Horace, a 17-year-old male Asian elephant, who has been so terrified by explosions that a staff member must sleep in his enclosure each night.
Staff are already keeping some animals in indoor enclosures and underground galleries to protect them from shelling.
A bird enclosure and unfinished aquarium have been turned into air raid shelters but they won't protect larger animals such as giraffes or elephants.
Around 50 staff, including vets, engineers and keepers, plus 30 family members have moved in to care for the 4,000 animals. Pictured: Animals at the zoo are watched by Mr Trantin
Around 50 staff, including vets, engineers and keepers, plus 30 family members have moved in to care for the 4,000 animals.
Last week, lions, tigers and bears were evacuated from a sanctuary near Kyiv to Poznan Zoo in Poland. But staff at Kyiv Zoo say it is almost impossible to evacuate their animals, due to veterinary care and transport needed.
