Briton risks his life travelling across Ukraine to rescue a lion and a wolf from a zoo miles from the frontline  before driving them to safety in Romania in the back of his VAN
20220322
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10639271/British-man-evacuates-lion-wolf-Ukraine-van.html
'I took him to the side of the van, opened the door, and showed him this proper big lion, like Aslan out Narnia.'
The four then drove around the clock to Romania with their precious animal cargo in the back.
After completing the necessary paperwork on the Romanian side of the border the evacuation team set off on the final leg of their journey to a zoo in the north-eastern city of Radauti, aided by a police escort
'We kept reminding each other that we'd got a lion and a wolf in the back of the van as we were driving and looking back to see there they were, just over our shoulders.'
The van was given a police escort out of the city - and made it out just before curfew.
Tim chronicled his rescue mission on Facebook, updating his followers on his progress across the war-torn country with a lion and wolf in the back of his van.
The final leg of the journey was to a zoo in the north-eastern city of Radauti.
The cages of the animals were squeezed into the vans with just 20mm at the top and 50mm on the side.
The lion, Simba, and wolf, Akela, were winched from their cages by crane and placed in the back of the Ford Transit van.
Rescue bid:Tim locks, 45, who once fought ISIS in Iraq, completed the harrowing 1200-mile round trip from Lviv to Zaporizhzhia Oblast in the country's south-east to save the animals
The operation took three hours using translators to direct the crane driver to remove the cages and place them in the back of the van.
They couldn't take their translator into Romania because of martial law prevents men between 16 and 60 from leaving the country.
'One guard told us there was a war on and it was no time to joke around,' Locks told Metro.co.uk.
Tim locks, 45, who once fought ISIS in Iraqwith Kurdish Peshmerga forces, completed the 1200-mile round trip from Lviv to Zaporizhzhia Oblast in the country's south-east to save the animals after hearing about their plight from a conservationist in his hotel.
Having successfully completed their heroic detour mission, the trio is returning to Ukraine to assist in the aid efforts, even as the Russian shelling intensifies.
They celebrated the successful mission with tea and biscuits - and a couple of hours checking out the tigers and bears in the zoo.
They immediately began working out the logistics of the operation, principally would the lion and the wolf fit into the back of his long wheelbase Ford Transit van
Guards at checkpoints on roads throughout the country weren't impressed when they declared their cargo, Locks said.
A former British nightclub bouncer on an aid mission in Ukraine has saved the lives of a lion and a wolf by driving them to safety in the back of his van
Driving day and night the trio took turns driving and negotiating their way through the various checkpoints before arriving at their destination on Saturday where they loaded their cargo, Simba the lion and Akela the wolf, into the back of the van
A British man and two friends have completed a daring four-day mission across war-torn Ukraine to save the lives of a lion and a wolf stranded in a zoo just miles from the frontline.
The animal rescuers are hoping their new found fame will help them better navigate the red tape at the border, hoping the border guards remember the guys driving the van with the lion and wolf in the back.
He had been in Ukraine distributing essentials such as toiletries, baby formula and nappies that had been donated by crowdfunding.
