Britain cuts off Russias access to UK accountancy firms and targets Vladimir Putins disinformation campaign in fresh sanctions
20220504
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10782229/Britain-cuts-Russias-access-UK-accountancy-firms-targets-Putins-disinformation-campaign.html
The Foreign Secretary also took the number of UK sanctions against individuals and organisations to above 1,600 as she unveiled a slew of new asset freezes and travel bans.
The latest punitive action against Moscow comes as Vladimir Putin's brutal assault on Ukraine entered a 70th day
'Cutting Russia's access to British services will put more pressure on the Kremlin and ultimately help ensure Putin fails in Ukraine.'
It means Russian businesses can no longer benefit from Britain's accountancy, management consultancy, or PR services.
Chris Philp, the minister for tech and digital economy, said: 'For too long RT and Sputnik have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
Individuals at Channel One, a major state-owned media outlet in Russia that has justified the Russia's invasion of Ukraine as a 'special military operation', are among those sanctioned today.
Many of the 63 new sanctions announced by the UK today have been targeted at Russian media organisations behind the Kremlin's disinformation campaign
Punitive measures have also been taken against prominent Russian journalists and war correspondents, the state-ownedAllRussia State Television and Radio Broadcasting company, the InfoRos news aganecy, the SouthFront disinformation website, and theStrategic Culture Foundation online journal.
Ms Truss said: 'Doing business with Putin's regime is morally bankrupt and helps fund a war machine that is causing untold suffering across Ukraine.
The Government said the action was being bolstered by new legislation that compels social media and internet companies to block content from RT and Sputnik.
'These outlets have already been booted off the airwaves in Britain and we've barred anyone from doing business with them.
Many of the 63 new sanctions unveiled today have been targeted at Russian media organisations.
Britain today cut off Russia's access to UK accountancy firms and sanctioned those behind Vladimir Putin's disinformation campaign.
'Now we've moved to pull the plug on their websites, social media accounts and apps to further stop the spread of their lies.'
These are estimated to account for 10 per cent of Russian imports in these sectors.
In the latest punitive action against Moscow, as Russia's brutal assault on Ukraine entered a 70th day, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss announced a ban on UK services exports to Russia.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has taken the number of UK sanctions against individuals and organisations to above 1,600 as she unveiled a slew of new asset freezes and travel bans
It follows this week'spublication of UK-funded research that exposed the Kremlin troll factory behind Russia's large-scale disinformation campaign.
Those sanctioned have been found to have attempted tojustify Mr Putin's invasion of Ukraine or spreaddisinformation about the Kremlin's activities,including the role of Russian forces in the slaughter of civilians at Bucha.
