Britain targets Putins butcher of Bucha Colonel who oversaw horrifying mass murder of civilians is hit with new sanctions along with three other front line commanders
20220421
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10739343/Britain-targets-Putins-butcher-Bucha-wave-new-sanctions-against-Russia.html
'The depravity of Russia's assault on the people of Ukraine is plain for all to see,' Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement, announcing the latest wave of sanctions
Britain has announced new sanctions againstVladimir Putin's 'war leaders', including the colonel who oversaw the horrifying mass murder of Ukrainian civilians in Bucha.
The UK is also taking action against individuals outside of Vladimir Putin's military, who are 'actively supporting his illegal invasion of Ukraine', it said.
TheFCDO also said it was fast tracking a further 19 individuals and organisations 'entities in alignment with global partners from the G7 and the EU' that are linked to Russia's military and defence capabilities - includingKorolyov.
Russia has denied allegations that it killed civilians in Bucha, calling footage and photographs of dead bodies a 'staged performance' by Kyiv.
'The UK is unyielding in our support for Ukraine and in holding Putin and his regime to account. Today's new wave of sanctions hits the generals and defence companies that have blood on their hands.'
The latests sanctions list includes Lt Colonel Azatbek Omurbekov pictured, file photo, whoearned the nickname of the 'Butcher of Bucha' for commanding the Russian unit that is believed to be behind the civilian massacre in the Ukrainian town.
Colonel General Andrey Serdyukov left, commander of airborne forces Major General Valery Flyustikov, commander of special operations forces and Colonel General Nikolay Bogdanovsky right, first deputy chief of the general staff, were also on the list
'Key leaders in Russia's army' are being targeted as part of a new wave of 26 sanctions, the FCDO said in a press release of Thursday.
'1,020 bodies of civilians, only civilians, in the areas of all the Kyiv region,' were discovered, Olga Stefanishyna, Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, told AFP in Borodyanka.
A number of companies were also named on the list, including: GTLK, Russia's largest leasing companyJsc Arz Machinebuilding Plant, part of a Military Industrial CompanyJSC Kalashnikov Concern, a Russian developer and manufacturer of army Russian equipment andLlc Military Industrial Company, a major arms and military equipment provider.
Ilya Kiva, expelled Ukrainian MP, is on the list, as is Oleg Belozyorov, CEO and Board Chairman of Russian Railways. TheFCDO said Russian Railways has been vital to Moscow to transport its military equipment to Ukraine.
Henow stands accused of organising the rape, pillage and murder of hundreds of Ukrainian civilians in Bucha, a commuter town on the outskirts of Kyiv, during Russia's month-long occupation throughout March.
Another senior figure on the sanctions list was Sergei Borisovich Korolyov, the First Deputy Director of Federal Security Service of Russia FSB. In the past, he has been accused of orchestrating contract killings and kidnappings for the Russian state.
Pictured:Bodies are exhumed and removed from the mass grave near the St. Andrew and All Saints Church in Bucha city of Kyiv area, Ukraine, 13 April 2022
'These are only civilians collected from buildings, but also on the streets,' she said, adding the bodies date back to the beginning of the savage invasion.
Since Russian forces were pushed back from the region, hundreds of bodies of civilians have been found, the majority of which were discovered with gunshot wounds. Some had their hands tied behind their backs, and had been tortured.
In the wider press release, the FCDO said:Since March 10, Russian bombers have repeatedly dropped munitions on civilian infrastructure, including civil government buildings, hospitals, schools and transportation nodes.
The list includes Lt Colonel Azatbek Omurbekov, a commanding officer in the Russian army with involvement in the 'Bucha massacre' Colonel General Andrey Serdyukov, commander of airborne forces Major General Valery Flyustikov, commander of special operations forces and Colonel General Nikolay Bogdanovsky, first deputy chief of the general staff, the FCDO said.
Russia calls its incursion a 'special military operation' to demilitarise and 'denazify' Ukraine. Kyiv and its Western allies reject that as a false pretext for an illegal war of aggression.
Omurbekov earned the nickname of the 'Butcher of Bucha' for commanding the Russian unit that is believed to be behind the civilian massacre in the Ukrainian town.
'The depravity of Russia's assault on the people of Ukraine is plain for all to see,'Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement.
Omurbekov and the others were subject to a travel ban and asset freeze by Britain.
The move will target those 'commanding the front line' to commit 'heinous' acts in Ukraine, according to the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office FCDO.
These include Oleg Belozyorov, the chief executive and chairman of vital logistics company Russian Railways, and Ilya Kiva, the defecting and expelled Ukrainian MP who has publicly supported Russia's actions in Ukraine, the department said.
More and more corpses are continuing to pile up after the Kremlin withdrawal from central Ukraine revealed the scale of horrors in towns such as Bucha, Irpin and Borodyanka, after they were recaptured.Many bodies were dumped in mass graves or left rotting on the street showing signs of torture.
Ukraine and most major western countries have accused Russia of war crimes in Bucha during the several weeks when the northern town was under Russian occupation.
Britain's Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it has concluded that Russian attacks on Ukrainian government buildings, schools and hospitals since March 10 were intentional based on, among other things, the types of civilian targets struck, frequency of strikes and volume of munitions used.
Three dug graves are ready for the next funerals at the cemetery in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, April 19, 2022
'The UK government conclusion is that this is intentional targeting based on the types of civilian targets struck, frequency of strikes, volume of munitions and the repeated targeting of the same locations on consecutive days.'
Meanwhile, the bodies of more than 1,000 innocent Ukrainian civilians are being stored in morgues near Kyiv after Russian troops abandoned their savage campaign to take the capital.
lyustikov is the Commander of Russia's Special Operations Forces, while Bogdanovsk is the First Deputy Chief of the General Staff of Russia's armies.
Serdyukov, meanwhile, is one of Russia's six senior commanders who are responsible for overseeing the various military districts involved in the invasion of Ukraine. He was also at the head of the Russian operation that annexed Crimea in 2014.
'They are deliberately targeting hospitals, schools, and transport hubs in Mariupol and beyond - just as they did in Chechnya and Syria.
A number of the individuals were accused by Britain of 'undermining the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine by supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine.'
Britain set out 26 new sanctions on Thursday targeting Russian military generals responsible for what it called atrocities in Ukraine, as well as individuals and businesses supporting the Russian armed forces.
The commander of the 64th Separate Motorised Rifle Brigade - who is thought to be around 40 - was once given a medal for outstanding service in 2014 by Dmitry Bulgakov, the deputy Russian Defence Minister.
Pictures of dead civilians that emerged after Russian forces withdrew sparked an international uproar and led to further sanctions on Russia by the United States, Britain and the European Union.
Earlier in the week, Ukraine said the second phase of the war had begun with the 'Battle of Donbas' in the country's east, after failing to capture the capital Kyiv and being forced to withdraw from the north.
