Brothers in arms Estonians Latvians Poles and Georgians travel to border crossings to join Ukrainians in the fight against Putins army writes NICK PISA on the PolandUkraine border
20220226
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10554659/Brothers-arms-Foreigners-travel-join-Ukrainians-fight-against-Vladimir-Putins-army.html
'I've heard from friends and family in Lviv who say the situation is calm at the moment but they have heard the occasional explosion.
Estonians, Latvians, Poles and Georgians were all traveling to border crossings following an appeal by Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky. Pictured: A man shows his support for Ukraine left while another man smokes a cigarette right in Medyka on the Poland-Ukraine border on Saturday
Estonians, Latvians, Poles and Georgians were all traveling to border crossings following an appeal by Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky.
Families, people both young and old and pets have all been picturing fleeing war and trying to enter Poland on Saturday
Volodymyr, from Shehyni, a Ukrainian town that borders Poland said: 'I have to go and f up the Russians. Putin is a second Hitler and he needs to be stopped.
'I have no military experience but I am willing to learn and fight. I will learn how to use a gun. My parents and sisters are all in Shehyni, they feel safe because they are just inside the border.
Anna Semyuk, 33, hugs her son at the Beregsurany border after a stranger took her children across the border and kept them safe while fleeing from Ukraine and arriving in Hungary
At one stage an ambulance battled through the traffic to get to the no man's land in between Ukraine and Poland after reports of some refugees being taken ill.
Also in the long queue waiting to get back into Ukraine from Poland was driver Jaroslawa Krilyshyn, 58, who was heading back to Lviv, 50 miles over the border.
'On Facebook I have seen that Georgians, Estonians, Latvians and Poles are coming in to help us  we also have our British and American friends supplying us with weapons.'
'The Ukrainian people need us now to fight off the Russian aggression  history provides a valuable lesson to us and we must not let 1939 happen again.'
'The Ukranian army is doing it's best and I have to think of those brave soldiers who died on Snake Island who told the Russians to "go f themselves" and gave their lives for my country.
Nine reception centres have been set up along the 300 mile border shared between Poland and the Ukraine.
Ukrainian soldiers take positions outside a military facility as two cars burn, in a street in Kyiv, Ukraine on Saturday. Russian troops stormed toward Ukraine's capital Saturday, and street fighting broke out
Officials had been expecting 600 people to arrive but only half that number arrived and were solely women and children.
Ukrainian service members are seen after defeating a Russian raiding group in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on Saturday morning, according to Ukrainian service personnel at the scene. Ukrainian soldiers repulsed a Russian attack in the capital
Among those responding at the Medyka border crossing was Jedrzej Bien, 42, from Braniewo, northern Poland, who made a 16 hour journey and was in a queue waiting to cross into Ukraine.
In a video he said: 'If you have combat experience in Europe and do not want to look at the indecision of politicians, you can come to our country and join us in defending Europe, where it is necessary now.'
Russian troops are now encircling Ukraine, and meeting stiff resistance. Top Russian targets likely include the Presidential Palace at the heart of the city, and one of the remaining airports after Antonov Airport's runways were intentionally destroyed
'This is extremely important. We are providing them with a hot meal, advice and if needed supplies for their future journey.'
Polish border force chief Tomasz Praga said more than 100,000 people had entered the country from Ukraine since Thursday. Pictured: A Polish border guard assists refugees from Ukraine as they arrive to Poland at the Korczowa border crossing, Poland
Her account was confirmed by a Danish Embassy official who was at Medyka crossing and who told MailOnline: 'We have been here all morning waiting for a Danish citizen who is coming on foot.'
With him was Ukrainian labourer Volodymyr Bozychok, 23, who he had met on the bus journey to the border crossing.
A mother and two young girls share lunch as they wait outside a foreign currency exchange in Medyka on the Polish-Ukrainian border
Polish TV reported one train had arrived from Odessa in southern Ukraine more than fours late after being stopped enroute and having all males aged between 18-60 were taken off.
'Lots of people are dumping their cars and just walking to the border. My heart is bleeding for my country and my people.'
Human rights groups have estimated that thousands of refugees will pass through the Polish border in the coming days
Volunteers were manning stands offering clothes, hot drinks and food to those that were crossing over with many having waiting for more than 24 hours to get in.
One passenger said: 'A lot of men were taken off before we reached Poland but some whole families also refused to get off and said they would carry on without their husbands and fathers.'
He had called for Europeans with 'combat experience' to help in the bitter struggle against despot Vladimir Putin's forces.
Polish officials had also lined up a fleet buses to ferry refugees back to the town of Przemysl where a reception centre had been set up in the train station and a school.
He said: 'I have some military experience from when I did my National Service in Ukraine more than 30 years ago but I am willing to fight and do my bit.
Dressed in army fatigues he had picked up from an army surplus store, he said: 'I feel I have a sense of duty. I heard Zelensky asking for European help and now here I am.
A young boy and a woman overlook piles of clothes and bags that have been dumped at Medkya on the Polish-Ukrainian border
Przemysl president Wojciech Bakun said: 'Our city is carrying out a very specific role. We are not only accepting refugees but providing a safe and secure first point of contact with Poland.
'Putin is a bandit and an evil person, he will feel the might of the Ukrainian people and will regret he invaded us.
'If true, then that is worrying as it means Putin's forces are pushing west towards the heart of Europe. It is time for us all to stand together.'
When asked if he had any military experience he told MailOnline: 'It's complicated but I know how to fight. It has taken me 16 hours to get here and I am ready to go to Kyiv and help.'
Europeans with 'combat experience' have been called on to help in the bitter struggle against despot Vladimir Putin's forces. Pictured: A man in olive-coloured military regalia is seen at the PolishUkraine border
Ruslana Maxim, 26, who was among those wo managed to get across had travelled from Lviv and said: 'The traffic from the border back into Ukraine stretches almost 20km.
People carry their last-remaining possessions in black bin bags as they walk through checkpoints at the Polish-Ukrainian border in Medyka on Saturday
Foreigners are joining brave Ukrainians heading into the heat of battle to take on the might of the Russian army.
Elsewhere on Saturday, Polish border force chief Tomasz Praga said more than 100,000 people had entered the country from Ukraine since Thursday but United Nations officials fear as many as five million could be uprooted.
