BULLSHT Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschkos response in live interview at claims Putins only hitting military targets before quickly apologising for swearing
20220316
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10619995/Kyiv-mayor-Vitali-Klitschko-brands-Kremlin-denials-bullsh-t.html
The former heavyweight boxer turned and pointed towards the shell of an apartment building destroyed by Russian munitions and asks 'is this a military target'.
Fighting has intensified on Kyiv's outskirts in recent days, and air raid sirens wailed inside the capital. Mayor Vitali Klitschko announced a 35-hour curfew extending until Thursday morning.
Kyrylo Tymoshenko, a deputy head of Mr Zelensky's office, said that 570 out of about 4,000 vehicles that left Mariupol have reached the city of Zaporizhzhia, 160 miles to the north west, while others will spend the night in towns along the way.
'We have heard for many years about the open doors, but we also heard that we can't enter those doors,' he said. 'This is the truth, and we have simply to accept it as it is.'
New efforts to take civilians to safety and deliver aid were under way around the country. The Red Cross said it was working to evacuate people from the north-eastern town of Sumy, near the Russian border, in about 70 buses.
Ukraine's parliament voted to extend martial law for another month, until April 24. Under the measure, requested by Mr Zelenskyy, men between 18 and 60 are barred from leaving the country so they can be called up to fight.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said in a tweet that the leaders had arrived, lauding 'the courage of true friends'. He said they were discussing support for Ukraine and further sanctions against Russia.
Yesterday's strikes on the 20th day of Russia's invasion targeted a western district of Kyiv, disrupting a relative calm that had returned after an initial advance by Moscow's forces was stopped in the early days of the war.
One of the most desperate situations is in Mariupol, the southern city of 430,000 where officials say a weeks-long siege has killed more than 2,300 people and left residents struggling for food, water, heat and medicine.
A 10-storey apartment building in the Podilsky district of Kyiv, north of the government quarter, was damaged. Russian forces also stepped up strikes overnight on Irpin and the north-west Kyiv suburbs of Hostomel and Bucha, said the head of the capital region, Oleksiy Kuleba.
A senior US defence source said the Russians were using long-range fire to hit civilian targets within Kyiv with increasing frequency but that their ground forces were making little to no progress around the country. The official said Russian forces were still about nine miles from the centre of Kyiv.
Klitschko, who was leading a group of journalists around a badly bombed street in Kyiv, responded 'bullsht' when asked about the Kremlin's claims.
Mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, left, and his brother Wladimir, centre, have been patrolling the city streets despite the risk posed by Russian forces
Russia has increased the intensity of its attack on Kyiv despite diplomatic efforts of brokering an end to the conflict.
He was joined by fellow Janez Jansa of Slovenia and Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland, as well as Jaroslaw Kaczynski, Poland's de facto leader.
The Klitschko brothers have been using their profile to highlight the plight faced by people in Ukraine
The leaders of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia travelled to Kyiv by train despite the security risks, in a visit EU officials said was not sanctioned by other members of the 27-nation bloc.
In the east, Russian forces launched more than 60 strikes overnight on Ukraine's second-largest city, Kharkiv, according to regional administration chief Oleh Sinehubov. The strikes hit the city's historical centre, including the main marketplace.
The UN said close to 700 civilians in Ukraine have been confirmed killed, but the true figure is probably much higher.
Ukrainian presidential aide Ihor Zhovkva said Russia has stopped airing demands for Ukraine to surrender, and the Ukrainian representatives felt 'moderately optimistic' after the latest talks. Discussions are expected to continue tomorrow.
The Russian military has intensified the level of attacks on civilian areas in Kyiv over the past 24 hours
The Russians have been accused of deliberately targeting civilian areas with missile and artillery attacks
In a statement that seemed to signal potential grounds for agreement with Moscow, Mr Zelensky told European leaders gathered in London that he realises Nato has no intention of accepting Ukraine.
The short video, which was posted online, has been viewed my more than two million people.
The former heavyweight boxer pointed towards the shell of an apartment complex before asking whether it was a 'military target'
Mayor of Kyiv Vitali Klitschko, centre, responded to Kremlin suggestions that they are only hitting military targets by claiming it was 'bullsht'
Tuesday's artillery strikes hit the Svyatoshynskyi district of western Kyiv, adjacent to the suburb of Irpin, which has seen some of the worst fighting of the war.
Russia claims its only hitting military targets. What does the Kyiv Mayor say to that? "BULLSHIT!" he spits. A former boxing champion, Vitale Klitschko delivers knockout sound bites that get straight to the point. Feel free to share Ukraine Kyiv pic.twitter.comGvFs7ZWIUz
'Many streets have been turned into a mush of steel and concrete. People have been hiding for weeks in basements, and are afraid to go out even for evacuations,' he said on Ukrainian television.
Flames shot out of the 15-storey apartment building and smoke choked the air as firefighters climbed ladders to rescue people. The assault blackened several floors of the building, ripped a hole in the ground outside and blew out windows in neighbouring apartment blocks. Rescue workers said at least one person was killed.
Mayor of Kyiv Vitali Klitschko has been praised after his blunt answer to a question about Vladimir Putin's claims to only fire upon military targets during his invasion of Ukraine.
'The aim of the visit is to express the European Union's unequivocal support for Ukraine and its freedom and independence,' Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said in a tweet.
