Children and women are taught how to fire machine guns and strip an AK47 as Ukraine calls up anyone who can fight to defend Kyiv
20220304
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10578863/Children-women-taught-fire-machine-guns-strip-AK-47-Ukraine.html
For weeks now, ordinary citizens across the country have been receiving basic combat training in everything from handling guns to making incendiary Molotov cocktails to tossing grenades.
In photographs taken today, the group were shown sorting through clothes and food as well as discussing evacuations for citizens of Kyiv
Ukrainians living abroad have even flown home to join the 'Territorial Defense Units' - which have been trained by military personnel in wooded or abandoned areas on the outskirts of cities.
Swathes were photographed making the incendiary bombs and a Ukrainian brewery has begun manufacturing them.
Thousands of civilians have taken up arms to protect their country against Russian forces. Pictured: A woman at a self defence course today on the outskirts of Lviv
Women and children were today pictured on the outskirts of Lviv learning to fire machine guns and strip an AK-47 as Ukraine called up people to fight to defend Kyiv
The Russian soldiers were reportedly asking for directions when the Ukrainians swarmed the tank to keep it from moving into Kyiv.
The newly trained forces have been seen standing guard behind stacks of tires at checkpoints in the capital of Kyiv and patrolling its empty streets.
Women and children were today pictured learning to fire machine guns and strip an AK-47 as Ukraine called up people to fight to defend Kyiv.
In Kyiv, as the country's capital prepared for attacks, Anastasiia Lenna pictured, a former Miss Ukraine, who was pictured with a huge rifle, complete with a pink scope, as she warned in an Instagram post: 'Everyone who crosses the Ukrainian border with the intent to invade will be killed!'
For weeks now, ordinary citizens across the country have been receiving basic combat training in everything from handling guns to making incendiary Molotov cocktails to tossing grenades. Pictured: A boy learns how to use a gun on the outskirts of Lviv today
The images were taken during a civilian self defence course and they are seen pointing AK-47's and machine guns, as they are shown how they work. Pictured: A child learns how to use a machine gun today on the outskirts of Lviv
Supplies are running low in Ukraine and groups including the 'People's Front' have stepped in to send essential food and supplies to the country.
And women and children have also been encouraged to make Molotov cocktails pictured to defend their cities against Russian forces. Pictured: People make Molotov cocktails outside their home in Kyiv on Tuesday
The now viral image came amid reports of long snaking queues of citizens waiting to be issued weapons in the capital.
They were taught how to throw the weapons by military instructors in early February when Russia was preparing to invade as part of the government's 'Don't Panic, Get Ready' campaign. Pictured: People learn to throw Molotov cocktails on Tuesday
In photographs taken today, the group were shown sorting through clothes and food as well as discussing evacuations for citizens of Kyiv.
Countless heroic Ukrainian civilians have been filmed battling Russian forces, with one unarmed group seen blocking a tank from entering the town of Koryukivka in the Chernihiv Oblast after forming a human barrier on the street.
Ukrainians have even resorted to putting shredded styrofoam in the bombs which can help the flames attach to targets.
The images were taken during a civilian self-defence course on the outskirts of Lviv, Ukraine and women and children are seen pointing AK-47's and machine guns, as they are shown how they work.
Supplies are running low in Ukraine and groups including the 'People's Front' pictured have stepped in to send essential food and supplies to the country. Pictured: The People's Front office today
There are also fears that there could be around 100 people buried in rubble after a rocket strike on an apartment in the city of Boradyanka, 30 miles from Kyiv.
It comes as Russia's invasion of Ukraine intensifies, with forces destroying port city Mariupol and seizing the largest nuclear power plant in Europe.
Women and children have been taught to make weapons and were today photographed being taught to use guns.
And women and children have also been encouraged to make Molotov cocktails to defend their cities against Russian forces.
In Kyiv, as the country's capital prepared for attacks, Anastasiia Lenna, a former Miss Ukraine, was pictured with a huge rifle, complete with a pink scope, as she warned in an Instagram post: 'Everyone who crosses the Ukrainian border with the intent to invade will be killed!'
They were taught how to throw the weapons by military instructors in early February when Russia was preparing to invade as part of the government's 'Don't Panic, Get Ready' campaign.
