China vows to support Putin on Russias sovereignty and security and two countries will step up economic ties as US warns Beijing risks ending up on the wrong side of history
20220616
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10922557/China-vows-support-Putin-Russias-sovereignty-security.html
'China claims to be neutral, but its behaviour makes clear that it is still investing in close ties to Russia,' a State Department spokesperson said.
Last week they unveiled the first road bridge linking the two countries, connecting the far eastern Russian city of Blagoveshchensk with the northern Chinese city of Heihe.
China vowed to support Vladimir Putin over Russia's 'sovereignty and security' on Wednesday, with the two countries set to step up their economic ties. Pictured:Chinese President Xi Jinping, right, poses for photos with the Russian President in Beijing, China, on February 4
The Kremlin said the two leaders had agreed to ramp up economic cooperation in the face of 'unlawful' Western sanctions.
Flying helicopters of the Ukrainian army are seen as Russian attacks continue, on June 15, 2022 in Lisichansk region, Luhansk oblast, Ukraine
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends the opening ceremony of Beijing 2022 Olympic Games in Beijing, China, 04 February 2022
'It was agreed to expand cooperation in the energy, financial, industrial, transport and other areas, taking into account the situation in the global economy that has become more complicated due to the unlawful sanctions policy of the West,' the Kremlin said following the phone call.
The call came ahead of theleaders of France, Germany and Italy meeting in Kyiv on Thursday in a show of European support for Ukraine.
The Communist Party newspaper Global Times said the mission was the first for the Type 055 destroyer Lhasa since its commissioning last year.
The Sea of Japan lies to the north of China between the Japanese archipelago, Sakhalin Island, the Korean Peninsula and the Russian Far East mainland.
China is believed to have commissioned five out of a planned first batch of Type 055 destroyers.
'China is willing to push for the steady and long-term development of bilateral pragmatic cooperation. China is willing to mutually support Russia on core interests and matters of paramount concern, such as sovereignty and security, as well as achieve closer strategic cooperation,' CCTV quoted Xi as saying during the call.
In the eyes of Chinese officials, the Europeans have allowed themselves to be sucked into backing Ukraine, at Washington's initiative, in a move contrary to their interests as Russian gas consumers.
'Nations that side with Vladimir Putin will inevitably find themselves on the wrong side of history.'
The pair have drawn closer in the political, trade and military spheres as part of what they call a 'no limits' relationship.
The U.S. military categorizes the Type 055 as a Renhai-class cruiser and sees them partly as a carrier escort. China operates two aircraft carriers with the launch of a third believed to be imminent.
President Xi Jinping spoke to his Russian counterpart in a phone call, during which he refused to condemn Moscow's massive on-going military assault on Ukraine.
It is accompanied by the Luyang-class Type 052D destroyer Chengdu and the Type 903 oiler Dongpinghu, the paper said, citing Japan's Defense Ministry.
China's navy has been building ships at a furious pace and now boasts the largest naval force in the world by number of hulls.
Washington was 'monitoring China's activity closely,' including how, nearly four months into Russia's war in Ukraine, the Asian giant was 'still echoing Russian propaganda around the world' and suggesting Moscow's atrocities in Ukraine were 'staged,' the official said.
China and India are two major economies that have not taken part in retaliatory measures against Moscow, with Putin banking on his country's relations with the pair to bail him out of the economic fallout.
Ukrainian servicemen fire with a French self-propelled 155 mm52-calibre gun Caesar towards Russian positions at a front line in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on June 15, 2022
Beijing is Moscow's largest trading partner, with trade volumes last year hitting $147 billion, according to Chinese customs data.
It was reported in March that senior Chinese officials asked Putin to hold off on invading Ukraine until after the 2022 Winter Olympics.
French President Emmanuel Macron, right, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, center, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi travel on board a train bound to Kyiv after departing from Poland Thursday, June 16, 2022.
Beijing was willing to 'intensify strategic coordination between the two countries', Xi reportedly told the Russian tyrant.
Just weeks before Putin ordered his troops into Ukraine, Moscow and Beijing agreed to a 'no limits' partnership when the two leaders met.
Asked by a journalist why he had come to Ukraine, Macron said: 'For a message of European unity.'
The West has adopted unprecedented sanctions against Russia in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine, and Moscow considers that Europe and the United States have thus caused a global economic slowdown.
Such a conflict would almost certainly draw in the United States, which provides Taiwan with defensive weapons and is legally required to treat threats to the island as matters of 'grave concern,' along with its treaty allies, the most important and closest in geographical proximity being Japan.
China vowed to support Vladimir Putin over Russia's'sovereignty and security' on Wednesday, with the two countries set to step up their economic ties - prompting Washington to warn Beijing it risked ending up 'on the wrong side of history'.
Those ships have been growing in sophistication as well, with the Type 055, also known as the Nanchang class, featuring a stealthy design and packing air-defense missiles and anti-ship and anti-land cruise missiles, as well as torpedoes.
It was the second reported call between the two leaders since Putin launched his invasion of Ukraine on February 24. The pair last met earlier in February when Putin visited Beijing for the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympics.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi arrived in the Ukrainian capital by train from Poland, according to an AFP reporter travelling with them.
The European Union and the United States have warned that any backing from Beijing for Russia's war, or help for Moscow to dodge Western sanctions, would damage ties.
But the United States swiftly weighed in with a frosty retort to Beijing's expressed alignment with Moscow.
According to CCTV, Xi praised the 'good momentum of development' in bilateral relations since the start of the year 'in the face of global turmoil and changes'.
Moscow is also looking for new markets and suppliers to replace the major foreign firms that left Russia following the invasion.
Meanwhile,One of China's largest and most capable combat ships is conducting long-distance exercises in the Sea of Japan, state media reported Thursday, in a display of China's increasing naval reach.
Once bitter Cold War enemies, Beijing and Moscow have stepped up cooperation in recent years as a counterbalance to what they see as US global dominance.
Citing military experts, Global Times said the destroyer was part of China's military buildup aimed at deterring a foreign intervention in the event of an attack on Taiwan, the self-governing island China claims as its own and threatens to annex by force.
Beijing has been accused of providing diplomatic cover for Moscow by blasting Western sanctions and arms sales to Kyiv, as it escalates tensions in its own region with increasing threats to Taiwan.
It is believed thatXi Jinping is watching the Western reaction to Russia's invasion of Ukraine closely to gauge what kind of response he could expect should he launch his own invasion against Taiwan.
The leaders' call Wednesday fell on Xi's 69th birthday and was their first reported communication since the day after Russia launched its Ukraine invasion.
