Come to your squares make yourselves visible and heard say that people matter Zelensky urges millions around the world to take to the streets and protest against Putins invasion to mark one month since it began
20220323
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10645885/Zelensky-urges-millions-world-streets-protest-against-Putins-invasion.html
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday urged citizens around the world to take to the streets to protest Russia's invasion of his country in a passionate video pictured
Checks in the US need to be made out to 'CAF America' and have 'Mail Force Ukraine Appeal' in the memo.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday urged citizens around the world to take to the streets to protest Russia's invasion of his country.
'Come with Ukrainian symbols to support Ukraine, to support freedom, to support life,' Zelensky said in a video address in English. 'Come to your squares, to your streets, make yourselves visible and heard.'
He appealed to Western countries to stay united in the face what he says are Russia's efforts to 'lobby its interests' with 'some partners' to bring them over to its side.
But with Wednesday marking four full weeks of fighting, Russia is now bogged down in a grinding military campaign.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of this conflict will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
'One month already. That long. It breaks my heart. Hearts of all Ukrainians and every free person on the planet,' he said.
'This is only the beginning for Russia on the Ukrainian land. Russia is trying to defeat the freedom of all people in Europe - of all the people in the world. It tries to show that only crude and cruel force matters.
'Our people cannot even adequately bury their murdered relatives, friends and neighbours. They have to be buried right in the yards of destroyed buildings, next to the roads,' he said.
Pictured: Activists and young Ukrainians demonstrate with a giant peace sign and 'Stop Putin's oil' in front of the Jusutus Lispsius the EU Council building and the Berlaymont, the EU Commission building on March 22, 2022
'We ask that the alliance declare that it will fully assist Ukraine to win this war, clear our territory of the invaders and restore peace in Ukraine,' he said late Wednesday during his nightly video address to the nation.
I thank everyone who acts in support of Ukraine in support of freedom. But the war continues.The acts of terror against peaceful people go on.
Switching to Russian, Zelensky appealed to Russians 'to leave Russia so as not to give your tax money to the war.' Tens of thousands of Russians already have fled Russia since the war began, fearing the intensifying crackdown at home.
Despite showing little sign of further Russian advancement, the Kremlin has not shown much sign of backing down on the demands it is asking for in order to withdraw its troops.
Still, major Russian objectives remain unfulfilled. The capital, Kyiv, has been shelled repeatedly but is not even encircled.
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from the bombs and guns.
'The War of Russia is not only the war against Ukraine, its meaning is much wider. Russia started the war against freedom as it is,'the Ukrainian president said in his address on Wednesday night.
In a passionate speech on the eve of a one-month anniversary of Russia's invasion, Zelensky urged people around the globe 'to stand against the war starting from March 24... and after then' to speak up against Russia's bloody war.
A shopping mall lies in ruins after a missile strike of the Russian troops in the Podilskyi district of Kyiv, capital of Ukraine, March 22, 2022
'Show your standing, come from your offices, your homes, your schools and your universities, come in the name of peace,' Zelensky said.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
Addressing Japan's parliament earlier on Wednesday, Zelensky said four weeks of war have killed thousands of his people, including at least 121 children.
NATO estimated on Wednesday that 7,000 to 15,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in the four weeks of war, where ferocious fighting by the country's fast-moving defenders has denied Moscow the lightning victory it sought.
Zelensky noted that Ukrainian skies are still not closed to Russian aircraft and missiles and that Ukraine hasn't received the fighter jets or modern air-defence systems it requested. He said Ukraine also needs tanks and anti-ship systems.
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
Donations to the Mail Force Ukraine Appeal will be used to help charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
'It tries to show that people do not matter as well as everything else, that make us people. That's the reason we all must stop Russia. The world must stop the war.
'We will see who is a friend, who is a partner and who has sold out and betrayed us,' he said in the emotional speech. 'Together we should not allow Russia to break anyone in NATO, the EU or G-7, to break them and drag them to the side of war.'
'We have lasted six times longer than the enemy had planned . but the Russian troops are destroying our cities, killing civilians indiscriminately, raping women, kidnapping children, shooting refugees, capturing aid columns and looting.'
With its ground forces repeatedly slowed or stopped by hit-and-run Ukrainian units armed with Western-supplied weapons, Russian President Vladimir Putin's troops are bombarding targets from afar, falling back on the tactics they used in reducing cities to ruins in Syria and Chechnya.
Fleeing residents say fighting continues street by street. In their last update, over a week ago, Mariupol officials said at least 2,300 people had died, but the true toll is probably much higher.
Hundreds of civilians have been killed, hundreds more injured and over three million Ukrainians have fled their country since Russia invaded its neighbour on February 24 with the goal of thwarting its pro-Western course.
Airstrikes in the past week destroyed a theatre and an art school where civilians were sheltering.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003.
'Say that people matter. Freedom matters. Peace matters. Ukraine matters. From March 24 in downtowns of your cities, all as one together who want to stop the war.'
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Near-constant shelling and gunfire shook the city Wednesday, with plumes of black smoke rising from the western outskirts, where the two sides battled for control of multiple suburbs. Mayor Vitali Klitschko said at least 264 civilians have been killed in the capital since war broke out.
Speaking on the eve of a NATO summit on Thursday, Zelensky called on the alliance to provide 'effective and unrestricted' support to Ukraine, including any weapons the country needs to fend off the Russian invasion.
When Russia unleashed its invasion on February 24 in Europe's biggest offensive since the Second World War, a swift toppling of Ukraine's democratically elected government seemed likely.
In the south, the port city of Mariupol has seen the worst devastation of the war, under weeks of siege and bombardment. But Ukrainian forces have prevented its fall, thwarting an apparent bid by Moscow to fully secure a land bridge from Russia to Crimea, seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Zelensky said 100,000 civilians remain in a city that had 430,000 people. Efforts to get desperately needed food and other supplies to those trapped have often failed.
'It has been a month of defending ourselves from attempts to destroy us, wipe us off the face of the earth,' he said.
Calling upon that human spirit, we are supporting a huge push to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Zelensky accused Russian forces of seizing a humanitarian convoy. Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the Russians were holding captive 11 bus drivers and four rescue workers along with their vehicles.
