Could Vladimir Putins benighted people now rise up and topple him As antiwar protesters brave streets and Moscow stock market loses 250billion UK minister calls for Kremlin coup writes OWEN MATTHEWS
20220224
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10549195/OWEN-MATTHEWS-Vladimir-Putins-benighted-people-rise-topple-him.html
The battle for Russian hearts and minds has been called a struggle between the TV and the refrigerator. One appliance tells the Russian populace they are citizens of a great and victorious nation while the other tells them they are starving as the plummeting rouble robs them of food.
Europe and the UK will now scramble to find alternatives to Putins toxic energy supplies. Hes cut off the branch hes sitting on.
Protests are a rare sight in this authoritarian nation but anti-war campaigners broke cover yesterday in more than 40 cities, including Moscow and St Petersburg - only to be subjected to a merciless crackdown.
They were the ones at Putins bizarre Security Council meeting this week who parroted the bosss line with the greatest gusto. But officials who actually run the economy and have contact with the outside world  Putins prime minister and his foreign minister, for instance  were visibly more sheepish.
But the real test will come when body bags start coming home, and when sanctions really start to bite.
But by blundering into a bloody campaign that will beggar his country and shake the foundations of his own popularity, hes gone from being a strong leader to a dangerous liability.
But is this a realistic prospect? As the world reacted with shock and revulsion, what do ordinary Russians think of their leaders snap decision to send in the tanks?
Putin is clearly hoping for a patriotic electoral lift similar to the one he enjoyed after he annexed Crimea. Prior to that his popularity ratings were in the doldrums, although afterwards they soared
The all-out attack on Ukraine, however, could have the opposite effect. Unlike the Kremlins earlier adventure, he will have no shiny new imperial bauble to show off at the end of it all. Crimea is a well-loved vacation spot for millions of Russians, with an overwhelmingly Russian population. Donbas,  the area in eastern Ukraine that Putin has recognised as a separate state  is a war-ravaged post industrial rust-belt region. Only 35 per cent of its population even identified themselves as Russian in the last census.
Predictably, the Kremlin propaganda machine has gone into full attack mode, reheating cliches about the Kyiv government being run by fascists and Nazis, which were invented in the run-up to Putins annexation of Crimea in 2014.
Ousting him wont be easy. But many members of his inner circle may soon come to see that their increasingly unhinged boss is damaging their interests  as well as Russias  rather than protecting them.
A Russian diplomat Ive known for 20 years messaged me on Signal  a secure app he believes is safe from the eyes of his bosses  to say that Putin had led us far, far out into a stormy ocean.
James Cleverly accused Vladimir Putin of pursuing the murderous fantasy of restoring the Russian empire
The rouble nosedived yesterday, while the crash in the Russian stock market wiped out more than $250billion in asset values. The countrys largest lender, Sberbank, at one point lost a staggering 57 per cent, and oil giant Rosneft plunged as much as 58 per cent.
Make no mistake, there is deep apprehension in Russia over what has happened. Partially, of course, because the prospect of the toughest round yet of Western sanctions has sent the economy into a tailspin.
Snap polls suggest that 50 per cent of the public support a full invasion, and many older TV viewers may be truly convinced by the propaganda. I remember the War  lots of Russian people are ready to fight fascism, says Ludmilla Scherbakova, 87, the mother of a Moscow friend.
But the young are a different story. Polls in December found that 66 per cent of Russians under 25  the people who will be expected to actually fight an all-out war - had a positive attitude towards Ukraine.
Putins most venomous TV attack dog led his nightly news programme with false stories of an ongoing genocide against the Russian-speaking population of Eastern Ukraine.
Moscows boulevards were filled with busloads of police to prevent more gatherings, and the Kremlin has introduced full, Soviet-style media censorship threatening to inflict crippling fines on any media outlet, including on the internet, for spreading disinformation that contradicted the party line.
Some, including even senior members of the Putin machine, have responded with disbelief and incomprehension. During his unhinged speech this week declaring Ukraine to be an invented country, one senior editor at a Kremlin-controlled TV station texted me in alarm to say that the boss had gone completely crazy.
Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has not been welcomed wildly at home with thousands of people risking extreme punishment by protesting against the military action
Even the countrys actors have been told to toe the party line and are banned from making any comment from the stage. Makar Zaporozhsky, of the Mayakovsky Theatre, said on Instagram orders from the Ministry of Culture have made it clear that any negative commentary will be regarded as treason.
Putin is clearly hoping for a patriotic electoral lift similar to the one he enjoyed after he annexed Crimea. Prior to that his popularity ratings were in the doldrums, although afterwards they soared.
For 22 years, Putin has kept an iron grip on power by ruthlessly dividing the West, eliminating opponents at home and keeping a careful balance on competing interests in the Kremlin court itself.
By uniting the West in support of Ukraine, Putin has also managed to undermine Russias only real strategic lever over Europe  its gas supplies. Following Germanys decision to halt certification of the 11billion Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, the showpiece of Putins energy supremacy is just an expensive piece of metal on the Baltic seabed.
Russian generals should stage a coup against Vladimir Putin to halt the war in Ukraine, a Foreign Office minister suggested yesterday.
The twin pillars of Putins power  a huge propaganda operation and a terrifying machine of state repression  will probably quell murmurings of discontent from the people. But the other losers of will be members of his own elite, who stand to forfeit their homes and the money they have stashed abroad.
Putins court is made up of two groups  the ones with the guns and the ones with the money. It is hawkish, gun-toting former KGB officers known as siloviki who have pushed for this war, and won.
The minister, who has responsibility for Russian policy, appeared to urge forces chiefs to rise up against their president. The military leaders around Vladimir Putin must know this is a catastrophically bad judgment call... that this will come at a huge cost. They are in a position to stop this and we call on them to do so.
Some within Vladimir Putin's circle have suggested that the president has gone 'completely crazy' with his claims Ukraine is an 'invented country' during his 'unhinged' public address
Most sceptical of all was Sergei Naryshkin, head of Russias Foreign Intelligence Service, who got a public dressing-down for fluffing his lines when he appeared to give only lukewarm support for the decision to recognise two breakaway republics. These realists will soon come to see Putins impetuous attack has devastated the economy and undermined the whole regimes credibility.
