Cut off the head of the snake the snake dies Sean Hannity suggests Putin should be ASSASSINATED and says the Russian leader has forfeited his right to live
20220303
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10572301/Cut-head-snake-kill-snake-Sean-Hannity-suggests-assassinating-Putin.html
The fall of Kherson comes as Putin's invasion heads into its second week. President Joe Biden forcefully condemned Putin and said 'he has no idea what's coming' in his State of the Union Tuesday.
'What's the point of all of this? Putin's bad,' he said. 'No one in America is gonna argue with that. But will destroying the entire Russian economy make Putin less bad? Will it force Russia troops to withdraw from Ukraine? And if it will, how exactly will that work and how long will it take?'
'They're very good at wrecking things,' he said. 'It's what they do. They planned the Iraq war and they never apologized for it. So we might want to make sure they don't wreck anything else ever again, especially this country.'
'Would the next Russian president be an improvement over Putin? Or would Russia descend into barbarous chaos like Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan did once we overthrew their governments?' he asked.
'Cut the head of the snake off and you kill the snake,' said Hannity, 60, as the first Ukrainian city fell to the Russian invasion on Wednesday.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with the head of Russia's Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a big business lobby group, at the Kremlin in Moscow on March 2
The comments came as the first major city in Ukraine, Kherson, fell to the Russians, the mayor confirmed on Wednesday, urging his residents on Facebook to obey 'armed people who came to the city's administration'.
'What we really need in this crisis, more than anything else, is a worldwide condemnation,' Hannity said on his daytime radio show. 'And it's a simple new rule that if you invade an innocent sovereign country, and you kill innocent men, women and children, you don't deserve to live. That's the bottom line.'
He brought a similar attitude to his primetime show 'Hannity' Wednesday, and echoed his take that the Russian president had 'forfeit his right to live.'
Hannity also suggested a Spartacus-esque scenario in which either everyone or no one took credit for the assassination.
Kyiv was also coming under attack in the early hours of Thursday, with a bright explosion booming across the city around 2am.
Sean Hannity proposes NATO fighter jets bomb Russian convoy and then nobody takes credit for it, so then Putin won't know who to hit https:t.co7jYGYmxMsK pic.twitter.comCcVUvYglw8
Fox Newstop two primetime hosts clashed about what to do withVladimir Putin- as Sean Hannity suggested the Russian leader should be assassinated, while Tucker Carlson warned that removing the dictator could lead to someone even worse taking power.
After criticizing the supposedly performative efforts to support Ukraine by both President Biden and Republican Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, he asked rhetorically what should be done about Putin.
'Now currently the U.S. operates under a decades-old executive order signed by former President Gerald Ford that prohibits the U.S. government employees from engaging in political assassinations.
'And I'm like, 'You cut the head of the snake off and you kill the snake. Right now the snake is Vladimir Putin,' Hannity added.
Fox News host Sean Hannity suggested Russian President Vladimir Putin be assassinated as his invasion of Ukraine continues
But fellow Fox News host Tucker Carlson suggested that it was better the devil you know and that deposing Putin could end in an even worse dictator.
'You know, if we can see on satellite imagery where the convoy is, I don't know, maybe some smart country, maybe NATO might take some of their fighter jets, or maybe they can use some drone strikes and take out the whole damn convoy,' Hannity said on the radio Wednesday. 'And then nobody takes credit for it, so then Putin won't know who to hit back.'
