DAILY MAIL COMMENT EU betrayed Ukraine by rubbing out red line
20220226
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10553815/DAILY-MAIL-COMMENT-EU-betrayed-Ukraine-rubbing-red-line.html
For too long, we have been naively cavalier about the threats to our critical sectors. We must take off the rose-tinted glasses.
A full-scale invasion was supposed to be a 'red line'  triggering instant, brutal retaliatory measures. Instead, the EU is turning that red line a watery pink.
This begs the question what, if not an unprovoked attack on a sovereign country, would be sufficient provocation?
By failing to punish Putin pictured with the harshest sanctions, the EU has not only lost its moral compass. It has delivered a devastating blow to Ukraine's fight for survival
While words of denunciation have rolled off their tongues, the bloc's pusillanimous and self-serving politicians have refused to hit Vladimir Putin's gangster regime with the most painful economic sanctions.
Wouldn't it be better to have a proper agricultural strategy and grow more crops ourselves?
In Ukraine, thousands of ordinary people have taken up arms, heroically prepared to fight to repel Russian forces. Pictured: Ukrainian solders take positions in Kyiv on Friday
If ever a moment was screaming for us to exploit North Sea gas reserves and build nuclear power stations, it is now.
From the Kindertransport children rescued from the Nazis to the Syrian families forced out by Assad, we have welcomed them with open arms.
So to face the future, ministers must have a fundamental rethink. For sovereign nations to guarantee their security in these turbulent times, it is crucial they retain independence in three strategic sectors: Defence, energy and food.
But in the EU nations, courage is in lamentably short supply. The EU has dismissed Boris Johnson's pleas to eject Russia from Swift, the world's biggest financial payments system
Absurdly, the EU boasts that it  not Nato  is responsible for peace in Europe.
That is why the Mail urges the Government to ensure Britain takes in its fair share.
Now, that fig leaf lies exposed. By failing to punish Putin with the harshest sanctions, it has not only lost its moral compass. It has delivered a devastating blow to Ukraine's fight for survival.
Thankfully, because of Brexit we can go further and faster on sanctions than the shabby, sclerotic so-called super-state.
Britain, depressingly, is making a pig's ear of each. With the war pushing up energy costs, we must end our dangerous reliance on volatile regimes to keep our lights on.
The squalid truth is, while Ukrainians die defending their homeland, our erstwhile EU partners want to trade oil, gas and  incredibly  luxury fashion goods with the Kremlin. It is profoundly immoral.
Food prices, too, are soaring  especially wheat. Yet the Government seems obsessed with turning our countryside into a rewilding theme park for the Notting Hill set.
And the rekindled knowledge that conflagration can flare up at any time should be a warning to stop running down Britain's military capabilities.
Because, for many years, governments convinced us that state-on-state conflict had gone the way of the Zeppelin.
For the innocent victims of Putin's war, it is our moral duty to do so again.
It has dismissed Boris Johnson's pleas to eject Russia from Swift, the world's biggest financial payments system.
In Ukraine, thousands of ordinary people have taken up arms, heroically prepared to fight to the last man  and woman  to repel Russian forces.
Such a move could cripple the regime's economy, making Putin think twice about fresh aggression.
