Drone destroys Russian landing ship supplying antiaircraft missiles to Putins troops on Snake Island as Ukraine vows to destroy and burn out enemy units like cockroaches or locusts
20220507
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10792327/Drone-destroys-Russian-landing-ship-supplying-anti-aircraft-missiles-troops-Snake-Island.html
Satellite image showing the jetty where the landing ship was sitting when it was hit by a Ukrainian drone on Snake Island off the coast of Ukraine
This satellite image taken by Planet Labs PBC shows thick black smoke rising after a suspected Ukrainian drone strike on Russian positions on Snake Island, Ukraine, in the Black Sea
The footage also showed an attack on a building on Snake Island. What appear to be Russian personnel are seen patrolling around the building when it too is blasted from the sky.
The footage of the strike on the vessel was not dated. After the strike, people were seen moving about on the vessel.
A modern T-90M tank, the most formidable in the Russian army, was caught on camera being hit and destroyed by a rocketin the north-eastern Ukrainian region of Kharkiv Oblast.
Other reports said the landing craft had been hit by a hit by a Ukrainian Bayraktar TB2 military drone.
The landing ship supplying the Russian occupiers on Snake Island with an anti-aircraft missile system moments before it is hit
the Ukrainian military released drone footage of a Russian armoured unit which resulted in the destruction of the 4million tank as well as a thermobaric multiple rocket system. The drone showed several armoured vehicles blow up in quick succession
'Enemy units remaining on Snake Island remain without air cover and will be destroyed and burned out like cockroaches or locusts,' said Ukrainian official Anton Gerashchenko.
There has so far been no confirmation of the Makarov attack which was said to have damaged the warship.
The building was hit in a strike moments later.The Black Sea island is about 30 miles off the coast near Ukraine's southern border with Romania
Ukraine today showed a video claiming to be a military drone hit on a Russian landing ship supplying a TOR anti-aircraft missile system to Snake Island
The Serna class - Russian designation Project 11770 - is a type of 'air cavity' designed landing craft constructed for the Russian Navy. Twelve boats were built between 1994 and 2014.
Further targets on Snake Island were hit by what Ukraine claims to be a TB2 drone. The Russians captured the island in the early days of the war
Black and white footage showed little human figures moving around on the landing ship moments before a white flash engulfs the craft. Figures continue to move around on the craft after it is hit.
The large Serna-type landing craft moments after the missile strike by the Bayraktar TB2 drone. 'Enemy units remaining on Snake Island remain without air cover', the Ukrainians said.
An aerial view shows Ukrainian UAV Bayraktar drone targeting a building at Zmiinyi Snake Island
Meanwhile, the UK's Ministry of Defence has concluded that Russia's latest and most advanced tanks are still vulnerable after one was blown up by Ukrainian forces.
The claim came a day after Ukrainian sources alleged they had struck modern Russian frigate Admiral Makarov in a Neptune missile attack.
'Approximately 100 T-90M tanks are currently in service amongst Russia's best equipped units, including those fighting in Ukraine.
Ukraine today showed a video claiming to be a military drone hit on a Russian landing ship supplying a TOR anti-aircraft missile system to Snake Island.
'The system's upgraded armour, designed to counter anti-tank weaponry, remains vulnerable if unsupported by other force elements.'
The development will hearten NATO planners as the Ministry of Defence states that the conflict in Ukraine is taking a heavy toll on some of Russia's most capable units and most advanced capabilities that they will struggle to replace due to Western sanctions restricting access to vital components such as microelectronics.
The footage appears to show the destruction of a large Serna-type landing craft in an air strike.
'The T-90M was introduced in 2016 and includes improved armour, an upgraded gun and enhances satellite navigation systems,' the MoD tweeted in a regular bulletin on Saturday.
