Everything that was said was done Heather Mills recalls meeting Vladimir Putin during 2003 world tour with Sir Paul McCartney in a bid to stop mass production of landmines
20220602
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10877795/Heather-Mills-recalls-meeting-Vladimir-Putin-2003-world-tour-Sir-Paul-McCartney.html
The businesswoman claimed that 'everything she asked for happened', and 'everything that was said was done.'
'What we needed was China, America and Russia  they were the big manufacturers and distributers of land mines. And setting up a concert meant we got to meet.'
'As far as the Ukraine and Russia situation is concerned, both sides are as bad as each other.
She said: 'Having had a lot of Russian and Ukrainian friends, there are two sides to the story.
Opportunity:In 2003, the former model, 54, and her then husband Sir Paul McCartney, 79, met the Russian leader during their world tour
Heather continued: 'Were only helping Ukraine as a government because we want the pipe lines, we want access to all the ingredients as there is massive shortage of wheat and gluten at the moment.
Meeting: The businesswoman claimed that 'everything she asked for happened', and 'everything that was said was done' pictured July 2019
Making a change:Speaking on The Argus Podcast , Heather revealed how part of her charity work at the time was attempting to convince governments to stop mass producing and stockpiling weapons
'To have a war is absolutely insane because it creates devastation. But the Ukrainians are not innocent, and neither are the Russians.'
'A few years later it was done, and I never had contact again,' she said.
The mother-of-one said that 'both sides are as bad as each other' and neither is 'innocent'.
Lifting the lid:Heather Mills has recalled the moment she met with Vladimir Putin in a bid to stop the mass production of landmines pictured May 2018
In other talking points on the podcast, Heather, who was married to Beatles star Paul, 79, for six years before their divorce in 2008, discussed the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
In 2003, the former model and her then husband Sir Paul McCartney met the Russian leader during their world tour.
Heather Mills has recalled the moment she met with Vladimir Putin in a bid to stop the mass production of landmines.
Opinion:In other talking points on the podcast, Heather discussed the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and said that 'both sides are as bad as each other' pictured March 2015
Speaking on The Argus Podcast, Heather, 54, revealed how part of her charity work at the time was attempting to convince governments to stop mass producing and stockpiling weapons.
'Also, they are selling weapons no matter how much they say they are handing them over.
She said: 'We were travelling around the world touring. I said, "lets do a concert in Russia and try and get a meeting with Putin", so I could see if he will ratify.
'Let me make it clear, Im completely against war. Never, ever do they work. But a lot of Ukrainian people have terrible medical care, tiny wages and want to be part of Russia. And they should be allowed to be part of Russia.
'All wars are a complete waste of time, money, lives, everything. Nobody gains anything, expect potentially some governments.'
