EXCLUSIVE As soon as I get the chance Nadiya Bychkova reveals plans to rescue her family from wartorn Ukraine  but insists they are safe at the moment
20220729
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-11059741/Nadiya-Bychkova-reveals-plans-rescue-family-war-torn-Ukraine.html
Going all out: TOWIE newcomer Junaid Ahmed was all smalls on the night as he dazzled in a purple velvet suit for photographers
Making a grand entrance on the night was Giovanni Pernice who looked suave in a timeless black suit.
Nadiya Bychkova has revealed she plans to rescue her family members from war-torn Ukraine as soon as she gets the opportunity.
Also turning heads on the night was Too Hot To Handle's Beaux Raymond who sizzed in a yellow feather trimmed dress.
TOWIE favourite Dani Imbert looked sensational as she flashed her abs in a daring white co-ord with thigh slit.
She added: Im in touch with them and I help as much as I can. I couldnt get my father and my grandmother anywhere close to me but theyre there and theyre safe at the moment so as soon as I will get the chance to get them Ill do that.
Gong: There was better news on the night for Nadiya as she bagged the award for -
Smooth: Making a grand entrance on the night was Giovanni Pernice who looked suave in a timeless black suit
Beauty: Love Island beauty Rebecca Gormley caught the eye in a plum satin number with daring thigh slit
Dressed to impress, she swept her blonde hair into an updo and accessorized with a salmon clutch.
2021 Love Island star Amy Day turned heads on the night wearing a clinging busty blue corset style dress.
Wow: 2021 Love Island star Amy Day turned heads on the night wearing a clinging busty blue corset style dress
Timeless: Neil Jones was also in attendance on the night looking suave in a black suit.
'I think were all affected by it,' she said. 'I still have my father there and my grandparents, a lot of friends, its a very tough subject to talk about.Its so difficult.'
TOWIE newcomer Junaid Ahmed was all smalls on the night as he dazzled in a purple velvet suit for photographers.
Chic: Also turning heads on the night was Too Hot To Handle's Beaux Raymond who sizzed in a yellow feather trimmed dress
'The war has been going on since 2014 when my family was involved all the time so its been very long for me.'
Classic: Antique dealer David Dickinson MBE stepped out in style wearing one of his signature white tuxedo jackets
Heartbreking: Nadiya Bychkova revealed her plans to rescue her family from Ukraine at the National Reality Television Awards on Thursday as she was joined by her beau Kai Widdrington
Meanwhile, Kai cut a dapper figure in a black suit while dressing up the look with a grey tie.
Antique dealer David Dickinson MBE stepped out in style wearing one of his signature white tuxedo jackets.
The Dickinson's Real Deal host toasted success on the night after thewinning Outstanding Contribution to Television 2022 at the awards.
Ab-tastic: TOWIE favourite Dani Imbert looked sensational as she flashed her abs in a daring white co-ord with thigh slit
The dress also featured a belt element round the waist, drawing in her petite frame.
Heartbreak: Speaking about her family Nadiya said: 'Im in touch with them and I help as much as I can. I couldnt get my father and my grandmother anywhere close to me but theyre there and theyre safe at the moment so as soon as I will get the chance to get them Ill do that'
After months of tensions between Moscow and Kyiv, Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine by land, air and sea on February 24.
Love Island beauty Rebecca Gormley caught the eye in a plum satin number with daring thigh slit.
Elsewhere, TV legend Anne Hegarty looked worlds away from her 'chaser' self as she got dressed to the nines in a floral print dress.
Handsome: Kai cut a dapper figure in a black suit while dressing up the look with a grey tie
Pretty in pink: TV legend Anne Hegarty looked worlds away from her 'chaser' self as she got dressed to the nines in a floral print dress
The professional dancer looked a vision in a light blue chiffon gown, featuring an elegant trail.
Loved-up: The pair looked smitten as they held hands while walking into the Bayswater venue
Winner winner: The couple looked thrilled as they left the venue taking home a gong and some goody bags
Strictly dancerNadiya, 32, who was joined by her boyfriend Kai Widdrington at the National Reality Television Awards at Porchester Hall Thursday night - spoke exclusively to Mail Online at about her war-ravaged country.
Their strictly co-star Neil Jones was also in attendance on the night looking suave in a black suit.
There was better news on the night forNadiya as she took home a much sought after award on the night.
