EXCLUSIVE I will kill to protect my city my family my country Young Ukrainian mothers tell how they have joined up and taken up arms to defend Odesa from Putins forces
20220326
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10654999/Young-Ukrainian-mothers-tell-taken-arms-defend-Odesa-Putins-forces.html
'But my unit is based here in the city of Odesa so if the Russians invade I will shoot them from the barricades.
A woman asks for permission to cross the barricades while Ukrainian soldier guards in front of the Odesa National Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet
So ordinary citizens  like the two mothers  have taken up arms in their droves to defend their homes.
Now Olena, 30, and Kamila, 33, are part of a unit of Ukraine's 3014 Army that is the final line of defence for Odesa  a long-held prize of the Kremlin.
The parade was held next to a famous statue of Russian Tsarina Catherine the Great, who founded the city in 1794.
But the 30-year-old, who usually works for a trade union, says she had no other choice than to help defend the city.
'I used to work in an office but now I go on patrol and man a post with my unit.'
Two Ukrainian mothers of young children have told how they will kill and be killed to protect their beloved city of Odesa from Russian invaders.
'I try not to think about whether I might die, but I am prepared to give my life to protect everything I love.'
But after Russian warships threatened to mount a seaborne assault of ancient port, these fiercely protective women took up arms to defend Ukraine.
Mothers Olena Lolesnyk, 30, left and Kamila Suleymanova, 33, have taken uparms to defend Ukraine
Before the war Olena Lolesnyk and Kamila Suleymanova held down normal jobs and spent their free time taking their sons to the many beaches and parks of this picturesque resort town, known as the 'Pearl of the Black Sea'.
Dressed in khaki-green uniforms, body armour, tin hats, and carrying Kalashnikov assault rifles, they stood shoulder to shoulder with their male comrades, as a military band played the Last Post.
A Ukrainian soldier guards in front of the National Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet and one of the city's symbols, behind a heavy barricade in Odesa, Ukraine, March 26
Her mother is dead and she split up from his father a long time ago.
She said: 'My son Daniel is 12 years old. I have to protect Odesa for him, for his future.
The pair attended a military ceremony to honour Ukraine's National Guard in Odesa, southern Ukraine
And the Ukrainian Army is on high-alert of a coordinated Normandy-style beach landing and parachute assault that could surround the city on three sides.
Back on parade, Olena revealed she does not know who will look after her nine-year-old son David if she is killed.
Tank traps, barbed-wire and machine gun emplacement now litter the tree-lined boulevards and pedestrian walkways throughout the city centre.
But now this symbol of the Russian Empire is covered in sand-bags and surrounded by Ukrainian military hardware to protect it from the Kremlin warships that threaten to reduce the historic port to rubble.
Formally the fourth most important city in the Russian Empire, and with huge strategic value as Ukraine's main sea port, Odesa is a major Kremlin goal.
The pair were speaking after they attended a military ceremony to honour Ukraine's National Guard.
Kamila, who used to work for the city council, said she felt she had no choice but to join the army.
'I am prepared to kill to protect my city, my family, my country,' blonde-haired Olena told MailOnline, after she collected a bravery award from the city mayor.
