General Sir Patrick Sanders is appointed the new British Army chief during Russian invasion of Ukraine but he wont start his role until JUNE
20220224
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10548607/General-Sir-Patrick-Sanders-named-new-Chief-General-Staff.html
He said: 'The Russian invasion of Ukraine is a stark reminder that the world is becoming increasingly dangerous and uncertain with war on land coming to Europe for the first time in decades.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace confirmed that the Queen has approved his new appointment as the Chief of the General Staff
Other roles have included time as theChief of Defence Staff's Liaison Officer to the US Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staffand as the Head Operations Military and Assistant Chief of Defence Staff Operations in the Ministry of Defence.
Mr Wallace said: 'General Sanders takes up his new role at a critically important time for the British Army and at a pivotal time for the organisation and management of our land forces as we witness the unprovoked attack by Russian forces across sovereign Ukraine.
He added that his leadership has reinforced how the UK Armed Forces must work across all sectors 'to ensure we meet the challenges of future conflicts in these regions'.
He was promoted to General in May 2019 and went on to take over the Commander Joint Forces Command, where he managed the organisation's move to Strategic Command.
He was commissioned into The Royal Green Jackets in 1986 and spent his early career at Regimental Duty in Germany, Norway and the UK.
'The British Army will play its part in defending the UK and our allies as we have for centuries.'
These have included Brigade Chief of Staff, Directing Staff at the Joint Staff College and working as policymilitary adviser for the Commander of Coalition Forces in Iraq in 2003 to 2004.
'I have every confidence in his leadership and I wish him well in this endeavour.'
Sir Patrick, 55, said he is 'deeply honoured' by the appointment  which will see him take over from General Sir Mark Carleton-Smith from June 2022.
He pointed out that as the current Commander of UK Strategic Command, Sir Patrick has played a key role in the developingand shaping of the UK Government's Integrated Review and Defence Command Paper 'by reflecting the new and emerging threats posed by cyber and 'greyzone' warfare'.
He has commanded at company, battalion, brigade, and divisional level, including on operations in Northern Ireland, Kosovo, Bosnia,Iraq and Afghanistan.
Sir Patrick noted his posting comes 'at such a pivotal time for the future of the British Army'.
Sir Patrickwas commissioned into The Royal Green Jackets in 1986 and spent his early career at Regimental Duty in Germany, Norway and the UK
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace confirmed that the Queen has approved his new appointment as the Chief of the General Staff.
