How Putins billions cant beat Ukraine Russias strategic incompetence has left its armed forces significantly weaker and less feared  despite Moscow doubling its military budget  MoD reveals
20220502
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10777521/Russias-strategic-incompetence-Ukraine-left-armed-forces-significantly-weaker.html
Russia is also developing theTupolev PAK DA stealth bomber, another next-generation piece of military equipment that can remain in the air for up to 30 hours and carry both conventional and nuclear bombs.
There is some doubt over whether Russia does truly spend $65billion on defence around 8 percent of U.S. defence spending while maintaining a military that is closer in size to those belonging to the United States and China.
The Kremlin has also spent billions on its 'New Look' modernisation project, which it began in 2008 in order to reform its forces. Prior to these efforts, much of the Kremlin's military was still made up of Soviet-era equipment and tactical thinking.
The UK's Defence Intelligence agency said yesterday that Russia has lost a quarter of its combat forces deployed in Ukraine since the beginning of the invasion.
The update says: 'At the start of the conflict, Russia committed over 120 battalion tactical groups, approximately 65 per cent of its entire ground combat strength.
'Russia's defence budget approximately doubled between 2005 and 2018, with investment in several high-end air, land and sea capabilities,' the MoD said on Tuesday. 'From 2008 this underpinned the expansive military modernisation programme New Look.
Russia's failures have been largely attributed to poor, dated tactics exhibited by Moscow's generals. There have been several examples of Russian soldiers slowly advancing in easy-to-target tank columns reminiscent of Soviet-era conflicts.
By Oryx's latest count, Russia has lost 3,342 items of military hardware - including tanks, armoured fighting vehicles, infantry fighting vehicles, armoured personnel carriers, as well as communication stations, artillery and air defence systems.
Given that Oryx's figures are based on visual confirmations, this is seen as a minimum count. The true figure is believed to be far higher, with Kyiv's defence ministry claiming more than 4,000 vehicles have been destroyed.
Russia's annual budget is in same realm as countries such as United Kingdom and France, which have far smaller armies.The United States by comparison spends $770billion, while China spends around $250billion ever year.
Of those, 1,805 have been visually confirmed as destroyed, 59 have been damaged, 266 have been abandoned and 1,212 have been captured, by the blog's count.
The Kinzhal missile - or Dagger - is 'unstoppable' by current Western weapons, according to the Kremlin. It has a range of 1,250 miles, and is also nuclear capable. Pictured: The missile is seen being carried by a Russian fighter jet
According to an article written by Paul De Grauwe, a Professor in European Political Economy at LSE, Russia will have to 'drastically increase its military spending' to win the war, as its current budget will not be enough.
Such projects have included the development of high-powered missile systems, such as the Zircon hypersonic anti-ship missile, the Avangard hypersonic glide vehicle, thefearsome nuclear-capable 'Satan II' missile, and the supposedly 'unstoppable' 'Kinzhal' missile.
'It is likely that more than a quarter of these units have now been rendered combat ineffective.Some of Russia's most elite units, including VDV airborne Forces, have suffered the highest levels of attrition. It will probably take years for Russia to reconstitute these forces.'
As a result, Putin's forces have been wakened 'both materially and conceptually,' the MoD said in its daily update on the situation in Ukraine. Western sanctions mean it will take years for the country's military to recover from its losses.
Putin's military engineers are also developing a new model of Submarine - the nuclear-powered Yasen class - which is set to replace the Russian navy's Soviet-era submarines that are still in operation.
Other estimates suggest Russia's spending could be between $150-$200billion in order to supply its 1,350,000 active military personnel, maintain is vast numbers of military vehicles, aircraft and a naval fleet, and continue its high-value projects.
The Russian defence budget must also keep and maintain a vast arsenal of military vehicles.
Western concern at the risk of nuclear war has increased since Putin launched his illegal and brutal invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
One example is the T-14 Armata, a next-generation battle tank which the Russian army planned to purchase 2,300 of between 2015 and 2020. However, production of the tanks have been delayed - pushing the acquisition back to 2025.
Ukrainian serviceman walks past the turret of a Russian tank next to a destroyed petrol station in the village of Skybyn, northeast of Kyiv on May 2, 2022
While Russia has increased its defence budget, official figures show that its defence spending as a percentage of its GDP has remained between 3 percent and 5 percent since 2000. In 2021, Russia spent 4.08 of its GDP on defence.
All have been touted by the Kremlin as weapons that would be deployed in an all-out war against the West. However, there is little evidence to suggest that they are fully operational or have been used in Russia's war in Ukraine.
Pictured: A graph showing Russian military spending from 2000, and its spending as a percentage of its GDP. From 2005 to 2018, Russia doubled its defence budget in an attempt to modernise its military
Meanwhile,Western military experts have said the Satan II Sarmat is capable of carrying 10 or more nuclear warheads and decoys - enough to wipe out territories the size of Britain or Francein a single strike.
Despite Russia deploying its modern equipment, Ukraine - which spends almost $12billion on its military and controls around 500,000 military personnel - has proven to be more than capable of going head-to-head with Russia's invading forces.
In addition to the development of its special weapons systems, Russia is also developing more modern military vehicles and aircraft.
Pictured: A road in Ukraine is showed littered with the wreckages of Russian tanks after they were destroyed by Kyiv's forces in artillery strikes April 6
Kiselyov said thePoseidon underwater drone could trigger a 1,600ft radioactive tidal wave and 'plunge Britain to the depths of the ocean' if it was detonated off its coast.
As Putin was massing troops on Ukraine's borders in the months leading up to the invasion, many analysts feared that the Russia's far superior numbers would result in the quick capture of the country.
As Putin's invasion has dragged into its third month, analysts have questioned whether Russian can sustain its forces for much longer.
Russia's top-secret S-550 'star wars' missile system has entered active service last year, defence sources said, after a number of rumoured tests pictured. It is designed to intercept in-coming missiles and could also destroy Western satellites
This has left Russian hardware open to attack by Ukraine's more agile ground forces, which have carried out ambushes using aerial strikes.
The 55-tonne modular tank features an unmanned turret, and is designed so that its parts can be swapped out. Compared to other tanks, it sits low to the ground, making it less vulnerable to other ground fire.
The drone 'has capacity for a warhead of up to 100 megatons', Kiselyov claimed - several thousand times the strength of the bomb dropped on Hiroshima - which would 'raise a giant wave, a tsunami, up to 1,640ft high' - enough to reach halfway up Scafell Pike, the tallest point in England.
Pictured: A Russian Zircon missile system is demonstrated in a test launch.The Zircon missile - that can travel at Mach 8 speeds - has been identified by Moscow's state-controlled TV as Putin's weapon of choice to wipe out American cities in the event of nuclear war
Pictured:Military vehicles are seen during the Victory Day Parade rehearsals at Tverskaya street, on April 28, 2022 in Moscow, Russia
When the Russian tyrant burst into the former Soviet state, he made a reference to his nation's nuclear deterrents, warning the West that any major intervention would 'lead you to such consequences that you have never encountered in your history'.
'Russia's military is now significantly weaker, both materially and conceptually, as a result of its invasion of Ukraine,' Britain's defence ministry added. 'Recovery from this will be exacerbated by sanctions. This will have a lasting impact on Russia's ability to deploy conventional military force.'
Military blog Oryx has been tracking Russia's hardware losses, tallying visual confirmations from pictures and videos coming out of Ukraine.
According to the MoD, from 2005 to 2018 Russia pumped billions into its 'New Look' military modernisation project, investing heavily in its land, air and sea capabilities
This has seen the development of new missile systems that have been hailed by President Vladimir Putin as being superior to western equivalents, the overhaul of its Soviet-era tactics and the procurement of more modern military equipment.
In an update yesterday, the MoD said thatRussia has lost a quarter of its combat forces deployed in Ukraine since the beginning of the invasion.
Figures accurate prior to Russia's invasion of Ukraine show that Moscow has more than 12,000 tanks, 30,000 armoured vehicles, 14,000 artillery vehicles, over 4,000 military aircraft and 605 naval assets.
According to intelligence experts, Russia committed more than 120 battalion tactical groups, some 65 per cent of their entire ground combat strength.
With crippling Western sanctions causing the Russian economy - and the value of the rouble - to nosedive, Moscow will struggle to repair the damage to its military suffered in Ukraine at its current rate of spending.
Kyiv has claimed that more than 20,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in the fighting that began on February 24, while thousands of tanks and other Russian military vehicles have been destroyed or captured.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has been hampered by strategic incompetence that has left its armed forces 'significantly weaker' and less feared, despite Moscow doubling its military budget in 13 years, Britain's Ministry of Defence says.
However, despite spending more than $65billion on its military in 2021, Russian forceshave been unable to dominate Ukraine due to poor strategy and execution, the MoD said.
Losses among Russia's elite units such as their VDV airborne forces are likely to have suffered greater loses and will 'probably take years' to replenish these forces.
'However, the modernisation of its physical equipment has not enabled Russia to dominate Ukraine. Failures both in strategic planning and operational execution have left it unable to translate numerical strength into decisive advantage.'
The Sarmat missile pictured in test launch is said to be the world's longest-range intercontinental ballistic missile, capable of striking a target 11,200 miles away - meaning it could easily strike targets in the US and Europe from Russia
However, despite Russian threats, its war in Ukraine has shone the spotlight on its stalling modernisation efforts, raising questions over their effectiveness.
According to the MoD, from 2005 to 2018 Russia pumped billions into its 'New Look' military modernisation project, investing heavily in its land, air and sea capabilities.
However, Kyiv's forces have surprised everyone - not least the Russian president - with their fierce resistance. Not only have they been able to repel Russian forces from several regions of the country, but Ukrainian troops have also dealt significant losses to Moscow's armies.
The Zircon missile - that can travel at Mach 8 speeds - in particular has been identified by Moscow's state-controlled TV asPutin's weapon of choice to wipe out American cities in the event of nuclear war.
The daily update from Defence Intelligence showed how Ukrainian forces have dramatically weakened Russian personnel, diminishing their combat forces.
Another missile that Putin is adding to his arsenal is the Poseidon Torpedo - or Status-6 Oceanic Multipurpose System - which TV presenter Dmitry Kiselyov, a man often known as 'Putin's mouthpiece', threatened the UK with on Monday.
Ukrainians gather around a destroyed Russian tank near Makariv, Kyiv Oblast, May 2, 2022. Since launching an invasion of Ukraine on February 24, Vladimir Putin has seen his forces suffer heavy losses at the hands of Kyiv's forces
Meanwhile, previous assessments by senior British military officials have described Russia's campaign as being in 'chaos', with intelligence showing ill-prepared Russian soldiers refusing to carry out orders.
The Kinzhal - or Dagger - is 'unstoppable' by current Western weapons, according to the Kremlin. It has a range of 1,250 miles, and is also nuclear capable.
Pictured: The Avangard hypersonic glide vehicle is shown in a computer-generated video released by Russia's Defence Ministry
Russia has also developed the S-550 missile defence system.While little is known about the system, it is thought to be Russia's latest foray into the space arms race - designed to take out targets hundreds of miles above earth such as low-orbit satellites, in-coming nuclear warheads, and orbital hypersonic weapons.
