How Russia is harnessing cyber warfare in its conflict with Ukraine Statesponsored attackers are using malware to steal data spy on citizens and attack national infrastructure study reveals
20220818
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-11123525/How-Russia-harnessing-cyber-warfare-conflict-Ukraine.html
Malware is a catch-all term for any type of malicious software, regardless of how it works, its intent, or how its distributed.
Trustwave listed the array of malware types used as part of its cyber warfare efforts, many of which go by colourful names such as 'AcidRain' and 'Industroyer2'
Trustwave SpiderLabs said thedigital certificate  a type of electronic password needed to perform the attack  had been stolen.
According to SpiderLabs, it specifically abuses a set of standards that are used in electric power control systems, with the aim of causing a power blackout.
Spyware is a specific type of malware thatsteals information from a computer and sends it to a third party, without the person's knowledge.
'Observing the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, we can clearly see that cyberattacks leveraging malware are an important part of modern hybrid war strategy,' saidPawel Knapczyk, security research manager at SpiderLabs, Trustwave's investigative branch.
- GAMAREDON, also known as Primitive Bear or Armageddon, traced to the Russian Federal Security Service FSB in November 2021.
Depending on the version, stolen data is then exfiltrated or extracted via email or POST  a request method supported by HTTP used by the World Wide Web.
The company is run by Polis Trachonitis, a 24-year-old video game designer who operates the business from his home in a suburb of capital city Nicosia.
Malware  a catch-all term for any type of malicious software  has been used to steal data, spy on citizens and attack national infrastructure.
Spyware gathers your personal information and relays it to advertisers, data firms, or external users.
Perpetrators of the attacks includethe Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, theRussian Federal Security Service and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, according to SpiderLabs.
It was given the name 'HermeticWiper' based on a digital certificate from a company based in Cyprus called Hermetica Digital Ltd.
To conclude, SpiderLabs points out that sophisticated cyber weapons are 'key tools in the arsenal of a modern military'.
'We can clearly see that government assets, critical infrastructure, media and private sector organisations are highly lucrative targets for attackers, and even legitimate penetration tools can be hijacked and used as weapons,' it says.
Another cybersecurity group,SentinelLabs, claims to have named this malware 'AcidRain'.It says themalware is designed to wipe routers as well asmodems.
It was used by the threat actor APT28, which hasties to the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service SVR.
But in reality, such tools have often been abused under the guise of national security to spy on business executives, human rights activists, journalists, academics and government officials, security experts say.
'I don't even write the code  I write stories,' he told Reuters at the time. 'I'm just a Cypriot guy ... I have no link to Russia.'
Trustwave SpiderLabs says there are notorious threat groups and Russian special services involved in cyberattacks on Ukraine:
Malware has been used against organisations in Ukraine either to destroy or gain control over their online systems and 'damage targets far behind the frontlines'.
The malware had been signed using a digital certificate with Hermetica Digital's name on it, butTrachonitis said he had nothing to do with the attack.
A new report shows that Ukraine is fighting a battle with Russia in cyber space, as well as a physical war.
Russia has been using 'cyber warfare' on Ukraine since the physical invasion started in late February, says Chicago-based security firm Trustwave.
- APT28, also known as Cozy Bear or The Dukes has ties to the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service SVR.
SpiderLabs has provided a full list of perpetrators and attack types in its report, available to download on the Trustwavewebsite.
It impacted several thousand customers located in Ukraine and tens of thousands of others across Europe.
It was discovered on hundreds of Ukrainian computers, as well as computers in Lithuania and Latvia, on the evening of February 23, just hours before Russian troops rolled into Ukraine.
RCS Lab is an example of a 'lawful intercept' company that claims to only sell to customers with legitimate use for surveillance, such as intelligence and law enforcement agencies.
CredoMap is described as a 'credential stealer' or 'information stealer' because it takes user credentials stored on browsers.
Another wiper malware called AcidRain was used to wipe US company Viasat's modems in Ukraine on February 24.
RCS Lab spyware has allegedly been used by the Italian and Kazakhstani governments to spy on private messages and contacts stored on their citizens' smartphones.
This particular malware is referred to as a 'wiper' because it's intended to erase or 'wipe' the hard drive of the computer it infects.
The team has listed the array of malware types used as part of itscyber warfare efforts, many of which go by colourful names such as 'AcidRain' and 'Industroyer2'.
Industroyer2 is a 'sophisticated piece of malware' that was able to manipulate equipment in electrical utilities to control the flow of power.
In April, at one targeted high-voltage Ukrainian power station, Industroyer2 was used to penetrate and disrupt part of its industrial control system.
AcidRain's functionality is 'relatively straightforward', as it performs a wipe of a computer's file system and all storage device files.
February's attack also led to an outage of 5,800 Enercon wind turbines in Germany. Remote monitoring and control of the turbines became unavailable, although the turbines themselves kept working.
Google has warned of spyware being used by foreign governments to hack into Apple and Android phones and snoop on users' activities.
Russia has been using 'cyber warfare' on Ukraine since the physical invasion started in late February, says SpiderLabs, Trustwave's investigative branch. Pictured,Ukrainian servicemen sit on infantry fighting vehicles on a road in Ukraine's Donetsk region on August 18, 2022
'While conventional warfare is conducted on the battlefield and limited by several factors, cyber warfare continues in cyber space, offering the chance to infiltrate and damage targets far behind the frontlines.'
- DRAGONFLY, also known as Energetic Bear or Crouching Yeti was identified as the Russian Federal Security Service FSB Unit 71330.
AcidRain's functionality is 'relatively straightforward', as it performs a recursive wipe of a computer's file system and all storage device files.
Perpetrators of the attacks include the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, the Russian Federal Security Service and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation
- APT29, also known as Fancy Bear or Sofacy was traced to the Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation Former GRU Unit 26165.
However, the spyware is potentially capable of spying on a victim's browser, camera, address book, clipboard and chat apps too.
- SANDWORM, also known as Black Energy, was tied to the Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation Former GRU Unit 74455.
The offending 'spyware' - software that steals information from a device - was created byMilan-basedcompanyRCS Lab,Google and security firm Lookoutrevealed.
