Hunt for traitors in Kyiv Ukrainian troops arrest and blindfold Russian spies as Mayor Vitaly Klitschko warns anyone outside after curfew will be considered part of enemys sabotage group
20220227
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10556763/Hunt-traitors-Kyiv-Ukrainian-troops-arrest-blindfold-Russian-spies.html
Russian Major General Igor Konashenkov said the Russian forces also have taken control of an air base near Kherson and the city of Henichesk on the Azov Sea.
Kyiv pictured Mayor Vitaly Klitschko warned that those outside after 5pm and before 8am will be considered part of 'the enemy's sabotage and reconnaissance groups'
He gave no further details, but told civilians not to leave their homes. He gave no further details.
Russia's advances along Ukraine's coast mark an attempt to cut the country's access to its sea ports that would deal a major blow to its economy.
Today, as the fighting continued, The Kremlin announced that a Russian delegation had arrived in the Belarusian city of Homel for talks with Ukrainian officials. However, while Zelensky said that while said the Ukraine was ready for peace talks, he said they would not be taking place in Belarus - which was a staging ground for Russia troops prior to the invasion. Pictured:Ukrainian servicemen take cover in a shelter at fighting positions at the military airbase Vasylkiv in the Kyiv region
Terrified men, women and children sought safety inside and underground, and the government maintained a 39-hour curfew to keep people off the streets.
The offensive in the south could also allow Moscow to build a land corridor to Crimea, which until now was connected to Russia by a 12-mile bridge.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said a Russian delegation of military officials and diplomats had arrived Sunday in the Belarusian city of Hormel for talks with Ukraine.
It comes as the government kept a 39-hour curfew to keep people off the streets while bombs rained down and street fighting turned up a notch. Pictured: Kyiv
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky remains alive - and is fast becoming an international hero - as Vladimir Putin's efforts to topple the Kyiv government and install his own puppet cabinet runs into trouble
Pictures from Kyiv overnight showed one suspected Russian agent in the back of a van next to armed soldiers.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said a Russian delegation sent to Belarus includes military officials and diplomats. Pictured: The curfew in Kyiv
The army has been trying to fight a war against Vladimir Putin's forces and undercover agents already operating in the country.
An eerie orange glow lights up the sky in Vasylkyiv after Russian missiles targeted an oil refinery located on a local air base
The Ukrainians have said they are ready for peace talks but will not accept ultimatums.
Meanwhile Ukraine's president said he was ready for peace talks with Russia just not in Belarus - which was a staging ground for Moscow's invasion.
Ukrainian troops have launched a crackdown on alleged Russian spies as the brutal invasion of their country continues.
Kyiv Mayor Vitaly Klitschko warned that those outside after 5pm and before 8am will be considered part of 'the enemy's sabotage and reconnaissance groups'.
Street fighting broke out in the second-largest city of Kharkiv pictured as enemy forces swarmed
It came asPresident Volodymyr Zelenskyy saidhis country was ready for peace talks with Russia, but refused to hold them in neighbouringBelarus.
Last night there was also reportedly strikes on an oil terminal in the Luhansk People's Republic LNP at Rovenky, a coal mining city. An LPR source said: 'It could have possibly been a missile attack, our emergency services have left to the site.' The source of the alleged attack in the LPR was unclear. Pictured: A view of destroyed buildings after it was allegedly targeted by Ukraine in Kievsky Rayonda city of Donetsk region under the control of pro-Russian separatists
The West was working to equip the Ukrainian forces with weapons and ammo while punishing Russia with far-reaching sanctions intended to further isolate Moscow.
He said other locations are also possible but made clear Ukraine does not accept Russia's selection of Belarus.
Russia's military also put increasing pressure on strategic ports in the south of Ukraine, blocking the strategic cities of Kherson on the Black Sea and the port of Berdyansk on the Azov Sea.
He said:'All civilians on the street during the curfew will be considered members of the enemy's sabotage and reconnaissance groups.'
Zelenskyy's office also said Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in Kharkiv, prompting the government to warn people to protect themselves from the smoke.
Kyiv Mayor Klitschko yesterday warned troops were fighting groups of Russian saboteurs across the capital.
Kyiv Mayor Klitschko yesterday warned troops were fighting groups of Russian saboteurs across the capital. Pictured: The curfew in Kyiv
'The Russian delegation is ready for talks and we are now waiting for the Ukrainians,' he said.
Ukrainian troops have launched a crackdown on alleged Russian spies as the brutal invasion of their country continues
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his country was ready for peace talks with Russia, but refused to hold them in neighbouring Belarus. Pictured: The curfew in Kyiv
The Kremlin a Russian delegation had arrived in the Belarusian city of Homel for talks with Ukrainian officials.
Soldiers blindfolded the suspected foreign agents and bundled them into the back of vans in the capital Kyiv
A satellite image with overlaid graphics shows military vehicles alongside Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, in Chernobyl, Ukraine
This map shows the strikes Russia is so-far known to have carried out against Ukraine, with more explosions rocking the country in the early hours of Sunday morning
The man, wearing a black leather jacket, walking trousers and construction boots,was blindfolded using grey tape.
But while negotiations continuedstreet fighting broke out in the second-largest city ofKharkiv as enemy forces swarmed.
As Russia has closed in on the Ukrainian capital, it has also focused on pressing its offensive in the country's south in an apparent bid to take control of its coast.
Putin has not disclosed his ultimate plans, but Western officials believe he is determined to overthrow Ukraine's government and replace it with his regime.
Overnight street fighting broke out inKharkiv as Russian troops put increasing pressure on strategic ports in the country's south.
Videos posted on Ukrainian media showed Russian vehicles moving across Kharkiv and a light vehicle burning on the street.
He said: 'The Russian delegation is ready for talks, and we are now waiting for the Ukrainians.'
Ukrainian forces engaged them, according to Oleh Sinehubov, the head of the Kharkiv regional administration.
Russian forces are pictured entering Ukraine's second largest city, Kharkiv, on Sunday morning. Gun battles are reported to have erupted. Russian vehicles are said to have been marked with a white Z to distinguish them from Ukrainian combatants
Huge explosions lit up the sky early Sunday near Kyiv, where people hunkered down in homes, underground garages and subway stations.
A group of Chechen rebel fighters is pictured in a Ukrainian forest - but huge numbers of the soldiers have since been wiped out after Ukrainian soldiers blew up 56 of their tanks
A Russian military vehicle is seen ablaze in Kharkiv on Sunday morning after troops entered the eastern Ukrainian city
Armed civil defense men pose for a photo while patrolling an empty street due to the curfew in Kyiv
Flames billowed into the sky before dawn from an oil depot near an air base in Vasylkiv, where there has been intense fighting, according to the town's mayor.
Russia invaded Ukraine on Thursday, with troops moving from Moscow's ally Belarus in the north, and also from the east and south.
Until Sunday, Russia's troops had remained on the outskirts of the city, 12 miles south of the border with Russia, while other forces rolled past to press deeper into Ukraine.
More than 150,000 Ukrainians fled for Poland, Moldova and other neighbouring countries, and the UN said the number could grow to 4million if fighting escalates.
It comes as the government kept a 39-hour curfew to keep people off the streets while bombs rained down and street fighting turned up a notch.
