I have nothing to apologise for Angela Merkel says she has no regrets over how she handled Putin during her time as German leader but warns he now wants to destroy Europe after his invasion of Ukraine
20220608
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10895951/I-apologise-Angela-Merkel-says-no-regrets-handled-Putin.html
Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel greets journalist and author Alexander Osang ahead of a talk at the Berliner Ensemble in Berlin, Germany, Tuesday, June 7, 2022
During the interview, Merkel - who remains hugely popular in Germany - also offered a rare glimpse into her private life since retiring, spending time on her own on the Baltic Sea coast, taking walks and catching up on her reading.
Angela Merkel defended her approach to Ukraine and Russia during her 16 years as Germany's leader,saying she had 'nothing to apologise for' even as the Ukraine war casts a shadow over her legacy.
She said that sanctions against Russia over its annexation of Crimea in 2014 'could have been stronger, as far as I'm concerned,' but added that there was no majority sentiment for doing so at the time.
If there had been no intervention at the time, she added, 'Putin could have wrought gigantic damage in Ukraine.'
Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian government forces in the Donbas since 2014, and the region has borne the brunt of the Russian onslaught in recent weeks.
Angela Merkel defended her approach to Ukraine and Russia during her 16 years as Germany's leader, saying she had 'nothing to apologise for' even as the Ukraine war casts a shadow over her legacy. Pictured: Russian President Putin presents flowers to Merkel in August, 2021
But in what may be the latest instance of anti-Russian sabotage inside Ukraine, Russian state media said on Tuesday that an explosion at a cafe in the city of Kherson wounded four people. The Tass agency called the apparent bombing in the Russian-occupied city a 'terror act'.
She suggested a stronger NATO green light for Ukraine in 2008 would have led to faster Russian aggression, with Ukraine less able to resist.
Merkel also strongly defended a decision in 2008 not to put Ukraine directly on track to join NATO, which Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in early April blasted as a 'miscalculation.'
'We have agreed to strengthen the eastern flank of NATO by creating a new strong brigade here,' Scholz said during a visit on Tuesday to Lithuania.
The veteran leader, who frequently met with Putin during her 16 years in power and championed a commerce-driven, pragmatic approach towards Moscow, said the February 24 invasion of Ukraine had marked a 'turning point'. Pictured: Merkel and Putin speak next to former U.S. President George W. Bush in 2007 at a G8 summit
After 30 years in politics, Merkel said she was enjoying not having to rush from appointment to appointment.
Before the February 24 invasion, Ukrainian officials said Russia controlled some 7 of the country, including the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in 2014, and areas held by the separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk.
In another major reversal, Scholz has pledged to invest 100 billion euros $107 billion in modernising Germany's military, seen as chronically underfunded during the Merkel era.
'I never thought Putin would change through trade,' she said. But in the absence of a political rapprochement, 'having some economic ties makes sense'.
Scholz also pledged to continue supplies of necessary weapons and troops' training to Ukraine. He dismissed claims that Germany was hesitating with heavy weaponry supplies, including most modern howitzers, to Ukraine.
It also appears that Russia now occupies roughly half of Donetsk province, according to Ukrainian officials and military analysts.
Merkel rejected a suggestion that she and others engaged in appeasement that ultimately enabled the invasion.
'The courage and passion with which they are fighting for their country is very impressive,' Merkel said, adding she had 'the highest respect' for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
But Merkel insisted there was no way to avoid dealing with Putin because Russia, like China, was too big to ignore.
But she batted away criticism that she had been wrong to block Ukraine from joining NATO in 2008, saying it was not ready then.
In her first substantial comments since leaving office six months ago, Merkel said there was 'no justification whatsoever' for the 'brutal' and illegal war of aggression, she said, adding that President Vladimir Putin had made 'a big mistake'
Merkel's comments came as currentGerman Chancellor Olaf Scholz said his country is ready to increase its military presence in the Baltic region to meet new challenges to regional security.
'He wants to destroy Europe,' she warned. 'It's very important for the European Union to stick together now.'
A view of the destroyed shopping mall due to shelling in Kharkiv, Ukraine on June 08, 2022
She defended the 2015 peace agreement that she and then-French President Francois Hollande brokered in Minsk, Belarus, aimed at easing fighting in eastern Ukraine between government forces and Russian-backed separatists.
Confronted with criticism of the 'change through trade' policy pushed by successive German governments, Merkel said she was never under the illusion that closer trade links would spur democratic reforms in Russia.
Merkel conceded that it didn't fulfill all of Ukraine's interests and that few people stand by it now, with some saying it was badly negotiated.
After abandoning its attempt to storm Kyiv two months ago, Russian leaders declared that taking the entire Donbas is now its main objective.
The peace process 'brought some calm' that gave Ukraine an extra seven years to develop as a democracy and strengthen its military, she said, in a nod to Kyiv's much praised resistance against the invading Russian troops.
Merkel voiced support for her successor's decisions, saying strength was 'the only language Putin understands'.
The veteran leader, who frequently met with Putin during her 16 years in power and championed a commerce-driven, pragmatic approach towards Moscow, said the February 24 invasion of Ukraine had marked a 'turning point'.
'I tried to work toward calamity being averted, and diplomacy was not wrong if it doesn't succeed,' she said in an on-stage interview at a Berlin theatre that was televised live.'I don't see that I have to say 'that was wrong' and that's why I have nothing to apologise for.'
Early in the war, Russian troops also took control of the entire Kherson region and a large part of the Zaporizhzhia region, both in the south.
'I was very certain that Putin wouldn't just let it happen,' she said. 'For him, from his perspective, that was a declaration of war... I don't share any of this, but I knew how he thought.'
The Baltic country borders Kaliningrad, a Russian region where the country's Baltic Sea fleet is based. A brigade would be 3,000 to 5,000 soldiers
But French and German concern over Russia's reactions dashed their hopes of being granted a 'membership action plan' that would bring them into the alliance within five to 10 years.
Last week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russian forces hold 20 of the country. The conflict has resulted in thousands of deaths on both sides of the conflict. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian civilians have been killed and displaced by the brutal invasion, while Russia has lost as many as 30,000 soldiers.
Germany became hugely reliant on Russian energy imports on Merkel's watch, and she long irked Western allies with her backing for the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline that was to double Russian gas deliveries to Germany.
'It is a matter of great sorrow that it didn't succeed, but I don't blame myself now for trying,' Merkel said.
The project was shelved by current Chancellor Olaf Scholz in late February over Russia's aggression, and Europe's top economy is now joining EU partners in a race to wean itself off Russian oil, gas and coal.
She also said she had wanted to avoid 'further escalation' with Putin, who was already seething about the military alliance's perceived eastward expansion - which has been cited as a primary reason by Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.
'We didn't do nothing either,' she said, noting that Russia was thrown out of the Group of Eight and that NATO set a target for countries to work toward spending 2 of their gross domestic product on defence.
Russian officials and their local appointees have talked about plans for those regions to either declare their independence or be folded into Russia.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda visit German troops of the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Battlegroup in Pabrade, Lithuania June 7, 2022
Scholz, a Social Democrat who served as finance minister in Merkel's last coalition government, has also vowed to spend more than two percent of annual gross domestic product on defence, surpassing NATO's target.
'If Chancellor Merkel always knew that Russia was planning a war and Putin's goal is to destroy the EU, then why would Germany build the Nord Stream 2 pipeline,' he wrote on Twitter, referring to the cancelled pipeline.
Lithuania President Gitanas Nauseda welcomed the German plans to deploy more troops in the country. The Russian military threat 'will remain a major source of threat to regional security,' she said. 'Baltic states are in an especially vulnerable position here on the front line of NATO external borders.'
Merkel said that 'Ukraine was not the one we know today,' saying it was a country very divided and dominated by oligarchs. 'It wasn't an internally democratically stable country,' she said.
She said on Tuesday that a much criticized 2015 peace deal for eastern Ukraine bought Kyiv precious time and she won't apologize for her diplomatic efforts.
'Personally, I'm doing well,' she told the audience, even if she felt sombre about the war in Ukraine, 'like so many people'.
Meanwhile, Russia drew closer to its goal of fully capturing Ukraine's eastern industrial heartland as the Kremlin claimed it has taken control of 97 percent of one of the two provinces that make up the Donbas region.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhaylo Podolyak responded to her comments on Thursday by criticising Merkel for deepening Europe's reliance on Russian energy.
In her first substantial comments since leaving office six months ago, Merkel said there was 'no justification whatsoever' for the 'brutal' and illegal war of aggression, she said, adding that President Vladimir Putin had made 'a big mistake'.
Tuning to the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, which she long defended against criticism from the U.S., Ukraine and eastern European allies, Merkel said Putin invaded Ukraine without waiting for it to enter service.
Podolyak said Merkel had 'shoved' Europe towards increased dependency on Russian energy supplies and asked: 'Why does Germany have to fix this mistake now?'
