I like it so much mumRussian brags about using 21 roses FSB torture method of slicing open Ukrainians fingers toes and penis to his mother who says she would have liked it too
20220509
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10797707/Russian-brags-using-FSB-torture-method-slicing-open-Ukrainians-fingers-toes-penis.html
Survivors who witnessed the tragedy unfold in their communities before the Russians withdrew to focus their assault on the east of Ukraine told of how their countrymen and women had been treated with savagery by the invaders.
An intelligence update posted on Saturday by Britain's Ministry of Defence said several of Putin's senior commanders are being forced onto the battlefield 'to take personal leadership of operations' due to 'faltering Russian performance on the frontline'.
Ukraine's MoD published a link to the pair's social media profiles along with the unedited audio of their disturbing call - the profiles have since been deleted.
A total of 25,500 Russian soldiers have been killed in bitter fighting, while Putin's forces have lost 1130 tanks, 199 planes, 156 helicopters, 509 artillery systems and 2741 armoured personnel carriers, the Land Forces of Ukraine claimed on Sunday.
R: On a man's body, 21 roses can be made. Twenty digits, and the penis. Sorry.
R: And they beat that old man to death with rubber batons. Beaten to death. Can you imagine how many hits, how much needs to happen to kill someone with a simple rubber baton it's called a 'tranquiliser' it's used on the mouth, if someone starts getting crazy you hit them - and so he had all kinds of internal injuries. That's how our FSB guys are torturing. There's one more torture method I forgot what it's called 'barrel', I think. They insert a tube into the anus and put barbed wire into it.
R: I was a kind bloke! You just don't ah, I want to tell you everything, I want you to see it all, what's changed inside me.
R: He was riding around on a bicycle with a white flag, taking photos of all the positions, sending it to them.
Solovyov is said to be aged just 20 years old, having been born in 2002, while his mother is aged 50.
Alla, 42, hugs her son Savelii, 10, as she stands next to the grave of her husband Ihor Krotkih, on May 1, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Ihor Krotkih was a Ukrainian soldier who was killed during the Russian occupation of Irpin
R: If he doesn't get it, we'll break two next time. If he doesn't get it after two, we'll break four, in a geometric progression.
M: About Ukrainians you cs are surrendering - you're fed, you're watered, they're letting you go home, fing scumbags.
New figures published at the weekend by the Land Forces of Ukraine suggest that more than 25,000 Russian servicemen have now been killed in action since the invasion began on February 24 - the Kremlin by contrast has not given any death toll since early in the war, when it admitted that several hundred of its soldiers had died.
Widespread reports of rape, torture and brutal violence carried out on civilians first began flooding out of Ukraine after authorities discovered the horrors committed in towns north of Kyiv such as Bucha, Irpin and Borodyanka.
R: That's why I don't have a smidge of regret. When we were sitting this man that we captured. He was saying: 'For my life, our lads will take two of yours!', and then: 'I spit in the face of death, I'm dying for the truth!'
R: He was yelling! I said: 'If you don't care, why are you scared?'. And he's sitting, with his leg bones broken, which I broke - they were turned outwards. He said: 'I don't care!' - If you don't care why are you so scared? 'I'm not afraid!' - so why are you yelling?
The call, intercepted and published by the Main Intelligence Directorate of Ukraine's Ministry of Defence, was shared by a soldier of Russia's 11th Army Corps - identified as Konstantin Solovyov pictured - and his mother Tatiana Solovyova
The unsettling conversation, initially published by the Ukraine's MoD on May 3, is one of several in which Russian soldiers have admitted to committing grave war crimes on Ukrainian soil.
A total of 25,500 Russian soldiers have been killed in bitter fighting, while Putin's forces have lost 1130 tanks, 199 planes, 156 helicopters, 509 artillery systems and 2741 armoured personnel carriers, the Land Forces of Ukraine claim
The Ukrainian MoD posted a link to Solovyov's profile on Russian social media platform VKontakte, but it has since been deleted
R: So we we'll make 21 roses for the dad, right? We'll start with his pee pee, if he doesn't understand we'll do five fingers.
A Ukrainian policeman walks by a pit in the village of Motyzhyn, Ukraine, April 3, where the town mayor and her family were thrown after being murdered by Russian forces
R: Pull out the tube, the barbed wire stays in there. Then they slowly take out the barbed wire.
R: Why not? He says he won't have a job anyway, so he doesn't need hands. And if he needs them to do this nonsense, then he definitely doesn't need them. You know where we'll start? We'll break his finger, the most important one. The index finger. On the right hand.
M: What? And why are you saying you were taking part in those? Those were the FSB guys.
He later added: 'I'm not even feeling remorse anymore. After more than 20 murders, I stopped feeling anything.'
The call, intercepted and published by the Main Intelligence Directorate of Ukraine's Ministry of Defence, was shared by a soldier of Russia's11th Army Corps - identified as Konstantin Solovyov - and his motherTatiana Solovyova.
After a brief exchange of small talk and jokes about taking food from local villagers near Kharkiv, Solovyov quickly begins describing, in graphic detail, a variety of heinous torture methods used by members of Russia's security service FSB.
R: That's how we do it they say we've been using this method with barbed wire since Chechnya.
Western estimates put the scale of Russian losses somewhat lower than the figure given by Ukrainian authorities, but well over 15,000 of Putin's fighters are thought to have died.
R: Yeah I understand that, I'm not even feeling remorse anymore. After I killed more than 20, I stopped feeling anything.
R: Just so he could still use it later. Just the first phalange, that's the most painful part. It has the most nerve endings. The thickest bone. Right?
Solovyov, whose unit is deployed near the eastern front in Kharkiv according to Ukraine's MoD, also explained how he and his colleagues in the FSB beat an old man to death for taking photos of Russian troop positions, and excitedly recounted conversations he shared with a prisoner whose legs he had broken to prevent him from running away.
The Ukrainian leader alsodrew a number of comparisons between infamous Nazi leader Adolf Hitler and Russian President Vladimir Putin in a 15-minute-long video published yesterday to mark VE Day.
R: So, along the bones the skin is cut off. On all fingers. The same happens 'down there'. That's what '21 roses' means on a man's body. You know what other torture methods I've seen?
M: Well are you sure they are people? What if, God forbid, one of you
Lt-Col Fezul Bichikaev, 36, was killed in a skirmish near Ukraine's second city Kharkiv, where Ukrainian forces have mounted a counter-offensive to take a number of nearby towns.
A new grave for people killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, is seen at a cemetery in Irpin, Kyiv region, Ukraine April 19, 2022
R: Then he went quiet. This 'mental fing' of the people, in two words, I like it.
When asked by his mother whether he enjoyed taking part in the torture, the soldier replied: 'I like it... I don't know.'
Incredibly, Tatiana responded in kind: 'I always told you that, in principle, I'm holding myself back. If I had ended up there I would also be enjoying it. We're the same.'
R: I understand that I'm going crazy here, for me it's normal to say such things.
Solovyov also said he felt 'not a smidge of regret' for his harrowing crimes, alleging Ukrainian forces would do the same in his position and because some of the captives did not give into their torturers.
M: Yes. In all the churches they're saying prayers for everyone, for you especially, for the Altiyans, in Kaliningrad... This is good. Do you think your mum will just forget about all this? No.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky condemned the Russian army as 'the most barbaric and inhuman in the world' in light of these accounts, and said Russia will be stained 'as a source of absolute evil for generations'.
M: Like I was telling you, you cannot trust them. Hohols derogatory term for Ukrainians
R: You know, here It's right in front of my eyes... I took part in it, too. FSB were torturing the captives. Do you know what 'the rose' means?
Disturbing audio has emerged of a phonecall between a Russian machine gunner and his mother who took great pleasure in laughing about the torture and murder of Ukrainian civilians.
An elderly lady gets assisted while crossing the Irpin river, under a bridge that was destroyed, as civilians flee the town of Irpin, Ukraine, Saturday, March 5, 2022
Tatiana meanwhile appears to offer her full support for her son's war crimes, at one stage of the conversation directing an expletive-laden tirade at Ukrainian civilians for resisting the Russian abuse before later joking about her son breaking a man's fingers 'so he can't point or pick his nose'.
R: He started swearing in Ukrainian - 'You!' I said: 'Why are you nervous? It's over. Let it go. It's going to be fine.
Some of the tactics included the '21 roses' - stripping the skin back from a man's fingers, toes and penis like the petals of a flower - and the 'barrel' method, when a line of barbed wire is inserted into a prisoner's anus via a tube before being slowly and painstakingly ripped back out.
R: And while we were waiting for the head honchos of torture chambers, we were beating them, breaking their legs so they wouldn't run away.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky condemned the Russian army as 'the most barbaric and inhuman in the world' in light of the accounts of rape, torture and murder of Ukrainian civilians, and said Russia will be stained 'as a source of absolute evil for generations' Zelensky pictured visiting the mass grave sites in Bucha in April
'A Russian passport will mean only one thing in any country: Unequivocal condemnation from all decent people,' Zelensky warned in April.
The Ukrainian MoD's Main Intelligence Directorate has also intercepted calls between Russian soldiers and their families in which the invaders open up about the true scale of the losses suffered by Putin's troops on the front lines.
M: I always told you that, in principle, I'm holding myself back. If I had ended up there I would also be enjoying it. We're the same.
When asked by his mother whether he enjoyed taking part in the torture of Ukrainian civilians, the soldier replied: ' I like it... I don't know.' Incredibly, Tatiana pictured responded in kind: ' I always told you that, in principle, I'm holding myself back. If I had ended up there I would also be enjoying it. We're the same'
R: Mhm  The boys caught a civilian man - the head of the torture chamber was saying, how they caught an old man, took his phone and in the phone they found photos of all our positions.
