I stand with Ukraine Ashton Kutcher shows support for wife Mila Kunis native country amid Russia attacks as he leads stars speaking out against war
20220225
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10553141/Ashton-Kutcher-leads-stars-supporting-Ukraine-amid-Russian-attacks.html
'God protect the people of Ukraine,' Kylie wrote on her Instagram Stories to her 314million followers, adding: 'My thoughts and prayers are with you.'
'St's going down':Ukrainian-born Dancing With the Stars pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy is fearing for his life and the lives of his friends in Kyiv following a Russian invasion into the country over night
He also clarified in the second video that he is 'not currently trying to leave' Ukraine, explaining: 'I'm not moving towards the border... it's, I heard, not safe.'
Ukrainian-bornDancing With the Starspro Maksim Chmerkovskiy has also been giving live updates from the country's capital city where he is currently staying.
She added: 'I'm praying for my family and friends there and everyone who's fighting. I wish you had more support and I wish I was there fighting with you!
Meanwhile, Heroes actress Hayden, 32, took to social media to help her ex Wladimir Klitschko raise awareness for Ukraine.
Sharing her thoughts:Milla Jovovich shared a lengthy statement to her Instagram account where she expressed that she was 'heartbroken and dumbstruck trying to process the events of this week in my birthplace of Ukraine'
'I stand with Ukraine,' the actor simply wrote. Ashton, 44, is married to his Ukrainian-born wife Mila Kunis, who is not on social media.
Milla Jovovich shared a lengthy statement to her Instagram account where she expressed that she was 'heartbroken and dumbstruck trying to process the events of this week in my birthplace of Ukraine.'
She has previously cited antisemitism in the former Soviet Union as one of the reasons her family fled the country.
Meanwhile Kylie Jenner, Khloe Kardashian, and actress Hayden Panettiere also spoke out on Friday, as reports have suggestedPutin could resort to using a high-power thermobaric weapon, dubbed the 'father of all bombs.'
'It is not "the war of Ukraine," it is Putin's war. Meticulous preparations were hidden behind the fog of the last few weeks in order to set in motion a plan that had been drawn up for months. No more fog and false diplomatic declarations.'
The actress, 46, added: 'I am torn in two as I watch the horror unfolding, the country being destroyed, families being displaced, their whole life lying in charred fragments around them.'
'God protect the people of Ukraine,' Kylie Jenner wrote on her Instagram Stories to her 314million followers Friday, adding: 'My thoughts and prayers are with you.'
In her own post, Hayden wrote: 'I have personally witnessed the strength of the Ukrainian people who fought so hard for their independence and have continued to passionately defend their country over the years.'
'I am writing to you from Kyiv, the capital of a country at war, a country being attacked and invaded from all sides,' Wladimir, 45, wrote in a post from Feb. 24.
Kunis, 38, comes from a Jewish family and moved to Los Angeles from Ukraine when she was 7-years-old.
Ashton Kutcher lead celebrities tweeting their support for Ukraine on Friday following Russia's attack of the country at the order Vladimir Putin.
Meanwhile, tens of thousands of Ukrainians - mainly women and children - are reported to have crossed into Poland, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia.
His comments come as it was reported Friday that men of 'fighting age' were told to remain in the country as Russian missiles pounded Kyiv, according to Reuters.
'What Putin is doing is an absolute disgrace! This horrific moment in history sends a terrifying message: the message that in this day and age, in year 2022, its okay to violate the rights of free people and allow autocrats like Putin to take whatever they please.'
The professional dancer, 42, posted two videos on Friday telling fans he's 'safe' but gave warning of the increasingly 'aggressive' and 'dire' situation in the country.
Fight:Heroes actress Hayden, 32, took to social media to help her ex Wladimir Klitschko raise awareness for Ukraine
'I stand with Ukraine': Ashton Kutcher shows support for wife Mila Kunis' native country amid Russia attacks... as he leads stars speaking out against war
