If we dont stop Vladimir Putin now hell wage war on more countries like the Baltic states warns Foreign Secretary Liz Truss
20220219
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10531241/Liz-Truss-warns-stopping-Vladimir-Putin-save-future-wars-Baltic-states.html
'I think she would have done exactly what Boris Johnson is doing, which is showing leadership, working with our American allies, working with our European allies,' says Ms Truss  at pains to convey loyalty by associating the Prime Minister rather than herself with his predecessor.
'There was false information put into the public domain that there was some kind of withdrawal there was never any withdrawal, all we've seen is the building up of troops on the border and we still believe that it's highly likely that Putin will invade, and we need to prepare for that'.
Does she ever sleep, or get to see her affable husband Hugh and their two daughters?
She says: 'I made very clear to him that it would be a huge mistake for Russia to invade Ukraine  and the Ukrainians will fight back.
Ms Truss, who along with Chancellor Rishi Sunak is regarded as a frontrunner to succeed Boris Johnson, regularly tops polls of Tory party members who are attracted to her neo-Thatcherite, low-tax, free-market political ideology.
EXCLUSIVE: Foreign Secretary Liz Truss insists we're facing the fight of our generation as war in Europe looms... and Britain is standing up to be counted
'He's been very clear  his ambition doesn't just lead to him taking control of Ukraine, he wants to turn the clock back to the mid 1990s or even before then,' she said.
To counter the propaganda, Ms Truss revealed that she is establishing a new Russia-Ukraine Government Information Cell GIC, which will draw on expertise from across government to expose disinformation and rebut fake narratives.
'The Prime Minister is going to fight the next Election, he is going to win the next Election, we have positive momentum and we are getting things done, we have had a very successful rollout of the vaccine, we've had a very successful opening up of the economy and things are motoring.'
Boris Johnson has warned an invasion of Ukraine could cause 'the destruction of a democratic state' and 'the shock will echo around the world'. Pictured: The Prime Ministermeeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy
Western governments are primed for a so-called 'false flag' excuse for an invasion, such as last week's claim that Ukraine had shelled a nursery, as well as supposed abuses of the human rights of Russian citizens in the country, with Moscow using the pretext of protecting its citizens.
To counter the propaganda, Ms Truss revealed that she is establishing a new Russia-Ukraine Government Information Cell GIC, which will draw on expertise from across government to expose disinformation and rebut fake narratives
Ukrainian civilians are trained by the armed forces to join a new military branch: the Territorial Defense Force in a training ground in Dnipro on Saturday
Ms Truss is one of the leading hawks in the Cabinet over the UK's relations with China, and is particularly concerned by the burgeoning axis between Beijing and Moscow.
Vladimir Putin will keep waging war on neighbouring countries if he is allowed to invade Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned.
A Ukrainian serviceman points to the direction of the incoming shelling next to a building which was hit by a large caliber mortar shell in the frontline village of Krymske, Luhansk region, in eastern Ukraine
Would she, in Mr Johnson's words, 'grab the ball' of leadership if it came free from the scrum?
The tensions over Putin's military build-up on Ukraine's borders have been compounded by confusion in the West over whether it is just a bluff designed to intimidate Kiev into dropping plans to join Nato, with the intelligence picture complicated by Russian disinformation campaigns  including claims about the withdrawal of Russian troops.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss speaks with the Mail on Sunday's Glen Owen at her Westminster Office. Ms Truss believes Putin is trying to restore the borders of the old Soviet Union
'Nevertheless, I think Putin could do this anyway and I think the impact of the coffins coming back to Russia will be as big as the impact of the sanctions, because the Russian people will not want to see their own friends and family die in a conflict with their fellow men and women in Ukraine.
'I am concerned that we are seeing China and Russia apparently acting together  I think it's extraordinary that China is now commenting on who should and shouldn't be a member of Nato. Of course we need to trade with China but we shouldn't become strategically dependent on them'.
Volunteers receive uniform at a military compound of the people's police of the Lugansk People's Republic as tensions escalate in east Ukraine
As the Russian President above put on a huge show of military strength with nuclear drills involving ballistic missiles left, submarines and tank convoys yesterday, Ms Truss issued a last-ditch plea for the international community to unite to face down Moscow's aggression
Volunteers receive uniform at a military compound of the people's police of the Lugansk People's Republic as tension escalated in east Ukraine this weekend
A satellite image taken by Maxar Technologies shows a Russian deployment atZyabrovka airfield in Gomel, Belarus, less than 15 miles from the border with Ukraine
'We've done a lot to rebut that, so we exposed the plot that the Russians were seeking to install a puppet government into Kiev and the false flag operation claiming that the Ukrainians had attacked when that wasn't true.
As the Russian President put on a huge show of military strength with nuclear drills involving ballistic missiles, submarines and tank convoys yesterday, Ms Truss issued a last-ditch plea for the international community to unite to face down Moscow's aggression.
The formation of the Territorial Defense Force is to harness well-trained civilian reservists around the country, led by professional soldiers, to help combat Russia's possible invasion
'The job of Foreign Secretary is very absorbing, it's an incredibly important time, both for the world and the United Kingdom post-Brexit, and I 100 per cent support the Prime Minister, I work very very closely with him and believe me, it takes up all of the hours in my day and more,' she says without missing a beat.
'How hollow, how meaningless, how insulting those words would seem if at the very moment when their sovereignty and independence is imperilled we simply look away.
When we spoke on Friday afternoon, the Foreign Secretary had just returned from a flying visit to the Ukrainian capital Kiev, and was preparing to speak at yesterday's Munich Security Conference on the threat posed by Moscow.
'So it's so important that we and our allies stand up to Putin. It could be Ukraine next week but then which country will it be next?'
'And every time Western ministers have visited Kyiv, we have reassured the people of Ukraine and their leaders that we stand four-square behind their sovereignty and independence.
Citizens of the Lugansk People's Republic arrive to a railway station to board a Russia-bound train during mass evacuation from Lugansk, east Ukraine. The train is the first to depart for Russia from the Lugansk People's Republic since 2014
Ms Truss used an exclusive interview with The Mail on Sunday to argue that if Putin attacked Ukraine it would be a precursor to Russia using force to annex more former Soviet states.
'The Russians and Ukrainians as peoples are very close, so this is why I think it will be a huge mistake for Putin. I fear he is determined to make this mistake ,but I think it could be the end of Putin.'
Police officers stand guard at a railway station as citizens of the Lugansk People's Republic board a Russia-bound train during a mass evacuation from Lugansk, east Ukraine
As tension escalated in east Ukraine on Friday, the leaders of the Lugansk People's Republic and the Donetsk People's Republic announced a mass evacuation of civilians to Russia
'He's been very clear  his ambition doesn't just lead to him taking control of Ukraine, he wants to turn the clock back to the mid-1990s or even before then,' says Ms Truss, who believes Putin is trying to restore the borders of the old Soviet Union.
Ukrainian male civilians were seen wearing camouflage gear and firing guns as they were trained by the armed forces to join a new military branch: the Territorial Defense Force in a training ground in Dnipro on Saturday
Citizens of the Donetsk People's Republic are seen at a railway station in Debaltsevo during a mass evacuation to Russia's Rostov-on-Don Region
Some of her more envious colleagues accused Ms Truss of 'overplaying her hand' in terms of unsubtle leadership positioning as Mr Johnson has been buffeted by the Partygate saga, holding drinks meetings with backbench MPs in a Mayfair members' club, dubbed 'fizz with Liz' events.
'This could be the end of Putin if there is an invasion into Ukraine. The Russians don't like hearing that message, but they have to hear it.'
'The Ukrainians will fight back, and they will see coffins going back to Russia,' says Ms Truss.
Volunteers receive uniform at a military compound of the people's police of the Lugansk People's Republic on Saturday
Speaking at the Munich Security Conference today, the Prime Minister said the 'omens are grim' from Russia on the possibility of an invasion in the coming days, and that the world could not 'underestimate the gravity of this moment'.
Mr Johnson, who met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the summit, said: 'If Ukraine is invaded and if Ukraine is overwhelmed, we will witness the destruction of a democratic state, a country that has been free for a generation, with a proud history of elections.
It came as Ukraine's Russian-backed breakaway eastern territories have ordered military mobilisations, with men of fighting age in the self-declared people's republics of Donetsk and Luhansk being put on stand-by.
The UK has supplied defensive weapons to the Ukrainians and has helped to put together a package of sanctions against the Russian regime  which the Kremlin has claimed they 'don't give a s about'. Pictured: More Russian-Belarusian military drills being conducted on February 19, 2022
'The Baltic states are at risk ... the western Balkans as well. Putin has said all this publicly, that he wants to create the Greater Russia, that he wants to go back to the situation as it was before where Russia had control over huge swathes of Eastern Europe. So it's so important that we and our allies stand up to Putin,' she says.
'Maybe I sleep slightly less than I used to, but this is what I want to be doing,' says Ms Truss, 46, who has recently recovered from a 'very mild' brush with Covid.
The UK has supplied defensive weapons to the Ukrainians and has helped to put together a package of sanctions against the Russian regime  which the Kremlin has claimed they 'don't give a s about'.
'We have seen a doubling of the amount of disinformation activity in the last week, so we know that the Russians are gearing up.'
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that the manoeuvres, which included the Black Sea Fleet, based on the Crimean Peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014, 'should not cause anyone concern'.
Speaking in her expansive office overlooking St James's Park  and under the gaze of a Churchill bust  she adds: 'At the end of the Cold War we disbanded our information unit, but the Russians didn't disband theirs, so we faced years and years of Russian disinformation.
Ukrainian soldiers taking part in military exercises on February 18, 2022 as fears of a Russian invasion persist
'What we are seeing taking place in Europe could be the fight of our generation. Britain is standing up and being counted at this point. This is what I want to be doing in the job, and this is what the Prime Minister wants to be doing, so it is worthwhile.'
It is clear that Western intelligence 'chatter'  once it has been purged of Russian disinformation ploys  points to an imminent conflict, and one which she fears could be the precursor to wider land grabs. Pictured: Russian and Belarusian servicemen in mock military drills in Brest, Belarus on February 19, 2022
Ms Truss has had to tolerate treatment which can border on the patronising from her male counterparts: a fraught trip to Moscow this month ended with the Kremlin's Sergey Lavrov declaring that his exchange with Ms Truss was 'like talking to a deaf person'.
Vladimir Putin will keep waging war on neighbouring countries if he is allowed to invade Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned
A police officer stands guard at a railway station as citizens of the Lugansk People's Republic board a Russia-bound train during a mass evauation from Lugansk, east Ukraine
Two Ukrainian soldiers were killed and four injured by shelling on Saturday, as international monitors reported a 'dramatic increase' in attacks along the line dividing rebel and government forces.
The Russian military exercises involved Mig fighter bombers armed with hypersonic missiles patrolling over the Mediterranean from their bases in Syria, and included practice launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Volunteers are seen at a mobilisation station in east Ukraine on Saturday after a mass evacuation of civilians to Russia was announced as tensions escalate
She says: 'Since the start of this month there have already been 40 pieces of Russian false information that have been put out.
A Tu-22M3 Russian bomber flies over the Mediterranean after taking off fromthe Hemeimeem air base in Syria in Putin's latest show of force
A Russian video of air defence crews taking up position during joint military exercises with Belarus that began on Thursday, further raising the stakes
Civilians with all ages receive military training at an old industrial plant to defend their country as the Ukraine-Russia crisis continue in Desnianskyi district outside Kiev, Ukraine
'I'm afraid there has been a decade of drift where the threat from Russia hasn't been taken seriously enough by some of our allies. We need to strengthen our resolve'.
Since her appointment last September, Ms Truss has racked up an air miles tally which is impressive even by the standards of her job as she has combined shuttle diplomacy with trade talks and Brexit negotiations  while still holding the women and equalities brief.
'Putin has said all this publicly, that he wants to create the Greater Russia, that he wants to go back to the situation as it was before where Russia had control over huge swathes of Eastern Europe.
As the winds from Storm Eunice whip around the Foreign Office's Victorian edifice, Liz Truss warns Vladimir Putin that if he invades Ukraine it could trigger the end of his 23-year rule over the Russian people.
It will be the first time such a unit has operated since the Cold War.
'If Ukraine is invaded, the shock will echo around the world.' Mr Johnson added that new legislation allowing the UK to widen its sanctions against the country would 'open up the matryoshka dolls' of Russian-owned companies and make it impossible for them to raise finance in London.
Citizens of the Donetsk People's Republic are seen outside a train at a railway station in Debaltsevo during a mass evacuation to Russia's Rostov-on-Don Region
The Foreign Secretary's words came as Boris Johnson warned that a Russian invasion of Ukraine could cause 'the destruction of a democratic state' and 'the shock will echo around the world'.
Volunteers are seen at a mobilisation station as tension escalated in east Ukraine on Saturday when a massevacuation of civilians to Russia was announced
'We are fighting back, we're working with our allies so that Putin cannot continue trying to claim things that aren't true. We're pushing him out into the open so the world will know if Putin invades over the next days or weeks that this is an aggressive act by the Russian government, and there is no excuse for it, there is no provocation.'
It is clear that Western intelligence 'chatter'  once it has been purged of Russian disinformation ploys  points to an imminent conflict, and one which she fears could be the precursor to wider land grabs.
She tactfully describes him as 'very old school ... he's been around for years and years since the USSR'.
