Invaders in waiting Lurking just off the coast a menacing armada of seaborne Russian troops is poised to attack Odessa
20220303
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10575397/Menacing-armada-seaborne-Russian-troops-poised-attack-Odessa.html
Experts warn that seizing the port would give Russia a 'chokehold' on Ukraine's economy  akin to the UK losing Dover.
All donations to the Mail Ukraine Appeal will be distributed to charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
One landing ship was identified as the Pyotr Morgunov, which is capable of carrying attack helicopters, 13 tanks or 36 infantry vehicles and 300 troops. Alligator and Ropucha-class vessels were also spotted.
General Sir Richard Barrons, a former British military chief, said the city was a 'big prize' in the Russian invasion.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from Russia's invading armed forces.
'In the waters of the Black Sea, we are observing a landing detachment of the Russian Black Sea Fleet, consisting of four large landing ships accompanied by three rocket boats, advancing toward Odessa,' the ministry said in a statement.
An Estonian cargo ship apparently captured by the Russian navy to be used as a shield during an invasion sank off Odessa after an explosion yesterday. Four of the six crew of the Helt were missing.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
Russian assault ships were advancing toward Odessa from the Black Sea last night, fuelling fears that the Ukrainian port is Vladimir Putin's next target.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
Sandbags piled up on a beach in Odessa as local residents prepare to fight for their city
Calling upon that human spirit, we are now launching an appeal to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
The Ukrainian defence ministry warned that invading forces were poised for a possible attack on the country's third largest city in a move that could open up a corridor to Kyiv from the south.
The Ukrainian defence ministry warned that invading forces were poised for a possible attack on the country's third largest city in a move that could open up a corridor to Kyiv from the south
'You would expect to see, based on the success in Kherson, that the Russian forces that are on the coast would now be prone to move further west and it is entirely plausible they would then put an amphibious landing somewhere around Odessa and conduct over a few days a link-up operation,' he told The Times.
Landing ships capable of launching tanks and hundreds of troops ashore have been seen off the coast.
