Is there finally a glimmer of peace Hopes rise of positive result to talks between Russian and Ukraine within DAYS as Zelensky says he WILL talk to Putin and Moscow claims substantial progress
20220313
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10608677/Russia-Ukraine-say-positive-result-peace-talks-DAYS.html
A resident examines a destroyed tram depot in Kharkiv on Saturday with Ukraine's second biggest city facing continued shelling
Dmytro Kuleba, Minister of Foreign Affairs in Ukraine, said Yevhen Matveyev, the mayor of Dniprorudne in southern Ukraine, was taken days afterIvan Fedorov, the mayor of the nearby city of Melitopol, was also kidnapped.
The same is true of the misguided attempts earlier this month for Poland and America to co-operate in the supply of MiG-29 fighters to the Ukraine air force. This too would have been tantamount to a Nato declaration of war against Russia.
Because the stakes are so high, the Western response has to be more subtle, degrading Russian forces without turning the conflict into a global cataclysm. The most effective means to that end is to step up the arms shipments, which are causing Putin's forces such damage.
All donations to the Mail Ukraine Appeal will be distributed to charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
The emergency workers donned hard hats and protective gear as they made their way through the rubble and debris
For Russia's military planners, this risk was part of the very rationale for the strike.
Does this mean that the West is at risk of being drawn into the conflict  precipitating World War Three?
Ukraine's Air Force Command West said on Facebook two cruise missiles were destroyed by air defence systems.
Donetsk governor Pavlo Kyrylenko confirmed the town had been destroyed late on Sunday, saying that Volnovakha 'no longer exists' after Moscow's 'war of annihilation' that has left the smouldering remains of the town 'in the hands of Russian-backed separatists' pictured patrolling the streets of Volnovakha
The bulk of Russian ground forces are now around 15 miles from the centre but elements of the large column have dispersed in a bid to encircle the city, after pummelling the northwest suburbs including Irpin and Bucha.
Meanwhile,Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said he had spoken with Foreign Secretary Liz Truss about 'next steps to apply more sanctions on Russia'.
Ukraine's military said on Saturday that Russian forces captured Mariupol's eastern outskirts, tightening the armed squeeze on the strategic port.
A man wounded in this morning's air strikes at a nearby military complex is assisted by medical staff outside Novoiavorivsk District Hospital on March 13, 2022 in Novoiavorivsk, Ukraine. A series of Russian missiles struck the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security at the nearby Yavoriv military complex
Images and videos posted on social media showed Russian forces, complete with the tell-tale Z markings on their vehicles, entering the burnt out town that now primarily consists of rubble.
As such, the site is a potent symbol Russia's longstanding concerns that the 30-member Western military alliance is a threat to Moscow by operating so close to its territory.
'We will not concede in principle on any positions. Russia now understands this. Russia is already beginning to talk constructively,' Ukrainian negotiator and presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak pictured said in a video posted online
Russia's deputy foreign minister has even warned that Western arms shipments to Ukraine will now be regarded as 'legitimate targets' for military action.
Meanwhile,Zelensky warned NATO Monday that its member states would soon be attacked by Russian forces after an air strike hit a Ukrainian military base close to the Polish border.
'Ukraine will stand this test. We need time and strength to break the war machine that has come to our land,' Zelensky said in his address.
The base has previously been used to host Nato drills and housed foreign military instructors, but Nato has said none of its personnel were on the base at the time.
The U.S. issued a swift warning after the attack. White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said on CBS News' 'Face the Nation' that NATO will respond if any Russian attacks go beyond Ukrainian borders and hit NATO countries even accidentally.
It comes as American freelance journalist, Brent Renaud, 50, was shot dead by Russian troops on Sunday while filming refugees in Irpin, a suburb of the Ukrainian capital of Kiev.
Yesterday it was confirmed Russianforces have 'completely destroyed' the eastern Ukrainian town of Volnovakhafollowing a days-long bombing campaign - but fighting continues for territory there to prevent a Russian encirclement as citizens refuse to accept Moscow's rule.
Negotiations between Russia and Ukraine are set to resume on Monday as the war rages.Today was day 18 of the war that began when Russian forces invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin calls a special military operation. Pictured: Previous negotiations between the two sides on March 7
Francis said Mariupol, which 'bears the name' of the Virgin Mary, has 'become a city martyred by the heartbreaking war that is devastating Ukraine.'
An unexploded bomb was lifted out of another building in Chernihiv in northern Ukraine on March 13 after intense fighting today
Soldiers and residents prayed at the Church of the Most Holy Apostles Peter and Paul in Lviv, Ukraine,as the war continued to rage
'He commended the president and the Ukrainian people on their fortitude. The Prime Minister said Putin's barbaric actions were testing not just Ukraine but all of humanity,' a Downing Street spokesman said.
A Ukrainian mayor was also abducted by invading Russian forces on Sunday, the second such kidnapping in days, bringing strong condemnation from the UK, EU and Zelensky.
In Mariupol, which has endured some of the worst punishment since Russia invaded, efforts to bring food, water and medicine into the port city of 430,000 and to evacuate civilians, were prevented by unceasing attacks.
The conciliatory tone was not resonating in the Kremlin though, with Putin raging after a 75-minute call with Emmanuel Macron and Olaf Scholz thatUkraine was guilty of 'extrajudicial reprisals against dissidents, taking civilians hostage, using them as human shields, and putting heavy armaments in civilian areas near hospitals, schools, kindergartens'.
Mykolaiv remains under heavy bombardment, while new artillery and air attacks have targeted Dnipro and Kropyvnytskyi.
The missile strikes destroyed buildings on the military base, with footage after the attack showing parts of entire buildings demolished
Russia bombarded cities across Ukraine on Saturday, pounding Mariupol in the south, shelling the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv, and thwarting the efforts of people trying to flee the violence.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
Lviv governor Maksym Kozytskyi said most of the Russian missiles fired Sunday 'were shot down because the air defense system worked.' Those that got through killed at least 35 people and wounded 134, he said.
Biden 'has been clear, repeatedly, that the United States will work with our allies to defend every inch of NATO territory and that means every inch,' Sullivan said on CBS News' 'Face the Nation.'
Ukraine says 134 people have been wounded in the attack on the base, which is located between Lviv and the border with Poland. Pictured above is a young man thought to have been hurt in the attack
Starstreak anti-aircraft missiles, for instance, can provide a remarkable return. Built in Belfast, they cost 100,000 each and are deadly against 30million Russian SU-30 aircraft and 10million Hind helicopter gunships.
Ukraine has said it is willing to negotiate, but not to surrender or accept any ultimatums. Pictured: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky
Deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov warned the US 'that pumping weapons from a number of countries it orchestrates isn't just a dangerous move, it's an action that makes those convoys legitimate targets', after Joe Biden personally intervened to stop a shipment of Polish MiG fighter jets to Kyiv, fearing the move could lead to 'World War Three'.
And senior Russian officials incredulously flipped the narrative on its head on Saturday, warning that the humanitarian situation was deteriorating because of the actions of the country's armed forces - and even accusing Ukraine of shelling its own people.
Fighting in Volnovakha continues for territory there to prevent a Russian encirclement as citizens refuse to accept Moscow's rule
Initial reports suggested the base had been targeted by eight missiles, but Maksym Kozytskyi, Governor of the region later confirmed 30 cruise missiles had been fired, killing 35 people and injuring 134.
A view of a destroyed shoe factory in the aftermath of a missile attack, amid Russia's invasion, in Dnipro
A man walks past as a strike hits a car park in the southern city ofMykolaiv near a residential complex
Mr Johnson saidRussian president Vladimir Putin's 'barbaric actions' were 'testing not just Ukraine but all of humanity'.
Calling upon that human spirit, we are now launching an appeal to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Meanwhile, continued fighting on multiple fronts heaped further misery on the country Sunday and provoked renewed international outrage.
First responders are seen cleaning up a building recently destroyed by Russian rockets in Kharkiv, Ukraine on March 13
In the northern city ofChernihiv, less than 80 miles from Kyiv, emergency crews have been dealing with the damage caused by Russian bombs.
The attack took place 30 miles from the city of Lviv, which had until recently been free of the violence that has plagued the rest of the country
People gather in the basement of a local hospital, which was damaged during a bombing campaign by Moscow as part of the Russian-waged war on Ukraine
In an address to the nation on Saturday, Zelensky said Ukraine has inflicted Russia's heaviest losses in decades, claiming 31 battalion tactical groups have been rendered incapable of combat.
Among them was Senior Lieutenant Hutsul Volodymyr Olesksandrovych, who received the title for his actions in the Kherson region destroying 25 units of enemy equipment and 'about 300 invaders'.
Similarly, for 30,000 an NLAW short-range missile launcher can take out a 4million Russian tank. Other invaluable weapons for the arsenal include Javelin anti-tank systems and Stinger anti-aircraft missiles.
That would practically guarantee a new world war, complete with the use of nuclear weapons, thereby heralding the extinction of life on Earth.
U.S. officials are also accusing China of spreading Russian disinformation that could be a pretext for chemical or biological weapons attacks launched by Vladimir Putin's forces in Ukraine.
The attack has not stopped the flow of refugees, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky confirming nearly 125,000 people have been evacuated from conflict zones through humanitarian corridors.
President Joe Biden 'has been clear, repeatedly, that the United States will work with our allies to defend every inch of NATO territory and that means every inch,' Sullivan said.
Mizintsev, who said Russian forces were observing ceasefires, said Ukrainian forces had mined residential neighbourhoods and destroyed bridges and roads.
But there appear to be signs of slight progress in negotiations, with Zelensky saying the warring countries have begun discussing 'concrete' proposals rather than just 'exchanging ultimatums', although he said any negotiations must begin with a ceasefire.
He added: 'I think that we will achieve some results literally in a matter of days.'
Mr Kozytskyi said the strike had demolished a large part of a vault on the site, with emergency crews dealing with the aftermath, and urged anyone who can to help doctors at the hospital by providing equipment.
Meanwhile, Michael Gove, the Levelling Up, Housing and Communities Secretary, said more than 3,000 UK visas have been issued to fleeing Ukrainians.
Separately, US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman said Russia was showing signs of willingness to engage in substantive negotiations about ending a conflict in which thousands have died. More than 2.5 million people have fled.
Understandably, the Ukrainians want us to go even further. Under non- stop assault, their leaders repeated yesterday their calls for a no-fly zone over their nation to 'secure the skies'.
Chief regional administrator Oleksiy Kuleba said Russian forces appeared to be trying to blockade and paralyze the capital with day and night shelling of the suburbs.
The International Center for Peacekeeping and Security, which lies not far from the border with NATO member Poland, served as a crucial hub for cooperation between Ukraine and the NATO countries supporting it in its defence against Moscow's grinding assault.
'Our goal is that in this struggle, in this difficult negotiating work, Ukraine will get the necessary result... for peace and security,' Zelensky said in a video address early Monday.
Despite its superior firepower, Russia has struggled in its advance across Ukraine, in the face of stiffer than expected resistance, bolstered by Western weapons support.
Civilians have been seeking refuge in basements in Volnovakha, Ukraine's Donetsk area, for more than two weeks, hiding from a Russian bombardment that has destroyed their hometown
Meanwhile an Associated Press journalist in Mariupol witnessed tanks firing on a nine-story apartment building and was with a group of hospital workers who came under sniper fire on Friday.
A pro-Russian soldier in a uniforms without insignia seen atop of armoured vehicles as they enter the separatist-controlled town of Volnovakha in the Donetsk region on Saturday
In 1940, Winston Churchill famously appealed for materiel from the USA, then neutral, in the fight against Nazi tyranny. 'Give us the tools and we will finish the job,' he urged  and President Franklin D Roosevelt was highly co-operative and imaginative, helping to turn the tide of the war.
Some figures in the West, most notably Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, have also hinted that they would support this policy.
Kiev is becoming surrounded by Russian forces as analysts warn the worst days of the war in Ukraine could lie ahead
It came as Electricity supply was restored at Ukraine's retired Chernobyl nuclear power plant that was seized by Russian forces in the first days of the invasion, energy officials in Kyiv said Sunday.
Kyiv Region police said on its official website that Russian troops opened fire on a car carrying two American journalists. The force said Brent Renaud died and Juan Arredondo was wounded.
Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelenskyalso said he would meet Vladimir Putin for peace talks, saying that whilst this is a 'hard path, this path is needed'.
'Following 2014 playbook, Russians now desperately try to organize a sham 'referendum'for a fake 'people's republic' in Kherson,' said Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine's minister of foreign affairs.
'We've already seen the abuse of humanitarian corridors. The Russians say on the one hand they are allowed to leave but when they seek to leave they are then killed and bombed.'
Maksym Kozytskyi, mayor of Lviv, said strike had demolished a large part of a vault on the site, with emergency crews dealing with the aftermath, and urged anyone who can to help doctors at the hospital by providing equipment. Pictured is a patient being transferred into the hospital
Zelenskyy also alleged that Russians were using blackmail and bribery in an attempt to force local officials in the southern Kherson region to form a 'pseudo-republic' like those in the two eastern regions where Russian-backed separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in 2014.
Vladimir Putin's onslaught has only been intensifying in its barbarity. Yesterday morning, missiles were fired at a military base at Yavoriv, just 12 miles from the Polish border
Last Monday, the Kremlin's chief spokesman said Russia was ready to halt military operations 'in a moment' if Kyiv met a list of conditions.
'The Prime Minister outlined the support the UK continues to deliver to Ukraine. He said the UK would continue to pursue more options for bolstering Ukraine's self-defence, working with partners including at Tuesday's meeting of the Joint Expeditionary Force in London.
A person is carried on a stretcher next to an upturned car by a destroyed bridge as people are evacuated from Irpin near Kyiv
Lviv itself so far has been spared the scale of destruction unfolding to its east and south. The city's population of 721,000 has swelled during the war with residents escaping bombarded population centers and as a waystation for the nearly 2.6 million people who have fled the country.
More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the sprawling facility, which has long been used to train Ukrainian military personnel, often with instructors from the US and other countries in the western alliance.
Moscow expanded its offensive on Sunday, as waves of Russian missiles pounded a military training base in western Ukraine, killing 35 people.
Firefighters also helped with the clean up in the city of Kharkiv, which is in the northeast of the war-torn country
Taking Mariupol and other ports on the Azov Sea could allow Russia to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
COLONEL TIM COLLINS: Despite negotiations, Russia's onslaught has only been intensifying in its barbarity - but weapons for Ukraine can force Putin to talk peace
And Dmytro Kuleba, Minister of Foreign Affairs in Ukraine, said another mayor had been abducted by Russian forces.
It comes as it emerged that Russia in recent days has asked China for military equipment to help bolster its forces in Ukraine.
Zelensky said Russians were using blackmail and bribery in an attempt to force local officials to form a break-away region in the south, much like those in Donetsk and Luhansk - which Putin declared as 'independent' at the start of the war.
Ukrainian and European leaders have pushed with limited success for Russia to grant safe passage to civilians trapped by fighting, though Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said authorities have managed to evacuate nearly 125,000 people from combat zones.
However,Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said Ukraine and Russia were actively conducting talks on Sunday, with the situation around the besieged city of Mariupol a particular focus for the Ukrainian authorities.
The attack took place near the city of Lviv, which has become a safe haven for refugee looking to flee the conflict. Thousands have boarded trains in the city heading for Poland and other EU countries
In this tense climate, any attack on Poland could have been the cue for a dramatic escalation in the conflict, since Nato members are bound by their treaty obligations to support any ally under fire.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
Around the capital, Kyiv, a major political and strategic target for the invasion, fighting also intensified, with overnight shelling in the northwestern suburbs and a missile strike Sunday that destroyed a warehouse to the east.
Speaking to the BBC, he said: 'We know that Vladimir Putin has no moral limits when it comes to the actions he's willing to take and he's pushing the boundaries in military terms.
A Ukrainian soldier holds a Next Generation Light Anti-tank Weapon NLAW that was used to destroy a Russian armoured personal carrier APC in Irpin,
On Sunday, Ukraine said it restored a broken power line to the decommissioned Chernobyl plant, scene of the world's worst nuclear disaster in 1986. The plant was knocked off the grid last week and relying on generators. That raised concerns about its ability to keep spent fuel cool, though the International Atomic Energy Agency played down those worries.
Satellite images taken on Saturday morning showed extensive damage to civilian infrastructure and residential buildings throughout the southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, a private US company said
Explosions have been heard on the outskirts of the western Ukrainian city of Lviv after Russian forces launched an attack on a military base just 12 miles from the Polish border, killing at least nine people and injuring dozens more.
A doctor assists a wounded soldier following the attack on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security this morning
In a speech on Sunday,Zelenskywarned against theformation of a 'pseudo-republic' in the south of his country.
The city has been a haven for refugees in recent weeks, with hundreds of thousands going through as they travelled west toward Poland and other EU countries.
A pro-Russian soldier in a uniform without insignia speaks with employees in the Emergencies ministry's office inVolnovakha in the Donetsk region on Saturday, after the town was decimated in a days-long bombing campaign
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told ABC last week that 'we can discuss and find a compromise on how these territories will live on' while adding 'we're not ready for capitulation'.
Ukraine has complained repeatedly that Russian forces do not always respect ceasefires so civilians can leave through evacuation corridors.
A warehouse storing frozen products is seen on fire after shelling, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in the village of Kvitneve in Kyiv region yesterday
But a formerNATO official said she is 'sceptical' that Russian forces will 'gain much success' from an expected brutal onslaught of Kyiv, as Ukrainians warned Putin to prepare for his own Stalingrad battle.
Instead, Russian forces have besieged several cities and pummeled them with strikes, hitting two dozen medical facilities and leading to a series of humanitarian crises.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Zelensky on Sunday that Britain would continue to pursue more options for bolstering Ukraine's self-defence.
Colonel Tim Collins OBE was Commanding Officer of the 1st Battalion, Royal Irish Regiment during the Iraq War.
A view of damaged buildings and streets due to the ongoing Russian shelling and missile strikes in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on March 13
He vowed that any all-out assault would meet stiff resistance, saying: 'We're getting ready to defend Kyiv, and we're prepared to fight for ourselves.'
A Russian KA-52 gunship helicopter is seen on a mission in Ukraine in footage shared by the Kremlin's defence ministry
Military analysts have said a no-fly zone is unlikely because the U.S. and its allies believe it could escalate the war into a nuclear confrontation.
Yesterday morning, missiles were fired at a military base at Yavoriv, just 12 miles from the Polish border. An American journalist was killed near Kyiv, while explosions rocked the western city of Lviv for the first time.
Lviv's mayor said the missiles used in the attack are thought to have been fired by Russian planes located over the Black Sea, which had in turn flown out of the southern Russian city of Saratov.
Eight-year-old Dima struggles between life and death in intensive care after being injured in the Russian attacks in Kharkiv
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the West would respond if Russia's armaments travel outside Ukraine and hit any NATO members, even accidentally.
More than 1,500 people have died in the city during the siege, according to the mayor's office, and the shelling has even interrupted efforts to bury the dead in mass graves.
Ukrainian soldiers protect a checkpoint made up of a 1970's Russian made Volga car in the centre of Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine
'The humanitarian situation in Ukraine, unfortunately, continues to rapidly worsen, and in some cities has reached catastrophic proportions,' RIA quoted Mikhail Mizintsev, head of the Russian National Defence Control Centre, as saying on Saturday.
The suffering in the port city is 'simply immense,' the International Committee of the Red Cross said Sunday, noting that hundreds of thousands of its residents are 'facing extreme or total shortages of basic necessities like food, water and medicine.'
A Ukrainian serviceman exits a damaged building after shelling in Kyiv with Russians closing in on the city
He said: 'On behalf of the whole Lviv region, I express my sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. We will not forget any Hero and will not forgive any occupant!'
A Ukrainian firefighter drags a hose inside a large food products storage facility which was destroyed by an airstrike in the early morning hours on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Sunday, March 13
A wounded soldier arrives at Novoiavorisk District Hospital close to the facility after the attack on the base which is just 12 miles from the Polish border
Dramatic video shows firefighters in the city trying to put out a burning housing block, which is alleged to have caught alight when it was hit by a bomb.
A man walks into a crater created by the impact of an aerial bomb that destroyed a cultural center and an administration buildingin the village of Byshiv outside Kyiv
'I think everybody will understand that my focus is on that vital issue just at the moment.'
A monument of Odessa's founder Duke de Richelieu is seen covered with sand bags for protection, amid Russian attacks
Zelenskyy said in a video address that a convoy carrying 100 tons of humanitarian aid was headed to the city, whose capture could help Russia establish a land corridor to Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Before visiting the military hospital, Zelensky warned against the formation of a 'pseudo-republic' in the south of his country
Michael Gove called the rocket attack a 'significant escalation', adding that Putin was 'pushing the boundaries'.
A member of the Ukrainian forces takes position behind a car in Irpin, a neighbouring city of Ukraine which has seen intense bombardment
This photo reportedly shows smoke and damage at the Yavoriv training area that was targeted by Russian forces this morning
Zelensky, who claimed 1,300 Ukrainian troops have been killed so far and 500 Russians surrendered yesterday,added: 'If they decide to carpet bomb Kyiv, and simply erase the history of this region, the history of the Kyivan Rus, the history of Europe, and destroy all of us, then they will enter Kyiv.
Zelensky again deplored Nato's refusal to declare a no-fly zone over Ukraine and said Ukraine has sought ways to procure air defense assets, though he did not elaborate.
Among the demands were for Ukraine to acknowledge Crimea as Russian territory, and recognise the separatist republics of Donetsk and Lugansk as independent states.
There were welcome reports last night that negotiations between Russia and Ukraine have been making progress in the bid to end this savage war.
Protection for the two eastern regions where pro-Russian separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in 2014 was used as a pretext by Russia to start the invasion.
Another video from the city shows an unexploded bomb being lifted out of another building in the city, with the State Emergency Service of Ukraine saying three OFAB-500 air bombs have been removed from residential buildings in on day.
Renaud was in a car with other journalists in Irpin, near Kyiv, when Russian troops opened fire. He was shot dead and one of his colleagues was injured.
A warehouse storing frozen products is seen on fire after shelling, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in the village of Kvitneve in Kyiv region on Saturday
Putin's troops have also shelled a mosque housing 86 people including 34 children in the besieged city of Mariupol, whose eastern outskirts have now fallen into Russian hands. It is not yet known if there are any casualties.
Neither side indicated what the scope of any agreement might be, but Russia has previously demandedUkraine cease military action, change its constitution to enshrine neutrality so it cannot join the EU or NATO, acknowledge Crimea as Russian territory and recognise the separatist republics of Donetsk and Lugansk as independent territories.
'Given zero popular support, it will be fully staged. Severe sanctions against Russia must follow if they proceed. Kherson is  will always be Ukraine.'
The Kremlin said next Russia-Ukraine talks to take place Monday but are not happening right now.
Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov renewed calls for a 'no-fly zone' over the country following the attack.'Russia has attacked the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security near Lviv,' he wrote on Twitter.
Vladimir Putin's forces have 'completely destroyed' the eastern Ukrainian town of Volnovakha, including this church, following a days-long bombing campaign
The only alternatives for Putin are either wholesale defeat, followed by his ousting from power and a journey to the International Criminal Court, or the apocalypse of nuclear war, bringing the whole world crashing down in flames.
Zelensky visited wounded soldiers at a military hospital in Kiev on Sunday to boost their morale and award them medals for their bravery.
Ukrainian authorities said more than 10 humanitarian corridors would open Sunday, with agreement from Russia, including from the battered and besieged port city of Mariupol, where the city council said 2,187 people have been killed.
'The leaders condemned the murders of Brent Renaud and countless innocent Ukrainians, and the abduction of the mayors of Dniprorudne and Melitopol.
Donetsk governor Pavlo Kyrylenko confirmed the town had been destroyed late on Saturday, saying that Volnovakha 'no longer exists' after Moscow's 'war of annihilation' that has left the smouldering remains of the town 'in the hands of Russian-backed separatists'.
Five newborn babies are evacuated from a clinic in Kyiv in bags and suitcases as desperate civilians try to flee from the invading Russians
'Dead bodies, of civilians and combatants, remain trapped under the rubble or lying in the open where they fell,' the Geneva-based organization said in a statement. 'Life-changing injuries and chronic, debilitating conditions cannot be treated.'
Prolonged attrition can leave Putin's regime without any hope of victory, so that it is forced to negotiate further with Ukraine, whose independence should be the first condition of any such talks.
Meanwhile Russia has made dire threats to the West that any military shipments to Ukraine will be seen as 'legitimate targets', prompting fears there could be an escalation of conflict that could suck in other countries.
In a tweet, Podolyak said Russia was carefully listening to Ukraine's proposals. 'Our demands are - the end of the war and the withdrawal of Russian troops. I see the understanding and there is a dialogue,' he said.
'If that's their goal, let them come in, but they will have to live on this land by themselves.'
Talking to Sky News' Sophy Ridge, he said: 'I haven't changed my mind on Boris Johnson. I think he has lost the moral authority to lead. I don't think he is fit to be our Prime Minister.
He awarded 106 servicemen of the armed forces in Ukraine the title of 'Heroes of Ukraine', 17 of which were awarded posthumously.
The base has hosted international NATO drills and a senior NATO official, Admiral Rob Bauer, previously hailed it as embodying 'the spirit of military cooperation' between Ukraine and international forces.
Many civilians have been caught in the barrage, and Ukraine's Prosecutor General's office said Sunday that at least 85 children have been killed.
Pro-Russian troops in uniforms without insignia are seen atop of armoured vehicles as they enter theseparatist-controlled town of Volnovakha in the Donetsk region on Saturday
Ukrainian servicemen carry a dead body on stretcher in the town of Irpin near Kyiv as Russian forces close in on the capital
A tram depot in Kharkiv was destroyed by Russian shelling in the city which has faced incessant attacks for days
Russian rocket attacks destroyed a Ukrainian airbase and hit an ammunition depot near the town of Vasylkiv in the Kyiv region on Saturday morning
Residents ofVolnovakha in the Donetsk region of Ukraine carry food and water supplies back to their homes after the town was 'destroyed' by Russian shelling
An explosion is seen in an apartment building after Russian's army tank fires in Mariupol, Ukraine yesterday
She slammed their poor logistics saying she does not believe they have enough fuel supply for battle in the city which has faced constant shelling but is still bracing for an all-out assault.
Three Russian generals out of 20 have been killed so far in Putin's botched invasion, which has also seen the loss of 173 tanks, 12 aircraft and 345 troop carriers.
In some of his strongest denunciations yet of the war in Ukraine, Pope Francis on Sunday decried the 'barbarianism' of the killing of children and other civilians and pleaded for the attacks to end 'before cities are reduced to cemeteries.'
He said Yevhen Matveyev, the mayor of Dniprorudne in southern Ukraine, was taken days afterIvan Fedorov, the mayor of the nearby city of Melitopol, was also kidnapped.
Residents of the 'completely destroyed' town Volnovakha in the Donetsk region warm themselves with a makeshift fire and boil a kettle after their homes were reduced to rubble by Russian shelling
With the pressures of its ravenous economy, China cannot endure a global meltdown triggered by prolonged conflict.
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from Russia's invading armed forces.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday there had been some 'positive shifts' in the talks, but did not elaborate. On Saturday the Kremlin said the discussions between Russian and Ukrainian officials had been continuing 'in video format'.
The International Center for Peacekeeping and Security served as a crucial hub for cooperation between Ukraine and the NATO countries supporting it in its defence against Moscow's grinding assault.
Poland is also a transit route for Western military aid to Ukraine, and the strikes followed Moscow's threats to target those shipments.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
Speaking on Sunday Morning with Sophie Raworth, he said: 'Actually, politically, he has already lost his war and internally he is not winning it', adding that if Putin uses these types of weapons Nato will have to consider its next move.
This morning there were reports on social media that explosions could be seen and heard from the outskirts of Lviv nearly 30 miles away.
More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the sprawling facility, which has long been used to train Ukrainian military personnel, often with instructors from the U.S. and other countries in the western alliance.
Ukrainian officials on Sunday also accused Russia of organizing a 'fake referendum' in the south of the country now partially under control by Russian forces.
It comes a day after Russia said it considered convoys of weapons from Western nations into Ukraine as legitimate targets.
Volunteers position a 20 year old Russian made Lada, complete with a WW1 era machine gun into position, to join a 1970's Russian made Volga car which make up this central Kyiv checkpoint
The president also accused Russia of employing 'a new stage of terror' with the alleged kidnapping of the mayor of Melitopol, a city 119 miles west of Mariupol.
Russian and Ukrainian officials gave their most upbeat assessments yet on Sunday of progress in their talks on the war in Ukraine, suggesting there could be a positive result within days.
Scholz and Macron implored Putin to end the war and stop the brutal siege of Mariupol but a French official said he did not show any willingness for calling off his inhumane invasion.
Of these, the attack on the military base is the most worrying. A stray Russian bomb could have landed in Poland  a Nato member.
A view shows local residents' belongings in the basement of a local hospital, which was damaged during Russian shelling ofVolnovakha, a town that 'no longer exists' after the bombing campaign
According to Ukrainian sources, Vladimir Putin's forces had launched a missile strike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security, also known as Yavoriv military complex, just before 6am this morning.
And Vlodymyr Zelensky has slammed the West for its inaction, saying on Saturday that he 'doesn't see any bravery from NATO' as he pleaded for more involvement from allies in peace negotiations and offered to pay for more anti-missile systems.
'If you do not close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian missiles fall on your territory, on NATO territory, on the homes of NATO citizens,' Zelensky said in a video address released shortly after midnight, urging NATO to impose a no-fly zone over his country.
'Pressure must increase until Russia ceases its meaningless aggression and stops barbaric war crimes. Grateful to the UK for stepping up support for Ukraine.'
Ukraine said it is willing to negotiate but will not surrender or accept any ultimatums, as a key Ukrainian negotiator said Moscow is beginning to 'talk constructively' ahead of a video-conference on Monday between representatives from both countries.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky address the nation on March 12 after Russian air strikes killed 35 people at a military base outside Ukraine's western city of Lviv
The attacked training base near Yavoriv is less than 15 miles from the Polish border and appears to be the westernmost target struck during Russia's 18-day invasion.
Zelenskyy reported Saturday that 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers had died in the war. The Russians said days ago that several hundred of their forces have died but have not given a recent updated count.
The attack, believed to have killed Western volunteers, has been seen by analysts as a move to deter any foreigners from fighting to defend Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Biden is sending his national security adviser to Rome to meet Monday with a Chinese official amid concerns that country is amplifying Russian disinformation, and Pope Francis called for peace.
'I can't force him to resign. Only Tory MPs can do that. But I have to say that just at the moment, my total focus is on the Ukraine and what we have to do in response to the Russian aggression there.
In response, the US made lukewarm promises of taking 'diplomatic steps' to help the Ukrainian government.
Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov called it a 'new terrorist attack on peace and security near the EU-NATO border' and called for a no-fly zone to be put in place
Moscow's troops continue to use indiscriminate shelling to encircle key Ukrainian cities and are said to be bearing down on Kyiv for an 'all-out assault' in the coming days
Russian armoured vehicles are still slowly advancing on Kyiv's northeast after being stalled for days, and a military airfield south of the city in Vasylkiv has been hit by missiles, destroying the runway, a fuel depot and an ammunition store.
Their public comments were issued almost at the same time.Today was day 18 of the war that began when Russian forces invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what the Kremlin calls a special military operation.
Zelensky encouraged his people to keep up their resistance, which many analysts said has prevented the rapid offensive and military victory the Kremlin likely expected while planning to invade Russia's ex-Soviet neighbor.
A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive matters, said that in recent days, Russia had requested support from China, including military equipment, to press forward in its ongoing war with Ukraine. The official did not provide details on the scope of the request.
Putin's generals are desperate to halt the flood of materiel precisely because it has so powerfully reinforced the Ukrainian resistance.
There has also been disagreement between the two sides as to whether talks were ongoing on Sunday.
Zelensky takes a photo with the injured soldier at the military hospital in Kiev on Sunday as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues
A glimmer of hope came yesterday in the good news from the negotiations. But overall the situation remains so serious that we in the West will have to plan for the most horrific eventuality  while doing everything we can to avoid it.
Ambulances seen travelling to and from the military facility early on Sunday morning following the Russian attack on the site which is miles from the border with Poland
Polish president Andrez Duda has told the BBC he fears Russia could use chemical weapons in an effort to break the deadlock.
'They are bombing Mariupol 24 hours a day, launching missiles. It is hatred. They kill children,' Zelensky said during a video address.
However, he added that he thought putting a no-fly zone in place would mean 'the opening of a third world war'.
A man wounded in this morning's air strikes at a nearby military complex is assisted by medical staff outside Novoiavorivsk District Hospital on March 13, 2022 in Novoiavorivsk, Ukraine
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky left listens to a chief of Medical Forces Command Brigadier General Tetiana Ostashchenko centre
A despondent father plays with his daughter before she boards a Lviv-bound train in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine on Saturday
'Foreign instructors work here. Information about the victims is being clarified. This is new terrorist attack on peace and security near the EU-NATO border. Action must be taken to stop this. Close the sky!'
While western Ukraine has largely been spared so far, Russian air strikes overnight Saturday into Sunday carried the war deep into the west, killing 35 people and wounding 134 at a military base near Yavoriv, outside the city of Lviv - which is dangerously close to the frontier with EU and NATO member Poland.
Also speaking on Sunday morning, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said he was focusing on the situation in Ukraine, instead of calls for Boris Johnson to resign as Prime Minister following recent scandal.
What makes this equipment all the more important is that, owing to sanctions, Putin's regime cannot quickly replace lost planes and tanks.
Maxar Technologies said fires were seen in the western section of the Black Sea port city and dozens of high-rise apartment buildings had been severely damaged.
'The Prime Minister said the UK would continue to stand behind Ukraine in all their efforts to bring an end to this disastrous conflict.'
Not yet. Behind the tough rhetoric, the attack on the base at Yavoriv betrays the Kremlin's weakness. Our military aid is clearly having a devastating impact on Russia's capacity to wage this war.
Anti-tank barriers line a main street in Odessa, a strategic port city which is seen as a likely battleground in the coming days
It comes as Russian attacks are continuing throughout the county on Saturday despite a supposed ceasefire to allow trapped citizens to escape in evacuation routes.
Russian fighters also fired at the airport in the western city of Ivano-Frankivsk, which is less than 94 miles north of Romania and 155 miles from Hungary, countries that also are NATO allies.
In a statement released this afternoon, Russian Defence Ministry spokesperson Igor Konashenkov told Reuters it had attacked two separate bases and killed 'up to 180 foreign mercenaries'.
NATO said Sunday that it currently does not have any personnel in Ukraine, though the U.S. has increased the number of American troops deployed to Poland.
RIA news agency quoted a Russian delegate, Leonid Slutsky pictured, as saying the talks had made substantial progress. 'According to my personal expectations, this progress may grow in the coming days into a joint position of both delegations, into documents for signing,' Slutsky said
Medical staff assist a wounded man arriving from the base to the hospital. the missiles in the attack are thought to have been fired from over the Black Sea by Russian fighter jets
Images and videos posted on social media showed Russian forces, complete with the tell-tale Z markings on their vehicles, entering the burnt out town that now primarily consists of rubble
Deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov warned the US 'that pumping weapons from a number of countries it orchestrates isn't just a dangerous move, it's an action that makes those convoys legitimate targets'
'Today, thanks to the incredible efforts of Ukrainian energy specialists, our nuclear power engineers and electricians managed to return the power supply to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which was seized by the Russian occupiers,' Ukraine's Energy Minister German Galushchenko said in a statement.
Kherson, a vital Black Sea port of 290,000 residents, was the first major city to fall earlier this month.
A view of the damage in a cafe after shelling in Kharkiv with its windows destroyed and glass covering the floor
Donetsk governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said: 'Humanitarian cargo is moving towards Mariupol, we will inform you how it develops... The situation is complicated, there is constant shelling.'
Mr Kuleba tweeted: 'Today, Russian war criminals abducted another democratically elected Ukrainian mayor, head of Dniprorudne Yevhen Matveyev. Getting zero local support, invaders turn to terror. I call on all states  international organizations to stop Russian terror against Ukraine and democracy.'
A column of smoke rises from burning fuel tanks that locals said were hit by five rockets at the Vasylkiv Air Base near the capital
Satellite images taken on Saturday morning showed extensive damage to civilian infrastructure and residential buildings throughout the southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, a private US company said.
During the night air raid sirens went off in the city, which is home to more than 700,000 people and has been largely spared the violence seen in other major settlements such as Kyiv, Mariupol and Kharkiv.
The president also demanded the release of the kidnapped mayor of Melitopol, Ivan Fedorov, who was seized after he 'refused to cooperate with the enemy', sparking protests of 2,000 people in the southern city.
Meanwhile, it emerged that Russia has asked China - which has not condemned Russia's barbaric invasion of Ukraine - for military equipment, according to US officials.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has put China in a delicate spot with two of its biggest trading partners: the U.S. and European Union. China needs access to those markets, yet it also has made gestures supportive of Moscow, joining with Russia in declaring a friendship with 'no limits.'
The aim was to send the West a clear message: Moscow will no longer stand by as lethal aid is sent in ever greater quantities to Ukraine, especially anti-tank and anti-aircraft weaponry.
Ukrainian President Vlodymyr Zelensky has accused Russia of shooting children and said Putin's forces will only take Kyiv if they 'raze the city to the ground', with Kremlin troops inching closer to the capital and conflict raging nearby on Saturday, endangering attempted evacuations.
People stand in front of a destroyed shoe factory on Saturday in the aftermath of a missile attack in Dnipro, the latest city targeted by Russia
The restoration of power at the decommissioned site means that cooling systems will now operate normally and not have to use backup power.
An attack so close to the border was heavy with symbolism in a conflict that has revived old Cold War rivalries that gave birth to NATO and threatened to rewrite the current global security order.
But such a step would be disastrous. It would require Nato planes to shoot down Russian aircraft.
A worker shot in the hip survived, but conditions in the hospital were deteriorating, with electricity reserved for operating tables, and people with nowhere else to go lined the hallways.
Firefighters extinguish a fire on a house after shelling in Kyiv but Russian ground forces are yet to enter the capital
Since Russia's invasion more than two weeks ago, at least 596 civilians have been killed, according to the U.N., though it believes the true toll is much higher. Millions more have fled their homes amid the largest land conflict in Europe since World War II.
A burnt-out car sits amidst the rubble in Volnovakha after the town endured a days-long bombing campaign that 'completely destroyed' it
Photos emerging from the air base show the facility in ruins, with wounded service personnel being attended to by medics.
A building in Mariupol is seen on Saturday after it was destroyed by a Russian airstrike. The city has seen incessant bombardment for nearly two weeks
Moscow's troops continue to use indiscriminate shelling to encircle key Ukrainian cities and are said to be bearing down on Kyiv for an 'all-out assault' in the coming days.
Talks between the Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers produced no apparent progress towards a ceasefire last Thursday but analysts said the fact they were even meeting left a window open for ending the war.
Anastasiya Erashova wept and trembled as she held a sleeping child. Shelling had just killed her other child as well as her brother's child, Erashova said, her scalp crusted with blood
'Guys, get well soon. I believe that the best gift for your statement will be our common victory!' said Zelensky, according to an English translation of a tweet posted by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine.
Ukrainian negotiator and presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said: 'We will not concede in principle on any positions. Russia now understands this. Russia is already beginning to talk constructively.'
Cars line the streets out of Kyiv as desperate residents try to flee the city which is bracing itself for an imminent onslaught from Russia
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky visits an injured Ukrainian serviceman in a military hospital in Kiev on Sunday
Pro-Russian troops in uniforms without insignia drive a damaged car without a windshield while patrolling a street inVolnovakha in the Donetsk region on Ukraine on Saturday
Paramedics transfer a wounded man into Novoiavorivsk District Hospital following the attack. Oleksii Reznikov, the Ukraine Defence Minister, called the strike a 'terrorist attack'
In the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv, near the Black Sea, authorities reported nine people killed in bombings. Meanwhile, they said Russian airstrikes on a monastery and a children's resort in the eastern Donetsk region hit spots where monks and others were sheltering, wounding 32 people.
Aconvoy loaded with 90 tonnes of food and medicine left the town of Zaporizhzhia for Mariupol on Saturday, according to local officials, with hopes that it will be able to evacuate civilians on the way back. Ukraine's emergency services said 487,000 people had been evacuated over the past 24 hours, including 102,000 children.
Three rounds of talks between the two sides in Belarus, most recently last Monday, had focused mainly on humanitarian issues and led to the limited opening of some corridors for civilians to escape fighting.
A Russian negotiator meanwhile claimed there had been 'substantial progress' in the talks, despite Putin's forces continuing their onslaught of Ukraine on Sunday, with missiles hitting a large Ukrainian military base just 12 miles from the border with NATO member Poland, killing 35 people.
President Zelensky said he spoke to Boris Johnson and Petr Fiala, the prime minister of the Czech Republic.
President Volodymyr Zelensky listens to a chief of the National military medical clinical centre Major General Anatolii Kazmirchu
A woman walks past a destroyed tank in the Ukrainian town of Volnovakha after it was 'completely destroyed' by a sustained days-long Russian bombing campaign
A column of thick black smoke was seen rising from the eastern suburbs of Kyiv this morning, but there is still no sign of ground forces moving into the outskirts.
Maxar Technologies said fires were seen in the western section of the Black Sea port city and dozens of high-rise apartment buildings had been severely damaged
Plumes of smoke billow from a building in the strategic port city of Mariupol which has endured 11 days of intense bombardment
'According to my personal expectations, this progress may grow in the coming days into a joint position of both delegations, into documents for signing,' he added.
A view of damaged buildings and streets due to the ongoing Russian shelling and missile strikes in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on Sunday
Behind the tough rhetoric, the attack on the base at Yavoriv betrays the Kremlin's weakness. Our military aid is clearly having a devastating impact on Russia's capacity to wage this war. A map of the conflict is seen above
The war has repeatedly raised the specter of nuclear accidents, as fighting occurred around nuclear power plants.
According to the manufacturer, these bombs which have been found in civilian areas are designed to 'destroy military industrial facilities, light-armoured and soft-skin targets, railway junctions and military fortifications'.
Vladimir Putin's forces have 'completely destroyed' the eastern Ukrainian town of Volnovakha following a days-long bombing campaign
Former deputy Secretary General Rose Gottemoeller says she believes current tactics betray a sign of weakness from Putin's forces, saying she is 'sceptical' of any success in the capital.
'The fact that the whole Ukrainian people resist these invaders has already gone down in history, but we do not have the right to let up our defense, no matter how difficult it may be for us,' he said.
More negotiations could be brokered by China, which is dismayed by the blood-soaked war, having been promised by Putin that it would all be over in a few days.
NATO denies that it poses any threat, but Russia has repeatedly demanded Ukraine drop its ambitions of joining the alliance as a pre-requisite for ending the war.
Leonid Slutsky, a senior member of Russia's negotiating team, told state-run television network RT Sunday:'We see significant progress' in the negotiations.
Ukraine's nuclear company Energoatom had earlier warned that radioactive substances could be released if a high-voltage power line to the plant were not repaired after it was damaged in fighting.
