It wouldnt be a good look McMafia is AXED as BBC decides crime drama about dodgy Russian family would be awkward amid the Ukraine crisis
20220307
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10587695/McMafia-AXED-BBC-decides-dodgy-Russian-family-drama-awkward-amid-Ukraine-crisis.html
McMafia follows the life of a privately educated businessman called Alex Godman, played by British actor James Norton, who is dragged into the criminal underworld following the murder of his uncle.
A TV insider told The Sun: 'But it also wasn't a good look to start a second series of a show where the main protagonist is a gangster from a dodgy Russian family who ultimately triumphs on the back of a string of dark deeds.
In demand:Starring man James Norton, who has seen his star rise as a result of the show, has also been increasingly 'hard to pin down' in time for filming pictured with Juliet Rylance
The gangster drama, which was lauded by critics and drew in audiences of nearly 10 million during its 2018 debut, will allegedly not return for a second series.
Earlier this week, Netflix temporarily stopped all future projects and acquisitions in Russia as it assessed the impact of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Tragic:Production had been delayed by the coronavirus pandemic, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has reportedly acted as the nail in the coffin for the much-loved series L-R: Aleksey Serebryakov, James,Maria Shukshina, Faye Marsay and Juliet
Wow! The series, which was lauded by critics and drew in audiences of nearly 10 million in its 2018 debut, will allegedly not return for a second series James Norton and extra are pictured
'The drama doesn't glorify the violence or corruption, in fact it attempts to highlight the terrible consequences that followed the break-up of the Soviet Union.
It comes after Netflix made the decision to suspend its service in Russia, a company spokesperson said on Sunday.
'It wouldn't be a good look!' McMafia has reportedly been AXED after the BBC decided a crime drama about a 'dodgy Russian family' would be 'awkward' amid the Ukraine crisis
The streaming service had earlier said it had no plans to add state-run channels to its Russian service, despite a regulation that would require it to distribute state-backed channels.
Starring man James Norton, who has seen his star rise as a result of the show, has also been increasingly 'hard to pin down' in time for filming.
At the time of McMafia's airing, the Russian embassy even hit out at the BBC for propagating negative 'cliches' of its citizens in the hit series.
Production had been delayed by the coronavirus pandemic, but theinvasion of Ukraine has reportedly acted as the nail in the coffin for the much-loved programme.
The eight-part series, which first aired Christmas Day, portrayed a world where Russians move in a world rife with criminal activity - but the embassy moved quickly to point out the difference between fact and fiction.
Taking to Twitter, the UK-based embassy said the drama 'depicts Britain as a playground for Russian gangsters' and asked followers to answer a poll to guess how many Russian offenders are currently in UK prisons.
The figure is significantly lower than many other European countries, including Poland, which has 891 citizens locked up in the UK, Lithuania, which has 424, and Portugal's 245.
'But given it deals with murderers and oligarchs, it's still a very awkward show to be creating in the current climate.'
Ministry of Justice figures from September last year show there are 35 people of Russian nationality imprisoned in England and Wales, comprised of 34 men and one women.
Oh no! A TV insider said: 'But it also wasn't a good look to start a second series of a show where the main protagonist is a gangster from a dodgy Russian family who ultimately triumphs on the back of a string of dark deeds' James, left, is pictured with David Dencik, right
Following the result, the embassy tweeted: 'Crime rate among Russians in UK is well below national average. Good that our followers are not buying into the cliches BBC is spreading.'
McMafia has been axed after the BBCdecided that a programme about a 'dodgy Russian family' would be 'awkward' amid the Ukraine crisis, it has been claimed.
'Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia,' the Netflix spokesperson said.
