John Lewis clears Siberian goosedown pillows from its shelves in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine
20220313
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10631909/John-Lewis-clears-Siberian-goose-pillows-shelves.html
Last week, Siberian bedding was listed on the John Lewis website as 'no longer available online'.
The store's sales assistants, known as 'partners', have been advised by managers to refuse sales of any bedding described as being stuffed with Siberian down, even if the pillows themselves are British-made file image
The store's sales assistants, known as 'partners', have been advised by managers to refuse sales of any bedding described as being stuffed with Siberian down, even if the pillows themselves are British-made.
Sales of the 76 luxury pillows were halted when the department store audited all products across 35 branches to identify any with a Russian origin.
Sales of the 76 luxury pillows pictured were halted when the department store audited all products across 35 branches to identify any with a Russian origin
John Lewis has cleared shelves of Siberian goose-down pillows in reaction to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The spokesman added: 'We have also offered volunteer partners to support the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain and sent 5,000 John Lewis click-and-collect boxes to the Polish border to help organise donations.'
A John Lewis customer told The Mail on Sunday that an assistant at the High Wycombe branch last week advised her that the medium-firm feather pillow she wanted could not be sold  even though it was still in stock at the branch.
'As part of this process we're removing bedding containing Siberian goose down from sale and seeking alternative sources of goose down.
John Lewis, and its Sloane Square branch, Peter Jones, have been helping Ukrainians with 1.5 million in donations to the British Red Cross, which have been raised by the partnership, staff and customers.
A John Lewis spokesman said: 'We are working with our suppliers to review products that have components of Russian origin.
Retail chiefs looking for products using a Russian supply chain have also removed from sale bags of wooden pellets that are used for heating trendy home pizza ovens.
