Kristen Bell reveals she waits for the stink before bathing her two children after Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher made similar revelation
20210804
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-9858649/Kristen-Bell-likes-wait-stink-bathing-children.html
Child star: Mila was just seven when she moved to the States and only a teen when she had her breakout role on That 70s Show. Seen in 1998 above
Ashton added: 'Now, here's the thing: If you can see the dirt on them, clean them. Otherwise, there's no point.'
'There's a red flag': Kristen said the smell was biology's way of indicating it was time for a clean-up
The Mayo Clinic advises against washing a baby every day, stating: 'There's no need to give your newborn a bath every day. Three times a week might be enough until your baby becomes more mobile. Bathing your baby too much can dry out his or her skin.'
During a joint interview on The View with her husband Dax Shepard, 46, Kristen Bell, 41, revealed she likes to 'wait for the stink' before bathing their two children.
'Hey, when was the last time you bathed them?' Dax said it all started after their children started putting themselves to bed on their own
Friends first: Ashton and Mila first met while working on the series That 70s Show together in 1998 above, but they wouldn't become romantic until years later following Kutcher's divorce from Demi Moore in 2013
He explained: 'I wash my armpits and my crotch daily, and nothing else ever. I got a bar of Lever 2000 that delivers every time. Nothing else.'
But as it turns out, they aren't the only superstars with a more hands-off cleaning approach.
Ashton said: 'I do have a tendency to throw some water on my face after a workout to get all the salts out.'
The couple also made it clear they don't like to use soap on their skin, with the actor stating he only ever lathers up his 'armpits and crotch' whileMila was a little more bawdy, saying she washes the essentials like her 'slits and ts.'
The conversation began when Dax told Monica that she should not be excising the natural oil on her skin by using soap every day.
'We bathed our children every single night prior to bed as the routine, then somehow they just started going to sleep on their own without the routine and by George we had to start saying like, "Hey, when was the last time you bathed them?"' Dax said.
'I'm a big fan of waiting for the stink': Kristen Bell and her husband Dax Shepard revealed their hands-off bathing routine during an interview on The View
In response, co-host MonicaPadman replied: 'I can't believe I am in the minority here of washing my whole body in the shower. Who taught you to not wash?'
The Bad Moms actress then explained that she hardly ever had a shower during her childhood because they didn't have hot water at home.
Mila and Ashton made a similar bathing revelation during a recent appearance on Dax's Armchair Expert podcast, admitting they only gave their daughter Wyatt, six, and son Dimitri, four, a scrubwhen they look physically grubby.
Mila, who was born in Soviet Ukraine, explained: 'I didn't have hot water growing up as a child, so I didn't shower much anyway.'
And even when the youngsters take a dip in the tub, they hardly ever use soap because they don't want to dry their delicate skin out.
'There's a red flag. Honestly, it's just bacteria once you get bacteria you gotta be like, "Get in the tub or the shower." So I don't hate what they're are doing. I wait for the stink,' she said.
She added: 'But when I had children, I also didn't wash them every day. I wasn't that parent that bathed my newborns - ever.'
Kristen said the smell was biology's way of indicating it was time for a clean-up.
Ashton and Mila first met while working on the series That 70s Show together in 1998, but they wouldn't become romantic until years later following Kutcher's divorce from Demi Moore in 2013.
The American Academy of Dermatology Association recommends that children ages 6 to 11 bathe at least 'once or twice' a week. They advise a child should be washed when they get 'dirty', 'after being in a pool' or when the child gets 'sweaty' or has 'body odor.'
The couple, who share daughter Delta, six, and son Lincoln, eight, together, made the revelation after the topic of Mila and Ashton's bathing confession was broached.
However, the couple - who tied the knot in 2015 - do like to wash their faces after getting hot and sweaty at the gym.
Candid: Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis admitted they only give daughter Wyatt, six, and son Dimitri, four, a scrub when they look physically grubby the family are pictured in 2017
Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher recently revealed they only bathe their children when they see dirt on them.
'I'm a big fan of waiting for the stink,' Kristen said. 'Once you catch a whiff, that's biology's way of letting you know you need to clean it up.
They clean up nicely! The Bad Moms actress then explained that she hardly ever had a shower during her childhood because they didn't have hot water at home they are pictured in 2018
