Lets talk about healthcare Biden brushes off a question on when he will consider Russias atrocities in Ukraine a genocide after his speech with Obama
20220405
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10689235/Biden-brushes-question-consider-Russias-atrocities-Ukraine-genocide.html
U.S. Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield noted that Ukrainians were being taken to 'filtration camps' in Russia
Ukraine's prosecutor-general said the bodies of 410 civilians, many with bound hands and close-range gunshot wounds, have been recovered from towns surrounding Kyiv after last week's withdrawal of Russian troops.
People tripped up by the family glitch are dependents of workers who have an offer of employer coverage that the government interprets as being affordable. As a rule, people with affordable employer coverage are not eligible for taxpayer-subsidized ACA plans.
Vladislav Kozlovsky, who returned to Bucha at the outbreak of war to care for his mother and grandmother, told The Telegraph how two men he knew had tried to escape through an abandoned glass factory but were found by the Russians.
Volodymyr Pilhutskyi, another Bucha resident, recounted how his neighbour was taken away by Russian troops because he was wearing military-style trousers which were deemed 'suspicious'.
One woman told Human Rights Watch that she was raped by a Russian soldier in a school in Kharkiv where she was sheltering, after the soldier held a gun to her temple while he forced her to perform sexual acts. After the encounter, the woman said that the soldier told her that he was 20 years old and she reminded him of a girl he went to school with. He proceeded to cut her throat, cheek and hair with a knife.
'As this Russian tide is receding from parts of Ukraine, the world is seeing the death and destruction left in its wake,' Sec. of State Antony Blinken told reporters as he flew to Brussels
The commander told the rest of the people in the square:: 'Don't worry. You are all normal  and this is dirt. We are here to cleanse you from the dirt.'
Obama had returned to the White House for the first time since his own presidency to mark the 12th anniversary of the passing of Obamacare. The pair were together to announce Biden's proposed fix to the so-called 'family glitch' -a quirk estimated to be keeping about 5 million people from getting coverage under the law.
As Biden delivered remarks flanked by former President Obama on the Affordable Care Act, a CNN reporter asked him at what point it becomes 'genocide' in Ukraine. The president demurred: 'Let's just talk about health care.'
Graphic images taken by Ukrainian prosecutors show the bodies of the men lying on a rubble floor surrounded by pools of dried blood. At least one appears to have been shot through the kneecap.
Tanya Nedashkivs'ka, 57, weeps in the street over the death of her husband who was found killed as Ukrainian forces liberated the city of Bucha, to the west of Kyiv, after a month under the occupation of Russian troops
'I do not need to spell out what these so-called filtration camps are reminiscent of. It's chilling and we cannot look away. Every day we see more and more how little Russia respects human rights.'
Ukrainian interviews with Human Rights Watch laid to bare Russia's indiscriminate killings in Bucha and beyond. Locals said that Russian forces would throw smoke grenades into basements and other hiding places and shoot those who ran out in fear.
At the same time U.S. Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield noted that Ukrainians were being taken to 'filtration camps' in Russia. Russian federal security agents are now taking away passports, IDs and cell phones so Ukrainians cannot escape and ripping apart families, she said.
'I'm seeking more sanctions,' Biden said. He said he didn't think what happened in Bucha could be called genocide, as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has insisted.
'As this Russian tide is receding from parts of Ukraine, the world is seeing the death and destruction left in its wake,' he told reporters as he flew to Brussels. 'What we've seen in Bucha is not the random act of a rogue unit. It's a deliberate campaign to kill, to torture, to rape, to commit atrocities. The reports are more than credible. The evidence is there for the world to see.'
Dead bodies litter the streets near Bucha, a suburb of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, after Russian forces withdrew from the region - leaving evidence of 'war crimes' in their wake
On Monday Biden called for Russian leader Vladimir Putin to face a war crimes trial for the atrocities in Bucha.
Survivors of a month-long Russian occupation - endured in cold, dark silence after Putin's troops cut off all links with the outside world - are just now starting to emerge from basements and makeshift bunkers.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said that even though Ukraine is taking back the capital, he urged civilians not to return for 'at least another week', with explosives left around the city. Pictured: teams work to clear explosives
Serhii Lahovskyi, 26, hugs Ludmyla Verginska, 51, as they mourn their common friend Ihor Lytvynenko, who according to residents was killed by Russian Soldiers, after they found him beside a building's basement,
One was shot in the back of the head. The other had his cheek cut out before being shot in the heart.
But Secretary of State AntonyBlinken pulled no punches Tuesday claiming that Russia was on a 'deliberate campaign to kill, to torture, to rape.'
Bodies are piled up at a cemetery in Bucha after Russia' withdrawal from the town
He was tortured and killed, Mr Pilhutskyi said, with burn marks from a flamethrower found on his body.
The bodies of five men were found shot to death in the basement, a spokesman said, with their hands tied behind their backs. Some had been tortured.
Zelensky compared Russia to ISIS in a fiery speech Tuesday before the UNSecurity Council. He called the rapes, murder and tortureby invading Kremlin forces 'the most terrible war crimes' since WWII, as he shared a harrowing video of burnt corpses and bodies stuffed in wells to the council.
President Biden refused to declare that Russia was committing 'genocide' in Ukraine, even as other members of his Cabinet have leveled up their rhetoric after the horrific accounts that came out of Bucha, Ukraine.
Ukrainian armed forces say they have now uncovered a Russian torture chamber, located inside a children's hospital that was also being used as a makeshift barracks.
'He is a war criminal,' Biden told reporters of Putin. 'But we have to gather the information. We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue to fight and we have to get all the detail so this could be  actual have a war crimes trial. This guy is brutal and what's happening in Bucha is outrageous and everyone's seen it.'
It comes as drone footage revealed today appeared to show Russian tanks opening fire on a cyclist in Bucha.
On March 5, Russian soldiers allegedly went door to door rounding up those who were hiding, mostly women, children and elderly, and brought them to a parking lot to wait for hours in the frigid weather. They then brought up five men, forced them to strip down and use their own shirts as execution cloth, and shot one in the head, threatening the four others.
Bodies of civilians in plastic bags lay in a mass grave in Bucha city, which was the recaptured by the Ukrainian army, Kyiv Kiev area, Ukraine, 04 April 2022. More than 410 bodies of killed civilians were carried from the recaptured territory in Kyiv's area for exgumation and expert examination
A family walks pass a car crushed by a Russian tank in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Tuesday, April 5
Men take away bodies of Ukrainian civilians killed in the Russian invasion, on a street in the small city of Bucha of Kyiv Kiev area, Ukraine, 03 April 2022
As Russian forces withdrew from Bucha, an old railroad stop northwest of Kyiv that had sprung up into a lush suburb, the world was horrified at the shell of the town that was revealed- mass graves with limbs only haphazardly covered in dirt, bodies piled on the side of the road. In total, Bucha's mayor estimated that Russians had slaughtered more than 300 of the town's citizens.
President Biden refused to declare that Russia was committing 'genocide' in Ukraine, even as other members of his Cabinet have leveled up their rhetoric after the horrific accounts that came out of Bucha , Ukraine
Blinken said that the U.S. is working with other nations to gather evidence to help the Ukrainian prosecutor general and the UN Human Rights Council in investigations.
