Lindsey Graham insists he STANDS BY his call for Putin to be assassinated and adds that if John McCain were here hed be saying the same thing
20220316
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10620247/Lindsey-Graham-insists-stands-call-Putin-assassinated.html
'I really wish our members of Congress would cool it and regulate their remarks as the administration works to avoid WWlll. As the world pays attention to how the US and it's leaders are responding, Lindsey's remarks and remarks made by some House members aren't helpful,' Omar tweeted when Graham made his original statement.
'Yeah, I hope he'll be taken out, one way or another. I don't care how they take him out. I don't care if we send him to the Hague and try him, I just want him to go,' Graham said of the Russian president.
He also said his late friend, the well-respected Senator John McCain, who died in 2018, would agree with him.
And the Republican senator from South Carolina said he wants the Russian people to do it.
'Vladimir Putin is not a legitimate leader, he is a war criminal. He needs to be dealt with by the Russian people,' he said.
'If John McCain were here, he'd be saying the same thing, I think,' said Graham. 'It's time for him to go. He's a war criminal. I wish somebody had taken Hitler out in the 1930s.'
Sen. Lindsey Graham also said his late friend, the well-respected Senator John McCain, who died in 2018, would agree with him about taking out Putin - above McCain and Graham in the Senate together in 2007
'That is not the position of the United States government and certainly not a statement you'd hear come from the mouth of anybody working in this administration,' she said.
At the time, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said that President Joe Biden and his administration would not support that.
Section IX of the code states that the laws of war forbid declaring a member of a hostile force or a citizen or subject of a hostile government to be an outlaw 'who may be slain without trial.'
Graham floated the idea to take out the Russian president earlier this month, which drew the ire of Republicans and Democrats alike.
Sen. Graham originally suggested in early March that Russian President Vladimir Putin should be assassignated and was criticized by both Republicans and Democrats for it
'The only way this ends is for somebody in Russia to take this guy out. You would be doing your country - and the world - a great service,' Graham said in early March.
Assassination during military conflict is specifically forbidden by the Lieber Code, which President Abraham Lincoln issued as a general order for U.S. forces in 1863.
And lawmakers on opposing sides of the political spectrum disagreed with Graham, including progressiveRep. Ilhan Omar and conservative Sen. Ted Cruz.
The senator was promoting his resolution that would encourage President Joe Biden to transfer Polish MiG planes to Ukraine. The Biden administration had ruled out such a move, saying it could cause escalation with Russia and lead to World War II.
Graham's remarks came after the joined his fellow lawmakers listen to Volodymyr Zelensky's address to Congress. In his remarks, theUkrainian president painted a picture of the devastation Russian troops have caused in his country and pleaded with America to send more aid, particularly in the form of military equipment.
Lindsey Graham on Wednesday reiterated his call for Russian President Vladimir Putin to be assassinated despite criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for pushing the drastic step.
'This is an exceptionally bad idea,' Cruz also tweeted at the time.'Use massive economic sanctions BOYCOTT Russian oil  gas and provide military aid so the Ukrainians can defend themselves. But we should not be calling for the assassination of heads of state.'
