Liz Truss warns Vladimir Putin using chemical weapons in Ukraine would be a grave mistake but refuses to say if it would be a red line for the UK as the Foreign Secretary says the invasion is a paradigm shift on the scale of 911
20220310
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10598415/Liz-Truss-Invasion-Ukraine-paradigm-shift-scale-9-11.html
We have seen Russia do that before. We are determined to call Russia out for this appalling invasion.
Ms Trusssaidthe West must stand up to Mr Putin now and stop his invasion - or risk emboldening Russia and other aggressors
'We must start with the principle that the only thing aggressors understand is strength, and we must start by working together to stop Putin's offensive in Ukraine.
Ms Truss will use her speech this evening to set out three areas where the UK is pushing for tougher action.
Asked if the use of chemical weapons would be a 'red line' for the UK, Ms Truss replied:Well, what we are already doing is supplying huge amounts of defensive weaponry to Ukraine. We are working with our allies on cutting off the funding to the Russian economy.
'We must start with the principle that the only thing aggressors understand is strength and we must start by working together to stop Putin's offensive in Ukraine.'
She will call for an end to strategic dependence on hostile states, including for energy, and for more defence spending to strengthen NATO.
Ms Truss is expected to tell the think tank: 'How we respond today will set the pattern for this new era.
Ms Truss, who is currently on an official visit to the US, will deliver a speech to the Atlantic Council think tank in Washington DC this evening in which she will say the attack on Ukraine is a 'paradigm shift on the scale of 911'.
She said: What we can see is appalling atrocities taking place. There is now talk of the use of chemical weapons.
Ms Trusssaid 'there has been complacency in the West over the past 20 years' following the end of the Cold War as leaders believed'peace would be inevitable'.
Ms Truss would not be drawn on whether the use of such weapons would cross a 'red line' for the UK but said Britain is 'very concerned' about the potential for them to be deployed.
She will also set out a belief that the West must stand up to Mr Putin now and stop his invasion - or risk emboldening Russia and other aggressors.
'That complacency has to end and if we don't pay the cost, which there will be costs for our public right across the West, if we don't pay that cost now it will be even higher later because what we know is if Putin doesn't stop now and isn't stopped in Ukraine the consequences will be even more damaging for European security but also for global security.'
Britain and the US announced on Tuesday they will phase out imports of Russian oil by the end of the year as part of increased sanctions on Moscow.
We cannot trust a word they say and we strongly believe there is evidence that appalling crimes are taking place and we are doing all we can to collect that evidence.
Ms Truss will say that Mr Putin's 'full frontal assault' is not just against Ukraine but also 'on the very foundation of our societies and the rules by which we coexist'.
Now of course we have seen Russia use these weapons before in fields of conflict but that would be a grave mistake on the part of Russia, adding to the grave mistakes that have already been made by Putin.
Arguing that Mr Putin has 'shattered the architecture of global security', she will say: 'The invasion of Ukraine is a paradigm shift on the scale of 911.
But she said the attackmust now prompt the West to'completely change our approach' because 'that complacency has to end'.
She said: 'We went through a period after the Cold War where we all thought that peace would be inevitable that we could reduce defence spending, that we could focus on growing our economies.
The Foreign Secretary said 'appalling atrocities' had already happened as part of Moscow's invasion and 'there is now talk of the use of chemical weapons'.
Ms Truss was interviewed on CNN ahead of the speech and was asked about Russia's conduct during the invasion.
'How we respond today will set the pattern for this new era. If we let Putin's expansionism go unchallenged it would send a dangerous message to would-be aggressors and authoritarians around the world. We can't allow that to happen.
We warned against it taking place, the Russians said they had not plans to invade, they are now claiming there isnt a war.
Liz Truss today said Russia's invasion of Ukraine represents a turning point for the world on the same level as the 911 terror attacks
She will also call for stronger alliances with allies, including with countries not historically aligned to the UK.
'We must rise to this moment. We must pledge that never again will we allow such aggression to grow unchecked. That means acting now. It means being tough  because we know that the costs will only rise if we don't. The public understand the gravity of this moment.
She made the comments as she said the invasionrepresents a turning point for the world on the same level as the 911 terror attacks.
'They see the terrible suffering caused by this pre-planned, barbaric and illegal invasion against a European democracy and they recognise that the world has changed.'
'We became dependent on authoritarian regimes. If you look at Europe and our dependence on Russian oil and gas, that has been a huge problem.
Liz Truss today warned Vladimir Putin it would be a 'grave mistake' for Russia to use chemical weapons in Ukraine.
