Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher reveal they only bathe their young children when you can see the dirt on them and they dont like using soap much themselves either
20210727
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-9830839/Mila-Kunis-Ashton-Kutcher-bathe-Wyatt-Dimitri-dirt-them.html
Child star: Mila was just seven when she moved to the States and only a teen when she had her breakout role on That 70s Show. Seen in 1998 above
Ashton added: 'Now, here's the thing: If you can see the dirt on them, clean them. Otherwise, there's no point.'
The Mayo Clinic advises against washing a baby every day, stating: 'There's no need to give your newborn a bath every day. Three times a week might be enough until your baby becomes more mobile. Bathing your baby too much can dry out his or her skin.'
Casual: Mila explained how their relationship started as a hook-up until they developed feelings for each other, similar to their mirror-image movies Friends With Benefits and No Strings Attached, which both came out in 2011
Ashton, 43, and Mila, 37, admitted they only give daughter Wyatt, six, and son Dimitri, four, a scrub when they look physically grubby.
'That was all we were allowed to take with us. My parents had given up good jobs and degrees, which were not transferable.
Friends first: Ashton and Mila first met while working on the series That 70s Show together in 1998 above, but they wouldn't become romantic until years later following Kutcher's divorce from Demi Moore in 2013
He explained: 'I wash my armpits and my crotch daily, and nothing else ever. I got a bar of Lever 2000 that delivers every time. Nothing else.'
In response Monica replied: 'I can't believe I am in the minority here of washing my whole body in the shower. Who taught you to not wash?'
Ashton said: 'I do have a tendency to throw some water on my face after a workout to get all the salts out.'
The couple also made it clear they don't like to use soap on their skin, with the actor stating he only ever lathers up his 'armpits and crotch' whileMila was a little more bawdy, saying she washes the essentials like her 'slits and ts.'
The conversation began when Dax told Monica that she should not be excising the natural oil on her skin by using soap every day.
The Bad Moms actress then explained that she hardly ever had a shower during her childhood because they didn't have hot water at home.
Mila Kunisand Ashton Kutcher only bathe their children when they see dirt on them and avoid using soap on their own bodies.
Mila, who was born in Soviet Ukraine, explained: 'I didn't have hot water growing up as a child, so I didn't shower much anyway.'
And even when the youngsters take a dip in the tub, they hardly ever use soap because they don't want to dry their delicate skin out.
'We arrived in New York on a Wednesday and by Friday morning my brother and I were at school in L.A.' Mila explained in a 2011 interview with The Daily Telegraph.
She added: 'But when I had children, I also didn't wash them every day. I wasn't that parent that bathed my newborns - ever.'
Ashton and Mila first met while working on the series That 70s Show together in 1998, but they wouldn't become romantic until years later following Kutcher's divorce from Demi Moore in 2013.
The American Academy of Dermatology Association recommends that children ages 6 to 11 bathe at least 'once or twice' a week. They advise a child should be washed when they get 'dirty', 'after being in a pool' or when the child gets 'sweaty' or has 'body odor.'
They discussed their family's approach to hygiene on the latestArmchair Expertpodcast, which is hosted by Dax Shepard and Monica Padman.
'We lived our movies out, where we were like, "Lets just hook up. Lets have fun. Were both single. We both trust each other. Everythings great." None of us wanted tension. OK, great. We hooked up for three months. And just like our movies, one of us caught feelings.'
'I did a movie called Friends With Benefits. He did a movie that was very similar: No Strings Attached,' she recalled.
Mila was born in Chernivtsi, Ukrainian SSR, in the Soviet Union and moved to the United States with her family when she was seven-years-old.
However, the couple - who tied the knot in 2015 - do like to wash their faces after getting hot and sweaty at the gym.
Thing weren't serious for the couple in the beginning, as she explained on the WTF With Marc Maron podcast in July 2018.
Candid: Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis admitted they only give daughter Wyatt, six, and son Dimitri, four, a scrub when they look physically grubby the family are pictured in 2017
When she was nine, the star began acting classes in Beverly Hills, where she would meet agent Susan Curtis.
They clean up nicely! The Bad Moms actress then explained that she hardly ever had a shower during her childhood because they didn't have hot water at home they are pictured in 2018
She was only 14 when she had her star turn on That 70s Show, rocketing her to stardom.
