Moment a Russian rocket narrowly misses Ukrainian woman carrying her shopping as it explodes just yards away from her in Kharkiv
20220417
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10729063/Russian-rocket-narrowly-misses-Ukrainian-woman-carrying-shopping-explodes-just-yards-away.html
A child is also believed to be among the victims, although it was unclear if they had been injured or killed.
The images were also shared by the Ukrainian Armed Forces who said that they showed a 'strike on a strategic military trash can'.
The Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office said yesterday that at least 202 children have so far 'died due to the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine'.
They added: 'The bombing and shelling by the Russian armed forces damaged 1,018 educational institutions, 95 of which were completely destroyed.'
Pictured: Responders work to fix a railway line in Lviv after a nearby building was destroyed in a Russian missile strike, April 18
The Governor of Mykolaiv, Vitaliy Kim, 41, has stated that the city of Mykolaiv is under continued rocket attack by Russian forces.
This is the terrifying moment a Russian rocket narrowly misses a Ukrainian woman walking down the street carrying her shopping.
At least five missile strikes have been reported in the western city of Lviv which, until recently, was deemed to be a relatively safe city.
Although the missile explodes just yards away from her near a bin, the woman eventually gets back up and walks away from the scene
The incident allegedly took place in Kharkiv, a city in northeast Ukraine, amid widespread reports from Ukrainian officials that cities across the country were hit by missiles on Sunday night.
Fighting in Ukraine has shifted to the east of the country and there have been reports of civilian fatalities overnight due to Russian missile strikes.
The authorities reported that six people are so far said to have died and 13 were injured in Kharkiv alone.
The incident took placeamid widespread reports from Ukrainian officials that cities across the country were hit by missiles on Sunday night
Five 'powerful' Russian missile strikes hit Lviv early Monday, in a rare attack on a western city that has so far been spared much of the fighting since the Russian invasion began. Pictured: Locals watch on as firefighters battle a blaze after a civilian building was hit by a Russian missile on April 18, Lviv
The Prosecutor General's Office added: 'More than 563 children were injured in Ukraine as a result of full-scale armed aggression by the Russian Federation.
Two other people can also be seen in the background and avoid being hit by the explosion, which was reportedly caused by Russian ordnance.
'These figures are not final, as work is underway to establish them in places of active hostilities, in the temporarily occupied and liberated territories.'
Although the missile explodes just yards away from her near a bin, the woman eventually gets back up and walks away from the scene.
The Ukrainian Ministry of Defence released the images along with a short statement saying: 'Kharkiv. Two months ago, no one in Ukraine could have imagined something like this.
This is the terrifying moment a Russian rocket narrowly misses a Ukrainian woman walking down the street carrying her shoppingin Kharkiv, a city in northeast Ukraine
