Moment a frantically fleeing Russian soldier is chased down by Ukrainian drone before he unwittingly leads Kyivs forces straight to his unit
20220408
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10700105/Moment-frantically-fleeing-Russian-soldier-chased-Ukrainian-drone.html
But on Thursday, Putin's mouthpieceDmitry Peskov finally acknowledged the heavy casualties:'We have significant losses of troops. And it's a huge tragedy for us.'
Despite Putin's invading forces vastly outnumbering Kyiv's, Ukrainian troops have employed targeted strikes to great effect.
The Kremlin has a policy of playing down military casualties with a 2015 decree declaring all deaths in conflict a state secret, and last year any statement discrediting the military were criminalised.
'My brain refuses to accept the information that Nikitka is dead. I am still waiting for him to call, to come back.'
Six weeks after Russia invaded its neighbour, its troops have withdrawn from Kyiv and Ukraine's north and are focusing on the country's southeast
She said: 'I still can't realise or believe that this is true. Every day I talk to him. Every day I ask him what for and why.
This means many are poorly trained, and lack the experience of Kyiv's forces which have been fighting pro-Russian separatists in the east of the country since 2014.
The video shows the soldier frantically sprinting down the side of a road while checking over his shoulder as the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV steadily tracks his movements
It appears the unit has set up a small camp on the side of the road, and have dug a bunker into the side of the verge. The soldiers pictured bottom left in a bunker there start shooting their weapons at the drone, and the footage cuts out
A military vehicle and a camp can be seen hiding in the trees as smoke rises, presumably from Ukrainian artillery strikes launched against the Russian base.
Among the dead isVadim Kolodiy, a 19-year-old gunner from the 136th Reconnaissance Battalion near Moscow.
It appears the unit has set up a small camp on the side of the road, and have dug bunkers into the side of the verge.The soldiers there start shooting their weapons at the drone, and the footage cuts out.
Anya Deryabina, 25, fromChelyabinsk, buried the body of her sniper husband last month after he was killed in Ukraine on March 8.
'No one is looking for these children. No one cares about them. How many of these children, husbands, are there? How much pain had this all brought?'
Pictured: The bunkers on the side of the road bottom where the soldiers were seen shooting at the drone from in the footage are shown in this satellite image
As the drone reaches where his unit is hiding, it continues over the top of the running soldier and hovers over their position.
Satellite images from the same location later showed the encampment had been abandoned by the Russian troops. A RussianBTR armoured troop transporter was revealed to be the vehicle hidden in the trees nearby.
The surface of the road near to where the soldiers were seen in the first video shows signs of shell damage that was not present in the footage.It is unclear whether the Russian soldiers seen in the footage survived the Ukrainian artillery attack.
Oleksiy Arestovych, adviser to the head of Ukraine's presidential administration, said they tried to return the bodies of 3,000 troops early on in the war but Russia refused, saying it did not believe their casualties were so high.
The Kremlin has been playing down its huge death toll in the faltering war, only admitting the loss of1,351 soldiers.
He can be seen checking over his shoulder as he runs down the dusty verge beside the road, clearly aware that the drone is following him.
He told the Washington Post: 'They said, "We don't believe in such quantities. We don't have this number. We're not ready to accept them."'
A still image shared later by Kyiv's forces showed a camera from another aircraft, likely a combat drone flying at a higher altitude, showing smoke rising from a forest next to the same road where the soldier was seen running.
He died after he was attacked while trapped in an armoured vehicle, the Russian military told his mother, although his body was never returned.
And while Russia boasts the world's fifth largest army, many of its soldiers are young conscripts who would normally spend no more than a year in the army.
A still image shared later by Kyiv's forces showed a camera from another aircraft, likely a combat drone flying at a higher altitude, showing smoke rising from a forest next to the same road where the soldier was seen running
Experts have said that Moscow's armies have left themselves open to attack by using slow-moving Soviet-era logistical tactics to move vast numbers of vehicles into and around Ukraine.
NATO has estimated that between 7,000 and 15,000 Russian troops have been killed, while Ukraine believes the number is higher based on battlefield reports and intercepted communication.
Tatyana said: 'I am hysterical. Vadim didn't even have a chance to escape. He burned inside.The first week was like darkness. Pain, tears. I could not sleep or eat.
Ukrainian troops then launched an artillery strike on the Russian's location, with pictures of the aftermath showing a plume of smoke rising from their encampment hidden in a nearby forest.
Ukraine's Ministry of Internal Affairs has since set up a website and Telegram channel for Russians to search photos of the dead and prisoners of war.
Earlier on Friday, Ukraine boasted it has the corpses of 7,000 unclaimed Russian soldiersin morgues and refrigerated cars, while claiming that the total Kremlin death toll is as high as19,000.
A Russian soldier pictured has been filmed running away from a Ukrainian drone, only to lead it straight to his unit and give away its position to Kyiv's forces
Despite this, he continues to run in the same direction. As the drone reaches where his unit is hiding, it continues over the top of the running soldier and hovers over the unit's position
Ukraine has boasted it has the corpses of 7,000 Russian soldiers in morgues and refrigerated cars, while the total Kremlin death toll is as high as 19,000
The video shows the soldier frantically sprinting down the side of a country road as the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV steadily tracks his movements.
A Russian soldier has been filmed running away from a Ukrainian drone, only to lead it straight to his unit and give away its position to Kyiv's forces.
