Naked Ukrainian protester crashes Cannes red carpet for premiere of George Millers Three Thousand Years of Longing
20220519
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10838481/Naked-protester-crashes-Cannes-premiere-George-Millers-Three-Thousand-Years-Longing.html
The woman staged her protest during the premiere of George Miller's Three Thousand Years Of Longing on the fourth day of the prestigious event.
Russia's war in Ukraine has often been in the spotlight at this year's Cannes festival, which is screening several films from Ukrainian filmmakers.
They include allegation of the rape and death of a one-year-old baby boy by Russian soldiers.
The unidentified protester tore off her clothes during the film's red carpet procession to reveal the message 'Stop raping us' written across her torso next to the blue and yellow colours of the Ukraine flag.
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine began in February, Putin's forces have been accused of using rape as a weapon against civilians.
A protestor wearing body paint that reads "Stop Raping Us" in the color of the Ukrainian is removed from the red carpet at the premiere of the film 'Three Thousand Years of Longing'
As she yelled 'Don't rape us!' security guards quickly encircled her and took her off the red carpet.
Pictured: Security personnel block the female protester with the Ukrainian national colours painted on the body reading 'Stop raping us' protest on the red carpet during the screening
Other allegations in the report, listed by Ukrainian journalist Iryna Matviyishyn, include the rape of three nine-year-old triplets in front of their mother, the rape of a two-year-old girl who survived, and the rape of two ten-year-old boys, among other unspeakable crimes.
The first Russian soldier to go on trial for war crimes in Ukraine pleaded guilty yesterday.
Russian forces still control vast swathes of Ukrainian territory and population. In every region that gets liberated, reports emerge of horrific war crimes.
Earlier today, Ukraine accused Russian soldiers of raping children during its occupation of towns and villages surrounding the eastern city of Kharkiv.
A woman who stripped off her clothes to reveal a message written on her body has crashed the Cannes Film Festival
