Now Kremlin is accused of FAKING a Ukrainian missile attack on Russian city hours after Kyiv denied mounting helicopter attack on fuel depot
20220402
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10678803/Kremlin-accused-FAKING-Ukrainian-missile-attack-Belgorod-helicopter-attack-fuel-depot.html
The photos of the craters were geolocated by the group and verified to be near the west Russian city and had come from the north-east, which indicates it came from Russian territory
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: 'Of course, this is not something that can be perceived as creating comfortable conditions for the continuation of negotiations.'
Photos on social media appeared to show the oil facility in Belgorod ablaze in the early hours of Friday
Local media in Belgorod, Russia, has been reporting that craters in the area were caused by Ukrainian missiles
Conflict Intelligence Team claim that the craters of that size were more likely caused by misfiring Russian cruise missiles fired from the north-east of Belgorod - which is Russian territory
Ukraine's government is yet to confirm the incident but if true, it would be the second time Ukraine has ventured past the border since the invasion following the alleged long-range missile attack on Millerovo airbase last month, in the latest humiliation for Putin in his flailing campaign.
Gladkov, who was appointed by Vladimir Putin in 2020. said the air strike, which would be the first on Russian soil since WWII, injured two workers and parts of the city have been evacuated.
Firefighters try to tackle the huge blaze at the oil depot this morning as plumes of black smoke billow from the site
Russia has been accused of blaming its own missile failure near a fuel depot on Ukraine by Western sources.
The oil facility is only 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and was ablaze on Friday morning
However, this is unconfirmed with Russia unlikely to have fired anuclear capable ballistic missile on its own soil.
Ilya Ponomarev, 46, said the Russian security service is preparing to target its own chemical and weapons factories in attacks that could see civilians die.
The collective identified the crater as more likely to have come from a Russian 9M728 cruise missile from a Russian Iskander-M launcher.
The group concluded that the most likely scenario was the crater was caused by the latest military equipment failure from Russian forces which was then opportunistically used to blame Ukraine.
The latest claims come after the first reported attack by Ukraine on Russian soil as two helicopters were filmed attacking the Roseneft fuel depot, also in Belgorod.
But some have theorised that this could be a false-flag attack in order to justify escalation of the conflict or a Russian withdrawal from peace talks.
The photos of the craters were geolocated by the group and verified to be near the west Russian city and had come from the north-east, which indicates it came from Russian territory.
Video shared on social media appeared to show the attack happening at 5.43am local time, followed by helicopters flying away from the blaze, although analysts have noted Russia uses the same time of helicopters as Ukraine.
Conflict Intelligence Team, an open source investigative journalism blog based in Ukraine, says that local media in Belgorod, Russia, has been reporting that craters in the area were caused by Ukrainian missiles.
The size of the crater implied that the damage to the terrain had come from cruise missiles - a weapon which Ukraine has not used in the conflict thus far.
Ukraine foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said: 'I can neither confirm nor reject the claim that Ukraine was involved in this simply because I do not possess all the military information.'
But last week, an exiled Russian politician claimed the Kremlin is plotting a wave of attacks on its own cities in a false flag operation led by the FSB that it will blame on Ukraine to justify a general mobilisation of troops.
Regional governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said two of Ukraine's military helicopters flew 25 miles undetected past the Russian border at low altitude to Belgorod yesterday where they fired S-8 rockets at a Roseneft depot, causing a huge fireball to break out.
The collective identified the crater as more likely to have come from a Russian 9M728 cruise missile from a Russian Iskander-M launcher
Two people were injured in the Belgorod facility blaze, the Russian governor said, but they were expected to survive
