Now our campaign gets a boost with Mail Force charity as appeal total hits 25m and we send first 500000 to help those on front line in Ukraine
20220302
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10571313/Now-campaign-gets-boost-Mail-Force-charity-appeal-total-hits-2-5m.html
A woman carries a child after fleeing from Russia's invasion of Ukraine, at the border crossing in Siret, Romania
Readers who want to use Gift Aid can now boost their donations by 25p for every 1 they give.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of this conflict will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
The appeal for Ukrainian refugees has become the fastest newspaper fundraising appeal in world history  and it has been backed by celebrities and leading politicians. At the request of Lord and Lady Rothermere, the Mails parent company DMGT has donated 500,000.
Every penny of the appeal money now being collected by the Mail Force charity is being passed to aid organisations already operating inside Ukraine and on the borders with Poland, Romania and Hungary where more than half a million people have so far crossed to safety.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
'My late husband Bob Bradford, born into a Jewish family, was taken out of Berlin as a child to escape the horrors of Hitlers Third Reich.
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from the bombs and guns.
The 88-year-old author, whose books have sold more than 92million copies worldwide, said: I am very proud to be an Englishwoman, born and bred in a country I consider to be unique, where freedom, free speech, justice and compassion reign supreme.
A woman is consoled by a volunteer after fleeing from Russia's invasion of Ukraine, at the border crossing in Siret
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
Mail Force is a registered charity that was initially set up by the Daily Mail during the pandemic to get personal protective equipment PPE to brave NHS workers.
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
My heart goes out to the heroic and brave Ukrainians who are battling Vladimir Putin, a monstrous tyrant.
Donations to the Mail Force Ukraine Appeal will be used to help charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
So far, an astonishing 2.55million has been raised in just four days to help provide shelter, food and clothing to desperate refugees escaping Vladimir Putins bombs and bullets.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Today, best-selling novelist Barbara Taylor Bradford offered a stunning 20,000 donation  and issued a heart-rending warning from history.
In 2020, Mail Force helped procure 42million items of life-saving personal protective equipment for frontline health and care staff.
'He often remarked that we should always believe tyrants, because they were actually telling us what they were going to do.
The vast majority of those crossing the borders are women, clutching all the belongings they can carry, and their children.
Putin proves Bobs point. He wont stop unless we defeat him. I am making a contribution to the Daily Mails fund to help Ukrainian refugees. Please join me, even if you can only give a small amount. Freedom has no price.
Now it is turning its help to a different front line  the one Ukrainian families are fleeing.
Readers have sent in cheques big and small, and every pound counts. Catherine Lindsay, from Blaydon-on-Tyne, sent 20 with a note saying: Thank you to all at the Mail newspapers. You have done it again, appealing to your readers for a traumatic cause. Thank you.
Then last year, when it became clear that one in five under- privileged children were missing out on home-schooling during lockdown due to a lack of essential computer kit, it provided more than 26,000 laptops.
Readers of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday and MailOnline have responded in their droves to the urgent request for aid.
The appeal to help Ukrainian refugees was given a huge boost tonight by the Mail Force charity.
Calling upon that human spirit, we are supporting a huge push to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
