Pentagons head of Cyber Command confirms US hackers are conducting offensive operations in support of Ukraine as they fight Russian invasion
20220601
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10875419/Cyber-Command-chief-hackers-conducting-offensive-operations-support-Ukraine.html
General Paul Nakasone, who heads U.S. Cyber Command and leads the NSA, said the US had conducted 'offensive' operations in Ukraine amid Russia's invasion.
Nakasone made the statement as the U.S. prepares to send military rocket systems to Ukraine, and as President Joe Biden outlined both the purpose and the limits of US military support for Ukraine in an op-ed.
Russian President Vladimir Putin's government has directed cyber attacks on the US for years, according to the government
General Paul Nakasone, Commander United States Cyber Command and Director of the National Security Agency, said the US had conducted offensive cyber operations in Ukraine
U.S. officials have said Russia was behind cyber attacks on California-based Viasat right before Russia's invasion. It shut down satellite service used in Ukraine.
'If you take a look at the destructive attacks and disruptive attacks that they've encountered,' he said of Ukraine, 'this is something that has been ongoing.'
Nakasone said the activities were lawful and done with civilian oversight. 'My job is to provide a series of options to the secretary of defense and the president, and so that's what I do.'
Local residents examine a destroyed Russian tank outside Kyiv on May 31, 2022, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine has resisted Russia's invasion with battlefield grit and a variety of outside help
Nakasone said the U.S. also helped Ukraine protect against vulnerabilities in the days leading up to Russia's February invasion, as part of 'Hunt Forward' activities
The U.S. has previously confirmed it was providing intelligence information to Ukraine, although the Pentagon has said it did not provide 'specific targeting information' in the sinking of the Russian battleship Moskva.
The U.S. also helped Ukraine protect against vulnerabilities in the days leading up to Russia's February invasion, as part of 'Hunt Forward' activities.
Biden wrote in the New York Times about the array of weaponry the U.S. was providing to Ukraine, on top of sanctions and other pressure. But he also spelled otu limitations. 'We do not seek a war between NATO and Russia. As much as I disagree with Mr. Putin, and find his actions an outrage, the United States will not try to bring about his ouster in Moscow. So long as the United States or our allies are not attacked, we will not be directly engaged in this conflict, either by sending American troops to fight in Ukraine or by attacking Russian forces,' Biden wrote.
Part of cyber command's mission is to thwart hacking activity against the U.S., and the administration warned early in the conflict of potential threats to US infrastructure and industry.
'We went in December 2021 at the invitation of the Kyiv government to come and hunt with them. We stayed there for a period of almost 90 days,' Nakasone said.
'We've conducted a series of operations across the full spectrum offensive, defensive, and information operations,' Nakasone told Sky News in an interview.
He did not further elaborate on the nature of the operation, or whether it had been successful.
On the risk of Russian cyber attacks on the US, he said: 'We remain vigilant every single day. Every single day. I think about it all the time.'
