Petrol price still threatens to top the average of 150 a litre as experts warn of increased financial squeeze on businesses and families
20220222
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10537173/Petrol-price-threatens-average-1-50-litre.html
Industry figures showed the fuel hit a record 149.12p a litre on Sunday and is likely to top 1.50 by the end of the week
'Tension between Russia and Ukraine is still weighing heavy on the oil price but there is now a glimmer of hope that more oil may come on to the market from Iran due to a possible nuclear agreement with the US to end sanctions.'
Mr Williams added: 'While the price of oil is still close to 100 US dollars a barrel wholesale fuel prices don't merit further retailer rises across the board at the pumps.
Average petrol prices were yesterday less than a penny away from reaching the grim milestone of 1.50 a litre stock photo used
Prices look set to surge further if Russia  the world's third biggest oil producer  invades Ukraine, with any resulting Western sanctions potentially pushing up prices.
Meanwhile retailers fleeced motorists over Christmas and New Year after wholesale prices fell by around 10p a litre but only about 2p of this was passed on at the pumps.
Some forecourts are already charging more than the nationwide average for petrol and diesel, particularly motorway service stations.
The RAC's fuel guru, Simon Williams, said: 'The unrelenting rising price of fuel is hurting households, furthering the cost of living crisis.
It has never hit the milestone before. Filling up the typical 55-litre tank in a family car with unleaded now costs nearly 82.
Average petrol prices were yesterday less than a penny away from reaching the grim milestone of 1.50 a litre.
Industry figures showed the fuel hit a record 149.12p a litre on Sunday and is likely to top 1.50 by the end of the week.
Growing demand amid economies reopening as the pandemic subsides has also been blamed for the price rises, along with less competition between forecourts run by supermarkets.
'We realise that smaller retailers who don't buy fuel as frequently will be hit by higher wholesale costs, but the biggest retailers who buy all the time shouldn't currently be increasing their forecourt prices.
Average diesel prices also set a record at the weekend, hitting 152.58p a litre, making a full tank nearly 84.
