Positive signals dont silence Russian bombs Zelensky says Moscow needs to match words with actions as missiles continue to target Ukraine despite talk of Putin withdrawing troops
20220330
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10666103/Zelensky-says-positive-signals-peace-talks-need-matched-actions-Moscow.html
Emergency personnel work at the site of the regional government headquarters in Mykolaiv, Ukraine. Dr Neil Melvin urged 'caution against pinning too much hope' on pronouncements of peace
Russia may be pulling back from two cities, but in the centre and south of Ukraine, the bloodshed goes on. Putin still wants to win  indeed, believes he must win.
The second step has been unfolding in recent weeks before the world's horrified eyes: a full-scale invasion, initially intended to seize Kyiv and depose President Zelensky under the absurd guise of 'de-Nazifying' Ukraine.
Despite overtures towards peace, Vladimir Putin still wants to win in Ukraine, writes Dr Melvin
'Our full-scale defence is coming to an end. A successful defence... It is the brave and effective actions of our defenders who force the enemy to retreat.'
Certainly, that is the view of Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been hosting face-to-face talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul.
Russia announced yesterday amid renewed peace talks that it would reduce its military presence in and around Kyiv pictured and Chernihiv, in what appears to be its first concession since the war began just over one month ago
Sadly, however, I would also firmly caution against pinning too much hope on these announcements.
'The Russian military command allegedly decided ''to reduce hostilities in the directions of Kyiv and Chernihiv'' - as if Russian planes just decided to fly less and military vehicles to drive less,' the President quipped sarcastically.
Putin knows that if he is to remain in power, he cannot be seen to have failed.
Meanwhile,Western leaders were warned against dropping their guard after Russiaannounced its planned scale back of military operations near Kyiv and Chernihiv, with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson declaring Putin may still look to 'twist the knife' and inflict more damage.
But the same day that Russia's Deputy Defence MinisterAlexander Fominsaid his nation would 'fundamentally scale back' its operations to 'increase trust', a Russian missileblasted a gaping hole in a government administration building in Mykolaiv, killing eight, while the decimated city of Mariupol endured further bombardment.
I have no doubt that the luckless residents of both Ukraine's besieged capital and of Chernihiv  where tens of thousands are trapped without running water and electricity  will welcome this development.
Zelensky's address went on to cover the launch of a new government scheme which aims to provide compensation to individuals and families whose property or land has been damaged amid the war.
US and UK intelligence did identify movements in Kremlin Battalion Tactical Groups around the capital yesterday evening, but attributed this largely to the defensive efforts of Ukrainian forces.
Dr Neil Melvin is Director of International Security Studies at the Royal United Services Institute
'There is what Russia says and there is what Russia does, and were focused on the latter,' Blinken said yesterday.
Zelensky also discussed an address he made earlier in the day to the Danish parliament, and said Denmark was interested in helping Ukraine with rebuilding projects in the aftermath of the war.
'There must be real security for us, for our state, for sovereignty, for our people,' he said.
'Ukrainians have already learned during these 34 days of invasion and eight years of war in the Donbass that only a concrete result can be trusted.'
I have no doubt that Erdogan is sincere when he speaks of his hopes that they may be a prelude to peace.
The first step in executing these ambitions was his 2014 annexation of Crimea and the occupation of parts of the Donbas region by Russian separatist groups.
Yet whatever common ground has been found on the shores of the Bosphorus, this is definitively not a peace agreement - nor even a ceasefire.
At first glance, the temptation is surely to cheer the news that Russia has said it will 'drastically reduce' its combat operations around the Ukrainian capital Kyiv and the northern city of Chernihiv.
Firefighters scramble to extinguist a huge fire at a fuel base located near Ukraine's western settlement of Klevan in the Rivne region and supplying fuel to Kyiv for the Ukrainian army, which was hit with high-precision air-launched cruise missiles by Russia, on March 28, 2022
Security officials believe the move isan acknowledgement of Russia's failure to encircle and capture Kyiv in a matter of days, as had been planned at the onset of the invasion.
Some 10,000 Russian troops now are dead, several initial gains have been lost, the Russian economy has been crippled by sanctions and its international reputation destroyed.
One Western security official speaking on condition of anonymity said:'Nothing that we have seen so far has demonstrated to us that President Putin and his colleagues are particularly serious about scaling back. It is more of a tactical exercise playing for time.
'Russian troops must leave the occupied territories - Ukraine's territorial integrity must be guaranteed. There can be no compromise on sovereignty. And there will not be any.
Putin knows he has badly over-reached  and must now see that the victory he imagined is beyond his grasp.
That is the crucial background to yesterday's claims of progress in negotiations between the warring countries.
Yes, there is a flickering of hope. But this war has a long way to run.
But the same day that Russia's Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin said his nation would 'fundamentally scale back' its operations to 'increase trust', a Russian missile killed eight in Mykolaiv, while the decimated city of Mariupol endured further bombardment three year old boy wounded in shelling of Mariupol pictured today
In yesterday's presidential address, Zelensky brushed off the shift in tactics as nothing more than a forced retreat in the face of strong Ukrainian resistance rather than any attempt at approaching a ceasefire.
Details of the scheme will be released in the coming days, the President said, before stressing to viewers that the state will compensate 'for every lost metre of real estate'.
President Recep Erdogan, of Turkey, speaks at peace talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul. He hailedRussia's announcement has said it will 'reduce' combat operations around Kyiv and Chernihiv as 'the most significant progress' yet
Russia's apparent climbdown must be seen in the context of Putin's long-held wider ambitions for Ukraine.
Erdogan hailed Russia's announcement yesterday in the wake of these talks  along with proposals mooted by Ukraine to become a 'neutral state'  as 'the most significant progress' towards peace since Vladimir Putin launched his horrific invasion five weeks ago.
'Even if they do do what they say they are going to do that is not in any shape or form a cessation of hostilities... I think we can continue to see continued death and destruction in the Donbass.'
Western officials have remained highly suspicious of Russia's true intentions, arguing that Russian attacks have continued despite the Kremlin's promise to scale back troops in major urban centres Russian President Vladimir Putin and Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu pictured
A Russian missile blasted a gaping hole in a government administration building in Mykolaiv yesterday, killing eight and wounding over 30
He wants to weaken his democratic neighbour, prevent it from joining Nato and ensure that it can never escape from Russia's 'sphere of influence'.
Russia announced yesterday amid renewed peace talks that it would reduce its military presence in and around Kyiv and Chernihiv, in what appears to be its first concession since the war began just over one month ago.
US and UK intelligence did identify movements in Kremlin Battalion Tactical Groups around the capital yesterday evening, but attributed this largely to the defensive efforts of Ukrainian forces
And although there was positivity surrounding yesterday's peace talks in Istanbul, US Secretary of StateAntony Blinken said he had not seen anything to indicate that negotiations were progressing in a 'constructive way,' speculating Russia's pullback is likely an attempt to 'deceive people and deflect attention'.
As such, he may well be using the veil of diplomacy to achieve his goals: buying time so that his forces can regroup and resupply while he plots his next move.
Zelensky also last night declared that Ukraine is ready to negotiate a ceasefire, but said there would be no compromise over Ukraine's 'sovereignty and territory'.
'We are hearing positive signals from the negotiating table... but positive signals do not silence the explosions of Russian bombs,' Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his latest video address last night.
This satellite image distributed by Maxar Technologies shows destroyed apartment buildings and houses east of Mariupol, Ukraine on March 29, 2022
