Potassium iodide tablets SELL OUT in US over fears of nuclear war with Russia with 14 packets now selling for 149 on eBay
20220315
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10613183/Americans-panic-buying-potassium-iodide-tablets-fears-nuclear-war-Russia.html
That has prompted a surge in demand for the pills, which can counteract the effects of radiation poisoning. Manufacturer IOSAT is sold-out of $14 packs of the pills on its website - with identical tablets now for sale for $149 on eBay.
Russia's invasion of Ukaraine has continued to stoke fears of a radioactive fallout following an attack on one of Ukraine's nuclear plants, or even from a nuclear bomb
Some preppers are bragging about having stocked up on the Potassium Iodine tablets before the current rush
Potassium iodide can stave off radiation poisoning by stopping it from being absorbed in the thyroid gland - the part of the human body most sensitive to radiation.
Meanwhile, prices for tablets have been gauged to meet the growing demand on eBay, pictured
In light of the increased potassium iodide pill usage, the CDC has warned that a single dose protects the thyroid gland for just 24 hours, with anything more than one dose potentially doing more harm than good.
Whole Foods stores were forced to erect signs warning people that taking too many of the pills was dangerous.
In comparison to normal prices, the 14-pack box of the IOSAT tablets, made by Anbex, still sell for $13.99 on the manufacturer's website, according to CNN.
Americans are panic-buying potassium iodide tablets over fears of a possible nuclear war with Russia, despite warnings from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention thattaking too many of the anti-radiation pills can be deadly.
CNN has reported that manufacturers of potassium iodide in the US have recorded rapidly depleted inventories recently in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine beginning back on February 24.
A general view shows the New Safe Confinement structure over the old sarcophagus covering the damaged fourth reactor at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Chernobyl, Ukraine 2018
Radioactive iodide is known to harm the thyroid - an endocrine gland in the neck that produces hormones that regulate the body.
It blocks unstable iodine - radiation - from entering a person's thyroid gland and causing serious injury.
But when its used as directed, potassium iodide can quickly saturate the thyroid, successfully preventing it from absorbing radioactive iodine.
These potassium iodide pills normally sell for around $14 - but are now on sale for 10 times more on eBay over growing fears of a nuclear war with Russia, despite CDC warnings that they can be dangerous
If radiation exposure were happen, the thyroid gland would not be able to notice the difference between radioiodine andregular iodine and will absorb both, with too much exposure being a leading cause of thyroid cancer.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has continued to stoke fears of aradioactive fallout following an attack on one of Ukraine's nuclear plants, or even from a nuclear bomb.
In light of the surge in demand for potassium iodide pills, which in itself and in small doses is not harmful, the CDC is now warning that taking too many of the tablets could be fatal.
Potassium iodide doesn't protect other parts of the body from radiation, with any more than one dose a day deemed dangerous by the CDC.
The last potassium iodine panic took place in the US in 2011, in the wake of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami that damaged the Fukushima nuclear power plant.
Once it's released into the atmosphere, it can be breathed into the lungs and contaminate local water, soil, plants and animals, according to the CDC.
The CDC also noted that the tablets also only work best for certain age groups.
But it is officially-recognized as a treatment by the US government - and Americans would be advised to take it in the wake of a nuclear attack or radiation spill.
A Whole Foods in California issued a warning about taking too much potassium iodine in the wake of the 2011 Japanese earthquake and tsunami that damaged the Fukushima nuclear power plant
We get most of the potassium iodide we require from our diets, but the substance can be taken in the event of exposure to radiation such as that released following a nuclear attack.
The agency added that taking more than recommended does not offer more protection and can actually cause severe illness or death.
The substance - which has the chemical formula KI - is a stable salt required by the body to make thyroid hormones.
Another listing for a box of IOSAT 130 mg pills was selling for $89.95 each.
