President Zelensky signs request for Ukraine to join the EU immediately as troops withstand fierce Russia onslaught but Brussels officials warn process takes years
20220228
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10561363/Russia-Ukraine-latest-President-Zelensky-signs-request-Ukraine-join-EU-immediately.html
The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, told a group of journalists that there were already longstanding disagreements among EU countries on enlarging the bloc.
The European Union, created by six nations under a different name in 1957, has expanded in four waves over the past three decades. After Britain's exit from the bloc in 2020, it counts 27 member states.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmygal tweeted that 'the time to put it down on paper has come. Ukraine is applying for EU membership under a special procedure.'
He said Kyiv would have to submit an official request to join before member states - which would have to greenlight membership unanimously - could come up with a position.
The European Commission said that, in any case, it can only negotiate with hopeful candidate countries on the basis of a mandate from the EU's 27 member states - something it has not received for Ukraine.
EU officials dampened Ukraine's hopes that suddenly becoming part of the European club could help it better weather the Russian onslaught and speed up military, financial and political support.
President Zelensky, left, said: 'Our goal is to be together with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be on an equal footing. I'm sure it's fair. I'm sure it's possible'. The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, right,said Kyiv would have to submit an official request to join before member states - which would have to greenlight membership unanimously - could come up with a position
This was in contrast with the European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen's comments that appeared to hold out the prospect of Ukraine being admitted
President Zelensky has signed a request for Ukraine to join the EU 'immediately' as troops withstand a fierce Russia onslaught but Brussels' officials warn the process to join the block takes years.
They also have to prove that their finances are heading in a direction that will allow them to adopt the euro.
The last country to join the EU was Croatia, which was admitted in 2013 - after nearly a decade of negotiations and reforms.
'There are different opinions and sensitivities within the EU on enlargement,' he told a group of journalists.
There are currently five countries that are candidates to join - Turkey, Serbia, North Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania - but their bids have been stuck in limbo for years.
But Ms von der Leyen's spokesman walked back from her statement saying, she meant Europe 'in general' and there was already a process for joining the bloc.
'Our goal is to be together with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be on an equal footing,' he said. 'I'm sure it's fair. I'm sure it's possible.'
This comes after the European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen's comments appeared to hold out the prospect of Ukraine being admitted.
'They are one of us and we want them in,' she told Euronews in an interview on Sunday, after emphasising existing EU-Ukraine cooperation.
President Zelensky has signed a request for Ukraine to join the EU 'immediately' as troops withstand a fierce Russia onslaught but Brussels' officials warn the process to join the block takes years
A view of a car which was destroyed by recent shelling in Kyiv outskirts on Sunday as the EU appeared to reject Ukraine's plea to be fastracked to EU membership
Eric Mamer, Ms Von der Leyen's spokesman, said the EU chief meant that Ukraine 'is a European country and we want them in, meaning Europe in general'.
The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, told a group of journalists that there were already longstanding disagreements among EU countries on enlarging the bloc
According to Mr Zelensky's Telegram channel, the Ukrainian president signed such a request on Monday.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said that any bid for membership could take 'a lot of years'.
This sentiment was reiterated by the president of the European Council, Charles Michel, who said there were already longstanding disagreements among EU countries on new members joining.
After this on Monday,Volodymyr Zelensky appealed to the European Union 'for the immediate accession of Ukraine via a new special procedure'.
'She then also specified that there is a process for joining the EU. And I think that this is the important point,' he added.
Joining the bloc can be a long and complex process that often requires major reforms to reach EU standards.
'At the end of the day, this is a debate at the highest political level, for the European Council,' where the member states take decisions, said a commission spokeswoman, Ana Pisonero.
According to Mr Zelensky's social media channel, the Ukrainian president signed the EU request on Monday
