Putins goddaughter leads fury from Russian celebrities and public against invasion of Ukraine Anger grows on social media with users sharing black square image and no war hashtag
20220224
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10548079/Putins-goddaughter-leads-fury-against-invasion-Ukraine.html
By Thursday afternoon, battles were ongoing in Kiev, along the northern border with Belarus, in Luhansk and Donetsk in the east and around Kherson, the Dneiper River, and the port cities of Odessa and Mariupol in the south.
Among the letter's signatories were Moscow deputies Elena Rusakova, Maxim Gongalsky, Andrey Morev, Elena Kotenochkina and Elena Filina as well as St Petersburg officialsDavid Kuvaev and PolinaSizova andVeliky Novgorod deputyAnna Cherepanova.
Leading TV host Ivan Urgant also hit out at the situation, commenting: 'Fear and pain. NO to war.'
More than 150 senior Russian officials have signed an open letter condemning Putin's invasion of Ukraine as 'an unprecedented atrocity' and warning of 'catastrophic consequences'.
Many have shared black squares on their social media profiles, along with the hashtag no war
Other celebs to speak out including actress Anastasia Ivleeva, who has nearly 20 million Instagram followers. She posted a black square along with the phrase: 'No war'
The deputies said they were 'convinced' Russian citizens do not back the war and blamed Putin 'personally' for ordering troops into Ukraine in an attack 'for which there is no and cannot be justification'.
International condemnation for the Kremlin's actions have been widespread - and some of Russia's biggest celebrities have now joined in.
TV presenter and actress Anastasia Ivleeva, who has nearly 20 million Instagram followers, also posted a black square, commenting: 'No war.'
Former World Champion figure skaterEvgenia Medvedev wrote: 'I hope this all ends as soon as possible, like a bad dream.'
It comes after heartbreaking images emerged from Ukraine showingbloodied civilians staggering through the streetsof towns in the east of the country following Russian shelling in the early hours of today.
The letter urged Russians 'not to participate in the aggression' and called on citizens to speak out against the invasion because 'only massive popular condemnation can stop the war'.
'We, the Russians, will be dealing with the consequences of today for many years to come.'
Among those posting the black square wasKsenia Sobchak, a socialite and former Russian presidential candidate who is rumoured to be the goddaughter of Vladimir Putin.She has denied the rumours but previously admitted that he attended her baptism.
Ksenia Sobchak, a TV personality and former presidential candidate, spoke out against Russia's invasion of Ukraine today
The Ukrainian army was this afternoon fighting in almost every region of the country, battling the Russians for control of military bases, airports, cities and ports after an early-hours barrage of cruise missiles and guided bombs targeting ammo dumps and radar arrays.
Actress Irina Starshenbaum wrote: 'How did we get to this point? Nothing justifies war and I have no words to express the pain and horror of this morning. Ukrainians, please forgive me for being helpless. We want an immediate end to these heinous acts'
'This is an unprecedented atrocity for which there is no and cannot be justification. The decision to attack was made personally by Russian President Vladimir Putin. We are convinced that the citizens of Russia did not give him such a mandate.'
The letter, which described the signatories as those 'elected by the people', said they 'unreservedly condemn the attack of the Russian army on Ukraine'.
She is also rumoured to be the goddaughter of Vladimir Putin. She has denied the rumours but previously admitted that he attended her baptism
Posting today, she said: 'Today they woke me up at six in the morning with the words 'Ksyusha, the war has begun'. Not on our land, but with our people, yes. We, the Russians, will be dealing with the consequences of today for many years to come'
Maxim Galkin, a popular comedian who is also married to Russian's biggest celeb, added: 'From early morning in touch with relatives and friends from Ukraine. Can't put into words how I feel! How is this possible? There can be no justification for war. No war.'
The letter warned of 'catastrophic consequences' - 'Thousands of people will die, be injured and maimed, cities dear to many Russians will be destroyed.'
Many have shared black squares on their social media profiles, along with the hashtag no war.
Maxim Galkin, a popular comedian who is also married to Russian's biggest celeb, added: 'From early morning in touch with relatives and friends from Ukraine. Can't put into words how I feel! How is this possible? There can be no justification for war. No war'
Posting today, she said: 'Today they woke me up at six in the morning with the words 'Ksyusha, the war has begun.'
Putin in the early hours of today gave the order to attack, delivering an extraordinary address to the Russian nation in which he declared a 'special military operation' to 'de-militarise' and 'de-Nazify' Ukraine in what amounted to a outright declaration of war.
Vladimir Putin's rumoured goddaughter and several leading Russian celebs have led a public outcry against their nation's invasion of Ukraine.
'Hopes for a good life in Russia are crumbling before our eyes,' the letter added.
Former World Champion figure skater Evgenia Medvedev wrote: 'I hope this all ends as soon as possible, like a bad dream'
Yet Luhansk, Sumy, Kharkiv and Chernihiv in the east of Ukraine all reported coming under attack, with blasts also reported in the west - in Zhytomyr and Lviv, close to the border with Poland.
It was a surprising step for Russian officials to speak out against Putin, who usually holds an iron grip on dissent and last weektelevised a meeting with Moscow's top security chiefs in which they appeared to be railroaded into backing his plans to invade Ukraine.
Other civilians were also injured and some others are believed to have died, though numbers of those hurt were not yet confirmed.
ActressIrina Starshenbaum wrote: 'How did we get to this point? Nothing justifies war and I have no words to express the pain and horror of this morning. Ukrainians, please forgive me for being helpless. We want an immediate end to these heinous acts.'
The Russian Defense Ministry said it was not targeting cities, but using precision weapons and claimed that 'there is no threat to civilian population.'
'We urge you not to participate in the aggression and not to approve of it. Please don't be silent: only massive popular condemnation can stop the war.'
It said Russia would face 'the condemnation of the world community' resulting in 'isolation, rising prices and poverty'.
