Putins secret agents refuse to work in Russianoccupied Ukraine even when offered eight times their normal salary
20220813
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-11108081/Putins-secret-agents-refuse-work-Ukraine-offered-eight-times-normal-salary.html
Some officers report that they are 'exhausted' by almost six months of intensive duties with holidays cancelled during the war.
Putin's 'siloviki' secret services chiefs are even trying to woo back retired or fired agents for war zone roles.
Even salaries six to eight times higher than usual are failing to persuade counter-intelligence officers to move to conquered areas, the source said.
A close ally of Putin, Bortnikov has reportedly failed to entice spies to Russian-held Ukraine
They said: 'We called 200 retired people and only three said they would think about it.
Officers have been offered around 5,000 a month to service in occupied zones, it is claimed.
The FSB - Russia's Federal Security Service and successor to the KGB - was once led by Putin.
'The shortage of personnel in the special service is also confirmed by a draft decree submitted by the FSB itself,' the forum reported.
'This will allow the signing of contracts with recruits with only secondary education, not higher, as was required before, and with those who do not have experience of military service.'
This is up to eight times their normal pay, and far more than payments to soldiers fighting in the war.
'Personnel departments are actively calling former employees, even those dismissed on discrediting grounds,' stated the report.
Putin urgently needs both regular and military intelligence operatives to enforce his rule in the two 'people's republics' in eastern Ukraine, Donetsk and Luhansk as well as Kherson, Zaporizhzhia and Kharkiv.
But FSB agents are avoiding the postings, obtaining medical certificates from complaint doctors for themselves or family members, reports Telegram forum We Can Explain.
Vladimir Putin's secret service agents are refusing to work in Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine, an alleged FSB insider has claimed.
The lack of loyalty to Putin from the rank and file intelligence operatives mirrors a reluctance from troops to be posted to the war zone, which has resulted in the Kremlin desperately recruiting untrained prisoners and 'Dad's Army' civilians for frontline deployment.
A man pulls bricks from a crater by his home in Kramatorsk near Donetsk yesterday afternoon
The report says there had been open dissent in the ranks, with some FSB officers sent to remote postings in eastern Siberia as demonstrative punishments intended to warn others to toe the line.
