Putin ally Dmitry Medvedev dismisses French German and Italian leaders as fans of frogs liverwurst and spaghetti whose visit to Kyiv will be zero use  as they back immediate EU candidate status for Ukraine
20220616
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10922675/Ukraine-war-Macron-arrives-Kyiv-Italys-Draghi-Germanys-Scholz-unity.html
British fighters Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner, along with Moroccan Brahim Saadun, were convicted last week of acting as mercenaries for Ukraine by the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic and sentenced to death.
He hailed the 'extraordinary unity' the EU had shown in supporting Ukraine 'in every way'.
Macron said there are signs of war crimes in the suburb following 'massacres' by Russian forces, denounced the 'barbarism' of the attacks that devastated the town, and praised the courage of residents of Irpin and other towns in the region who held back Russians forces from attacking the capital.
Russian President Vladimir Putin meanwhile underscored that he was not as isolated internationally as his foes would wish with a call with China's leader Xi Jinping, their second reported call since Russia attacked Ukraine.
The leaders of the European Union's biggest economies are making their first trip to Ukraine since Russia sent troops to Ukraine on February 24.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German ChancellorOlaf Scholz, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi arrived in the Ukrainian capital by train from Poland today before touringIrpin, a battle-ravaged suburb of Ukraine's capital where horrific atrocities were carried out by Russian troops.
Fears are growing for the hundreds of civilians trapped inside the city'sAzot chemical factory after Putin's troops destroyed three bridges leading out of the city that could have provided an escape route.
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi reaffirmed his strong support for Ukraine's hopes of joining the European Union.
France's President Emmanuel Macron, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and Romanian President Klaus Iohannis visit Irpin, Ukraine June 16, 2022
Macron announced that France woulddeliver 'six additional Caesar' long-range self-propelled howitzers to Ukraine to help it counter the Russian assault.
'European fans of frogs, liverwurst and spaghetti love visiting Kyiv. With zero use,' Medvedev said on Twitter in English.
Kyiv's army is 'holding back the enemy as much as possible,' he said on Telegram. 'For almost four months they have dreamt of controlling Severodonetsk... and they do not count the victims.'
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky right welcomes German Chancellor Olaf Scholz left and French President Emmanuel Macron centre during their meeting at the Mariinsky Palace in Kyiv, Ukraine, 16 June
It is the first time that the leaders of the three European Union countries have visited Kyiv since Russia's February 24 invasion. Their meeting with Zelensky comes at a time when Kyiv is pushing to be given official candidate status to join the EU.
Ukrainian servicemen fire with a French self-propelled 155 mm52-calibre gun Caesar towards Russian positions at a front line in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on June 15
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi 2L French President Emmanuel Macron 3L and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz R visit Irpin on June 16, 2022
'We cannot hesitate, delay this process. We must create a community of peace, prosperity and rights that unites Kyiv with Rome, Paris, Berlin and all the other countries that share this project.'
Russia has accused other foreign fighters of being mercenaries when they are in fact legitimate members of the Ukrainian military. They have used captured foreign fighters for propaganda purposes.
'And that we will continue it as long as it is necessary for Ukraine's fight' against Moscow, he said.
From left Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, French President Emmanuel Macron and Romanian President Klaus Iohannis meet for a working session in Mariinsky Palace, in Kyiv, on June 16
'Promised EU membership and old howitzers to Ukraine, lushed up on gorilka and went home by train,' he said, referring to Ukraine's vodka. 'It won't bring Ukraine closer to peace.'
From left, Romanian President Klaus Iohannis, Prime Minister of Italy Mario Draghi, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, France's President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz attend a conference at the Mariyinsky palace in Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, June 16
Biden said that he told Zelensky in a phone call Wednesday that 'the United States will stand by Ukraine as it defends its democracy and support its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unprovoked Russian aggression.'
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky shakes hands with Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi as Romanian President Klaus Iohannis, France's President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz look on June 16, 2022
Ukraine is also expected to reiterate its pleas for allies to send more weapons, with officials saying only a fraction of what they have asked for has so far been delivered.
'We are at a turning point in our history. Every day, the Ukrainian people defend the values of democracy and freedom that underpin the European project, our project,' Draghi said.
Flying helicopters of the Ukrainian army are seen as Russian attacks continue, on June 15
'Ukraine is really in a very critical situation and therefore, it's an urgent need to step up,' NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg told journalists.
'And it wants Ukraine to have candidate status and will support this position at the next European Council.
Moscow's forces have destroyed the three bridges spanning a river between the city and Lysychansk.
The new package features howitzers, ammunition, anti-ship missile systems, and additional rockets for new artillery systems that Ukraine will soon put in the field.
The United Nations warned a hunger crisis that has been worsened by the war in Ukraine, traditionally a breadbasket to the world, could swell already record global displacement numbers.
Macron in particular has been criticised over comments he made last week in which he said Ukraine and the West should not 'humiliate' Russia, and offer Putin a way out of the conflict through negotiations.
Other leading figures to have visited Ukraine since the start of the war include British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and UN chief Antonio Guterres.
Russia this week issued a 'surrender or die' ultimatum to troops defending a key Donbas city, which has been ignored by Kyiv's forces holding out in the city.
Sergiy Gaiday - the governor of the Lugansk region, which includes the city - said Thursday around 10,000 civilians remain trapped in the city, out of a pre-war population of some 100,000.
'It's scary, very scary,' 83-year-old Lysychansk pensioner Valentina said. 'Why can't they agree at last, for God's sake, just shake hands?'
The Ukrainian defenders were ordered to stop their 'senseless resistance and lay down arms' from Wednesday morning, with Moscow's armies now controlling round 80 percent of the key strategic city.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, left, embraces France's President Emmanuel Macron at the end of a conference at the Mariyinsky palace in Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, June 16
Ukraine and other allies rebuked Macron for what they perceived as his ambiguous backing for Ukraine in the war against Russia.Ukraine's foreign minister Dmitro Kuleba hit back, saying Macron's position 'can only humiliate France'.
It was claimed on Thursday by awomen who said she had escaped from the factory that many English-speaking volunteer fighters are hiding inside the plant.
The show of European backing came as Ukrainian troops in the eastern city of Severodonetsk refused Moscow's demands to lay down their arms, andas Russia presses its brutal offensive in the east of the country.
A woman called Anna told a Russian state TV channel: 'There were lots of mercenaries, speaking English.Speaking some foreign languages.'He claims could not be immediately verified.
The three leaders are in Kyiv for a meeting with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky for the first time since Russia launched its brutal invasion in February.
Addressing the food insecurity crisis is 'of paramount importance... to prevent a larger number of people moving,' the United Nations refugee chief Filippo Grandi told reporters.
Despite reservations among some member states, EU leaders are expected to approve Ukraine's candidate status, though with strict conditions attached.
From an elevated position in Lysychansk, an AFP team saw black smoke rising from the chemical factory in Severodonetsk and another area in the city.
An ally of Vladimir Putin dismissed the leaders ofFrance, Germany and Italy as 'fans offrogs, liverwurst and spaghetti' as the trio announced their backing forUkraine receiving 'immediate' official candidate status to join the European Union.
Elsewhere, Russia launched a missile strike in Ukraine's northeast Sumy region, killing four people and injuring six others, governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky said on Telegram.
An aerial view shows destroyed houses after strike in the town of Pryvillya at the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on June 14, amid Russian invasion of Ukraine
Smoke and dirt rise from the city of Severodonetsk during fighting between Ukrainian and Russian troops at the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on June 14
However, The Guardian reported that the embattled troops have continued to fight back against the foreign invaders.
In Brussels Wednesday, Ukrainian defence minister Oleksiy Reznikov and other officials met with some 50 countries of the Ukraine Defence Contact Group at NATO headquarters asking for a surge in weapons and ammunition.
'On top of the 12 Caesars already delivered, I took the decision to deliver in the coming weeks six additional Caesars,' Macron said.
Hundreds of civilians are trapped in a Severodonetsk chemical plant, which is under constant bombardment, according to Ukrainian authorities.
The Kremlin also warned against new Western weapons supplies to Ukraine, whichhas recently received French-made self-propelled Caesar howitzers.
'The most important message of our visit is that Italy wants Ukraine in the EU,' Draghi told reporters after talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
The recently re-elected French president has since made efforts to strengthen his public messaging, and he appeared to take a tougher line on Wednesday.
Scholz told German daily Bild that they 'want to show not only solidarity, but also assure that the help that we're organising - financial, humanitarian, but also, when it comes to weapons - will continue'.
Earlier, as the four men saw for themselves the devastation wrought on the town by Putin's forces during their month-long occupation, former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev said the visit of the European leaders will be of no use.
'I would like to hope that the leaders of these three states and the President of Romania will not only focus on supporting Ukraine by further pumping Ukraine with weapons,' Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.He added that it would be 'absolutely useless and will cause further damage to the country'.
France - which holds the rotating presidency of the EU until the end of this month - Germany and Italy view Ukraine's aspirations to join the bloc favourably.
French President Emmanuel Macron, center, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visit Irpin, outside Kyiv, Thursday, June 16
'The Ukrainian President and his officials will have to negotiate with Russia,' he said on Wednesday during a visit to Ukraine's neighbour Romania.
Smoke rises after a military strike on a compound of Sievierodonetsk's Azot Chemical Plant where hundreds of civilians are believed to be sheltering, Ukraine June 10
Asked by a journalist why he had come to Ukraine, Macron said upon his arrival: 'It's an important moment. It's a message of unity we're sending to the Ukrainians, of support, to talk both about the present and the future, since the coming weeks, as we know, will be very difficult.'
The three leaders have been accused of dragging their feet over providing support to the embattled country.
China has refused to condemn Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and has been accused of providing diplomatic cover for Russia by criticising Western sanctions and arms sales to Kyiv.
The Ukrainian military was using the high ground to exchange fire with Russian forces across the river.
Ukrainian Minister for Communities and Territories Development Oleksiy Chernyshov walks next to French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and Romanian President Klaus Iohannis during their visit, as Russia's attack on Ukraine continues, in Irpin, near Kyiv, Ukraine June 16
They appeared with Romanian leader Klaus Lohannis along-sideZelensky inKyiv's presidential Mariinsky Palace. During a joint press conference in the palace gardens, Macron said: 'All four of us support the status of immediate candidate for accession.'
But officials and leaders in the bloc caution that, even with candidacy status, membership could take years or even decades.
'President Zelensky, as he just said, of course understands that the path from candidate to member is a road, it is not a point. It is a road that will have to see profound reforms in Ukrainian society.'
On Wednesday, US President Joe Biden announced $1 billion worth of new arms for Ukrainian forces.
The leaders of France, Germany and Italy visited Kyiv arrived in the Ukrainian capital by train from Poland Pictured:French President Emmanuel Macron centre, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz right and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi left travel on board a train bound to Kyiv after departing from Poland on June 16
Macron,Scholz andDraghi were later seen shaking hands withZelensky before entering Kyiv's presidential Mariinsky Palace for the meeting.
The woman said she had been told by Ukrainians on 9 June not to leave the shelter until evening because 'cleansing' was underway. She said: 'We left the shelter June 10.We walked from the shelter, then my husband picked us up.'
He said last week: 'We must not humiliate Russia so that the day when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means.' He added: 'I am convinced that it is France's role to be a mediating power.'
Russia claims it expects to detain more British and US so-called 'mercenaries' as its invasion moves into Kyiv-held territory.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk left welcomes French President Emmanuel Macron as he arrives at Kyiv train station on June 16 after travelling with German Chancellor and Italian Prime Minister from Poland
Fighting in eastern Ukraine is focused on the industrial city of Severodonetsk, and the Russians appear close to consolidating control after weeks of intense battles.
