Putin honours his butchers of Bucha Russian troops accused of horrifying war crimes in Ukrainian town are made Guards for showing mass heroism valour tenacity and courage
20220418
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10728887/Russian-troops-accused-horrifying-war-crimes-Ukrainian-town-honoured-Putin.html
The brigade's commander is Lieutenant Colonel Azatbek Omurbekov, who has earned the nickname of the 'Butcher of Bucha' for the civilian massacre carried out by the men under his leadership.
Late last week Biden confirmed that his administration was discussing a possible Kyiv trip by a senior official and was 'making that decision now.' He told reporters that he wanted to go himself.
A presidential decree signed today by Putin has recognised all members of the brigade for their 'mass heroism' in defending 'state interests'. 'For mass heroism, valour, tenacity and courage shown by the personnel of the brigade in combat operations to protect the Motherland and state interests, I decree the title 'Guards' upon the brigade,' Putin's letter read
The honouring of the butchers of Bucha came just one day after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for US President Joe Biden to visit his country and declared Ukrainian authorities have 'substantial evidence' that Russia's troops are committing genocide in Ukraine.
'Another goal of the rapid return of the 64th Brigade to Ukrainian territory is the quick 'disposal' of unnecessary witnesses,' the report read.
The honours were bestowed despite Ukrainian intelligence suggesting the brigade has already redeployed to eastern Ukraine to the front lines of the conflict.
But a presidential decree signed today by Putin has recognised all members of the brigade for their 'mass heroism' in defending 'state interests'.
Dead bodies litter the streets near Bucha, a suburb of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, after Russian forces withdrew from the region - leaving evidence of 'war crimes' in their wake
Nadiya Trubchaninova, 70, cries next to the body of her son Vadym, 48, who was killed by a Russian Army gunshot last March 30, during his funeral in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on Saturday, April 16, 2022
'I speak about this because Russia calls it a military operation, and not a war. But look what happened in Bucha. It's clear that is not even a war -- it's a genocide.'
Putin's decree of honours for the brigade was made on the 54th day of Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine, which has forced 12 million people to flee their homes or country and sparked Europe's biggest refugee crisis since World War II.
'For mass heroism, valour, tenacity and courage shown by the personnel of the brigade in combat operations to protect the Motherland and state interests, I decree the title 'Guards' upon the brigade,' Putin's letter read.
Wreckage of war .and bodies lie in the streets of Irpin and Bucha, recently liberated from invading Russian troops in the suburbs of Kyiv, Ukraine on April 3, 2022
The Ukrainian Ministry of Defence intelligence directorate SBU earlier this month identified the 64th Separate Motorised Rifle Brigade of the 35th All-Russian Army as the primary unit responsible for the horrific scenes now synonymous with Russia's war in Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday bestowed an honorary title on a brigade widely thought to be responsible for war crimes and mass killings in the Ukrainian town of Bucha Ukrainian investigators exhume bodies from a mass grave in the grounds of the St Andrew church in the town of Bucha, northwest of Kyiv, on April 8, 2022
But there are fears the men who committed the crimes will die on the frontlines before they can be arrested and brought to justice.
Zelensky was asked by CNN State of the Union host Jake Tapper about whether there are 'any plans' for Biden to come see the situation for himself.
Azatbek Omurbekov right is the commander of Russia's 64th separated motorised rifle brigade - the unit thought to be behind the torture and slaughter of hundreds of Ukrainian civilians in Bucha. In November, he received a blessing from the Orthodox Church
Zelensky said he understood there are concerns about the 'safety situation' but claimed the president of the United States should see the conflict firsthand
'But I think he's the leader of the United States, and that's why he should come here to see.'
'That is, redeployment to a part of the war front where they will have no chance of surviving, thus making it impossible for them to testify in future courts.'
After the departure of Russian troops, bodies of civilians, some with their hands tied, were found scattered in the streets, while Ukrainian authorities discovered a series of mass graves containing hundreds of corpses.
The SBU suspects Russian leaders sent the brigade to the hottest spots in the hope they would be killed and therefore unable to testify in any future war crime tribunals.
Galyna Bondar, mourns next to the grave of her son Oleksandr, 32, after burying him at the cemetery in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine on Saturday, April 16, 2022
It comes after a slew of NATO leaders descended upon Kyiv in recent weeks, some even seeing the horrors found in the capital's suburbs after Kremlin troops' retreat firsthand.
The 'butchers of Bucha' left a trail of death and destruction in their wake, and Ukrainian authorities are still working with an international team of forensic experts to examine the bodies and gather evidence of war crimes
EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, center, visits a mass grave in Bucha, outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, April 8. An international team of forensic experts are working with Ukrainian authorities to exhume the dead
In early April, the Ukrainian defence ministry said the unit occupied the town of Bucha, which lies just outside the capital Kyiv, and committed heinous crimes against the civilian population before withdrawing to Belarus.
'I have the same opinion as President Biden, and I immediately saw what was happening here. Especially what happened in Bucha and in the east of our country,' Zelensky said in his Sunday interview.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday bestowed an honorary title on a brigade widely thought to be responsible for war crimes and mass killings in the Ukrainian town of Bucha.
Multiple American leaders, including Biden and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, accused Putin and his soldiers of 'genocide.' British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said it 'doesn't look far short' of the heinous crime.
The SBU has in recent weeks worked with cyber police and thousands of researchers to obtain the ranks and passports details of members of the brigade, in an attempt to bring them to justice.
The 'butchers of Bucha' left a trail of death and destruction in their wake, and Ukrainian authorities are still working with an international team of forensic experts to examine the bodies and gather evidence of war crimes.
A majority of people in Bucha died from gunshot wounds, Ukrainian police said last week, declaring that more than 500 bodies have been found so far.
Putin's decree of honours for the brigade was made on the 54th day of Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine, which has forced 12 million people to flee their homes or country and sparked Europe's biggest refugee crisis since World War II
Psaki said it's true Biden was 'ready to go.' But, she added, 'we are not sending the president to Ukraine' -- a policy line that senior administration officials have held consistently through Russia's war.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki backtracked on the president's comment just hours later during a taping of the Pod Save America Podcast.
A report published on the Ukrainian MoD's website earlier this month said the brigade is being sent to the 'hottest spots', likely around Kharkiv, Izyum and the Donbas, in the hope that they will be killed before they are forced to testify in a war crime tribunal.
