Putins brain drain Thousands of Russias most intelligent citizens flee the country in horror at Ukraine invasion as 100000 slip past security agents at border
20220328
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10658107/Thousands-Russias-intelligent-citizens-flee-country-horror-Ukraine-invasion.html
Most of them land in Armenia,home to just 3,500 working Russiansbefore war broke out but which nowsees that number arrive each day.
Around 100,000 have managed to escape FSB guards at the airports who check their phones and turn anyone around they suspect of trying to leave permanently. Passenger planes parked at Sheremetyevo airport, outside Moscow
We wont be going back until the monster Putin is gone, said Mrs Aparinov, 36. Her husband, 42, runs his own IT company.
While some move on to Istanbul orneighbouring Georgia, many stay asthe country has remained neutralon the conflict and its citizens areproving more sympathetic.
He is among a huge exodus of new Russian tech nomads  highly skilled programmers and IT experts who are able to base themselves anywhere.
The capitals main street has been dubbed Little Moscow as some 80,000 Russians have now passed through, with roughly 20,000 staying for good so far.
Daily flights bring more young professionals escaping political oppression, the sanctionshit economy, and fears they will be recruited to fight in the war.
Andrey and Dasha Aparinov hadwithstood being imprisoned for laying flowers at an opposition rally, but decided to leave when Moscow sent troops to Ukraine.
Russia is losing thousands of its brightest citizens every day asyoung professionals flee VladimirPutins dictatorship following hisillegal invasion of Ukraine.
Around 100,000 have managed toescape FSB guards at the airportswho check their phones and turnanyone around they suspect of trying to leave permanently.
Russia is losing thousands of its brightest citizens every day as young professionals flee Vladimir Putins pictured dictatorship following his illegal invasion of Ukraine
