Putins hand on the gas tap How Net Zero ecopolicies have handed Russias strongman the bargaining chip he needs to ransom Europe over Ukraine  and could lead to soaring prices in the UK
20220124
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10435251/Ukraine-tensions-Europes-eco-policies-increased-reliance-Russian-gas.html
Foreign Minister Simon Coveney revealed on Monday that Russia informed Ireland about the drills at the weekend, saying the warships are 'not welcome' buthis country 'doesn't have the power to stop this from happening'.
Mr Johnson said Britain is'leading on creating a package of economic sanctions' against Russia and he would be speaking to international allies later on Monday.
Theyll renew calls for dialogue, notably through the European-backed 'Normandy format,' which helped to ease hostilities in 2015, a year after Putin ordered the annexation of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula. Fighting in eastern Ukraine has killed around 14,000 people and still simmers today.
'We don't want a new Cold War. The Cold War period had tragic consequences in Central Eastern Europe, we wasted several decades,' Peter Szijjarto said, adding that Hungary supported all diplomatic efforts and talks to resolve the standoff.
British Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab yesterday promised Britain would impose harsh sanctions on Russia should President Vladimir Putin authorise an invasion of neighbouring Ukraine pictured
Such export controls that expand US sanctions beyond financial targets have only been deployed once before - to nearly bring down Chinese tech giant Huawei.
The official and diplomats briefed reporters on condition of anonymity so that they could speak more freely about the meeting preparations.
'It is time to increase allied forces' presence on the alliance's eastern flank both as measures of defence and deterrence,' he added.
He added that he is not aware of any specific threat against European embassy staff, and would like to speak more with Secretary of State Antony Blinken about the US decision to pull his staff out.
Production in the North Sea has dwindled because older gas fields have become too expensive to run, and new ones have taken a long time to come on stream
'Yes, Europeand the UKwould suffer even higher prices and potential physical shortages if supplies of Russian oil and gas were constrained, either because of actions by the Kremlin or western sanctions. We do have strategic stockpiles of crude oil that could be used, but gas is more of a problem as storage is already low.
It comes against the backdrop of Russia's troop build-up on the border of Ukraine, which has sparked fears of a war in Europe and a standoff between East and West.
Russia has stirred the pot by announcing live-fire naval drills off the coast of Ireland next month, amid rapidly escalating tensions with the West. There are concerns that any escalation of the stand-off will send gas prices spiralling again, with threats of punitive sanctions against Moscow.
'The UK does not directly import significant volumes of gas from Russia, and most of what it does import is as Liquid Natural Gas. However, even after Brexit, the UK's gas market is connected, both physically and financially. Shortages in continental Europe mean higher prices and we could have to compete against them to secure gas'.
Other European countries are not so lucky - Germany relies on Russia for up to 40 per cent of its gas imports, and Nordic countries Finland and Sweden even more dependent.
Asked whether the EU would withdraw its own diplomats from Ukraine, Borrell he would not follow suit and warned against 'dramatising' the situation.
Speaking ahead of a meeting of EU foreign ministers, Mr Coveney said: 'I have made it clear to the Russian Ambassador in Ireland that it's not welcome.
Europe relies on Russia for around 35 per cent of its natural gas, the bulk of which comes through pipelines including Yamal, which crosses Belarus and Poland to Germany, Nord Stream 1, which goes directly to Germany, and routes through Ukraine.
'This is an important day today for EU foreign ministers to reinforce a message of unity from the European Union in relation to RussianUkraine tension,' Mr Coveney added.
Ukrainian territorial volunteers take part in military training near Kiev at the weekend amid fears Russia could invade
'Unlike some countries the UK hardly imports any Russian gas, but like all countries we are exposed to rising wholesale prices, which would be a significant issue if Russia further restricted supply,' one senior official told The Times.
All of which comes as supplies run dangerously low due to a colder-than-expected winter later year, not enough wind to drive wind farms, and Russian pipes running dry amid accusations that Putin is already turning the screw. Goldman Sachs today warned the continent is at risk of blackouts if temperatures fall much below average.
Wayne Bryan, director of European Gas Research at Refinitiv, said: 'There are untapped gas fields in the North Sea, but more investment is needed. There are three or four new gas fields starting early next year, but we've seen falling investment in the last 18 months.'
During Monday's meeting, which Blinken will attend virtually, the ministers will restate Europes condemnation of the Russian military build-up near Ukraine, involving an estimated 100,000 troops, tanks, artillery and heavy equipment, diplomats and officials said ahead of the meeting.
It is thought to contain 800 million barrels of oil, which will be released over the next 25 years.
Hungary's foreign minister warned on Monday of the threat of a new Cold War, amid tension between the West and Russia over Ukraine.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban plans to meet with Putin next week to discuss a Russian-backed project to expand a Hungarian nuclear power plant.
The statement was issued by theWestern military district which is playing the lead role in massing forces on Europe's doorstep, raising fears the corvettes could be heading for the Black Sea near Ukraine.
'All members of the European Union are united. We are showing unprecedented unity about the situation in Ukraine, with the strong coordination with the U.S.,' EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell told reporters in Brussels.
Since then, they have rocketed from 54p per therm of gas to a staggering 4.50.
One diplomat refused to discuss the matter at all. Another suggested that a layered response might be in preparation, with different levels of retaliation depending on whether a cyberattack, rocket strike, or all-out invasion was launched.
A focus on renewables and developing better connectivity with neighbours such as Norway, to enable the UK to import gas effectively, meant little new storage has been built.
Should Putin move on Ukraine again, the ministers will warn, Russia would face 'massive consequences and severe costs.' Those costs would be of a financial and political nature. The EU insists that it stands ready to slap hefty sanctions on Russia within days of any attack.
Russia has linked easing Europe's gas crisis with approving the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which when built with make land in Germany, which is heavily reliant on Russia for its energy needs
It comes as British Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab yesterday promised Britain would impose harsh sanctions on Russia should President Vladimir Putin authorise an invasion.
Opponents of fracking also complain that sites require significant infrastructure and sand and water have to be transported to and fro in large trucks leading to traffic, noise and disruption.
The New York Times said Biden was mulling plans to send 1,000 to 5,000 troops to Eastern European countries, with the possibility of increasing the number should tensions flare further.
Speaking on a visit to a hospital in Milton Keynes, Mr Johnson said the Kremlin must realise that Ukraine could be a 'new Chechnya'.
'There'll be very serious consequences if Russia takes this move to try and invade but also install a puppet regime,' British Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab told Sky News.
The US is strongly opposed to the pipeline being opened, fearing it will increase Europe's reliance on Russia still-further and give Mr Putin an outsized influence over the region's politics.
Battleships will take part in sea drills around 150 miles off Ireland's southwest coast, within the country's 'exclusive economic zone' but outside its territorial waters.
The area to the west of the Shetland Islands has been named as 'the place to be' by energy experts advising firms on growing Britain's oil output. Siccar Point Energy, backed by Shell, is preparing to start drilling in the Cambo oil field, situated 75 miles to the west of the Shetlands.
The drill will form part of much broader Russian naval exercises involving 140 ships and 10,000 troops from all of its naval fleets that will take place in the Atlantic, Pacific,Mediterranean, North Sea and Sea ofOkhotsk from January until February.
'It would be difficult for Europe to stomach sanctions which effectively cut off Russian gas supply, or at least a large portion of these flows, given the regions dependency on Russian gas and the ongoing energy crisis,' said analysts at ING.
The EUs two major powers appear most cautious. Germanys Nord Stream 2 pipeline from Russia, which is complete but yet to pump gas, has become a bargaining chip. French President Emmanuel Macron has renewed previously rejected calls for an EU summit with Putin.
Supporters claim there is enough shale gas in the UK to support the country's needs for decades.
Meanwhile Russia dispatched two corvettes from the Baltic Sea on a 'long distance voyage' with an unspecified destination.
Last year about 48 per cent of UK gas came from the North Sea, down from 100 per cent in 2004, and this is projected to keep falling.
He added: 'It's been criminal that successive governments have failed to plan for gas security and hand this to foreign powers when we depend on this fuel and will for many years'.
Boris Johnson right has delivered a stark message to Vladimir Putin left at the Kremlin today as he admitted that the prospects of averting a confrontation in the area were 'gloomy'.
Although Britain gets its gas from other sources, it would still be confronted with sky-high prices if Russia decided to restrict the flow of gas to Europe as the wholesale price of the resource would balloon.
An active fracking site near Blackpool caused several earthquakes up to a magnitude of 2.9, which left houses in the local area shaking.
He said: 'Europe is dependent on imports of Russian oil and gas, but Europe is also Russia's most important market for those exports that are a critical source of income for the Russian Government. However, the Russian Government has been building up a 'war chest' in terms of financial reserves.
Ireland's foreign minister Simon Coveney left raised concerns about the drills as he arrived in Brussels for talks where states are expected to present a common front against Moscow
Huawei's supply of essential microchips was strangled. While they are made outside the US, they require US software or tools.
A US soldier prepares a pallet of anti-tank weapons for transport to Ukraine at Dover Air Force Base, in Delaware, on Friday
But, in a paradoxical twist, those very green policies have driven up the continent's reliance on foreign supplies of fossil fuels, sacrificing the continent's energy security and handing Vladimir Putin a bargaining chip that experts warn he will now use to hold the continent to ransom over Ukraine.
Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng is preparing for crunch talks with energy bosses to try to solve the spiralling crisis.
Half of the UK's diplomatic mission and their families will leave the country, after the US ordered families of its staff to go and offered non-essential embassy staff space on flights back home.
'There are two very clear messages that EU foreign ministers will want to get across today.
'The reliance on gas from abroad is now a matter of grave national security. If Russia puts troops over the border into Ukraine then it is inevitable that gas prices will go up and it will be the consumer that once again will be paying'.
Should the supplies run out, Europe could be forced to turn to Russia - at exactly the moment America is hoping it will present a united front against Putin.
Australia also began evacuating the families of diplomatic staff in Ukraine, and ordered citizens to leave the country due to the risk of a Russian attack.
Ukraine has deployed a large number of troops near the borders of breakaway regions controlled by pro-Russian separatists, which Peskov said suggests Kiev is preparing an attack. Ukraine has repeatedly denied this.
Amid fears that an invasion is imminent, the UK began withdrawing diplomats from its mission in Kiev today - following a similar US move at the weekend.
Over the weekend, some of the member countries closest to Russia - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - confirmed that they plan to send U.S.-made anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine, a move endorsed by the United States.
The Netherlands, one of the continent's main domestic suppliers of gas, also plans to shut down its largest gas field this year after a series of tremors, while Norway's government - Europe's largest domestic supplier - is under pressure from environmentalists to cut down its own gas exploration.
The Russian Foreign Ministry dismissed the British allegation as 'disinformation,' accusing NATO of 'escalating tensions' over Ukraine and insisted that Moscow have insisted they have no plans to invade.
The Biden Administration may also opt to apply the control more widely, potentially restricting Russia's access to semiconductors, and therefore Russian citizens of smartphones, games consoles and tablets, government officials said.
'First of all, a clear message and ask of Russia to defuse tension in the context of their activities on the borders of Ukraine and give reassurance to the rest of the world in terms of their intentions.
'Secondly, a strong message of unity from the EU that should Russia decide to invade Ukraine militarily, that there would be very severe consequences of that action from an EU perspective in terms of sanction and restrictions that would follow very quickly, that I think would be the most comprehensive that the EU has put together in many decades.
The UK has around 18 times less gas storage than European nations such as Italy, Germany and France, making the country extremely vulnerable to volatile prices.
America has also begun withdrawing its staff, with families of diplomats ordered home and non-essential staff offered a route out of the country
The British foreign ministry declined to provide evidence to back its accusations, which came at a time of high tensions between Russia and the West over Russia's massing of troops near its border with Ukraine.
Denmark is sending a frigate to the Baltic Sea and deploying F-16 war planes to Lithuania.
The United States has threatened to impose a novel export control to deprive Russia of key tech components that would damage AI and aerospace industries if Russia were to invade Ukraine.
Late last year, France and Germany initially expressed doubts about U.S. intelligence assessments that Moscow might be preparing to invade.
'It will obviously involve a range of financial and economic sanctions. We wouldn't telegraph those in advance, but you can rest assured that the Foreign Secretary and the Defence Secretary will be liaising with all of our partners and engaging, as we have done for many months, to make sure the response is robust and concerted.'
Still, diplomats and officials said hard-hitting sanctions are being drawn up with the EUs executive branch, the European Commission. But they were reluctant to say what the measures might be or what action by Russia might trigger them.
'A message and appeal to use diplomatic means to defuse tension, but also a very strong and clear and unified message that the EU respond collectively and in a unified manner in a way that would introduce very significant measures in response to Russian military action in Ukraine.'
Late on Saturday, the head of the German navy, Vice Admiral Kay-Achim Schoenbach, resigned after coming under fire for saying that Ukraine would not regain the Crimean Peninsula, and for suggesting that Putin deserves 'respect.'
It comes after Russia last week sailed six landing craft out of the Baltics - leading many to suspect they were also heading for the Black Sea to form part of what many fear is an invading force.
The country has already been targeted once by hackers in recent weeks - which it blamed on Moscow - and there are fears such an attack could be used to knock out infrastructure and sow chaos ahead of a ground invasion, or else be used as a way of punishing Ukraine short of putting boots on the ground.
'Russia, under international law, can take military exercises in international waters, but the fact they are choosing to do it on the west borders of the EU, off the Irish coast, is something that is in our view not welcome and not wanted right now, particularly in the coming weeks.'
Russia is planning to hold live-fire naval drills off the Irish coast next month, with Dublin saying the ships are 'not welcome' file image, Russian shipsnear Saint Petersburg last year
'I think it's very important that people in Russia understand that this could be a new Chechnya.'
The drills will take place 150 miles from Irelands' south west coast, outside of its territorial waters but within its exclusive economic zone - which is permitted under international law
Government officials are concerned that Russia will restrict its provision of gas to European countries in the face of Western sanctions should an invasion of Ukraine take place.
'We also need to get a message that invading Ukraine, from a Russian perspective, is going to be a painful, violent and bloody business,' he said.
Britain could be forced to contend with record-breaking prices for gas and petrol if the fear of a Russian invasion of Ukraine becomes a reality, ministers have been told.
'The location is not an accident... They could be doing this off the coast of Murmansk but have chosen the Atlantic instead. There has been an increased number of incursions in to this area and near to Irish airspace.'
Further afield, another 20 percent comes from Qatar and the wider Middle East. The US also supplies the UK with some Liquefied Natural Gas LNG.
Clive Moffatt, an energy market analyst and former chairman of the UK Economic Security Group, told MailOnline that the growing reliance on foreign gas has been a 'disaster' for Britain and its consumers that has been 'made worse' by a drive towards Net Zero.
The UK could look to new oil fields  at the risk of being accused of climate hypocrisy.
An Ukrainian Military Forces serviceman, looks on in a dugout on the frontline with Russia-backed separatists near Gorlivka, Donetsk region on January 23, 2022 as the country is on a war footing
Similar restrictions on technology were deployed during the Cold War, when the United States and other Western nations maintained severe technology sanctions on the Soviet Union, keeping it technologically backward and crimping growth.
Production in the North Sea has dwindled because older gas fields have become too expensive to run, and new ones have taken a long time to come on stream.
To hear European leaders sell their Net Zero climate visions, you wouldn't know there was a downside: 'Green industrial revolutions' have been promised that will bring billions of dollars in investment, create thousands of high-paid jobs, and end the continent's reliance on planet-killing fossil fuels.
Spain is sending ships to join NATO's standing maritime force and considering sending fighter jets to Bulgaria. France stands ready to send troops to Bulgaria.
Ukrainian Servicemen of the 30th Army Brigade are seen in trenches outside ofSvitlodarsk, in the east of the country, on Sunday
A rise in gas and petrol prices in the UK as a result of a Russian decision to restrict gas provisions to Europe would only exacerbate Britain's ongoing energy crisis.
For now, though, the Europeans must wait and see whether Putin is satisfied with progress in talks with the United States, coordinate with Blinken on a response should things go wrong, and bank on the economic deterrent posed by the EU being Russias biggest trading partner.
The release of the documents led Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab to issue a warning to Vladimir Putin yesterday in which he promised harsh consequences should an invasion of Ukraine take place.
Meanwhile analysts at investment bank Goldman Sachs said that Europe has enough gas stored up to get through winter, but if temperatures were to drop, leading to an increase in demand, storage could fall below the record lows seen in 2018.
Norway, the second largest supplier of gas to Europe, is delivering natural gas to Europe at maximum capacity and that can't replace any missing supplies from Russia, its prime minister said this week.
Britain could be forced to contend with record-breaking prices for gas andpetrol if the fear of a Russian invasion of Ukraine becomes a reality, ministers have been told.
Under UN conventions governing the oceans, military drills are allowed within the economic zones of other states provided they do not stray into territorial waters.
Ovo CEO Stephen Fitzpatrick said the impact of soaring wholesale gas prices will be 'an enormous crisis for 2022', saying families could be hit with 2,000 bills.
Elsewhere, Europeanforeign ministers are meeting in Brussels today with the aim of putting on a united front against Moscow.
'We dont know what the Russians are going to do, but what we are talking about is basically the most important security development in Europe since the end of the Cold War,' a senior EU official said. 'The response of the European Union will be at the level of the challenge.'
'We wouldn't telegraph all of the measures we would take, but it is important that this very clear message, not just from the UK but from all NATO and other interested countries around the world who want to uphold the rule of law, that there will be very serious, severe economic consequences.
The Government halted fracking in England at the end of November 2019 after a series of confrontations between shale gas companies and local communities.
'The intelligence is very clear that there are 60 Russian battle groups on the borders of Ukraine, the plan for a lightning war that could take out Kyiv is one that everybody can see,' he said.
It comes as British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss released documents which accused Russia ofseeking to install a pro-Russian leader in Ukraine, and said Russian intelligence officers had been in contact with a number of former Ukrainian politicians as part of plans for an invasion.
Mr Coveney is in Brussels on Monday for a scheduled meeting with other EU foreign ministers at which the ongoing tensions on the RussiaUkraine border are being discussed.
Despite that, Germany is pressing ahead with plans to mothball its nuclear plants this year -viewing them as damaging to the environment - despite multiple studies warning similar moves in the past have increased the country's reliance on fossil fuels.It is perhaps unsurprising to find Germany is taking the softest of stances with Putin, accused of wholesale 'betrayal' by Kiev mayor and former boxer Vitali Klitschko today.
Europe relies on Russia for around 35 per cent of its natural gas, the bulk of which comes through pipelines including Yamal, which crosses Belarus and Poland to Germany, Nord Stream 1, which goes directly to Germany, and routes through Ukraine building of Nord Stream pipeline north-west of St. Petersburg, Russia, Friday, April 9, 2010
The UK largely sources its gas from fields in the North Sea and Irish sea, which along with other reserves in British waters provide around 50 percent of the country's supply.
'This is not a time to increase military activity and tension in the context of what is happening with and in Ukraine at the moment.
Map showing points of origin and destination of the Nord Stream pipe solid line and Nord Stream 2 pipeline dotted line between Russia and Germany. Putin hoped Nord Stream 2 would be finished two years ago, allowing Russia to bypass Ukraine in the south, which carries 50 of gas from Russia out via Poland
The Government took its decision after a scientific study found there would be 'unacceptable' consequences for those living near fracking sites. But it said it could agree to new sites if there was 'compelling new evidence' that fracking was safe.
The boss of SPE, Jonathan Roger, said: 'The Cambo development supports the country's energy transition, maintaining secure UK supply.' His words appear prophetic against this week's wild swings in gas prices, but more licences to drill oil will enrage environmental campaigners.
It could also be against the law as the Government has created legislation committing the country to a 78 per cent reduction in carbon emissions by 2035, and a 100 per cent reduction by 2050.
Mike Bradshaw, Professor of Global Energy at Warwick Business School, has said Russia has a tight grip on Europe's energy market.
Sergei Pikin, a Russian energy analyst, was even more blunt in his assessment. Speaking to the New York Times in October, he said: 'Do we have an obligation to deliver additional new volumes of gas? No.
NATO announced the deployment of more troops after Latvia's foreign minister called for 'countermeasures' to Russia's build-up.
Gas prices have skyrocketed, and the head of the International Energy Agency has said that Russian energy giant Gazprom was already reducing its exports to the EU in late 2021 despite high prices. Putin says Gazprom is respecting its contract obligations, not putting the squeeze on Europe.
U.S. President Joe Biden has begun considering options for boosting America's military assets in the region, senior administration officials said, after meeting top national security aides at his Camp David retreat on Saturday.
'We are reaching the point where a continuous Russian and Belarusian military buildup in Europe needs to be addressed by appropriate NATO countermeasures,' he wrote on Facebook.
The Stoykiy and Soobrazitelny left Russia's port at Baltiysk on the mission, which the defence ministry said would include 'communication, air and anti-submarine defence exercises and a number of combat drills.'
A Ukrainian soldier patrols through a trench in the east of the country, close to where fighting is taking place with Russian-backed rebel groups
Raab's promise came after top U.S. and Russian diplomats failed on Friday to make a major breakthrough in talks to resolve the crisis over Ukraine.
The US and the EU already have sanctions on Russia's energy, financial and defence sectors, with tensions between Moscow and Western powers raising the prospect of new economic sanctions being imposed if Russia attacks neighbouring Ukraine.
If the Government does not subsidise investment, then by 2025 domestic gas will only meet around one third of UK demand, making the country even more reliant on global markets.
Mr Moffatt told MailOnline: 'We need to reset energy policy in this country' and put our 'national security first', adding that the answer would be to build more gas storage in the UK and give the 'green light' to the dozen or so gas projects waiting for approval in the North Sea.
Spanish firgate Blas de Lezo leaves port on Sunday to begin a fresh NATO deployment, as the military alliance moves forces closer to Russia's border in response to Putin's troop build-up
Plans presented to the US president at the weekend included sending 1,000 to 5,000 troops to Baltic states neighbouring Russia - with the option of ramping up to 50,000 troops backed by warplanes and ships if the security situation deteriorates.
In fact the Rough storage facility off the Yorkshire coast, which accounted for two-thirds of our gas capacity, was retired in 2017. Experts said politicians believed that there was no need to spend vast sums on new storage plants because prices had been stable between the summer and winter for many years.
Aleksandr Novak, Russia's energy minister, said during a call with Putin last year that granting approval for Nord Stream 2 'as fast as possible' would give 'a positive signal' and allow the current gas crisis to 'cool down'.
About half of British gas supplies come from the North Sea and a third through pipelines from Norway, with the remaining supply of LNG liquified natural gas imported via sea.
Speaking about the Russian drills near Ireland at the weekend, politician and former soldierCathal Berry told The Journal that Russian exercises in the region are 'unusual' though not unprecedented.
Appearing on Sky News, he said: 'We are standing shoulder to shoulder with European countries, Nato and the US, saying there will be very serious consequences if Russia takes this move to try and invade and also install a puppet regime.
And if Russia should decide to restrict supply to its European dependents in the face of harsh economic sanctions over an invasion of Ukraine, the countries would struggle to find an alternative option.
The White House is also floating the idea of curbs on Russia's biggest banks and has previously mooted measures targeting Moscow's ability to convert roubles into dollars and other currencies.
'We need to make it very clear to the Kremlin, to Russia, that that would be a disastrous step.'
A third was confident there would be no arguments over the trigger point, saying: 'Well know it when we see it.'
The PM delivered the stark message as he admitted that the prospects of averting a confrontation in the area were 'gloomy'.
A senior administration official declined to confirm the numbers on Sunday but said 'we are developing plans and we are consulting with allies to determine options moving forward.'
He added: 'We will always respond to any deterioration of our security environment, including through strengthening our collective defense.'
By contrast, gas imports from Russia make up only around five percent of the UK's total usage. But Moscow has a grip on Europe's gas supplies.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenburg confirmed today that the alliance will be beefing up its own presence in the region, with additional ships and fighter jets deployed.
'There'll be very serious consequences if Russia takes this move to try and invade but also install a puppet regime,' Mr Raab said.
The measure, known as the foreign direct product rule, contributed toHuawei experiencing its first-even annual revenue drop that fell almost 30 percent last year.
Having already threatened 'swift and severe' economic sanctions if Ukraine is attacked, President Biden was today considering whether to deploy additional troops to the region to counter Russia's build-up.
The aim, they said, is to try to match the doubts Putin has sowed about his intentions for Ukraine with uncertainty about what any retaliatory European action might look like, or when it would come.
But questions have been raised about just how unified the EU is. Diverse political, business and energy interests have long divided the 27-country bloc in its approach to Moscow. Around 40 of the EUs natural gas imports come from Russia, much of it via pipelines across Ukraine.
Fracking has boomed in the US, making the country a powerhouse in global oil and gas production and securing its energy security. The technique, also known as hydraulic fracturing, involves pumping water and sand underground at high pressure to fracture the rock and release trapped oil and gas.
Fears of runaway household bills in the new year have been mounting since rising gas prices began bankrupting suppliers in September.
Russian exports made up 30 per cent of Europe's total gas supplies in 2010, but in the first half of 2021 made up more than 45 per cent according to data gathered by Statista- with the main customers being Germany, Italy, France and Austria.
Meanwhile Australia had instructed security officials in Ukraine to open up talks with the government about providing help to defend against cyber attacks.
Europe's gas markets are linked by a network of interconnecting pipelines, and while some countries have cut their reliance on Russian gas over the years, many would be unable to satisfy demand should Russia decide to slash their supply.
Boris Johnson today warned Vladimir Putin that invading Ukraine will be a 'painful, violent and bloody business' as the UK pulled staff from its embassy in Keiv.
Civilian volunteers who are part of the Ukrainian territorial army take part in training near Kiev at the weekend
The Russian strongman has already named his price for increasing supplied to the continent: Approval of his Nord Stream 2 pipeline into Europe, bypassing Ukraine and depriving it of transportation revenues.
Britain was self-sufficient for natural gas less than 20 years ago - but now imports more than half of it from Europe including some from Russia
Peskov said the probability of military conflict in eastern Ukraine being initiated by the Ukrainian side was higher than ever.
It also warned that even if Russia ramps up its supplies to the region, north west Europe is likely to see gas prices at around double their normal levels.
Meanwhile in Washington, the U.S. State Department announced it was ordering the departure of eligible family members from Embassy Kyiv due to the threat of Russian military action.
If he chooses to do so, it will also send UK prices soaring. Britain used to supply 100 per cent of its own gas from the North Sea, but dwindling government investment driven in part by environmental fears mean we now get just 43 per cent from our own supply, with 44 per cent from Europe. Shortages over there will mean price hikes here.
Another significant portion is made up of European imports, with a pipeline across the North Sea from Norway to the UK being by far the largest source - 20 percent - from the continent, with both The Netherlands and Belgium also supplying the UK with some of its gas.
The Kremlin denounced NATO's movements, accusing the West of ramping up tensions by spreading 'hysteria' about war in Ukraine - which he said is now more likely than ever due to arms shipments to the region.
The UK has ordered some of its embassy staff out of Ukraine pictured, the embassy in Kiev due to fears that Russia could launch an attack
