Russian state TV calls for REPARATIONS from the US over sanctions Putins lapdogs demand return of Alaska and Californias Fort Ross threaten nuclear strikes on US and call for public hangings in Ukraine
20220315
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10614915/Russian-state-TV-demands-REPARATIONS-sanctions-public-hangings-Ukraine.html
'I still think that those who took our money should be told, you have 24 hours to unfreeze our funds, or else well send you what you know weve got.
After a clip of Fox News' Tucker Carlson, Matveychev blasted the US: 'There isnt a single country in the world that is as easily manipulated as America.'
Former boxing champion Klitschko announced today a 36-hour curfew from 8pm 6pm GMT on Tuesday until 7am 5am GMT on Thursday at the 'decision of the military command' after an apartment building in Kyiv was hit this morning, killing at least four people pictured
Your choice. Tactical or strategic, take a pick. You took our money, youre the thieves, our talk is short with you: a bullet to the head,' he said.
An elderly woman breaks down in tears after being saved from an apartment fire that was caused by a Russian airstrike
On Thursday, a Moscow political science expert said of executing Ukrainian citizens by hanging, 'morality shouldn't get in the way.'
Alaska and Fort Ross in California were part of the Russian empire in the 18th and 19th centuries before they were sold to the United States.
'Never let morality prevent you from undertaking correct actions. I understand the importance of a humanitarian component,' she said.
Moscow's TV pundits and show hosts have also begun endorsing the idea of publicly hanging Ukrainians who are standing against Russia -- something the Kremlin has reportedly already mulled, according to Bloomberg.
In addition to Biden, Russia's sanctions list includes US officials Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chair Mark Milley and Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo.
Putin's 'spin doctor,' Duma member OlegMatveychev, appeared on Russian state news on Sunday, outlining a series of demands for both Washington and Kyiv 'after Ukraines demilitarization is completed.'
The Russian Empire had a significant foothold in North America during the 19th century, history shows.
The Russian-American company built Fort Ross, less than three hours outside of modern-day San Francisco, in 1812. The settlement was sold into private hands in 1841, after its rich marine life had been depleted and residents found the conditions for farming difficult.
The first Russian colony on Alaska was founded in 1784, named Three Saints Bay. There began the Russian-American Company, a trading monopoly chartered by Czar Paul I in 1799 which drove the Empire's expansion in North America.
A member of Russia's parliament called for reparations from the United States on Sunday -- including the return of historic settlements in Alaska and California -- over the west's vast economic sanctions.
It comes as Russian and Ukrainian officials meet for another round of peace talks Tuesday.
He also called for the extradition of Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Russia's state-run doping program who revealed the operation in a bombshell 2016 New York Times interview. Rodchenkov is reportedly living under witness protection in the US.
Meanwhile in the latest escalation of tension between the White House and the Kremlin, Moscow's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov announced new sanctions on Tuesday against 11 Americans including President Joe Biden himself, Hunter Biden, and White House press secretary Jen Psaki.
People take photos of destruction after Russian attacks in Kyiv, Ukraine on March 15. Russian state television has in recent days been normalizing the idea of public hangings for Ukrainians who resist Russia's invasion
A view of destruction after Russian attacks in Kyiv, Ukraine on March 15. On Sunday, a member of Russia's Duma listed a series of demands for Ukraine and the United States for 'after Ukraines demilitarization is completed'
Russia ran several settlements in North America during the 19th century, among two of the most prominent being California's Fort Ross and various colonies in Alaska
A Russian television host called for military tribunals followed by public hangings for pro-Ukraine fighters in its cities in a television clip posted to Twitter Sunday by a Daily Beast reporter.
'Heres what will be on the table after our victory... were going to raise the stakes,' he promised.
Matveychev began his list with 'the dissolution of NATO,' adding that 'the presence of NATO in some countries is getting in our way.'
'That was my next point. As well as the Antarctic,' Matveychev said. 'We discovered it, so it belongs to us.'
Vladimir Putin's stuttering invasion has forced even his close allies to admit, publicly, that things are not going to plan but, as Russia's invasion falters, its methods become more brutal - with cities increasingly coming under indiscriminate rocket fire pictured, a Ukrainian soldier inspects the rubble of a destroyed apartment building in Kyiv on Tuesday
Fort Ross, a former Russian establishment on the west coast of North America in what is now Sonoma County, California. The former community and trading outpost for the Russian-American Company is now a California State Historic Park after it was sold by the Russian-American company into private hands in 1841
'We should be thinking about reparations from the damage that was caused by the sanctions and the war itself, because that too costs money and we should get it back,' Matveychev said onSunday Evening With Vladimir Solovyov.
The president's son Hunter Biden and former Secretary of State Antony Blinken are also included.
Also on Tuesday, the US sanctioned 11 more Kremlin officials as well as Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and his wife.
On Sunday Matveychev appeared to dismiss the idea of using nuclear weapons to achieve victory, declaring: 'What for? We can take them down without it.'
The people sanctioned by Moscow range from key players in President Joe Biden's foreign policy team and his advisers on economic sanctions to high-profile messengers - and a mischievous dig at the president's own family
Host Solovyov however, whose two Italian villas were recently seized amid the flurry of sanctions, called for executions or even nuclear strikes for 'those who took our money.'
Kremlin 'spin doctor' Oleg Matveychev shared a list of demands on Russian state TV for 'after Ukraines demilitarization is completed.'Matveychev began his list with 'the dissolution of NATO,' adding that 'the presence of NATO in some countries is getting in our way.' Next was 'extradition of all war criminals,' including Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and former President Petro Poroshenko
The Russian-American company built Fort Ross, less than three hours outside of modern-day San Francisco, in 1812. The settlement was sold into private hands in 1841.
The Kremlin has been flooding the airwaves of its state-run channels with pro-war propaganda that paints a vastly different portrait to reality and shields the Russian people from the horrors of Vladimir Putin's bloody invasion of Ukraine, the Daily Beastfirst reported.
Alaska, Russia's final North American territory, was sold to the US in 1867 during Andrew Johnson's presidency for $7.2 million -- which would be approximately $144.4 million in 2021.
Another Kremlin-controlled Sunday news show,Vesti Nedeli or 'News of the Week,' played a segment called 'Denazification of Ukrainethe new opportunities for growth' that featured images of the 1946 public executions of German Nazis in Kyiv's Independence Square.
Solovyov asked if the lawmaker specifically meant Alaska and the former Russian settlement of Fort Ross, California.
In 1815 and 1816 the company struck a deal with the Kingdom of Hawaii to open three short-lived outposts on its islands. The Russians were thrown out of Hawaii in 1817 after locals revolted against them for building a fort and raising a Russian flag on their territory.
The Russian ruler envisioned a monopoly that would trade furs with natives of the region as well as expand the empire's colonial territory.
Next was 'extradition of all war criminals,' including Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, former President Petro Poroshenko, and former deputy minister at the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs Anton Herashchenko.
Its first colony on the continent was founded in Alaska in 1784, named Three Saints Bay. There began the Russian-American Company, a trading group chartered by Czar Paul I in 1799 which drove the Empire's expansion in North America.
Alaska was sold to the US in 1867 during Andrew Johnson's presidency for $7.2 million -- which would be approximately $144.4 million in 2021.
Earlier on Sunday Matveychev appeared to set the stage for persecuting Ukrainians who are resisting Russia's invasion.
A host on Russian state television called for military tribunals and subsequent hanging for Ukrainians opposed to Moscow's invasion. He said:In the area where the special military operation for de-Nazification is taking place, I would restore the death penalty by hanging through a military tribunal, for terrorists and people who threaten peaceful civilians, and for those who abuse our captives. In my opinion, it is fundamentally important'
He continued, 'The return of all Russian properties, those of the Russian empire, the Soviet Union and current Russia, which has been seized in the United States, and so on.'
