RUSSIAUKRAINE LIVE Russians keep attacking Mariupol despite ceasefire Boris Johnson praises Sky News Stuart Ramsay and Foreign Office tells Brits to quit Russia
20220228
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10559377/Russia-Ukraine-live-updates-war-invasion.html
Kyiv and Moscow will hold peace talks at the border with Belarus, Volodymyr Zelensky confirmed
The Russian men's national team were scheduled to play Poland in a play-off for Qatar 2022 on March 24 - a match Poland said they would boycott - but the Poles have now been given a bye to the next round of qualifying.
At least 30 volunteers were today sorting out and loading up towering piles of donations which have flooded in to the Polish White Eagle Club in Balham, south London.
A Downing Street spokesman said: 'The President updated the Prime Minister on the Ukrainian resistance to the ongoing Russian invasion. The Prime Minister commended his bravery and that of the Ukrainian people.'
Ukrainian prisoners with combat experience will be released from jail and allowed to serve their debt to society on the front lines of the conflict with Russia, President Volodymyr Zelensky announced today.
The Wycombe Swan theatre said it would 'stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine' following the invasion of their country.
"This is a very dangerous path".The possibility of Belarus becoming a 'nuclear country' is "very dangerous", says the EU's JosepBorrellF, adding that it will result in 'Russia putting nuclear weapons in Belarus'.https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 pic.twitter.comvGKkmBM4Dd
PM warns 'radioactive clouds' from nuclear plant seized by Russians could spread over Europe https:t.coFuQgFVgJID
Boris Johnson has praised the 'astonishing courage' of British journalists covering Vladimir Putin's bloody invasion of Ukraine after a team of reporters were shot and injured by a suspected Russian 'assassination squad' in Kyiv. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
Joining Peston  AnushkaAsthana is exiled leader of the opposition in Belarus, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya Tsihanouskaya Well discuss  Belarus relationship with Russia Fighting for democracySanctions  on  itvpeston   itv    Peston pic.twitter.compBZL5b6JfH
'Our contribution to the non-lethal strand of that peace facility does not undermine our military neutrality,' Micheal Martin told reporters in Dublin. 'We are not politically neutral, and have never been politically neutral in the sense that we uphold democratic values and democratic principles.'
Footage from inside a high-rise building in Kyiv shows the devastation caused from a Russian missile, in which six civilians were reportedly injured.
The United Nations' nuclear watchdog has said missiles hit a radioactive waste disposal site in Kyiv.
VIDEO: Passengers arrive in the Finnish capital of Helsinki from St Petersburg, the only current rail link between Russia and the EU.Since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, large numbers of Russians are reported to be looking to leave the country pic.twitter.comBJCY70V3rQ
Football's world governing body announced sanctions against Russia on Sunday, but they stopped short of an outright ban on participating in international competition.
The Ukrainian president has indicated that he would like his country to join the European Union as soon as possible. But, speaking in Dublin today, Micheal Martin said: 'I dont know whether it can be done immediately.'
Life has been 'a rollercoaster'over the past few weeks, according to a UK expat who is now in Poland after deciding it was too dangerous to stay with his family in Kyiv.
Britain is to provide a further 40 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine in a bid to create much-needed access to basic necessities, the Government has announced.
PA: Russias flagship airline has halted all international flights except to Belarus in the wake of Ukraine war sanctions
The Aston Villa defender was cautioned after opening the scoring in his side's 2-0 win at Brighton for removing his shirt to reveal a message of solidarity for his Polish international team-mate Tomasz Kedziora, who plays for Dynamo Kiev.
How Russia's billionaire oligarchs are moving luxury yachts around the world to avoid sanctionsEXCLUSIVE from cahalmilmo and deankirby https:t.coVFMrlTYo26
The Prime Minister told his Cabinet that it was 'increasingly clear' the Russian president had been wrong to assume his tanks would be 'garlanded with roses'.
Pension funds worth almost 300,000 should be divested from Russia's largest financial institution, Sberbank, according to the Scottish Greens and Liberal Democrats.Here is the full story from the Press Association:
Shadow culture secretary Lucy Powell says the UK must send a "clear and categoric message" that Russia will be "fully excluded" from all sporting events following its invasion of Ukraine.Live updates: https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comuKlFa54Xgz
Ukrainian operatic baritone Yuriy Yurchuk sings his countrys national hymn outside 10 Downing Street in London, in a plea for peace. pic.twitter.com8ZzSsnJFDL
Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko warns the West's sanctions on Russia are pushing the Kremlin into WWIII
Over in Washington DC this morning, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that the US will close its embassy in Minsk following reports that Belarus may join Russia' invasion of Ukraine.
Petrol has surged past the grim milestone of 1.50 a litre for the first time.Industry data out this morning shows the Russia-Ukraine crisis is already impacting pump prices: petrol now on average 151.25p a litre  diesel now 154.72p a litre on average CostOfLivingCrisis
Kharkiv, which has witnessed some of the heaviest fighting of the war so far, was hit by rockets fired from Russian positions - with video showing an area around a major shopping centre blanketed by explosions.
Bel Mooney wrote in today's Daily Mail about how an appeal has been launched for donations to help the innocent people of Ukraine.
There were no initial reports of damage to the buildings or indications of a release of radioactive material but further monitoring is underway.
A rattled Vladimir Putin today ranted about the West's 'empire of lies' as worldwide sanctions caused the rouble to tumble and sparked a nationwide rush to withdraw cash.
 Ukraine's MoD says Russia has lost 5,300 soldiers, 29 planes, 29 helicopters and 151 tanks
Ukraine has paraded captured Russian soldiers in dozens of online videos as Moscow finally admitted its forces have sustained heavy losses after pictures showing bodies of Kremlin fighters emerged.
Ian Umney, an English teacher from London, travelled to the country to rescueNelia and their little boy. The former cybersecurity worker vowed he was 'on the way to reunite with my family by whatever means'.
Anti-corruption campaigner Bill Browder explains why the UK has been slow to impose sanctions on Russian oligarchs.
His Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said: 'This is the choice of Ukraine and Ukrainian people. We more than deserve it.'
The Transport Secretary acted after protests that a Moscow-owned tanker was due to dock in Orkney tomorrow.
The 34-year-old, who has been boxing world champion in three different weight divisions, was initially reported to have left for Greece in the wake of Russia's invasion, but has now returned to join the battle.
'The Prime Minister wants Fifa to take the strongest possible action on this and doesn't think their current measures go far enough,' Mr Johnson's official spokesman said.
Boris Johnson today vowed to send more weapons to Ukraine as he warned Vladimir Putin he has made a 'colossal mistake' by invading.
Chief Sky correspondent Stuart Ramsay was hit by a bullet in the lower back while in a car carrying his crew towards Kyiv on Monday.
Whatever political disagreements any of us have with Liz Truss - and I have many deep differences with her - we should not fall for this transparent Russian attempt to divert. The only person responsible for Putins despicable nuclear threat is Putin. https:t.cox1iz7zLnsM
Mr Wallace said he did not 'want to see British people killed any more than I want to see Ukrainians' dying after Cabinet colleague Liz Truss said she would 'absolutely' support British nationals who chose to go to help fight against the Russian invasion.
All donations to the Mail Ukraine Appeal will be distributed to charities and aid organisations providing such essential services. Read more here on the MailOnline:
Russia's feared Omon paramilitary thugs have been taking to the streets to stamp out any opposition to Vladimir Putin 's invasion of Ukraine .
Russian TV personality Vladimir Soloviev has been left fuming about how the conflict has cost him access to his Italian luxury villas.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
Petrol has now surged past the milestone of 1.50 a litre for the first time, with Russia's invasion of Ukraine starting to impact pump prices.
Devastating photos have laid bare the horror of Vladimir Putins lawless invasion of Ukraine, as one image showed a baby being rescued from the scene of a brutal attack near Kyiv as the Russian tyrant continues denying bombing Ukrainian cities. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
Michelle O'Neill also urged the European Union to take greater sanctions against Vladimir Putin's regime, describing a 'global threat to us all'.
The human rights charity said 'a 220mm Uragan rocket dropped cluster munitions on the Sonechko nursery and kindergarten in the town of Okhtyrka in Sumy Oblast' on Friday. It added: 'The strike may constitute a war crime.'
Home Secretary Priti Patel has said a further 100,000 Ukrainians will be able to seek sanctuary in the UK, reports the Daily Mail's John Stevens.
Today at 1pm on Sky News we'll have a special programme looking at the latest developments in the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Today 1pm Sky 501, Virgin 602 and Freeview 233 YouTube: https:t.coaYcF7hirCf Sky News app
An expat fleeing Ukraine with his two-week-old baby has slammed the British Government for its heartless refusal to fast-track a visa for his wife.
VIDEO: In Ukraine's western city of Lviv, a military hospital treats soldiers wounded in the war with Russia. Not all are so lucky: "near us, a metre away from me, a mine blew off my friend's arms and legs", confides Yevhen, whose resolve to fight remains undimmed pic.twitter.comM2UGK8AZWn
Ukrainian father Ruslan Gladsky revealed his wife and children are now safely over the border in Hungary. Gladkiy was pictured embracing his son Hordeiy in a emotional goodbye as they parted at the train station.
With Kyiv's forces putting up fierce resistance and Russia facing huge economic pain, the PM told Cabinet it was 'increasingly clear' the president had been wrong to assume his tanks would be 'garlanded with roses'.
General Richard Dannatt, a former Chief of the General Staff, has described the conflict as 'the most critical military situation that I have seen in my lifetime'.
"There are many ways to help Ukraine".Defence Secretary Ben Wallace says there are "better ways" to help Ukraine than travelling to join the fighting, for those in the UK without military experience.https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comswnQIpIOVG
Ukraine's leader said inmates will be able to 'compensate for their guilt in the hottest spots', in a presidential video address this morning which you can watch here:
The full story can be seen by visiting our Facebook page, where you an also find links to many of today's other top stories:
After men between the ages of 18 and 60 were drafted into the Ukrainian army, the women and children still in Ukraine have started to prepare a makeshift arsenal of weapons to use against invading Russian forces in a mass civilian resistance campaign.
 Russia's MoD has for the first time acknowledged suffering losses, but refused to say how many
Liz Truss today announced the UK will freeze the assets of all Russian banks within days as she set out the Government's latest sanctions against Vladimir Putin.
The astounding generosity of Mail readers reduced staff working on our Ukraine Appeal to tears yesterday.
Speaking on nationwide TV amid a frenzy of anti-Western rhetoric, TV anchor Dmitry Kiselyov told viewers: 'Our submarines can shoot more than 500 nuclear warheads. This would guarantee destruction of the USA, and all other NATO countries.'
A group of Ukrainians sang the national anthem in front of Russian tanks in Berdyansk.
Dramatic footage shows the moment that an explosion rocked the Ukrainian capital after night fell today.
The move was described as the most 'significant action' that Treasury has taken against an economy of Russia's size, according to a senior administration official.
Brian Cox, Jessica Chastain and Michael Keaton were among the Hollywood stars who expressed solidarity with the country's citizens at the 28th annual ceremony in Los Angeles.
Sponsors have backed away from their connection to Russian players, while lower leagues have limited their participation.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has urged Britons not to travel to Ukraine to join the fighting, and help in other ways, such as donating money through the Ukrainian embassy to be spent on weaponry and aid, or to volunteer with organisations helping refugees.
Washington Post: Russian players have faced online threats and alleged verbal abuse, prompting the NHL and some teams to bolster security.
She has encouraged readers to help during what she says could be the worst refugee crisis on the European continent since the fall of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s.
Simon Coveney, speaking amid growing calls for the Russian ambassador to be expelled, said that he understood public and political anger directed at Russia and Yury Filatov as the country's representative in Ireland.
Ukraine's ambassador to the United Nations, Sergiy Kyslytsya, has compared the Russian invasion of Ukraine to the beginning of the Second World War.Latest: https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comvQrA09DdmM
President Zelensky has signed a request for Ukraine to join the EU 'immediately' as troops withstand a fierce Russia onslaught.
The UN human rights chief said today that at least 102 civilians, including seven children, had been killed in Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion five days ago.
And today marks the start of a crucial 24 hours for the country with tensions at their highest following a threat by Russian President Vladimir Putin to put his nuclear deterrent forces on 'alert'.
A huge thank you to our  ever generous DailyMail readers who donated 268,000 to our UkrainianAppeal on its first day alone. The Mails publisher has added 12 million to that. The money will be going to reputable charities working on the ground to help stricken families  pic.twitter.comvpvue8sRZi
.markaustintv provides an exclusive behind the scenes diary for Press Gazette of eight days in Ukraine where he went from covering a dancing competition to being on the frontline of a war https:t.co4ydP4hHaJV
Dramatic video filmed in the Ukrainian capital showed the moment that the night lit up with an enormous fire ball, which reportedly stemmed from a military radar communication center.
Following the package of sanctions announced by Boris Johnson last week, ministers will table the Economic Crime Transparency and Enforcement Bill - previously expected later in the session - in Parliament on Tuesday.
"It's been a rollercoaster".UK expat Stuart McKenzie tells Sky News of his journey to Poland from Ukraine, saying he didn't initially want to leave, he wanted to stay and "support Ukraine".https:t.coX3flQUBL0r Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.comk5V31pUE5w
Shadow culture secretary Lucy Powell has said Russia should be banned from all international sporting and cultural events.
Holyrood's pension investments should be moved from a Russian state-owned bank in the wake of the Ukraine invasion, MSPs have said.
Ukraine invasion: Tankers turned away as UK workers refuse to handle Russian fuel  https:t.co6zQvqBozVj
The currency sank 30 in early trading before easing back to stand 20 down. Its collapsing value risks wiping out the savings of ordinary Russians, who have been seen flocking to ATMs all over the country to empty their accounts, including in Putin's home city of St Petersburg.
Two Russian billionaires have become the first powerful oligarchs to speak out and call for an end to the conflict triggered by Vladimir Putin's assault on Ukraine.
Map of Europe showing the influx of Ukrainian refugees into European countries, as of February 28 at 1050 GMT, according to the UNHCR pic.twitter.comevXZjy7SRk
Mail readers yesterday gave 268,000 on the first day of our Ukraine Appeal as Britain's political leaders united behind our crusade to help the desperate.
A Ukrainian brewery has switched from making beer to producing Molotov cocktail petrol bombs to fight off Russian forces https:t.cowTcq7LRqPM pic.twitter.come34q1HrfgD
Travel expert Paul Charles has revealed there was a 40 per cent drop in flights to and from Europe, using Russian airspace, between February 20 and 27:
FIFA has been branded an 'absolute disgrace' for failing to throw Russia out of the World Cup and allowing the nation to continue playing international football.
UPDATE Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov says Moscow is demanding guarantees from the US before backing the Iran nuclear deal, citing the current wave of Western sanctions against Russia pic.twitter.comLdMZPeD4Ys
The International Organization for Migration says the number of people who have left Ukraine since fighting began has now reached 1.45 million. https:t.co4EMeoI19wo
Multiple Russian news sites have been hit by the hacktivist group Anonymous - just one of the stories relating to the Ukraine invasion which are being covered on our Instagram page:
Prince Michael of Kent, the Queen's cousin, has returned the Order of Friendship award he was given by the Kremlin following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
See the photo below, and read the full story by clicking on the link above.
Russia appears to have used banned cluster munitions to indiscriminately shell civilian areas in Ukraine's east that had stood up to Vladimir Putin's invasion in what would constitute a war crime
Watch the video here and read the full report from MailOnline's chief reporter Martin Robinson:
Two rounds also hit camera operator Richie Mockler in his body armour during the ambush. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
Premier League referees have been told to allow players to show support for Ukraine without receiving yellow cards following Matty Cash's controversial booking last Saturday.
The Kremlin has blamed the UK's Foreign Secretary Liz Truss for ordering Russia's nuclear deterrent to be on high alert, claiming she made 'absolutely unacceptable' remarks.
More than 500,000 people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded with the figure set to double by Friday.
Berdyansk, a port city with a naval base on the northern coast of the Sea of Azov in the south-east Ukraine, is home to 100,000 people.
John Branch, NYT: Freestyle skier Oleksandr Abramenko won Ukraine's only medal at the Beijing Olympics. Tonight he sleeps in a Kyiv parking garage with his family. I asked him to take a photo and send it to me. This is him with his wife, Alexandra, and their 2-year-old, Dmitry.
A Ukrainian brewery has switched from making beer to producing Molotov cocktail petrol bombs to fight off Russian forces. Here is the full report and video from Reuters:
Scotland's First Minister has said failure to waive visa requirements for Ukrainians seeking refuge could be 'embarrassing' to the UK Government.
Home Sec Priti Patel says a further 100,000 Ukrainians will be able to seek sanctuary in the UK
Breaking The US has cut off the Russian central bank and sanctioned the state investment fund in a hard-hitting retaliation for the Ukraine invasion pic.twitter.comlNWC5CumaI
A theatre in Buckinghamshire has cancelled upcoming performances by the Russian State Ballet company, adding that it is 'shocked and appalled' by the escalating conflict.
PayPal has become the latest high profile firm to suspend its operation in Russia as the 'Great Cancellation' ofVladimir Putincontinues after theinvasion of Ukraine.
The Russian-Israeli billionaire has come under pressure to speak out following the invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin's forces.There have been calls in Parliament for him to face sanctions as a major oligarch 'with links to the Russian state'.
The Russian-Israeli billionaire is believed to have flown into the eastern European country ahead of peace talks between Ukrainian and Russian officials later today.
The FTSE 100 moved 1.02 - or 79.3 points - lower to 7,412.4 points shortly after the markets opened.
Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is trying to broker a peaceful end to the war in Ukraine, his spokesman said today.
According to the Interfax news agency, Mr Peskov said: 'Statements were made by various representatives at various levels on possible altercations or even collisions and clashes between Nato and Russia. We believe that such statements are absolutely unacceptable. I would not call the authors of these statements by name, although it was the British foreign minister.'
Ukrainians in Mariupol sheltered in a gym on Sunday to wait out the fighting which raged on outside and many of those taking refuge had young children with them pic.twitter.comFoAzaWZ3eN
Ken Stewart, 54, from Edinburgh , his Ukrainian wife Tanya, 36, and their two young children were battling to reach the sanctuary of Poland yesterday before heading to Britain.
The EU has unveiled a new package of sanctions against Putin's regime, closing off its airspace to all Russian planes and banning Kremlin propaganda outlets Russia Today and Sputnik
Boris Johnson , who joined a mass at a Ukrainian church in London last night, said thousands of refugees would benefit from the suspension of normal visa rules in light of the humanitarian crisis sparked by Russia 's invasion.
Russia have been suspended from all UEFA and FIFAcompetitions, including the World Cup play-offs, the governing bodies have announced, following the invasion on Ukraine last week
A popular advertising campaign featuring Russian meerkats is to be pulled from TV news sections in the wake of Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
A group of former Army and Special Forces soldiers have been gathered by Mamuka Mamulashvili, 43, commander of the Georgian National Legion,to fight against Russian forces.
'Would you, like the foreign secretary Liz Truss, say that if anybody wants to  go over a fight on the Ukrainian's behalf from the UK is welcome to do so?''I probably wouldn't.'Armed Forces Minister says people should abide by travel advice  not travel to Ukraine to fight. pic.twitter.comTfkXiiFDuE
Volunteers in the UK have been inundated with donations for Ukrainian refugees. Bishop Kenneth Nowakowski from the Ukrainian Catholic Church tells BBCBreakfast which items are most needed  https:t.coWlSEzhD5RM pic.twitter.comJX9uHsgd0L
'I pay special attention the the owners of shops and chains, pharmacies on the price of basic products, basic necessities and medicines: Do not raise prices, taking advantage of the situation. Because during the war, it's no better than looting.'
Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is trying to broker a deal end to the war in Ukraine and has already arrived in Belarus to assist in peace talks, it was reported today.
Over the weekend, Roman Abramovich announced he was handing the 'stewardship and care' of Chelsea to the club's foundation trustees, but would remain as owner.
The IOC decision follows an Executive Board meeting where Russia's invasion of Ukraine was discussed and it paved the way for FIFA to finally suspend the Russian football team from the World Cup.
UEFA have cancelled their sponsorship deal with Russian energy company Gazprom, European football's governing body said on Monday, reacting to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
 Russia orders people and companies to sell 80 per cent of their revenue in foreign currencies, forcing them to buy the ruble to help prop it up
A 'red alert' as issued in Kyiv moments ago, just minutes after a powerful explosion was seen.
'London is to Russia what Hong Kong is to China.'Anti-corruption campaigner Bill Browder explains why the UK has been slow to impose sanctions on Russian oligarchs.IainDale  Billbrowder pic.twitter.comHD6uJJmOAe
Stuart McKenzie told Sky News he initially wanted to stay and 'support Ukraine' but decided with his wife that 'if there was any danger to our children - that is the point we would have to leave the city'. They left at 4.30am and could hear 'bombs dropping in Kyiv' as they went.
For those of you wondering what life is like for journalists reporting in Kyiv, Sky News presenter Mark Austin has written a fascinating behind the scenes diary for Press Gazette:
Half a million Ukrainians have become refugees because of Russia's invasion, the UN said today.
One section of the Ready.gov website for nuclear explosions tells Americans: 'Stay inside for 24 hours unless local authorities provide other instructions.
When Volodymyr Zelensky was elected President of Ukraine in 2019, the mainstream media treated his elevation as a bit of a joke.
Dominic Sandbook writes in the Daily Mail today that he 'cannot believe the Russian president would willingly initiate a nuclear conflict in which tens of millions of his own people would surely be destroyed'.
Volunteers in the UK are collecting donations for Ukrainian refugees, and the BBC spoke to Bishop Kenneth Nowakowski from the Ukrainian Catholic Church today about what is needed:
Russia has declared a temporary ceasefire to allow hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian civilians in the besieged port city of Mariupol and the town of Volnovakha to evacuate after the Kremlins war of terror brought devastation to heavily populated areas. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
Evening Standard owner Evgeny Lebedev has used his platform as a media mogul to call for an end of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The American government is also warning Belarus that it could risk further sanctions if it helps Putin continue his assault.
Media mogul Evgeny Lebedev has used the Evening Standard newspaper to appeal to Vladimir Putin to stop the invasion of Ukraine.
The European Commission president also said trust in Putin is 'completely broken and eroded', as Brussels unveiled a new package of sanctions.
Heart-wrenching pictures have captured the death of an innocent six-year-old child in unicorn pyjamas after being shelled at home by the Russians.
A Ukrainian MP in Kyiv has called on western powers like the UK to do more to help following Russia's invasion, warning 'this is not about diplomacy any more... we are at war'.
Volodymyr Zelensky has urged Ukrainians to continue fighting Vladimir Putins forces following allegations that Russian troops are shelling Mariupol despite agreeing a ceasefire to allow hundreds of thousands of civilians to escape the strategic port city. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
More than 400 Russian mercenaries have been flown in from Africa to assassinate Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky, it was revealed last night.
Vladimir Putin putting Russia 's nuclear deterrent on 'alert' 'sounds like a direct threat of nuclear war', aNobel Peace Prize winner has warned.
The Wagner Group - which is believed to have a hit list of 23 key figures including the Klitschko brothers - is considered by military experts to be at the beck and call of Valdimir Putin although the Kremlin has repeatedly denied this.
The 'overall rate of Russian air and artillery strikes observed over the past 24 hours has been lower than in previous days', according to an intelligence briefing from the Ministry of Defence MoD.The MoD said Ukraine continues to hold Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol and there have been reports of street fighting in Sumy.'It is highly likely that all four cities are encircled by Russian forces,' the update said.'Russian forces are probably advancing on the southern port city of Mykolaiv.There is a realistic possibility that some forces will attempt to circumvent the city to prioritise progression towards Odesa.'
Ben Wallace today revealed he has assured his son there will not be a nuclear war despite Vladimir Putin putting Russia's arsenal on high readiness.
A second round of talks to end Russia's attack on Ukraine willtake place after the first meeting ended without resolution.
Anonymous have apparently targeted three Russian state news agencies and urged Russia to 'stop this madness' after attacking Kremlin-backed channel RTandthe Kremlin website.
The first set of talks, which were held in Belarus on Monday afternoon, ended with Kyiv slamming Russia's destructive processes'
Safe at last  with thanks to Mail readers  two-year-old Leonel escaped from hell and asked his mother: 'Is the monster coming?'
Bundesliga side Schalke 04 have confirmed they are cancelling their partnership with Russian state-owner sponsor Gazprom.
Dominic Raab today backed plans to seize mansions from wealthy Putin allies and use them to house Ukrainian refugees - as he admitted sanctions are being held up by fears of a 'propaganda coup' for Moscow if cases are not watertight. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
 Russian economy entered freefall as Western sanctions put in place over the weekend took effect, with ruble sliding to its lowest level ever
Canada is launching an investigation into a Moscow-bound Aeroflot flight that entered its airspace on Sunday and violated the country's ban on all Russian flights due to the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
The BBC have said they will broadcast 'Putins War in Ukraine' at 7.30pm tonight on BBC One, to look at what is behind the Russian invasion:
The Daily Mail today featured a special report from Lviv's main railway station, where a couple of thousand people  mainly women and children  were lined several deep for a quarter of a mile of the platform edge as they waited for trains to save them from the horrors in their homeland.
The Daily Mail's deputy political editor John Stevens reports: 'Immigration minister Kevin Foster in Commons refuses to apologise for tweet suggesting Ukrainians could come to UK on seasonal worker visas for jobs such as fruit pickers'
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell has said the possibility of Belarus becoming a 'nuclear country' is 'very dangerous'. Watch his interview on Sky News here:
UPDATE The UN human rights chief said Monday that at least 102 civilians, including seven children, had been killed in Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion five days ago, warning the true numbers were likely far higher pic.twitter.comIqOF17WKYk
A YouGov survey has found three in four Britons would support allowing Ukrainian refugees to come to the UK without a visa.
FIFA have thrown Russia out of qualifying for the 2022 World Cup after the IOC called for sporting competitions to remove Russian athletes in wake of the invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian boxing hero Vasyl Lomachenko has returned home and enlisted in the territorial army in a bid to help defend his people from Russian soldiers.
Blasts have been heard overnight in several of Ukraine's cities including the capital Kyiv, Kharkiv, the country's second biggest city and Chernihiv, north of the capital.
The US Treasury Department today announced the implementation of new sanctions targeting the Russian central bank and state investment funds in the latest hard-hitting retaliation for the invasion of Ukraine.
This map of Europe from the AFP agency shows how many Ukrainians have fled into European countries since the invasion:
Boris Johnson spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky this afternoon, committing to send more military support 'in the coming hours and days'.
Women and children are joining the fight against Russian forces and preparing to defend their cities from invasion by Vladimir Putin.
The elusive computer experts have hackedTASS, Fontanka and Kommersant, with error messages showing up on the sites when they are accessed.Follow MailOnline's breaking news coverage here:
The US has cut off the Russian central bank and sanctioned the state investment fund in a hard-hitting retaliation for the Ukraine invasion.
The payment giant cited 'the current circumstances' as the reason for its withdrawal, joining dozens of other financial and tech companies in hastily abandoning the country. Read the full story on the MailOnline here:
Armed Forces Minister James Heappey has said today that people should abide by travel advice and not travel to Ukraine to fight.
A young boy reunited with his mother was one of the thousands of Ukrainians who crossed the border of neighbouring countries today to escape their war-torn homeland.
Google has temporarily disabled some Google Maps tools in Ukraine which provide live traffic data and how busy different places are in a bid to protect Ukrainians from the Russian military.
According to the BBC's Francis Scarr,she said: 'In Kyiv, the witch hunt is well underway. Ukrainian nationalists are annihilating the locals, and they're doing it extra-judicially.'
A captured Russian soldier has begged his family not to believe Moscow 'propaganda' as he claimed Putin's troops are killing children in Ukraine.
The bewildered toddler and his parents crossed from Ukraine into Slovakia yesterday and were welcomed by aid workers funded with donations from Mail Force. Read the full story and find out how you can donate on the MailOnline here:
Breaking Haas have terminated their contract with Russian driver Nikita Mazepin, the Formula One team have announced pic.twitter.comAIpS6328Qr
Watch Ukrainian singer Yuriy Yurchuk sing his countrys national hymn outside 10 Downing Street in Westminster during a demonstration:
Breaking Russias flagship airline has halted all international flights except to Belarus in the wake of Ukraine war sanctions pic.twitter.com5gsZFfzpp9
Vladimir Putin's closest advisers appeared perturbed when he dropped his bombshell about readying nuclear weapons yesterday.
Failure to waive visa requirements for Ukrainians seeking refuge could be 'embarrassing' to the UK Government, Scotlands First Minister has said.
A military quagmire, Vladimir Putin ousted or Russian victory: Experts outline five ways the Ukraine war could go, 10 days into Putin's invasion. Catch the full story on MailOnline here:
The Defence Secretary was asked about comments made by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss yesterday, where she supported anyone who wished to travel to the country to help fight the Russian invaders.
REUTERS: SpaceX's Elon Musk says Starlink has been told by some governments to block Russian news
Plans to evacuate the population have now been delayed as the Russian invasion enters its 10th day.
Grant Shapps today told UK ports to turn away Russian-linked ships saying they are 'not welcome'.
Ukrainian authorities released footage from inside the control room of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant that shows an announcer begging Russian soldiers to stop shooting at the plant. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
He added: 'We are facing what could easily be the worst humanitarian and refugee crisis in Europe in decades, when the number of refugees and internally displaced persons will increase by millions.'
Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that he understood the concerns about the warning made by the Russian leader, and revealed his own 12-year-old son called him worried about the step.
The i: How Russia's billionaire oligarchs are moving luxury yachts around the world to avoid sanctions
But Comparethemarket says it will now stop the adverts from appearing during TV news periods and around 'distressing content' involving the Ukraine conflict.
She said sports bodies such as Uefa and 'to some degree' Fifa have started to make 'moves in the right direction' to stop Russia's involvement, but a blanket ban is needed 'without delay', she said.
AFP: Passengers arrive in the Finnish capital of Helsinki from St Petersburg, the only current rail link between Russia and the EU.Since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, large numbers of Russians are reported to be looking to leave the country
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has urged Britons not to travel to Ukraine to join the fighting as he said the 'very dangerous' situation could lead to them being killed.
Dmitry Muratov, the editor of Moscow-based newspaperNovaya Gazeta, said the move meant 'if Russia isn't treated as he wants, then everything will be destroyed'.
The oil company saw a huge chunk wiped off its value following the announcement about abandoning the 19.75 per cent holding in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine.
Boris Johnson today warned Vladimir Putin he has made a 'colossal mistake' by invading Ukraine as he prepares to head to Europe pushing for even tougher sanctions.
Click here to find out the latest on the appeal, and how you can donate.
Prime minister Boris Johnson warns 'radioactive clouds' from nuclear plant seized by Russians could spread over Europe
'We fully recognise the strength of feeling about British people wanting to support the Ukrainians following the Russian invasion. There's advice up on travelling to Ukraine, we currently advise against travel to Ukraine.'
Britain today faced calls to be more generous to fleeing Ukrainians after a ministersuggested those escaping the warzone should apply to pick fruit - while a new scheme only allows those with family in the UK to get a visa.
The Defence Secretary admitted the 12-year-old had asked him about the risk, but insisted the president was trying to 'distract' from the stalled Ukraine invasion.
The 41-year-old, who is the son of powerful former KGB agent Alexander Lebedev, used the front page of the Evening Standard to implore Russian President Vladimir Putin to abandon his plans in Ukraine.
The Bank of Russia raised its key interest rate from 9.5 per cent to 20 per cent this morning because 'external conditions for the economy have drastically changed,'its board of directors said.
Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 05 March 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.colxblo0LTY6 StandWithUkraine  pic.twitter.comscyVonQwH9
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the decision on whether to ban the Russia Today channel was for OFCOM and not for himself to decide.Read more here: https:t.coBDfXlsLk1p pic.twitter.comwHtXQ14GWP
A British veteran sniper said he told his wife he was going birdwatching before travelling to the Ukraine to help fight Vladimir Putin's forces.
Scotland will send 4 million in humanitarian aid along with medical supplies to Ukraine, the Scottish Government has announced.
Heroic Ukrainians are continuing to fight back against Russian troops, standing in the way of tanks and refusing to comply with the invading forces as more stories of incredible bravery emerge from the war.
Priti Patel ruled out a visa waiver for Ukrainians fleeing the conflict with Russia because of fears that Moscow's troops and extremists could seek to come to the UK.
Britons have been asking how to help Ukrainians following Russia's full-scale invasion of the nation.
Kristina Rihanoff came under fire over the weekend for raging: 'I don't give a st about the war' on Twitter.
Downing Street said the funding will help aid agencies respond to the deteriorating humanitarian situation by providing Ukraine with medical supplies such as medicines, syringes, dressings and wound care packs.
The House of Commons sits from 2.30pm today.Find out whats on in the House of Commons today in the OrderPaper: https:t.cogeIRWJ3TA9Follow the Chamber in real time: https:t.coHEBiZuz0lv pic.twitter.compkJfIzapNx
The Anonymous collective have taken down three Russian news agency websites after attacking Kremlin-backed channel RT.
The Defence Secretary also said today that Vladimir Putin's nuclear warning is part of a 'battle of rhetoric'.
Cheques have arrived by the sackload  and from all across the UK  since the campaign launched last Sunday. Find full details of how to donate on MailOnline here:
Inna Sovsun, deputy leader of the Holos Party, said even stricter economic sanctions should be imposed on Russia and that Ukrainians require thousands more weapons, while a no-fly zone needs to be set up over the country to prevent air raids.
The Daily Mail's royal editor Rebecca English has issued a 'huge thank you to our ever generous' readers for their support in the Ukranian appeal.
Vast queues have been seen outside cash machines is Russia, despite the country's central bank hiking interest rates to 20 per cent in a bid to stop a run on the rouble.
Joe Biden's administration's guidelines on what Americans should do in the event of a nuclear explosion includes social distancing and masking provisions, it has emerged.
Colonel General Alexander Syrsky said 'all attempts' to breach the city failed and that the situation is currently 'under control'.
Six American special ops veterans are on the Polish border, ready to enter Ukraine and join the resistance against Putin's army after a call for help from President Zelensky.
Ukraine athletes call for peace after medal haul on day one of Winter Games https:t.coy0xORJ9m5M pic.twitter.com02aSH8cyMn
A group of unarmed civilians blocked one tank from entering the town of Koryukivka in the Chernihiv Oblast after forming a human barrier on the street.
A private militia known as the Wagner Group allegedly has orders from Vladimir Putin to take out Zelensky - and 23 other government figures - to allow Moscow to take over its eastern European neighbour.
Russian forces are said to have taken a small Ukrainian town in the south of the country.
Here's the latest from the International Olympic Committee's executive board on Russian athletes being allowed to participate in events:
AFP: In Ukraine's western city of Lviv, a military hospital treats soldiers wounded in the war with Russia. Not all are so lucky: 'Near us, a metre away from me, a mine blew off my friend's arms and legs', confides Yevhen, whose resolve to fight remains undimmed.
He indicated that Ireland might move to expel some Russian diplomats, but ruled out expelling the ambassador.
Boris Johnson is pushing the US and the EU to strengthen sanctions against Vladimir Putin by excluding all Russian banks from the SWIFT payment system, it was claimed today.
Dominic Lawson writes in the Daily Mail today that Vladimir Putin 'physically resembles a malevolent toddler and whose military might is a small fraction of Nato's, his economic resources pitiably smaller than the West's'.Here is his full column:
LBC: While European countries are 'hoovering up Russian assets', we have 'got to be suspicious' of the UK government giving oligarchs 'as much time to divest' as possible, johnkampfner of Chatham House tells LBC.
TheKlitschko brothers, heavyweight boxer Oleksandr Usyk and ex-Arsenal star Oleg Luzhny have taken centre-stage roles in the battle to defend their motherland .
BP shares slumped more than 4 per cent today as it faces a $25billion hit from ditching a stake in Russian energy giant Rosneft - with Britons' pensions feeling the pain.
The Ukrainian President's office said the two delegations will meet 'without preconditions' near the Pripyat River, to the north of Chernobyl
An irate Ukrainian sailor who tried to sink a rich Russian's 5million-plus yacht in the Med after war broke out at home has been set free and declared: 'I'd do it again'.
AP: The International Organization for Migration says the number of people who have left Ukraine since fighting began has now reached 1.45 million
Clutching her blood-covered hand to her mouth and carrying the child's slippers, pompom scarf and bobble hat, one woman, who could be her mother, was photographed as attempts were made toresuscitate her in the back of an ambulance.
Ireland may expel some Russian diplomats in the coming days, but will likely stop short of ejecting the ambassador, the Foreign Affairs Minister has said.
This is the shocking moment a Russian helicopter appears to go down in flames after being targeted by Ukrainian weapons. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
Nicola Sturgeon called on the Prime Minister to step in and allow anyone fleeing the Russian invasion to come to the UK, saying 'the paperwork can be sorted out later on'.
Ben Wallace said there were 'better ways' to help Ukraine than travelling to join the fighting, for those in the UK without military experience.
The cyber security team at Meta - parent of Facebook - has blocked a set of pro-Russian fake accounts and hacked social media profiles that were part of a scheme to undermine Ukraine, the tech giant has said.
Olga Skabeyeva, known as the 'iron doll of Putin TV', made the fake claim that a civil war has broken out in Ukraine and nationalists are killing their own neighbours.
Mayor of Kyiv Vitaly Klitschko has announced he will ban sales of alcohol in the city from tomorrow.
Boris Johnson does not believe football's ruling body has gone far enough to sanction the Russian team.
SpaceX's Musk says Starlink has been told by some governments to block Russian news https:t.congGCAL24Uh pic.twitter.comDwcnssCjw9
At a speech in New York at the UN General Assembly Secretary-General Antonio Gutteres said 500,000 Ukrainians have already fled their homeland.
The Press Association spoke to Ukrainians including young children who have sheltered in a gym in in Mariupol while fighting rages on outside:
Michael, 79, released the news in a short statement on Thursday after he was gifted the honour by then-President Dmitry Medvedev in 2009. Read the full story on the MailOnline here:
Ukraine's ambassador to the UN has compared the Russian invasion to the start of the Second World War.Watch his speech here on Sky News:
The Government is fast-tracking plans to tackle 'dirty money' and expose foreign oligarchs who launder their wealth through the UK's property market in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Dozens of civilians have been killed and hundreds wounded after Russian rocket artillery opened fire on Ukraine's second-largest city, authorities in Kyiv have said.
Anna Semyuk, 33, from Kamianets-Podilskyi in western Ukraine, hugged her son again after her husband had let a stranger take their children over the border and keep them safe as they fled the Russian invasion.
Russia's central bank has hiked interest rates as it desperately tries to stop the rouble crashing amid crippling sanctions from the West.
"He is outnumbered in nuclear deterrent 3-1 in Nato"Defence Secretary Ben Wallace tells Marthakearney that Vladimir Putin's warning about Russia's nuclear weapons to distract from their 'lack of success' invading Ukrainehttps:t.cooW2dr2laUL pic.twitter.comkwl5nJRhnr
Winners and presenters at the Screen Actors Guild SAG awards last night used their platforms at the ceremony to acknowledge the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
But his spokesman Dmitry Peskov went further on Monday to blame the escalation during Moscow's invasion of Ukraine on Ms Truss.
AFP: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov says Moscow is demanding guarantees from the US before backing the Iran nuclear deal, citing the current wave of Western sanctions against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine
Fifa stopped short of excluding Russia from the men's World Cup play-offs due to take place next month, instead ordering the team to play on neutral territory, behind closed doors and as the Football Union of Russia.
Sky News are promoting a special programme airing at 1pm this afternoon, looking at the latest developments in the Russian invasion of Ukraine:
Putin orders forces operating Russia's nuclear deterrent to be on alert amid simmering tensions with the West
Nearly 6,000 people have now been detained in antiwar protests across the country, with the helmeted cosmonauts in camouflaged riot gear regularly dragging away demonstrators.
Donald Trump on Friday told pro-golfer John Daly that he got along 'great' with Vladimir Putin and Russia didn't invade Ukraine under his watch because he threatened to bomb Moscow. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
The accounts were conducting a campaign of misinformation, pushing content supporting Russian activities and painting Ukraine as a pawn of the West, according to Meta.Read the full story on MailOnline here:
The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: 'We think the best way we can help Ukraine right now is by ensuring Putin fails. There are a number of ways Brits can show their support for that, and the Ukrainian embassy in London is putting out information about how British can support.
She told MPs she was following the 'strongest security advice' as she rejected the call to scrap the need for visas.
Click on the title above to read the full coverage on MailOnline, or watch the video below:
Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko has issued a chilling threat that the West's sanctions on Russia are pushing the Kremlin into a Third World War, after Vladimir Putin put his nuclear deterrent forces on 'alert'.
The Foreign Secretary said the UK will also move to prevent Russian banks from clearing payments in sterling.
Here is the report from MailOnline's Nick Pisa who is in Przemysl on the Polish-Ukraine border:
Vladimir Putin's 'propagandist-in-chief' has threatened the West with nuclear destruction just hours after the Russian leader put his deterrent forces on 'alert'.
The father-of-two, from Wirral, north west England, said his wife would 'freak out' when she realised that he had flew into Poland to join the fight in the Ukraine. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has claimed that Vladimir Putin placed nuclear deterrence forces on high alert after statements from Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
Writing in today's Daily Mail, he said Putin's placement of Russia's strategic nuclear deterrent forces on alert is tantamount to threatening the use of nuclear weapons.
Tears rolling down his face and his voice breaking with emotion, this little boy describes the fear and grief suffered by hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children now separated from their families because of the Russian invasion.
A Polish community centre has been 'overwhelmed' with donations from wellwishers who want to help Ukrainians forced to flee their homes after the Russian invasion.
A set of mysterious symbols have emerged on various buildings in Kyiv, sparking fears that Russian saboteurs may be marking out targets for a major aerial assault.
Sinn Fein's Stormont leader has called for the expulsion of Russian diplomats from London and Dublin over the invasion of Ukraine.
Standing by the side of Ukrainian President Zelensky is his wife, Olena Zelenska, 44, an architecture graduate turned comedy writer who, like her husband, remains steadfast in the face of Russian aggression.
The oil giant initially dropped by as much as 7, before moving back to roughly 4 lower at 363p per share following its decision to sell its nearly 20 stake in Russian oil business Rosneft.
In a statement, mayor Klitschko said: 'The sale of alcoholic beverages is stricly prohibited in the capital from tomorrow.
The International Olympic Committee has called on sports organisations to ban all Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials from international events.
Ukraine 's commander has said Kyiv survived another night under Russian attack with Putin's 'demoralised and exhausted' troops suffering 'heavy losses' trying and failing to break through defences in the city's outskirts.
Mark Goncharuk was interviewed as he headed west from Kyiv having just said goodbye to his father, who decided to stay behind to defend the capital from Putin's forces.
Over 66,200 Ukrainian men have returned from abroad to fight, says defence minister https:t.coLs2F6mEKSz pic.twitter.comWOga3gybvL
The club will be the pick-up point for much-needed 'quality items and not just things that people want to get rid of' - including pillows, blankets, duvets, sanitary items, sanitary wipes, toys and first aid kits - to be sent to the PolishUkraine border.
Downing Street has effectively contradicted Foreign Secretary Liz Truss after she said she would support Britons who chose to help Ukrainian troops fight Russia.
Priti Patel announced plans to boost the number of Ukrainian refugees allowed into Britain by 100,000 today amid criticism of UK help for civilians fleeing brutal fighting.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said that Putin's warning about nuclear weapons is trying to distract from their 'lack of success' invading Ukraine.
Robert Peston will present a programme on ITV at 10.45pm tonight after the news - with guests including Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the exiled leader of the opposition in Belarus.
scotgov today confirming initial humanitarian aid for Ukraine: 4 million plus the provision of essential medical supplies, inc anaesthetic machines, syringe pumps  bandages. We will work with aid agencies and other UK nations to get help to where it is most needed asap. https:t.cokg2KMyFFkL
The expressions of army general Valery Gerasimov and defence minister Sergey Shoygu were caught on camera as the Russian president put his atomic arsenal on stand-by.
Russian players have faced online threats and alleged verbal abuse, prompting the NHL and some teams to bolster security. Sponsors have backed away from their connection to Russian players, while lower leagues have limited their participation. https:t.cofLEFniK9VG
The Russian dancer, who served as a professional on Strictly Come Dancing from 2008 to 2015, shared the since-deleted post while detailing how her business had been impacted by the pandemic.
Chinese TV stations are refusing to show Premier League matches this weekend on government orders in protest at the clubs planned show of support for Ukraine. Read the full story at MailOnline here:
MailOnline's Whitehall correspondent David Wilcock has reported that Boris Johnson will travel to Poland and Estonia for meetings with his counterparts and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg tomorrow:
Nicola Sturgeon has dismissed claims that Russia put its nuclear weapons on high alert because of comments by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
The UK, European Commission, US, France , Germany, Italy and Canada announced last week that they had agreed to block selected Russian banks from SWIFT - one of the foundations of the global banking system.
The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: 'The bulk of Putin's ground forces remain more than 30km to the north of Kyiv their advance having been slowed by Ukrainian forces defending Hostomel airfield, a key Russian objective for day one of the conflict.'
Injuries were reported after the hit that local media say was at a military radar communication center in the Brovary area of Kyiv.
Dan Wootton writes for MailOnline today that the Ukrainian president has 'proven he's nothing like our craven modern politicians who don't give a damn about the folk they represent'.
Boris Johnson has spoken to Sky News today about the decision by the regulator Ofcom on whether to ban the Russia Today channel:
Petrol prices have skyrocketed today with one BP garage selling it for 175.9p a litre, according to Hull Live reporter Angus Young. Meanwhile the average soared to 151p for the first time ever.Read MailOnline's full coverage on fuel costs by clicking here.
Writing in the newspaper, which he owns, the crossbench peer - addressing Mr Putin - said: 'I plead with you to use today's negotiations to bring this terrible conflict in Ukraine to an end.'
In a change to the billed programme,  BBCPanorama Putins War in Ukraine will be broadcast tonight at 7:30pm on BBCOneWe look at what lies behind Putin's invasion, and how Ukraine and the rest of the world have respondedhttps:t.con72bB4AmWK pic.twitter.comz9GFVAqIUI
British nationals have been urged to consider leaving Russia in the wake of Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
'Continue to practice social distancing by wearing a mask and by keeping a distance of at least six feet between yourself and people who not sic part of your household.'
The men are joined by three British veterans and a German, all of whom are NATO-trained and ready to assist the Ukrainian territorial defence teams.
Pictures and videos show people in Saint Petersburg queuing around the corner to use nearby ATMs:
The House of Commons has said Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is due to make a statement to MPs on sanctions at 3.30pm.Here is today's schedule:
President ZelenskyyUA signed EU membership application for Ukraine. This is the choice of  and Ukrainian people. We more than deserve it. pic.twitter.comFRhLTfyjvJ
Vladimir Putin said he had placed Moscow's nuclear forces on a 'special regime of combat duty' in response to 'aggressive statements' from members of the Nato defence alliance.
She announced a new humanitarian route for those escaping the Russian onslaught after being accused of a 'toxic combination of incompetence and indifference' towards those seeking sanctuary.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has confirmed a meeting with a Russian delegation at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border.
We will not do anything to escalate in that areaPresident Putin has ordered Russia's nuclear forces on high alert. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace MP responds on BBCBreakfast https:t.coWlSEzhD5RM pic.twitter.comgRlX7GrNnO
The unnamed 55-year-old mechanic said he scuppered the vessel in Mallorca because he claims his boss sells weapons to Putin that are being used to kill and maim his countrymen.He told police: 'I don't regret anything I've done and I would do it again.'
The Irish premier has cast doubt on the idea that Ukraine may be able to join the EU with immediate effect.
Amnesty International has condemned Russia's reported use of cluster munitions in Ukraine, saying an attack on a pre-school 'may constitute a war crime'.
Footage posted online show tied up 'demoralised and exhausted' Russian prisoners of war captured after they failed to break through Ukrainian defences in Kyiv and Kharkiv over the weekend.
Here's MailOnline's full report on how petrol prices in the UK have soared above 1.51 for the first time ever as the Ukraine crisis continues to hit the cost of living:
Would you support or oppose allowing Ukrainian refugees to come to the UK without a visa?Support: 77Oppose: 12https:t.covJnxtAj0tf pic.twitter.com2YUJ2ZxmvW
President Zelensky has signed an application for Ukraine to be a member of the EU.
Vitali, the mayor of Kyiv, and younger brother Wladimir becameheroes last week after they swapped gloves for guns and enlisted in the Ukraine reserve army.
Good morning and welcome to MailOnline's liveblog, where you can follow all the latest updates on the crisis in Ukraine.
He has been denied access to his Lake Como properties, just down the street from George Clooney, amid the Italian-imposed sanctions spurred by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Kristina Rihanoff has said she is 'deeply sorry' for writing,'I don't give a st about the war,' in a controversial Twitter post over the weekend.
The report from the AFP news agency also pointed out that the true numbers were likely far higher:
The soldier, who has been captured by Ukrainian forces, urged people not to trust what they hear on Russian television as he claimed that the Kremlin are 'brainwashing' people. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
PA: Haas have terminated their contract with Russian driver Nikita Mazepin, the Formula One team have announced
Ursula von der Leyen has insisted Ukraine is 'one of us' as she led calls for the war-torn nation to join the European Union.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced today that officials were assessing the best route for the funding to quickly reach the country:
The Home Secretary, who has come under intense political pressure from MPs across the Commons to do more to allow Ukrainian refugees to reach the UK, insisted she was taking action to open safe routes.
Images of the symbols circulated on social media after Ukraine's State Service of Special Communications and Information Protection DSSZZI on Friday posted a warning on social media encouraging residents to cover them up.
There was a 40 drop in flights tofrom Europe, using Russian airspace, between 20th and 27th February, according to cirium aviation analysis. 792 v 462 flights yesterday. The donut in the maps tells the story of the last seven days over Ukraine and Russia. ThePCAgency pic.twitter.comoEOStPxdwi
The Ukranian people are desperately trying to escape the bloodshed, with some sleeping rough in car parks during an arduous journey to safety.
The former Strictly pro, who originates from Russia, backtracked on her comments after being met with widespread criticism from her followers.
Ukraine has dramatically cancelled an evacuation of more than 200,000 civilians from Mariupol after it accused Russian forces of derailing a promised ceasefire by continuing to shell the strategic port city.
A British man has launched a one-man mission to save his wife and baby son stuck in Ukraine amid the brutal Russian invasion.
Russia's communications regulator has demanded that Google restore access to its state-sponsored media channels on YouTube in Ukraine, after accusing Facebook and other big tech companies of 'censorship'.
The Taoiseach has said that the decision by Ireland to fund items such as PPE, medical equipment and supplies for Ukraine, as part of a wider EU package, doesn't undermine the country's longstanding military neutrality.
Mikhail Fridman, who was born in western Ukraine, and Oleg Deripaska have condemned Putin's invasion by calling for peace talks 'as fast as possible' between the two countries in an unusual intervention from Russia's leading business elite.
REUTERS: Ukraine athletes call for peace after medal haul on day one of Winter Games
Here is Martin Samuel's analysis of the situation, which was published in today's Daily Mail:
Click here to see the latest roundup on what has been happening overnight in eastern Europe:
Ukraine has dramatically cancelled a planned evacuation of more than 200,000 civilians from Mariupol after it accused Russian forces of derailing a promised ceasefire by shelling the strategic port city as Vladimir Putins terrifying war enters its 10th day. Read the full story on MailOnline here:
Freestyle skier Oleksandr Abramenko won Ukraine's only medal at the Beijing Olympics. Tonight he sleeps in a Kyiv parking garage with his family.I asked him to take a photo and send it to me. This is him with his wife, Alexandra, and their 2-year-old, Dmitry. pic.twitter.comNzso6XxiU6
This heartbreaking photograph shows children being treated for cancer holding signs in the bomb shelter of an oncology center in Kyiv today.The picture was taken by Aris Messinis for Agence France-Presse:
While European countries are 'hoovering up Russian assets', we have 'got to be suspicious' of the UK government giving oligarchs 'as much time to divest' as possible, johnkampfner of Chatham House tells LBC.IainDale pic.twitter.comx0ChTCmhyi
