Russian artist faces up to TEN YEARS in jail for replacing supermarket labels with notes telling shoppers how Putins forces killed 400 people by bombing theatre in Mariupol
20220413
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10715521/Russian-faces-TEN-YEARS-jail-replacing-supermarket-labels-notes-Ukraine-war.html
Judge Elena Leonova said Skochilenko is 'accused of committing a grave act against public safety'.
The West say it is just one instance of Putin's war crimes but back home, the Kremlin has told Russians the attack was carried out by Ukrainian far-right militias.
This means anything which deviates from the Kremlin's official line on the 'special military operation' it is carrying out to 'denazify' its neighbours.
Investigators said she placed 'fragments of paper containing deliberately false information about the use of the Russian Armed Forces in places designated for price tags'.
One of the labels said: 'The Russian army bombed an art school in Mariupol where about 400 people were hiding from the shelling.'
Russia has accused her of spreading 'fake news' after she was reported to the authorities by an unidentified shopper in the supermarket
At least one other person was convicted for replacing shop price tags with similar messages, a protest started by the Feminist Anti-War Resistance group.
She added that such acts can 'create tensions in society' and lead to further 'subversive activities'.
Alexandra Skochilenko pictured behind bars faces up to 10 years in prison after replacing supermarket price tags with information about the horrors of the Ukraine invasion
Russia has accused her of spreading 'fake news' after she was reported to the authorities by an unidentified shopper in the supermarket.
The artist and musicianposted labels describing the air strike on a Mariupol theatre where civilians were sheltering on March 16
Skochilenko is among 23 Russian and foreign citizens who have been charged over the new antiwar laws, human rights lawyers say.
Russia has banned the spread of any information about its brutal campaign in Ukraine it deems 'fake news'.
Alexandra Skochilenko, 31, posted labels describing the air strike on a Mariupol theatre where civilians were sheltering on March 16.
Skochilenko has maintained she is innocent, not because she denies making the labels, but because they do not contain false information
Skochilenko has maintained she is innocent, not because she denies making the labels, but because they do not contain false information.
The 31-year-old's label said: 'The Russian army bombed an art school in Mariupol where about 400 people were hiding from the shelling'
A Russian artist faces up to 10 years in prison after replacing supermarket price tags with information about the horrors of the Ukraine invasion.
