Russia and Ukraine WILL hold third round of peace talks on Monday Kyiv claims  but Moscow says discussions could take place in the coming days
20220305
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10581425/Russia-Ukraine-hold-round-peace-talks-Monday-Kyiv-claims.html
Russia's Defence Ministry said its forces were carrying out a wide-ranging offensive in Ukraine and had taken several towns and villages, Interfax news agency reported.
The US and Russia have opened up a so-called 'deconfliction line' over which they can exchange military information quickly to reduce the chances of a misunderstanding.
All donations to the Mail Ukraine Appeal will be distributed to charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
A crackdown on independent media and foreign news providers has removed alternative sources of information about the war, cementing the grip of the ultra-loyal Russian state media.
Russia's forces pictured in Kyiv.After Ukraine, some speculate that Putin might also be eyeing Moldova, a former Soviet state wedged between Ukraine and Romania
Ukrainian forces have resisted Russia's invasion so far, defeating an attempt by paratroopers to seize the capital in the opening days and keeping control over major cities such as Kharkiv and Mariupol.
'Neutral Sweden is keeping a watchful eye on Russia's intentions towards the Gotland island in the Baltic Sea,' wrote analyst Bruno Tertrais for the Montaigne Institute, a French think-tank.
The port of Mariupol has endured heavy bombardment, a sign of its strategic value to Moscow due to its position between Russian-backed separatist-held eastern Ukraine and the Black Sea Crimean peninsula, which Moscow seized from Kyiv in 2014.
Russia is continuing to advance in southern Ukraine, with Mariupol under bombardment and Odessa and Mykolaiv under threat. Chernihiv, in the north, and Kharkiv, in the east, continue to come under heavy bombardment. The capital Kyiv is also under threat, though Ukrainian counter-attacks took out some Russian forces early on Friday
Western analysts say such warnings should be taken as posturing to deter the United States and Europe from considering ideas such as a 'no-fly zone' over Ukraine.
A statement from the French presidency said Emmanuel Macron also spoke to Bennett before he left for Moscow on Saturday, as part of joint efforts to 'obtain a ceasefire in Ukraine'.
Ukrainian negotiator David Arakhamia announced the news in a Facebook post on Saturday, without providing further details. The Russian side was less definitive, saying merely that the talks might start on Monday.
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett's sit-down with Putin was the first by foreign leader since the day Russian forces invaded Ukraine last week, and came after Kyiv had asked Israel to launch a dialogue with Moscow.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
Bennett and Putin met for three hours, in a visit that was coordinated with the US, Germany and France, an Israeli official said.
A huge convoy of vehicles has been assembled outside of Kyiv ahead of what is expected to be an assault on the capital.
Calling upon that human spirit, we are now launching an appeal to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Distressing images from the scene continue to emerge, including an image of a baby being rescued from the scene of a brutal attack near Kyiv, while other photos showed a terrified woman walking past a burning house after Irpin was pounded by Kremlin forces.
Nevertheless, small anti-war demonstrations have taken place in cities from Saint Petersburg to Moscow, with at least 6,000 people arrested, according to local rights groups.
Ukraine and Western countries have rejected Putin's arguments as a baseless pretext for invading and have sought to squeeze Russia hard with sanctions.
Russia's TASS news agency quoted Slutsky as saying the Ukrainian side had shown some openness in the second round to reaching an agreement.
This morning Russia's defence ministry declared a ceasefire for the 'opening of humanitarian corridorsto allow civilians to leave Mariupol and Volnovakha' expected to have started from10am Moscow time 7am GMT.
Russian news agency Interfax later quoted Russian negotiator Leonid Slutsky as saying 'the third round really could take place in the coming days, it's possible it will be on Monday.'
'That's caused them so many problems,' a European source told reporters yesterday on condition of anonymity.
Women and children, often numb with exhaustion, continued to pour into Poland and other neighbouring countries as well as into western Ukrainian cities such as Lviv.
In an intelligence update on Saturday afternoon, the MoD said: 'By accusing Ukraine of breaking the agreement, Russia is likely seeking to shift responsibility for current and future civilian casualties in the city.'
Russian policemen detain a protester during rally against Russia entering troops into Ukraine in St Petersburg, Russia, yesterday
Charap warned of the 'risks of an accident, incident, or miscalculation that spirals into a NATO-Russia war', with anything from a stray missile to cyberattacks providing the spark.
Ten days into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Vladimir Putin shows no sign of pulling back.
A Ukrainian soldier was pictured rescuing a tiny baby from a scene of total devastation in Irpin, including what appeared to be a bombed-out bridge
Russia said earlier it had opened humanitarian corridors near the besieged cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha.Russia's defence ministry then accused Ukrainian 'nationalists' of preventing civilians from leaving, RIA news agency reported.
The city council in Mariupol had accused Russia of not observing a ceasefire, while Moscow said Ukrainian 'nationalists' were preventing civilians from leaving.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
Russian President Vladimir Putin left welcomes Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett during their meeting, in Sochi
French President Emmanuel Macron concluded that 'the worst is still to come' after a call with Putin on Thursday morning.
After the Putin meeting, Bennett called Zelensky - who is Jewish, has family in Israel and has visited the country many times.
Ukraine has a border with four former Soviet states that are now members of the US-led NATO military alliance, which considers an attack on one member to be an attack against all.
The Kremlin said on Friday that progress in the negotiations would depend on Kyiv's reaction to Moscow's position on how to end the war, which had been conveyed to Ukraine on Thursday.
Also today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Western sanctions were akin to war as his forces pressed their assault on Ukraine on Saturday for a 10th day and the IMF warned that the conflict would have a 'severe impact' on the global economy.
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
Gustav Gressel, anexpert on missile defence at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said: 'These announcements are predominately addressed to a Western audience to make us fear and our societies insecure.'They use nuclear deterrence as a form of information operation. There's no substance.'
Putin wants 'to seize control of the whole of Ukraine', an aide told reporters afterwards.
The Ministry of Defence MoD said Russia's proposed ceasefire in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol on Saturday was 'likely an attempt to deflect international condemnation while resetting its force for renewed offensive activity'.
Wary of being dragged into Moscow's war on its neighbor, NATO on Friday turned down Zelenskiy's appeal to create a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
Pressure from Beijing, increasingly a Kremlin ally under President Xi Jinping, might also be necessary.
The number of refugees could rise to 1.5 million by Sunday night from 1.3 million now, the U.N. refugee agency chief said.
After Ukraine, some speculate that Putin might also be eyeing Moldova, a former Soviet state wedged between Ukraine and Romania.
Ten days into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which began on February 24, President Vladimir Putin pictured shows no sign of pulling back
A man with a child in his arms at the Porubne border crossing on March 5, 2022, in western Ukraine. According to the latest information, Ukraine today suspended the evacuation of civilians from Mariupol after a ceasefire broke down
Bennett has not joined Western leaders - notably key ally the United States - in forcefully condemning the invasion, instead stressing Israel's strong relations with both Russia and Ukraine.
Earlier on Saturday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said he was open to talks with Lavrov, but only if they were 'meaningful.'
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, pictured, has warned that a third world war can 'only be a nuclear' one
The Kremlin said 'different aspects of the situation in Ukraine' were discussed during 'the short working visit'.
Although Russia claims it has full air superiority, Ukraine's air defences around the capital Kyiv and in other areas appear to be degraded but still working, Western officials say.
This was always thought to be impossible because of the nuclear weapons' mutual guarantee of destruction.
A United Nations monitoring mission said at least 351 civilians had been confirmed killed and 707 injured in Ukraine so far since the start of the invasion on Feb. 24, adding that the real figures were likely to be 'considerably higher'.
In an aerial combat near Zhytomyr, about 100 km 62 miles west of Kyiv, it said, four Ukrainian Su-27 fighter jets had been shot down. Reuters could not independently confirm the report.
The money raised by the Mail Force charity  in record-breaking time  has already been put to good use, with mothers and children arriving over the border to Slovakia yesterday greeted by aid workers funded by our generous readers
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from Russia's invading armed forces.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Saturday that Zelenskiy's attempt to secure direct NATO help in the conflict between their countries was not helping talks between the two sides, but that Moscow was ready for a third round.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
Bennett's delegation included his housing minister, fluent Russian speaker Zeev Elkin, who was born in Ukraine when it was part of the Soviet Union.
Putin's nostalgia for the Soviet Union and his pledge to protect Russian minorities - which are found in the Baltic States - has left an open question about his territorial ambitions.
Bennett then headed to Germany for talks with Chancellor Olaf Scholz scheduled for late Saturday.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said planned civilian evacuations from Mariupol and Volnovakha were now unlikely to start on Saturday.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
A woman reacts as she stands in front of a house burning after being shelled in the city of Irpin, outside Kyiv yesterday
Russia shows the movement of its forces in Kyiv region. Troops invaded on February 24 and have continued with brutal attacks
Though not seen as likely at this stage, the possibility of Putin being brought down in a popular backlash or even a palace coup is not being ruled out.
Deepening Western sanctions that are strangling the Russian economy might force Putin to change his calculations.
News of the third round of talks came asBritain said Russia's proposed ceasefire in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol was probably an attempt to deflect international condemnation while giving itself a chance to reset its forces for a renewed offensive.
Putin said he wanted a neutral Ukraine that had been 'demilitarised' and 'denazified', adding: 'These sanctions that are being imposed are akin to a declaration of war but thank God it has not come to that.'
Few expect Putin to openly attack a NATO member, which would run the risk of nuclear war, but other provocations are possible.
'His personal security is very good and it will be very good until the moment it isn't,' said Eliot A. Cohen from the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think-tank.
Here are possible scenarios for the weeks and months ahead, according to Western government sources and think-tank experts.
Lawrence Freedman, aBritish warfare historian and King's College London professor, wrote on Substack this week: 'Getting into a city is not the same as holding it.'
There are also signs of cracks in the ruling elite, with some oligarchs, MPs, and even private oil group Lukoil calling openly for a ceasefire or an end to fighting.
Bennett's office said he left Israel for Moscow early Saturday, itself an extraordinary move for a religious Jew who does not conduct state business on the Jewish Shabbath, except in extraordinary circumstances.
This week Samuel Charap from the RAND Corporation, a US think-tank, wrote: 'The West could leverage some sanctions to push Putin to abandon his core war aim of decapitating the Ukrainian government and installing a pro-Russian puppet.'
On Thursday, the sides agreed to open humanitarian corridors to allow civilians out of some combat zones, although there have been delays in implementing them after Ukraine accused Russia of not upholding the ceasefire.
The same method is employed in Syria, where US and Russian forces have been active on opposite sides of the country's civil war since 2015.
But even if Russian troops depose Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and overrun Ukraine's resistance elsewhere, Putin would then face the challenge of occupying a nation of 40 million.
Backed by Western intelligence and a flow of anti-tank and surface-to-air missiles, Ukraine's troops might be able to hold out in the capital and force some sort of military stalemate.
Delegations from Ukraine and Russia have held two rounds of talks since Russia launched a full-scale invasion of its neighbour on February 24.
Russia and Ukraine will hold a third round of talks on Monday about ending hostilities, Ukrainian negotiator David Arakhamia said in a Facebook post on Saturday, without providing further details. Pictured: The two sides hold a second round of talks on Thursday
'I've barely slept for 10 days,' said Anna Filatova, arriving in Lviv with her two daughters from heavily bombed Kharkiv, Ukraine's second city near its eastern border with Russia.
Given Russian troops' superior weapons, air power and devastating use of artillery, Western defence analysts expect them to continue grinding forward.
But Putin has ordered Russia's nuclear deterrent forces onto high alert and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has warned that 'World War Three can only be a nuclear war'.
Ahead of his Moscow trip, Bennett had spoken by telephone repeatedly with both Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Meanwhile,Israel's premier stepped into the role of mediator Saturday as Russia's invasion of Ukraine intensified, holding a three-hour meeting at the Kremlin with Vladimir Putin before calling Ukraine's president and flying to Berlin.
Ukraine said on Saturday the talks had not produced results but that it would keep pursuing negotiations.
Workers pictured yesterday clearing the debris of a school building destroyed by shelling, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues, in Zhytomyr, Ukraine
'The third round of talks will take place on Monday,' Arakhamia, who is also the parliamentary faction leader of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's party, wrote.
Despite this Putin is insisting that Russia is not bombing Ukrainian cities, amid mounting fears that 100 people are buried under rubble after an apartment block near Kyiv was struck and after a cluster bomb attack on the city of Chernihiv killed 49.
Bennett has so far walked a very cautious line on the Ukraine crisis, seeking to preserve delicate security cooperation with Russia, which has a large military presence in Israel's northern neighbour, Syria.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on a visit to Poland, met refugees staying in a disused shopping mall near the border. Poland has taken in the vast majority of the Ukrainian refugees.
Russia and Ukraine will hold a third round of talks on Monday about ending Moscow's on-going invasion, a Kyiv official has claimed.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett's sit-down with Putin was the first by foreign leader since the day Russian forces invaded Ukraine last week, and came after Kyiv had asked Israel to launch a dialogue with Moscow.
Britain said the proposed ceasefire in Mariupol - which has been without power, water and heating for days - was likely an attempt by Russia to deflect international condemnation while it resets its forces.
Vast numbers of Ukrainians have also joined territorial defence units and questions remain about the morale of the Russian army and its logistical support.
Moscow and Kyiv traded blame over the failure of plans to impose a brief ceasefire and enable civilians to evacuate two cities besieged by Russian forces.
This prompted the Ukrainian president to say that the alliance had given Russia the green light to continue its bombing campaign.
