Russian soldiers are plotting fake marriages to escape Ukraine war as morally depressed soldiers are heard on wiretapped call saying there is no way out
20220509
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10895971/Russian-soldiers-plotting-fake-marriages-escape-Ukraine-war-morally-depressed-soldiers.html
Analysts say that the Russian military is overstretched, with low morale and could soon run out of combat-ready units as the war in Ukraine enters its 105th day.
'Right now there are 10 people getting a truck ready If theres any b they will immediately hop in the truck and head towards Belgorod, they already got a canister there of diesel fuel and put it in the cargo area.
The man said: 'I already f told one of my female friends, "go submit an application to the marriage registration office. Ill f tell them about it here".
Elsewhere, an alleged Russian soldier was caught in an audio clipby intelligence department of Ukraines Defense Ministry telling a female relative that 'most' men in his unit were refusing to fight and 'trying to dash away themselves across the Russian border'.
Last month, a Russian court ordered 100 National Guard officers to be dismissed after they refused to fight in Ukraine in February.
'Were sitting here without water. Its been hot lately. Now theres the heat and the guys are also sitting in shock. Morally depressed,' the Daily Beast reports.
According to another call intercepted by the intelligence service, a man believed to be a Russian soldier is heard to say that their water supply has stopped.
Analysts say that the Russian military is overstretched, demolarised and could soon run out of combat-ready units Pictured: troops on patrol in Mariupol on May 18
A Russian serviceman patrols the destroyed part of the Ilyich Iron and Steel Works in Ukraine's port city of Mariupol on May 18
'I already talked to them and, if anything, theyll grab me on the way and Ill hit the road with them,' he said.
Increasing numbers of Russian soldiers are looking for excuses to return home as commanders tighten restrictions on leave, said a spokesman from the SBU.
'Everyone here is trying any possible way to get out  but theres no way.'
He was also heard to say soldiers are wearing the same uniforms they wore in winter.
A wiretapped recording of a conversation between a Russian soldier and his friend revealed officers 'had no options at all' and many had already made unsuccessful attempts to be discharged.
Mr Zelensky added that the Russians clearly did not expect to meet so much resistance and are now trying to bring in additional troops and equipment. He said the same is true in the southern Kherson region, which Russian troops occupied early in the war.
Smoke and dirt rise from shelling in the city of Severodonetsk during fight between Ukrainian and Russian troops in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donbas on June 7
Demoralised Russian troops in Ukraine are plotting ways to get out of the country including trying to arrange 'fake marriages', Ukraine's intelligence agency has revealed.
The Russian was heard to say: 'Either you get wounded, killed or there's an official order to withdraw.'
The president also stated that Ukraine plans to release a special 'book of executioners' next week with confirmed information about war crimes committed by the Russian army. He said those named will include not only those who carried out war crimes, but also their commanders.
He added that he himself had tried to organise a fake marriage in an effort to escape the conflict.
The audio footage was released by the Security Service of Ukraine SBU, The Telegraph reports.
In his nightly video address on Tuesday night, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russian forces have made no significant advances in the eastern Donbas region over the past day and that 'the absolutely heroic defence of the Donbas continues'.
