Russian donations row as it emerges Boris Johnson was at Conservative fundraiser attended by wife of exPutin minister on the eve of Ukraine invasion
20220320
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10632515/Russian-donations-row-emerges-Boris-Johnson-attended-fundraiser-eve-Ukraine-invasion.html
'This is a Prime Minister who overruled the security service in giving a peerage to now Lord Lebedev of Siberia.
Mr Johnson reportedly gave an introductory speech at the event, which began at around 8pm on February 23 at Spencer House, around a mile from Downing Street.
The Prime Minister pictured yesterday at the Tory spring conference gave a short speech at the event as Russian forces prepared to launch their assault.
A No 10 spokesman told the newspaper: 'The Prime Minister briefly attended this event which was a longstanding diary engagement.
Boris Johnson has been accused of being a 'threat to national security' following reports he was at a Tory party fundraising event on the night Vladimir Putin launched his invasion of Ukraine.
Hitting back at the Prime Minister today, shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves criticised Boris Johnson's own alleged Russian links.
The Sunday Times reported that donors at the event included Lubov Chernukhin, the wife of a former Russian deputy finance minister who is now a British citizen.
It followed a claim from Mr Johnson that Labour would have waved the 'white flag' in the face of Russian aggression.
'Fundraising is a legitimate part of our democratic process and it is not unusual for the Prime Minister, or any political leader, to attend such an event.'
Labour Party chairwoman Anneliese Dodds said: 'On the eve of war the Prime Minister should have been completely focused on national security - not trying to get cash from the wife of Putin's former finance minister.
'He lacks the seriousness and gravity for the moment, and I would ask the Prime Minister to apologise for his words that are deeply insulting, to the people of Ukrainian and absolutely ridiculous about the Labour Party.'
'Boris Johnson's party has accepted over 6.5m from donors linked to Putin's murderous regime. He should be cleaning up our politics, not courting these people for more money.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace and Communities Secretary Michael Gove were also at the event, the Sunday Times reported.
Speaking to Sky News's Sophy Ridge On Sunday programme, she said: 'I'm not going to take any lessons from this Prime Minister about standing up to the Russians.
Ms Dodds' comments are the latest sign that Russia and the war in Ukraine will be a domestic political battleground in the run-up to May's local elections.
'This was a Prime Minister who on the eve of the invasion of Ukraine was wining and dining people with close links to Putin's regime.
Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves said: 'I'm not going to take any lessons from this Prime Minister about standing up to the Russians'
The Prime Minister gave a short speech at the event as Russian forces prepared to launch their assault.
Back in Downing Street, at around 4am on February 24 Mr Johnson was woken with the news that Russia had launched the invasion that the West had feared for weeks.
The Sunday Times reported that donors at the event included Lubov Chernukhin, the wife of a former Russian deputy finance minister.
At the Tory spring conference in Blackpool, Mr Johnson said: 'Do we want them in charge... at this moment? Do we want them running up the white flag? Do you see them standing up to Putin's blackmail?'
