Russian Wagner mercenary known as The Executioner for butchering prisoners of war is shot dead by a Ukrainian sniper in latest blow to Putins invasion
20220607
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10891847/Ukraine-war-Russian-Wagner-mercenary-Vladimir-executioner-Andonov-killed-near-Kharkiv.html
In 2019, a man who filmed the torture and beheading was identified as Stanislav D, a soldier who was known to have been employed by Wagner in the country to help prop up its Kremlin-backed dictator, Bashar Assad.
Rapes, murders and war crimes dominate the shadowy history of the Wagner Group which is fighting for the Kremlin in Ukraine
The army-for-hire is allegedly run by oligarch Yevgeny Prigozhin - a close ally of the Kremlin who is often dubbed 'Putin's chef'.
Meanwhile heavy fighting is ongoing in Donbas, concentrated on the city of Severodonetsk which is under heavy bombardment from both sides.
In Libya, the BBC obtained a Samsung tablet owned by a Wagner fighter which revealed the group had been leaving unmarked mines in civilian areas  a war crime.
His death was confirmed by Zhambal-Zhamso Zhanaev, head of the region where Andonov lived, who spoke to Russian newspaperMoskovskij Komsomolets.
Both attacks were ambushes in Mozambique's northern Cabo Delgado state, according to sources in the country's military.
Shocking revelations also emerged about the conduct of Wagner fighters, with one former member openly admitting to killing prisoners because 'no-one wants an extra mouth to feed'.
Boris Johnson today urged NATO to act 'harder' against Russia to end the war 'faster' as he unveiled a wave of new sanctions - which include the Wagner Group.
Businessman YevgenyPrigozhin pictured left is nicknamed 'Putin's chef' because of his catering business which supplies services to the Kremlin
But, after more than three months of fighting, the city remains in Ukrainian hands with Putin's men having all-but abandoned efforts to take it.
Andonov was drafted into the Olkhon special forces company fighting in the Donbas in 2014, before going back to fight in Ukraine in February this year
The Wagner Group pictured in Syria has conducted covert operations across Africa and the Middle East, including in Syria, and they have most recently been on the ground in Ukraine to guide Russian tanks to the capital
One military source told AFP that more than 50 people died, some in 'summary executions'
Thousands of mercenaries - often drawn from the ranks of the regular army - are thought to be deployed to warzones in South America, Africa, and the Middle East.
'We've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today, as we are, sanctioning the Wagner Group, looking at what we can do to stop Putin using his gold reserves, and also doing more to help the Ukrainians defend themselves.
The notorious Wagner Group, a private military company, has committed war crimes across the globe. They have now been tasked with assassinating Volodymyr Zelensky and other senior Ukrainian politicians.
However, the group retreated in the face of jihadists after around a dozen men were killed in gruesome attacks by ISIS terrorists.
Such attacks are already underway in the south, with territory to the west of the occupied city of Kherson being contested.
The conduct of Wagner in Syria eventually became so bad that the Russian government refused to pay them, viewing them as dangerous cowboys.
Att the end of that year he vanished, having deleted all trace of himself online, and for the next several years was thought to be fighting as part of Wagner units deployed to Syria and Libya.
Andonov was killed as Ukraine launched a fresh counter-attack in the region, pushing Russian forces further back towards their own border.
The notorious Wagner Group, a private military company known as 'Putin's private army', has been linked to a string of rapes, robberies, murders, and war crimes across the globe.
Zhanaev told the paper thatAndonov's body is now being sent back from the front to his home region for burial, along with that of another soldier killed alongside him.
In Mozambique, seven mercenaries were killed by ISIS-linked militants - including four who were shot and then beheaded.
Andonov was known to Russians as 'Vakha' or 'the volunteer from Buryatia' after the region he was from, but to Ukrainians he was 'the executioner' due to massacres he helped carry out during Russia's first invasion of the country in 2014.
The United Nations is probing an alleged massacre during a joint operation by government forces and Wagner fighters.
A military analyst said some of the equipment could only have come from the Kremlin.
Andonov had bragged about the mission to Russian media, including how his unit had been instructed to 'destroy all the forces of the enemy,' and that 'there were no survivors' of the attack.
The report mentions photos and video complied by Ukrainian website Censor, which shows the three men alive and captured by Russian forces before their bodies were found.
VladimirAndonov, a soldier with the notorious Wagner Group, was shot dead by a sniper during a reconnaissance mission near the city of Kharkiv on June 5
One image shows the trio in the back of a truck, with one of them showing obvious facial injuries that may have been the result of torture.
Syria:Wagner was operating in Syria in 2015, where the Russians wanted to bolster the regime of dictator Bashar al-Assad.
Donbas, Ukraine: The Wagner group first appeared in 2014, to help Russia destabilise the Donbas region.
Mercenaries are illegal in Russia but Putin used Wagner to crush Syrian rebels and even awarded Utkin a medal.
The group also 'spreads disinformation on social media and engages in illicit activities connected to gold mining'.
Mr Johnson said this morning: 'Vladimir Putin is plainly determined to double down on his path of violence and aggression, absolutely brutal the way he's treating the Ukrainian people.
'We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are.
These assassinations were then blamed on Ukrainian forces, according to security experts, to whip up hatred of Kyiv.
Central African Republic: Wagner mercenaries arrived in CAR to support President Faustin-Archange Touadra against rebels in 2017.
Kharkiv is located around 120 miles north of the current Donbas frontline, and Russia had intended to capture the city to use as a logistical hub to supply troops there.
For Western observers, Wagner Group's links with the Kremlin are in little doubt. Putin himself has been pictured at a Kremlin function with Wagner troops including lieutenant colonel Utkin.
Russia has lost its 50th colonel of the war in Ukraine in the latest hammer blow to the Kremlin, with the death toll now soaring past 31,000.
Shortly after the battle, Amnesty International published a report which detailed the deaths ofOleksandr Berdes, Vasiliy Demchuk, and Pavlo Plotsinskiy - three Ukrainian soldiers captured by Russia who were later found dead in a shallow grave near the village.
The Kremlin once again denied it has any influence over Wagner and suggested that Prigozhin only provides catering services to the Russian government.
Wagner's appearance in Mali was one of the reasons given by French president Emmanuel Macron for his decision to pull out 2,400 troops from the country, where they had been fighting jihadists.
Andonov was drafted into theOlkhon special forces company fighting in the Donbas, and took part in theBattle of Debaltseve in early 2015 - one of the last major battles of the initial war.
In the interview, he recalls launching a surprise night-time attack and capturing the village before 'we received an order to destroy all the manpower of the enemy.'
In December, the EU accused Wagner of 'serious human rights abuses in Ukraine, Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic, Sudan and Mozambique'.
According to the Peacemaker website, which tracks Russian forces fighting in Ukraine,Andonov gave an interview in 2015 in which he talked about a mission he was sent on with a ten-man squad to 'liberate' the town ofLogvinovo, near Debaltseve in Donbas, during one of the last battles of the 2014 war.
Sickening footage showed how they broke his legs with a sledgehammer and then crushed his chest, before cutting off his hands, his head and finally setting his corpse alight.
Eventually, however, the Wagner Group became so dangerous that even the Russian government refused to pay them.
The investigation also uncovered a 'shopping list' of weapons and military equipment, including four tanks, hundreds of Kalashnikov rifles, and a state-of-the-art radar system.
The Foreign Office said the total global asset value of the sanctioned banks to 500billion while oligarchs and family members hit are worth more than 150billion.
It comes after Vladimir Putinlost two of his most senior commanders in a single day in a devastating bridge ambush in eastern Ukraine, a group of independent journalists claimed.
The soldier - born in 1978 in the Trans-Baikal Territory in Russia's far east - had served in the regular Russian military from 1997 until 2005, when he moved to the city ofUlan-Ude and began studying at a teaching college.
In December, the EU accused Wagner of'serious human rights abuses in Ukraine, Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic, Sudan and Mozambique'.
Vladimir Andonov, 44, a sabotage and reconnaissance specialist in the ranks of the shadowy Wagner Group, was shot by a sniper near Kharkivduring a night-time mission on June 5, Russian media says.
Andonov left and right was known to Ukrainians as 'the executioner' for carrying out massacres of prisoners of war and civilians during Russia's first invasion in 2014
Wagner employees were accused by the UN and France ofcarrying out human rights abuses and extrajudicial killings of suspected rebels.
Wagner is said to have been tasked with assassinating Volodymyr Zelensky and other senior Ukrainian figures, including the Klitschko brothers, early in the Ukraine war. It is also thought to be deployed in South America, Africa and the Middle East.
Wagner Group has been involved in fighting across Africa, including in Syria, Libya, Mozambique and the Central African Republic - with observers noting the close correlation between their actions and the Kremlin's own policy aims.
'We're moving, really, from a programme of supporting resistance to supporting the Ukrainian defence of their own country.'
In 2017, Wagner employees tortured a deserter from the Syrian army. Sickening footage showed how they broke his legs with a sledgehammer and then crushed his chest, before cutting off his hands, his head and finally setting his corpse alight.
In 2018, three Russian journalists reporting on Wagner's activities in CAR were ambushed and shot dead. Another Russian journalist investigating the group 'fell' to his death from his fifth floor flat.
'They can appear from the shadows, do very violent things and then disappear again, without it being obvious who was responsible. They are not directly linked to the Russian government and therefore they are plausibly deniable.'
The force has already been heavily involved in supplying weapons, special operations personnel, and military training to pro-Russian militias in eastern Ukraine.
'Because the junta which is in power after two coups d'tats considers them to be the best partners they can find to protect their power, not to fight against terrorism.'
Wagner fighters were welcomed into the Central African Republic CAR by President Faustin-Archange Touadra to assist in his fight against rebels.
'Putin should be under no illusions  we are united with our allies and will keep tightening the screw on the Russian economy to help ensure he fails in Ukraine. There will be no let-up'.
As he arrived in Brussels, Mr Johnson said: 'We've got to step up. We've got to increase our support.
Hundreds of members assassinated Donbas separist leaders who were not following Kremlin orders, with the killings blamed on Ukraine.
Ahead of the NATO meeting - being attended by Joe Biden - the premier announced the UK is giving Ukraine 6,000 more missiles and 25million to support its desperate struggle against the Russian invasion.
Control of the city continues to shift, with Ukraine launching a large-scale counter-attack that retook large parts of the city at the weekend before a Russian push on Monday forced Kyiv's men back again.
Mozambique:Wagner has supported the army in its fight against the Islamist militant insurgency in the north.
General Sir Richard Barrons, a former commander of Joint Forces Command, said: 'They are very effective because they are hard to pin down.
Mercenaries were reportedly given a 24-person 'kill list' including the entire Ukrainian cabinet, mayor of Kyiv Vitali Klitschko and his brother Wladimir - both boxing champions who have become iconic figures on the front lines of the capital.
Andonov is thought to leave behind a wife and at least two daughters, according to previous interviews he did with Russian media.
Reports have long claimed the force is Putin's personal assassination squad, but are far enough removed to afford the Russian president plausible deniability.
Artillery commander Lt Col Vladimir Nigmatullin, a 46-year-old father-of-three from Yekaterinburg, was killed on May 31, it has now been revealed.
Buthe dropped out of school before completing his studies and got a job in trade, before answering a call for volunteers to go to Ukraine and join the fighting in 2014.
The Wagner Group are among the targets in the latest set of measures, announced as the PM arrived in Brussels for talks with the military alliance.
Andonov had served in the regular Russian army for several years before rejoining the military as a mercenary after failing to complete teacher training
Initially, it was made up of only a few hundred Russian army veterans. They were tasked with assassinating Donbas leaders who were broadly supportive of Russia, but had refused to follow instructions from the Kremlin.
Meanwhile, one Libyan villager described how he played dead as his relatives were killed around him.
Wagner mercenaries have gained a bloodthirsty reputation for fighting the battles that Russia's regular military cannot - participating in massacres, torture and indiscriminate killings along the way.
'We still cannot believe you are gone. You are a father of three children, and an amazing husband to my sister.
It is unclear where exactly he had been fighting before he met his death near the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv on Sunday.
Andonov said his unit pictured with Ukrainian captives had been given an order to 'destroyall the manpower of the enemy' and that there were 'no survivors'
They have been accused of burning down villages, terrorising civilians and killing women and children.
One military source told AFP that more than 50 people died, some in 'summary executions'.
Nigmatullin's death has been confirmed to his family, adding to the huge list of casualties of Russia's military leaders, with one colonel killed every two days.
Wagner's exact origins are a mystery, though it first caught international attention fighting in Donbas during Russia's first invasion of Ukraine in 2014.
At the time, he appeared in a video filmed in the region which became one of the first pieces of evidence that volunteers from theBuryatia were in Ukraine.
Failing to take Severodonetsk would see Russia's eastern offensive - now the focus of its war since the failure to take Kyiv - grind to a halt, and perhaps even reverse if the fighting leaves Putin's forces too weak to hold the territory they have captured.
Utkin is seen as a neo-Nazi and was described by one Russian newspaper as having 'an appreciation of the aesthetic of the Third Reich'.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss - who is also attending the NATO summit - said in a statement: 'These oligarchs, businesses and hired thugs are complicit in the murder of innocent civilians and it is right that they pay the price.
Wagner's founder and leader is Dmitry Utkin, a shaven-headed former lieutenant colonel in Spetsnaz  Russia's special forces.
Russian operatives are believed to have helped train coup plotters who took over last year.
Over the course of the campaign, both the UN and France said they had been responsible for raping and robbing unarmed civilians in the country's rural areas.
Andonov remained in Ukraine on the frontlines even after full-scale war ceased with the signing of the 2015 Minsk Agreements, before returning to his home region some time in 2017.
Widely considered to be at the beck and call of the Russian leader, the shadowy group claims no official allegiance - allowing it to operate in regions Russia's regular military cannot, using methods that even Moscow's soldiers are forbidden from.
'You were ordered with the Order of Bravery, posthumously. You went through a lot of conflict areas.'
More than a dozen attempts are said to have been made to kill Mr Zelensky since Russian troops launched a savage invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
Galina Danilchenko, installed by Russia as the 'mayor' of Melitopol has also become the first person sanctioned for 'collaboration with Russian forces' in Ukraine.
When fighting restarted in Ukraine in February this year with Putin's order to invade, Andonov was deployed again to the frontlines.
'There were no survivors among the dills,' he added, using a pejorative term for Ukrainians who support the West.
In 2020, investigative news site Bellingcat uncovered records revealing Wagner's reputed boss Prigozhin had made 99 calls to Vladimir Putin's chief of staff in eight months
In total, the UN documented more than 500 incidents in the country during the year from July 2020, including sexual violence, extrajudicial killings and torture.
The 44-year-old death was confirmed to Russian media by the leader ofBuryatia region, where he lived, who said his body is now being returned home
The attack was sabotaged after the plans reached the upper echelons of the Ukrainian government on March 5, prompting Kyiv to declare a 36-hour 'hard' curfew, ordering everyone indoors so that soldiers could sweep the streets for Russian saboteurs.
Capturing the city will give Russia control over almost the whole of Luhansk province and tee up an assault on Lysychansk, which sits just across the Donets River on the other side of a large industrial zone.
'I am always proud of you, and I will always be proud. You set an example to the Motherland, so that everyone does like you did.
There are claims the notorious mercenaries have been tasked with assassinating Volodymyr Zelensky and other senior Ukrainian politicians.
'Looking at what we can do to stop Putin using his gold reserves and also doing more to help the Ukrainians defend themselves.'
He was part of a unit that 'liberated',the Donbas town of Logvinovo in early 2015, where three Ukrainian prisoners were later found executed in a shallow grave including one who had been shot through the eye.
In 2020, investigative news site Bellingcat uncovered records revealing Wagner's reputed boss Prigozhin had made 99 calls to Vladimir Putin's chief of staff in eight months and frequently spoke to top officials at the Kremlin.
The Times reported that between 2,000 and 4,000 Wagner Group mercenaries arrived in Ukraine back in January, but with different missions.
Sources said the militia were briefed about Putin's plans against Ukraine back in December, long before the Russian army was told.
Andonov had bragged to Russian media about helping to liberate a village in eastern Ukraine where three captured soldiers were found executed in a shallow grave pictured, the POWs
He is described as a neo-Nazi with 'an appreciation of the aesthetic of the Third Reich'. Utkin was sanctioned by the EU for ordering Bouta's killing.
A Russian mercenary who gained notoriety for butchering prisoners of war and civilians in the Donbas has been killed fighting in Ukraine.
In August last year, the survivor of a gun massacre in the Libyan town ofEspia told the BBC thatAndonov had been among the soldiers that shot his family dead after occupying their home.
Wagner's founder and leader is Dmitry Utkin, a shaven-headed former lieutenant colonel in Spetsnaz who named the unit after his special forces code name.
Although inspectors accepted some of the violence had been carried out by rebels, CAR's Justice Minister Arnaud Abazene acknowledged for the first time that some abuses had been carried out by 'Russian instructors'.
The new sanctions cover individuals including billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, and Polina Kovaleva, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov's alleged stepdaughter.
A limited Ukrainian counter-attack has seen troops cross theInhulets River and capture a smattering of towns on the eastern shore, but fail to make significant in-roads into occupied territory.
He suggested that Russia should be prevented from using gold reserves to prop up its economy - and also dismissed a bid to host the 2028 Euro football tournament as 'beyond satire'.
Mr Johnson is calling on countries such as Germany and France to ramp up their response, warning that the military alliance must not be 'diverted' by mounting nuclear threats from Moscow.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and the presidential chief of staff Andriy Yermak have been listed as among other alleged assassination targets.
