Russian artillery targets inspectors route to nuclear power plant at centre of Chernobyl disaster fears as the UNs experts complete first stage of journey from Kyiv
20220831
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-11163797/UN-inspectors-set-Russian-occupied-nuclear-power-plant-Ukraine-examine-damage.html
Personnel from the International Atomic Energy Agency and the United Nations prepare to depart for Zaporizhzhia from a hotel in Kyiv on Wednesday
Ukraine's armed forces general staff said Russia was attacking with tanks, rockets and artillery along a contact line in the Zaporizhzhia region - part of which, including the city of Zaporizhzhia, remains under Ukraine's control.
IAEA chief Rafael Grossi and his 13-strong team had arrived in KyivlateMonday before setting off for the nuclear power plant in a convoy of vehicles in the early hours of Wednesday morning.
Grossi said that one of the priorities of their mission would be to speak to the Ukrainian workers at the plant over concerns for their safety.
'We are now finally moving after six months of strenuous efforts,' Grossi told reporters before the convoy set off.
Personnel from the International Atomic Energy Agency and the United Nations prepare to depart for Zaporizhzhia from a hotel in Kyiv, Ukraine on Wednesday morning
The Zaporizhzhia plant lies on the front line between Russian and Ukrainian forces, and the area has been shelled repeatedly in recent days, with the two sides accusing each other of conducting the military strikes.
Meanwhile, intensive fighting raged across the nearby southern regions of Kherson and Donbas, Zelensky said.
Grossi met Tuesday with Zelenskyy to discuss the mission that is expected to last several days.
Kyiv today urged Russia to stop shelling the route that will be used by United Nations inspectors to reach a Russian-occupied nuclear plant in Ukraine. Pictured: The local administration headquarters in the Russian-controlled city of Enerhodar is seen today
'We have information that they are now trying to hide their military presence, so they should check all of this.'
EU member states were meanwhile split over a proposal to ban Russian travellers from entering its territory, with heavyweights Germany and France insisting on the need to differentiate between those who were responsible for the war and those who were not.
Satellite and mobile phone pictures highlight a hole in the roof of what is claimed to be Special Building No. 1 where fresh fuel for nuclear reactors is stored in Europe's largest nuclear power plant
The Russian-installed city authorities said two 155mm shells fired from the city of Nikopol in Ukrainian-held territory exploded near a spent fuel storage building at the plant, the agency added.
As the IAEA inspectors prepared to make the final leg of their journey, Russia released footage of what it claimed was the dramatic thwarting of Ukrainian saboteurs preparing a 'terrorist act' close to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. Pictured: A still grab from the video
One of the shells hit Energodar's city council building, Mayor Dmytro Orlov wrote on Telegram, posting pictures of the damaged building with a hole punched into the side and debris littering the ground.
'The occupiers have not abandoned the plant, they are continuing bombardments and are not withdrawing arms and ammunition from the site. They are intimidating our personnel. The risk of a nuclear catastrophe due to Russian actions is not diminishing for even an hour,' he added.
'We just want to live our life fully,' 16-year-old student Polina told AFP in Kyiv.
But Ukrainian authorities accused the Russians of setting up military installations next to the reactors and using them as nuclear hostages from which to shell Ukrainian positions.
'A group of Ukrainian saboteurs who were preparing a terrorist act at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant has been detained,' he said.
The Russians alleged that the supposed cell was plotting an attack to coincide with the IAEA mission.The aim was to show Putin's forces were not fully in control, said Volodymyr Rogov, a member of the occupying regional administration.
The plant has been occupied by Russian troops and operated by Ukrainian workers since March. Ukraine has accused Russia of deploying hundreds of soldiers and storing ammunition there.
Most of the region of Kherson bordering the Black Sea and its provincial capital of the same name were seized by Russian forces at the start of the invasion six months ago.
Only those schools with air-raid bunkers will be permitted to reopen, with the rest reverting to online learning.
The Russians alleged that the supposed cell was plotting an attack to coincide with the IAEA mission. The aim was to show Putin's forces were not fully in control, said Volodymyr Rogov, a member of the occupying regional administration
'The Russian occupying forces must stop shelling the corridors to be used by the IAEA mission and not obstruct its activities at the plant,' foreign ministry spokesman Oleg Nikolenko wrote on Facebook.
'We think that the mission should be a very important step to return the plant to Ukrainian government control by the end of the year,' Galushchenko said.
The Zaporizhzhia plant pictured on Tuesday, Europe's biggest, is on the front line between Russian and Ukrainian forces, and the area has been shelled repeatedly in recent days, with the two sides accusing each other of conducting the military strikes
Ukraine had initially feared an IAEA visit at Zaporizhzhia would legitimise the Russian occupation of the site, before finally supporting the idea of a mission.
'We are going to a war zone,' Grossi said. 'We are going to occupied territory. And this requires explicit guarantees from not only from the Russians, but also from the Republic of Ukraine. We have been able to secure that... So now we are moving.'
Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant is seen as Russian military's presence at nuclear power plant continues, on August 30, 2022, in Zaporizhzia Oblast, Ukraine
But Ukraine has insisted that the mission should travel there from Ukrainian-held territory, meaning the inspectors will have to cross the front line with security guarantees from both sides.
Ukrainian Energy Minister German Galushchenko said Kyiv is seeking international assistance to try and demilitarize the area.
'We forced them well back,' said Victor, an infantryman in his 60s who declined to give a surname.
'I hope the IAEA team will be able to start its work,' he added, calling the situation at the plant 'extremely menacing'.
This handout satellite image courtesy of Maxar Technologies released on August 29, 2022, shows the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Enerhodar, the plant and the surrounding area shows recent damage to the roof of a building adjacent to several of the nuclear reactors
Kyiv urged Russia to stop the shelling as the UN team arrived inZaporizhzhia city ahead of the final leg of their journey to theZaporizhzhia Power Plant, 35 miles away.
The nuclear plant was recently cut off temporarily from the electrical grid because of fire damage, causing a blackout in the region and heightening fears of a catastrophe in a country haunted by the Chernobyl disaster.
IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi pictured on Wednesday before setting off for the plant said that one of the priorities of their mission would be to speak to the Ukrainian workers at the plant over concerns for their safety
UN vehicles with members of International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA mission depart for visit to Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on Wednesday
Satellite imagery appears to confirm the location of the strikes, which Russian authorities blamed on Ukrainian shelling
On Tuesday, fresh Russian strikes on the centre of the northeastern city of Kharkiv killed at least five people and injured seven.
As the IAEA inspectors prepared to make the final leg of their journey,Russia released footage of what it claimed was the dramatic thwarting of Ukrainian saboteurs preparing a 'terrorist act' close to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.
A team of UN nuclear inspectors today set off to the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine to inspect for damage after shelling nearby sparked fears of a Chernobyl-style disaster
'Sadly, Russia is not stopping its provocations precisely in the directions the mission needs to travel to arrive at the plant,' Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his daily address to the nation on Tuesday after meeting with Grossi in Kyiv.
Russia's defence ministry claimed Tuesday that Ukraine had met 'defeat' in its southern counter-attack, suffering 'large-scale losses' of more than 1,200 soldiers and around 150 military vehicles.
EU foreign ministers were due to hold talks on the issue at an informal meeting in Prague later on Wednesday.
Russian artillery today targeted the routethat will be used by United Nations inspectors to reach a Russian-occupied nuclear power plant in Ukraine.
In Bereznehuvate, a town near the frontline about 70 kilometres 43 miles north of Kherson city, AFP reporters could hear artillery fire and saw soldiers resting by the roadside.
For its part, the Ukrainian presidency claimed its forces had destroyed 'almost all large bridges' over the Dnipro and that 'only pedestrian crossings remain' in the Kherson region.
The team of 14 inspectors now aim to get an accurate, first-hand understanding of conditions at the site and the extent of the dangers to both the staff working there and wider civilian populaces.
The team will inspect the plant for damageafter nearby blasts sparked fears of a Chernobyl-style disaster. The facilitysits on the front-lines of the war in southern Ukraine, and was seized by Vladimir Putin's forces in the early days of the war.
Russian forces accused Ukrainian troops of shelling the territory on Monday, according toRussia's TASS news agency.
But Yevgeny Balitsky, the head of the Russian-installed administration, told Interfax that the IAEA inspectors 'must see the work of the station in one day'.
It was not possible to verify the Russian claim over the brutal detention apparently in a flat in Energodar.Putin's forces are known to have engaged in a number of high profile 'false flag' stunts.
The plea to stop the shelling came as the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA inspectors arrived in the nearby city of Zaporizhzhia ahead of the visit.
Ukraine on Tuesday accused Russia of shelling a corridor that IAEA officials would need to use to reach the plant in an effort to get them to travel via Russian-annexed Crimea instead. There was no immediate response from Russia.
The fresh fighting came as students across Ukraine prepared for the start of a new academic year after schools were shut by the Russian invasion, now in its seventh month.
IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi gets into a UN car before setting off for the plant
Although Zaporizhzhia is normally about a two-hour drive from the plant, it was far from clear how or when the IAEA team would reach the site given the complexities of crossing into Russian-held areas.
'We are not afraid, we have already lived enough. Our generation has decided to live in the present moment.'
Grossi said the inspectors planned to spend 'a few days' at theZaporizhzhia plant following months of intense negotiations and would report back afterwards, adding that he hoped to establish a permanent mission inUkraine to monitor the site.
'There are many training initiatives but the needs are enormous,' said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell, who says Ukrainian troops could be trained in nearby EU member states.
Zaporizhzhia is a vital source of energy for Ukraine and remains connected to its power grid.
Holes have appeared in roofs of a building near the reactors of theZaporizhzhia nuclear power plant
Meanwhile,Russia released footage of what it claimed was the dramatic thwarting of Ukrainian saboteurs preparing a 'terrorist act' close to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant.The Russians alleged that the supposed cell was plotting an attack to coincide with the IAEA visit.
Overnight, the Ukrainian-held city of Mykolaiv, 80 kilometres northwest of Kherson, came under 'massive bombardment', with Russian anti-aircraft missiles killing two civilians and injuring 24, the army's southern command said.
'That's one of the most important things I want to do and I will do it,' Grossi said.
A local official said that Russian forces were shellingEnergodar - the town built next to the nuclear power station that has six reactors, making it Europe's largest. Energodar had a pre-war population of around 50,000 people.
Grossi met Tuesday with Zelenskyy to discuss the mission that is expected to last several days
Ukraine and Russia accuse each other of shelling the wider region around the nuclear power plant and the risks are so severe that officials have begun distributing anti-radiation iodine tablets to nearby residents.
European Union defence ministers meeting in Prague Tuesday began planning a training program for Ukrainian soldiers.
Yesterday, photos emerged which shows holes in the roof of the Special Building No. 1 of the Zaporizhzhia power plant, where fresh fuel for nuclear reactors.
But his commander Oleksandr, a veteran of the Soviet war in Afghanistan, predicted the fight to retake Kherson would be 'long and complicated'.
According to law-enforcement agencies, the saboteurs had information about the design features of the power plant.They used foreign satellite systems for communication and were fully armed, it was claimed.
With the war in the eastern Donbas region largely stalled, analysts have said for weeks that combat is likely to shift south to break the stalemate before winter comes.
'A large number of NATO-style weapons were seized from the detainees,' said one report.It was not immediately clear which special forces were involved in the operation.The footage was originally released in occupied Zaporizhzhia region.
'The Russian army is shelling Energodar,' said Evhen Yevtushenko, head of Nikopol district military administration which is located on the northern bank of the Dnipro River opposite the town and its plant.'These provocations are dangerous.'
Allegedly machine guns, explosive devices, grenade launchers and pictures of the nuclear plant were seized by heavily armed Russian forces wearing the 'Z' war symbol on their uniforms.
