Russias red lines are not being taken seriously Putin accuses the WEST of escalating Ukraine tensions by carrying out military drills close to his border as he tests a hypersonic missile
20211118
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10217211/Putin-accuses-WEST-escalating-Ukraine-border-tensions.html
Ukraine has been fighting a years-long proxy-war against Russia, which supports separatist rebels in the country's eastern regions.
Russia had carried out large-scale drills near the Ukraine border and in annexed Crimea in the spring, sparking concerns of a possible invasion.
NATO, the EU and US have thrown their weight behind Poland against Belarus, and on Thursday UK defence minister Ben Wallace travelled to a NATO base in Poland to speak with the country's defence ministerMariusz Blaszczak.
The EU has accused the Kremlin-backed regime of Alexander Lukashenko in Belarus of purposefully luring thousands of migrants - mostly from the Middle-East - to its doorstep as revenge for sanctions.
Kiev, which in recent weeks downplayed the scale of Russia's presence at its borders, on Thursday said it was seeking more military aid from the West.
Tensions are also building on the Polish border with Belarus as the EU accuses dictator Lukashenko - a close ally of Russia - of orchestrating a migrant crisis there
He added that Europe should instead 'address the primary sources of the problems that are currently suffocating Europe'.
Mr Blaszczak subsequently announced that British engineers are being deployed to the border to help reinforce the defences.
'I would like to thank the British for their commitment, especially in the face of situation on the Polish Belarus border.
Crimea juts into the Black Sea and contains an important Russian naval port with easy access to the Mediterranean.
The Russian president said Europe and the US had carried out ship drills in the Black Sea and flown bombers close to the frontier - crossing 'red lines' and showing that Russia is not being taken seriously.
Ukraine believes that Putin has masterminded the crisis as part of efforts to 'shatter' Europe
It comes after Washington accused Putin of preparing for an invasion of eastern Ukraine in order to annex territory as he did with Crimea in 2014.
'Russia's aggressiveness, both diplomatic and military, has increased considerably in recent weeks,' Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told a press briefing.
'Western partners are escalating the situation by supplying Kiev with lethal modern weapons,' Putin said, even as Ukraine's defence minister revealed he has asked Brussels and Washington for more military tech.
It came asDmytro Kuleba, Ukraine's foreign minister, said he is in the process of agreeing a 'Russian containment package' with allies in Washington and Brussels including 'increased sanctions' as well as 'supplies of additional weapons'.
Peskov's remarks come after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday warned Russia against any 'military adventurism' on the borders of Ukraine and EU member Poland.
Putin has been voicing concern about US naval exercises in the Black Sea for days, telling his French counterpart this week that they were 'provocative' and leading to 'increasing tensions' between Moscow and NATO.
The minister said that after his visits to Washington and Brussels in recent days, 'work is underway to develop a comprehensive package of containment of Russia'.
He said Moscow has been 'constantly raising concerns about this' but 'all our warnings and talk about red lines are treated superficially'.
Putin used a speech to Russia's foreign ministry to call for a de-escalation of military tensions, appealing directly to the EU.
Vladimir Putin has accused the West of 'escalating' tensions around Ukraine by building up forces on his border, even as thousands of Russian troops, tanks and artillery pieces sit close by.
This week, France's Macron told Putin that Paris was ready to defend Ukraine's territorial integrity, according to the Elysee.
Renewed Western speculation about Russia's plans in eastern Ukraine have come amid a clash over an unexpected migrant crisis on the border with Kremlin-aligned Belarus and EU member Poland.
Vladimir Putin warned that military drills close to Russia's border, including American naval drills in the Black Sea pictured are responsible for tensions in the region
Washington has warned that Russia is building up forces close to the border in preparation for a possible invasion file image, Ukrainian troops in the region
Putin accused the West of failing to take his 'red lines' seriously, even as thousands of Russian troops and tanks sit close to the border
As he spoke, the Russian military test-fired an 'unstoppable' hypersonic Zircon missile at a target in the White Sea - saying it scored a direct hit.
Ukraine has called for western nations to supply more weapons as it faces the prospect of a years-long conflict with Russian separatists boiling over file image, Ukrainian tanks
It stems from the 2014 rebellion which ousted pro-Moscow president Viktor Yanukovych and led to Russian annexing Crimea in the aftermath.
He added that Kiev is in negotiations with the West for 'the supply of additional defence weapons for our army'.
'The Polish border is sealed and it will be sealed. Despite hybrid attacks, we will keep Poland safe,' he said.
Videos circulated recently on social media have shown Russia moving troops, tanks and missiles towards the Ukrainian border.
UK defence minister Ben Wallace travelled to a NATO base in Poland to speak with the country's defence minister Mariusz Blaszcza. Mr Wallace is pictured third from leftwith soldiers after exercises in the Polish village of Bemowo Piskie, around 65 miles from the Belaris border, today
Speaking today, MrKuleba said: 'Russia's aggressiveness, both diplomatic and military, increased considerably in recent weeks.
Ukraine accuses Putin of masterminding the scheme directly, as part of a wider strategy to 'shatter Europe'.
The minister said that after his visits to Washington and Brussels 'work is under way to develop a comprehensive package for the containment of Russia'.
'Russia has an interest in everybody in Europe finally coming to their senses and stopping considering Russia the culprit of all problems,' Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
'Brussels needs to understand that decreasing military-political tensions is not only in Russian interests, but in those of the whole of Europe, even the world,' he said.
