Russian tourists are left BROKE in Bali as international sanctions ruin their island holidays by preventing them from withdrawing cash from ATMs
20220311
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10600853/Russian-tourists-left-cashless-Australian-Western-nation-economic-sanctions-effect.html
As for the Russians in Bali, they agree that war in Europe is not the solution.
Visa and Mastercard also blocked multiple Russian financial institutions from their network this week, rending their bank cards useless to millions.
Senator Ruslan, a 43-year-old Russian who is on holiday in Bali, tries to use a card of his Russian bank account for paying his lunch at a cafe in Canggu, Badung regency, Bali, Indonesia
Russian expats have been left stranded with no cash in the tourist hotspot of Bali as Australia and Western nations slap the country with harsh sanctions over Ukraine.
In addition, financial sanctions will be imposed on Russia's armed forces, as well as senior military commanders responsible for attacks on Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the sanctions aimed at crippling the Russian economy have sent global oil prices skyrocketing above US$130 a barrel - the highest in 14 years.
Fuel prices are seen at a Shell petrol station in Melbourne, March 9. Motorists are now paying an average of $2 a litre with prices expected to increase.
Konstantin Ivanov, a 27-year old Russian , holds his cards as he tries to withdraw money from his bank account at a cash machine in Kuta, Bali, Indonesia
Australia is planning to issue a fresh round of sanctions targeting the dissemination of propaganda and disinformation about the Invasion of Ukraine.
Tourist Konstantin Ivanov, 27, hasn't been able to take out money in days, and said: 'This has createda huge problem for us... we have been left completely stripped of our finances,' he said.
'It's like they have been completely frozen and we cannot use our finances over here.'
'People of our country do not need a war and neither do the people of Ukraine.Nobody wanted this war,' Mr Ivanov said.
The move has left several Russian tourists on the Indonesian holiday isle unable to withdraw money from ATMs - forcing them to get creative.
Motorists are now paying an average of $2 a litre for petrol with prices expected to rise.
Russian travellers are now scrambling for cash as digital payment options have been rendered useless.
Several Russian banks have been disconnected from the international payments system SWIFT and Visa and Mastercard pulling out of Russia in the wake of Vladimir Putin's invasion.
Western sanctions have blocked Russians from using the global payment system SWIFT, which is used by over 11,000 banking organisations and in more than 200 countries
Mr Ivanov's is unable to access his cash with as his transactions are automatically cancelled and card returned
Bali has recently reopened its boarders to Australia and other approved countries announcing it will no longer force fully-vaccinated travellers to isolate on arrival from last Monday.
