Russia has lost as many men in its threemonth Ukrainian invasion as it did during entire NINEYEAR war in Afghanistan due to poor tactics and leadership
20220523
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10844747/Russia-lost-men-Ukraine-invasion-did-entire-NINE-YEAR-war-Afghanistan.html
In Kabul 'no publicity or special ceremony marked the departure of the last Soviet soldier, who left to the total indifference of officials as well as the local population,' wrote an AFP special envoy in a report on February 15, 1989.
Rescuers work at a site of an apartment building destroyed by Russian shelling in Bakhmut, Donetsk region
Soviet soldiers welcomed in Uzbekistan on February 15, 1989 after the Red Army retreat from Afghanistan
Russian troops are steadily advancing across Ukraine's eastern Donbas pictured in Mariupol, but are suffering 'huge' losses in the process which will leave them too weakened to defend the eventual frontline - which will be hundreds of miles long
Red Army tanks cross the Friendship Bridge on the river border between Afghanistan and Soviet Uzbekistan on February 15, 1989, the last day of the Soviet retreat after 10 years of occupation
A Russian soldier aims his rifle while patrolling the Ilyich Iron and Steel Works in the city of Mariupol, after it fell to Putin's men
With 1.5million dead on the Afghan side and nearly 15,000 from the Soviets, the Red Army had retreated, defeated by Afghan mujahideen resistance.
The two countries were linked by a friendship and cooperation treaty signed when Afghanistan became communist a year earlier, after a coup.
Russian losses in Ukraine over the first three months are likely to have already surpassed those of the Soviet-Afghan war which lasted nine years, the UK Ministry of Defence has said.
'At the request of the legitimate government of Afghanistan, you protected its people, women, children, the elderly, towns and villages, you protected the national independence and sovereignty of a friendly country,' they said.
'Officers were incapable of explaining to their subordinates why they were fighting, what we were doing over there and what we wanted to achieve,' said Gorbachev, who said later the invasion had been a serious 'political mistake'.
In Hairatan, where at 11:30am the last Soviet soldier crossed the Friendship Bridge, local merchant Mohammad Salih said their withdrawal was celebrated.
The Soviet Union's losses are estimated to be around 15,000 killed in the Afghan war, with an additional 35,478 wounded and 311 missing.
'An officer from Uzbekistan told me 'guests were coming' and others on our side of the border were saying it was a Soviet troop parade and they would be returning,' he said.
But the tone was different in the Moscow press. 'To the joy of the return of the soldiers are mixed the pain of losses and bitter reflections,' wrote the Communist party's Pravda newspaper.
The conditions were difficult. The columns of vehicles heading to the border from Kabul had to confront the Salang Pass, with its altitudes of 11,800 feet, in the country's hardest winter for 16 years.
Lieutenant General Boris Gromov, commander of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan, addresses his troops in Termez, Uzbekistan, on February 15, 1989 after the Red Army withdrawal is completed
A destroyed Russian tank is seen in a village to the north of Kharkiv after the area was recaptured by Ukrainian forces
The news comes as Russian army veteran Igor Girkin - who goes by the nom-de-guerre Igor Strelkov, meaning 'shooter' - said Russia has no hope of winning its war in Ukraine even if it manages to seize the whole of Donbas
Poor tactics, limited air cover, a lack of flexibility, and a command approach reinforcing failure and repeating mistakes has led to the high casualty rate, said the ministry.
His government was replaced by one made up of the various mujahideen factions that had driven out the Soviets. They quickly turned on each other.
The Soviets' December 27, 1979 invasion - decided in secret by a select caucus of Politburo members - had been presented in official propaganda as coming to the aid of 'a fraternal people' confronted by an Islamic rebellion.
Since the war in Ukraine began on February 24,Ukraine claims to havedestroyed 204 Russian aircraft, 168 helicopters, 460 unmanned aerial vehicles, 1,263 tanks and 3,090 armored vehicles since the war began, along with almost 30,000 troops.
Ukrainian troops from an intelligence battalion conduct a patrol close to Russian frontlines in Donetsk, Donbas
A member of the Russian armed forces holding a heavy machine gun stands guard next to an armoured vehicle marked with the 'Z' invasion symbol in occupied Mariupol
Russia had made gains on the Donbas front in recent days, capturing towns around Popansa and pushing to encircle Severodonetsk.
Ukrainian troops armed with a British NLAW anti-tank launcher conduct a patrol in the eastern Donbas region
Moscow had thought it would be an easy mission. But it was never able to cut the mountain supply lines of the unrelenting resistance, armed by the Americans, financed by the Saudis and with logistical support from Pakistan.
Strelkov predicts the Russian offensive could grind to a halt around mid-June.Ukraine is then likely to switch to counter attacks as it did around Kyiv and Kharkiv.
'As casualties suffered in Ukraine continue to rise they will become more apparent, and public dissatisfaction with the war and a willingness to voice it may grow.'
'There were many, many soldiers. It was impossible to count them. Those crossing into Hairatan immediately marched onwards toward Kabul. They kept crossing for days and nights,' he said.
Ukraine's military claims that around 28,700 Russian troops have been killed in the country since February, while Russia puts its own losses 1,351, a figure that has not been updated since late March.
Abdul Qayum, who was a border guard in Hairatan, where the bridge crosses the Amu Darya river into what is now Uzbekistan, said: 'The Russians were waving and smiling at the people. It seemed they were tired of fighting.'
On April 14, 1988, the Soviet Union committed in accords signed in Geneva to withdrawing its entire contingent of more than 100,000 men by February 15, 1989.
"But when we saw the civil war and heavy fighting that followed... we thought it would have been better for Afghanistan had they stayed," the 76-year-old told AFP.
He added that general conscription of the Russian population could turn the tide, but Putin was unlikely to do so because of his belief that Russia may be close to victory in the war.
There was also no let up from the resistance fighters, and Soviet soldiers were dying up until the very end.
President Mikhail Gorbachev, who ordered the Soviet retreat, would recall in 2003: 'The central committee was inundated with letters demanding an end to the war. They were written by mothers, wives and sisters of the soldiers...'
He said Russian units are suffering huge losses by trying to attack deeply entrenched Ukrainian troops.
Russia has also lost 200 multiple rocket launcher systems, 2,162 vehicles, 103 cruise missiles, 93 anti-aircraft systems and 13 boats, the Ukrainian military said.
The Soviet-Afghan War ended in a victory for the Mujahideen when Russian forces withdrew after almost a decade of fighting.
On February 15, 1989, crowds of stunned onlookers watched the last Soviet troops leave Afghanistan over the Friendship Bridge - defeated after a decade of war.
In the evening of February 15, when it was all over, the highest organs of the Communist authorities hailed the soldiers 'who have returned home after having accomplished their patriotic and internationalist duty honestly and with courage.'
Ruined, Afghanistan was more fractured than ever. A new, vicious civil war would soon break out before the Islamist Taliban seized power in 1996.
The UK's Secretary of State for Defence Ben Wallace previouslyestimated that approximately a quarter of Russia's battalion tactical groups were 'not combat effective.'
But Strelkov says Ukraine is fast-mobilising new troops, rearming using Western weapons, and digging into new defensive positions that will be hard to overrun.
Fighting is intensifying in the Donbas region, with Ukrainian president Zelensky saying that up to 100 Ukrainians are dying every day in battle with the Russians in the east.
Tanks, cannons and anti-air batteries had been deployed at strategic points overlooking the airport for the occasion, the authorities fearing a mujahideen attack.
'The Russian public has, in the past, proven sensitive to casualties suffered during wars of choice,' said the UK government ministry, which did not name the exact figure.
The second was meant to start on November 15 but was pushed back as the mujahideen stepped up military pressure. It began, discreetly, in early December.
On May 16, the New York Times reported that 480 Russian soldiers died attempting to bridge a river in the Donbas.
