Russia reacts with fury to Blinkens jab at troops in Kazakhstan Kremlin slams Americans as robbers and rapists and tensions mount over deadly crackdown in former Soviet satellite
20220108
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10382159/Russia-reacts-fury-Blinkens-jab-troops-Kazakhstan.html
U.S. Rep. Mark Green, a Tennessee Republican who serves on the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs committees, is among those who see the uprising in Kazakhstan as deterring Russia in Ukraine.
Kazakhstan, meanwhile, has been ruled in the three decades since the Soviet collapse by autocrats who have maintained close security and political ties with Russia.
'We are taught this not only by the recent past but by all 300 years of American statehood.'
Russian military cargo planes at the airport of Ivanovo on Saturday. Kazakhstan's president has rejected calls for talks with protesters after days of unprecedented unrest, vowing to destroy "armed bandits" and authorising his forces to shoot to kill
People queue outside a bank office Saturday in Almaty, Kazakhstan. Protests sparked by rising fuel prices, started in the towns of Zhanaozen and Aktau in western Kazakhstan on January 2 and spread rapidly across the country
'One lesson of recent history is that once Russians are in your house, it's sometimes very difficult to get them to leave,' Blinken said.
A long line of Kazakhs waits at a bank on Saturday. On January 5, President Tokayev dismissed the government and declared a 2 week state of emergency in the Mangistau and Almaty regions, as well as in the cities of Almaty and Nur-Sultan
She noted that while Kazakhstan is in Central Asia, the northern part of the country was settled by Russians and Ukrainians in Soviet times as part of the Virgin Lands campaign, and Russians see it 'very much as part of their land and not just a kind of sphere of influence.'
'This is deeply troubling for Putin because it shows that protests can get out of hand over social issues,' she said. 'And that even if you marginalize the opposition and you look like youre in charge, one day suddenly, youre not.'
In 2020, when protests broke out in Belarus over the reelection of longtime strongman Alexander Lukashenko, Russia stood by him during a brutal crackdown and offered to send troops. In 2008, Russia invaded Georgia and seized control of two separatist regions.
Fiona Hill, former senior director for Russia and Europe at the U.S. National Security Council, said she believed the violence in Kazakhstan 'is probably going to accelerate Putin's desire to do something' in Ukraine.
'If Antony Blinken loves history lessons so much, then he should take the following into account: when Americans are in your house, it can be difficult to stay alive and not be robbed or raped,' the ministry said on its Telegram social media channel.
Kazakhstan's soldiers patrol the central square with the city hall building after clashes in Almaty, Kazakhstan, Friday. Kazakhstan's president authorized security forces on Friday to shoot to kill those participating in unrest
Russian troops entered Kazakhstan on Thursday after Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev left invoked the help of a Russia-led military alliance
The U.S. has for weeks warned that Putin has stationed troops near Ukraine with the possible intent to stage a new invasion.
The Russian Foreign Ministry fired back with a statement that referenced past U.S. wars and interventions in other countries. 'If Antony Blinken is so into history lessons, here's one that comes to mind: When Americans are in your house, it can be difficult to stay alive, not being robbed or raped,' the statement said.
Armed riot police officers detain a protester during a security anti-terrorists operation in a street after clashes in Almaty, Kazakhstan, Saturday, Jan. 8, 2022. Kazakhstan's president authorized security forces on Friday to shoot to kill
Moscow has deployed large numbers of troops near its border with Ukraine but denies Western suggestions it plans to invade.
The question is whether the unrest in Kazakhstan has changed the calculations of Russian President Vladimir Putin as he weighs his options in Ukraine.
In response, Washington and Kyiv have ramped up their cooperation on intelligence and security matters, the people said.
Russias decision to send paratroopers into Kazakhstan, where a crackdown on violent anti-government protests has left dozens dead, injects additional uncertainty into upcoming talks over a possible Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The instability in Kazakhstan may even add new urgency to Putin's desire to shore up Russia's power in the region.
A body of victim covered by a banner, right, lays near to a military truck, which was burned after clashes, in Almaty, Kazakhstan, Thursday, Jan. 6, 2022
Fyodor Lukyanov, a leading Moscow-based foreign policy expert, said by stepping in with military force Moscow has made itself the 'guarantor upon whose position further events depend.'
She said Putin may want to reassert dominance across the region by both shoring up the president in Kazakhstan and undermining Ukraine's democratically elected leader, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Both Kazakhstan and Ukraine are former Soviet republics that Putin has sought to keep under Moscow's influence, but so far with vastly different results.
The Kazakh intervention comes at a time of high tension in Moscow's relations with Washington as the two countries prepare for talks on the Ukraine crisis starting on Monday.
In exchange for easing tensions with Ukraine, Putin wants NATO to halt membership plans for all countries, including Ukraine. The U.S. and NATO have rejected that demand.
Some say Putin may not want to engage in two conflicts at the same time, while others say Russia has the military capacity to do both and he will decide separately on whether to attack Ukraine.
In recent years, Russia has entered conflicts in other neighboring former Soviet countries to seize territory or bolster Moscow-friendly governments.
Burned down cars are pictured in a street of Almaty on Friday in the aftermath of protests. The protests were sparked by rising fuel prices in the towns of Zhanaozen and Aktau in western Kazakhstan on January 2 and spread rapidly across the country
Belarusian troops upon arrival at an airfield in Kazakhstan on Saturday. The collective peacekeeping forces of the Collective Security Treaty Organization CSTOhave been sent 'for a limited time to stabilize and normalize the situation to Kazakhstan'
With this happening on the eve of the talks with the U.S., 'Russia has sent a reminder of its ability to make quick and unconventional military-political decisions to influence what is happening in parts of the world that are important for it,' Lukyanov said.
'Indians of the North America, Koreans, Vietnamese, Iraqis, Panamanians, Yugoslavs, Libyans, Syrians and many other unfortunate peoples who had the bad luck to see these uninvited guests at their doorstep have a lot to add,' the ministry added.
An armed riot police officer detains two protesters during a security anti-terrorists operation in a street after clashes in Almaty, Kazakhstan on Saturday
'Having said that, I think one lesson of recent history is that once Russians are in your house, its sometimes very difficult to get them to leave,' he added.
'And so northern Kazakhstan, between Moscow and Almaty, is being seen as an extension of Russia, just like Ukraine, Donbas and Belarus and all that industrial and agricultural complex,' said Hill, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
'The Russian circle around Putin, they really do want to teach the Ukrainians a lesson,' Hill said. 'And they dont shy away from killing lots of people or seeing lots of people get killed.'
Tensions are rising between the US and Russia, after the Kremlin on Saturday slammed a comment by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken right that Kazakhstan might have a hard time getting rid of Russian troops
'I dont see Russia with the capability of handling two crises simultaneously,' Green said. 'I think it will deter their ability to wage a major conflict in Ukraine.'
'This is not a final situation or a solution, but it provides an effective set of tools for the period ahead,' he wrote in a piece published Thursday.
Blinken on Friday challenged Russia's justification for sending forces into Kazakhstan after days of violent unrest in the Central Asian country.
Russian troops entered Kazakhstan on Thursday after Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev invoked the help of a Russia-led military alliance.
The following day, with Russian troops helping to restore control over the airport and guarding government buildings, he ordered his forces to shoot to kill any protesters who don't surrender.
But at least 100,000 Russian troops remain in positions where they could possibly strike parts of Ukraine, the people said.
A fierce critic of the Biden administration, Green said he supported Blinkens public statements in support of Ukraine and his push for a diplomatic solution.
In Belarus and now Kazakhstan, Hill noted, there is growing frustration with Russian-backed elites and inequality, together with a growing sense of nationalism. Those factors are also present in Ukraine, while discontent is growing in Russia as well.
In this handout photo released by Russian Defense Ministry Press Service, Belarusian soldiers ride an armored personnel carrier as they leave a Russian military plane at an airfield in Kazakhstan on Saturday
'There are very particular drivers of whats happening in Kazakhstan right now, as I said, that go to economic and political matters,' Blinken said. 'What's happening in there is different from whats happening on Ukraines borders.
Ukraine, an aspiring democracy that has turned decisively toward the West, has been locked in deadly conflict with Russia since Putin seized Crimea in 2014 and backed an insurgency in the eastern Donbas region.
Russian troops prepare to board a military flight on their way to take part in a 'CSTO peacekeeping operation' in Kazakhstan on Saturday, January 8
Some see Kazakhstan as also presenting an opportunity for Russia to consolidate its power regionally.
He said the situation was similar to Armenia in 2020, when Russia sent peacekeeping troops after a war with Azerbaijan over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh territory.
Russia's foreign ministry called Blinken's remark 'typically offensive' and accused him of joking about tragic events in Kazakhstan. It said Washington should analyze its own track record of interventions in countries such as Vietnam and Iraq.
That led to Washington and Moscow exchanging new barbs on the eve of a week of meetings over Ukraine that begins with talks between senior U.S. and Russian officials in Geneva on Monday.
Putin is not believed to have moved significantly more troops toward Ukraine in the last several weeks, according to two people familiar with the latest assessments who were not authorized to speak publicly.
Asked about Kazakhstan and Ukraine on Friday, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he would not 'conflate these situations.'
The Russian ministry said the deployment in Kazakhstan was a legitimate response to Kazakhstan's request for support from the Collective Security Treaty Organization, an alliance of ex-Soviet states that includes Russia.
Tensions are rising between the US and Russia, after the Kremlin on Saturday slammeda comment by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that Kazakhstan might have a hard time getting rid of Russian troops now deployed there.
Lawmakers and longtime observers of Russia disagree on how the Kazakhstan situation may affect Ukraine.
Vehicles queue outside a fuel filling station in Almaty on Friday amid widespread shortages. Protests sparked by rising fuel prices, started in the towns of Zhanaozen and Aktau in western Kazakhstan on January 2
