Russian troops boobytrap 10yearold girls PIANO Horrified mother finds grenade hidden inside instrument after returning to family home ransacked by Putins bd soldiers
20220513
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10814183/Russian-troops-boobytrap-10-year-old-girls-PIANO-Horrified-mother-finds-grenade.html
'Isolate Russia, isolate its culture and figures, because everything it does to preserve the image of a civilized state is in fact the same as the explosive in the piano.'
Forced to flee their home in Bucza following Russia's invasion, Tatiana Monko returned home with daughter Daryna last week.
'We want to shout to the whole world - use all possible means to stop this.
Lifting the lid and peering inside, the horrified mother spotted the explosive, a VOG-25P grenade, attached to the piano's hammers.
A Ukrainian mother has branded Russian soldiers 'bs' after they boobytrapped her award-winning 10-year-old daughter's piano with a grenade.
After being removed by Ukrainian bomb disposal experts, Anton Geraszchenko from the country's Ministry of Internal Affairs said: 'Miraculously, the grenade hidden in her piano didn't go off
'We do not know how many more talented young Ukrainian children will be at risk of this war, or how many of them were killed or kidnapped by the Russians.'
Lifting the lid and peering inside, the horrified mother spotted the explosive, a VOG-25P grenade, attached to the piano's hammers
'At the age of six she started singing and chess, last year she took fourth place in the regional chess tournament, is still in the theatre studio, played cameo roles in TV series, and the last two years started the piano and accordion.
She added: 'I feel that attention to the war and assistance to Ukrainians has weakened.
Fuming Tatiana told local media: 'I want the whole world to know what these bs are doing.
But as the talented 10-year-old sat down and began playing, Tatiana noticed that her daughter's trophies on top of the piano had been moved.
Forced to flee their home in Bucza following Russia's invasion, Tatiana Monko returned home with daughter Daryna last week
'Thanks to the mother's vigilance, nobody was hurt and the grenade was disarmed by specialists.'
'My Daryna sings, reads poetry, but the happy life she had has been ruined by the Russians.'
After being removed by Ukrainian bomb disposal experts, Anton Geraszchenko from the country's Ministry of Internal Affairs said: 'Miraculously, the grenade hidden in her piano didn't go off.
Despite their apartment being ransacked and Daryna's prized autographed poster of her favourite band being ripped to pieces, the first thing she wanted to do was play her piano.
A Ukrainian mother has branded Russian soldiers 'bs' after they boobytrapped her award-winning 10-year-old daughter's piano with a grenade
