Skyhigh energy bills will force pubs to shut and are wiping out profits as landlords say electric and gas has risen by 300  and campaigner warns seven out of 10 pubs WONT make it through winter
20220830
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-11160441/Sky-high-energy-bills-force-pubs-shut-wiping-profits.html
This could include introducing an energy price cap for businesses  similar to the cap set for households.
Nick Mackenzie, chief executive of the 2,700-strong Greene King pub group, said one tenant has seen their energy bill jump 33,000 for the year.
Soaring energy bills will force pubs to close and are wiping out profits, a brewery boss has warned, as landlords say electric and gas prices have risen 300 per cent.
Andrew Turner, chief operating officer of St Austell Brewery, today said he had heard from one tenant who has seen their energy bills soarby more than 400 per cent in the last week.
She said: 'We are desperately calling for action from the government to give us an energy cap for small businesses and to do a long-term plan with hospitality so we can save pubs and brewers at the heart of our communities by making sure they are taking action to give them essential headroom like cutting VAT, business rates and keeping beer duty low.'
He said: Without immediate government intervention to support the sector, we could face the prospect of pubs being unable to pay their bills, jobs being lost and beloved locals across the country forced to close their doors, meaning all the good work done to keep pubs open during the pandemic could be wasted.
One of the pub's directors, Paul Butler, said that though they were confident that they would be able to survive the next few months, he admitted 'it's going be a bit of a squeeze'.
'It is totally wiping out the profits they are making, which questions why on earth they would want to open their doors going forward.'
He told LBC: 'We are just desperate. It should have been a relaxing bank holiday weekend, but there is fear, the anxiety, the stress that is running across the whole of the UK. We are the fifth biggest industry.
'I don't think our customers could probably stomach a sort of 15 rise in the cost of a pint or the cost of a glass of wine.'
A Government spokesperson said today: 'No government can control the global factors pushing up the price of energy and other business costs, but we will continue to support the hospitality sector in navigating the months ahead.'
The fermentation vessels at Exale Brewing and Taproom in east London earlier this month as pubs are said to be under threat of closure across the UK
Without any small business alternative to the consumer price cap, operators could face runaway energy costs as the price of gas continues to surge.
On Friday, regulator Ofgem confirmed that bills for an average UK household would surge by 80 per cent in October when the new price cap comes into force.
Separately a group of more than 750 takeaway owners have written to the Government requesting urgent support to prevent mass closures.
He added: 'We're going to try and pass some of the increases onto our customers, but I don't think we can pass it all on.
'We are in a far worse position now than we were during the pandemic. At least there was some support then. We are just freewheeling into a cliff edge.
Emma McClarkin, chief executive of the British Beer  Pub Association, also joined calls for financial support to give pubs 'essential headroom'.
'Covid was tough, but I don't think it was anything as tough as what we have coming. At least during Covid we could still do takeaways and all that sort of thing, but that is all out of our hands now. It is down to prices that are way, way above us.'
He told Sky News: 'Unlike consumers, there is no energy price cap for small businesses therefore we are seeing spiralling costs for our tenants, pubs, and breweries.
Small businesses are facing a crisis with soaring energy bills driving up operating costs and making it impossible for some owners to remain viable.
Mr Butler expressed the desire to keep the 'community spirit and atmosphere' of the pub going, adding: 'I don't want to price people out of the market. I'd rather keep turnover going than to put their prices up to a point where we don't get that sort of atmosphere.'
'So we've got cost pressures not only on our personal heating and lighting bills and that sort of thing, but also that's impacted our wholesalers as well."
Emma McClarkin, chief executive of the British Beer  Pub Association, also joined calls for financial support to give pubs 'essential headroom'
In an open letter today, bosses of six of the UKs biggest pub and brewing companies called on the Government to act now to avoid 'real and serious irreversible' damage to the sector.
Out-of-control gas prices following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia have contributed to rocketing energy bills for operators.
'We need the Government to step forward to make decisions, to support our sector, and make sure such a cornerstone of UK business can get through this tough time.'
The British Takeaway Campaign is calling for a cut to VAT, grants to help with energy bills as well as tax rebates and a blitz of red tape hamstringing smaller operators.
Mr Turner has called on the Government to provide greater leadership to avoid the potentially 'catastrophic' situation.
In an open letter, bosses of six of the UKs biggest pub and brewing companies called on the Government to act now to avoid real and serious irreversible damage to the sector
He continued: 'At the moment, it feels like we are sat in the ether, with no significant leader at the top to make decisions.
Sasha Lord, night time economy advisor for Greater Manchester, also warned today that seven in ten pubs will not make it to winter if there is no intervention to assist with soaring bills.
'We will reach a moment where it is too late. Seven out of ten pubs will not make the winter if nothing is done.'
The King Charles I pub near King's Cross, north London, is expecting around a 400 per cent increase in the price of its energy bill, while the pub is already paying around 12 per cent more for a barrel of beer compared to last year.
Customers drink beer at the bar of the Signature Brew brewery in east London earlier this month
Darren Nash right, landlord of the Red Lion pub in Cricklade, Wiltshire, has detailed the soaring energy prices he now faces
Darren Nash, landlord of the Red Lion pub in Cricklade, Wiltshire, also detailed the soaring prices he now faces.
He said: 'We are looking at a 250 to 300 per cent increase in electric and gas over the next six months. We are around about 2,000 a month give or take for electricity - that is going to go up to about 1,000 a week.
Mr Butler said: 'The brewers are obviously suffering the same increases as we are. In addition to that, they've got cost increases in the price of grain which is feeding through to us.
But businesses operate without a regulated price cap, with some pub owners warning that their bills have quadrupled or they are struggling to even find suppliers willing to power their venues when contracts come up for renewal.
St Austell Brewery along with Greene King, JW Lees, Carlsberg Marstons, Admiral Taverns and Drake  Morgan all sent the urgent warning.
