Star Wars  ObiWan Kenobi first trailer Ewan McGregor watches over a young Luke Skywalker on Tatooine as Darth Vaders presence is felt
20220309
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10595823/Star-Wars-Obi-Wan-Kenobi-trailer-Ewan-McGregor-seen-watching-young-Luke-Skywalker.html
10 years later:The story takes place 10 years after the final Star Wars prequel movie, 2005's Revenge of the Sith, where he failed to bring his best friend and apprentice - Annakin Skywalker right - back from the Dark Side
Scary for sure:A bald Sith is heard saying, 'Where is he?' as fight scenes are seen
The streaming service will also debut Ahsoka, a spin-off series following Rosario Dawson's Ahsoka Tano character.
That is when a very young Luke Skywalker is seen playing outside with goggles on and his plain-looking beige attire as he pretends to fly a Jedi starfighter. The watchful Obi-Wan is heard saying, 'Stay hidden.'
Joel Edgerton and Bonnie Piesse will return as Owen Lars and Beru Lars, Luke Skywalker's uncle and aunt who raised him after Anakin turned to the Dark Side.
The clip ends with the sound of Darth Vader breathing which promises the evil force will be seen in the series.
'The key to hunting Jedi is patience,' says a man in voiceover as a black aircraft is seen approaching a menacing-looking monolith above the sea. 'Jedi cannot help what they are, their compassion leaves a trail,' it is heard.
A lonely man: Ewan is seen walking in Tatooine with his camel like creature into town that sees others milling about
The Dark Side has been busy:'The key to hunting Jedi is patience,' says a man in voiceover as a black aircraft is seen approaching a menacing-looking monolith above the sea. 'Jedi cannot help what they are, their compassion leaves a trail,' it is heard
Live-action:Obi-Wan Kenobi will be the third live-action Star Wars series debuting on Disney Plus, following The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett, with many more in the works
The show was created by Joby Harold, who will also executive produce the series with McGregor, Kathleen Kennedy, Michelle Rejwan and Deborah Chow, who will direct all six episodes of the series.
Poster:With Disney Plus' new series The Book of Boba Fett coming to an end on Wednesday, the streaming service revealed when the next Star Wars TV series, Obi-Wan Kenobi, will debut
Hayden Christensen has also been confirmed to return as Anakin Skywalker a.k.a. Sith Lord Darth Vader.
Also teased is the appearance of the dreaded Darth Vader who at the end of the clip can be heard with his signature deep breathing.
Owen and Beru:Bonnie Piesse, Joel Edgerton Star Wars Episode II - Attack Of The Clones - in 2002
The town that known little rain: Villagers are seen gathering as a man talks to them
And for the first time a young Luke Skywalker is seen playing alone at his home on the desert planet of Tatooine where he has been hidden away from the Dark Side. It is also where Obi-Wan must keep a watchful eye on him from afar.
New show:Disney Plus is also expected to release their new series Andor later this year, following Diego Luna's character Cassian Andor set before the events of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story hereKenny Baker, McGregor, Jake Lloyd, Liam Neeson are seen from Star Wars Episode I - The Phantom Menace - 1999
Next actress Moses Ingram is seen in a black leather suit as she plays Inquisitor Reva, who is firmly on the Dark Side. The character lurks around on rooftops, hoping to catch surviving Jedi.
She seems to pop up everywhere: Reva is also seen with her cape on she resembles Darth Vader
New look:A first trailer for the new Star Wars TV series, Obi-Wan Kenobi, was shared by Disney on Wednesday
Frightening:Next actress Moses Ingram is seen in a black leather suit as she plays Inquisitor Reva, who is firmly on the Dark Side. The character lurks around on rooftops, hoping to catch surviving Jedi
The clip opens with a look at the desert planet Tatooine as Obi-Wan is seen walking on what appears to be a camel like creature as he says, 'The fight is done. We lost.'
Lonely:Luke has been placed on Tatooine to stay away from the evil forces of the Empire and Darth Vader aka Anakin Skywalker, who is the child's father
And there they are: Stormtroopers are seen following a man with a black suit and hat on in a neon-lit city
Disney Plus is also expected to release their new series Andor later this year, following Diego Luna's character Cassian Andor set before the events of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
Luke has been placed on Tatooine to stay away from the evil forces of the Empire and Darth Vader, who is the child's father. His twin sister Leia is located on another planet.
Back for more:Ewan McGregor is seen as the fearless and wise Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi who has also was featured in the Star Wars prequel movies
Then the Jedi Knight is spotted sitting alone on a rocky hilltop looking out at familiar farm home below.
Reprise:Disney unveiled a new poster for Obi-Wan Kenobi, which brings back Ewan McGregor to reprise his roles from the Star Wars prequel movies, which also reveals the show will debut on May 25
The cast will also include Kumail Nanjiani, Indira Varma, Rupert Friend, O'Shea Jackson Jr., Sung Kang, Simone Kessell and Benny Safdie.
The uncle: Uncle Owen has been tasked with keeping an eye on Luke. Here he is seen in his farmer's clothing in town
The story takes place 10 years after the final Star Wars prequel movie, 2005's Revenge of the Sith, where he failed to bring his best friend and apprentice - Anakin Skywalker - back from the Dark Side.
Other spin-offs that are in development include The Acolyte from Russian Doll creator Leslye Headland and Lando from Dear White People creator Justin Simien.
The series debuts on May 25. That specific date has a lot of meaning for Star Wars fans, since it was on that date in 1977 that the very first Star Wars movie, A New Hope, debuted in theaters.
Obi-Wan Kenobi will be the third live-action Star Wars series debuting on Disney Plus, following The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett, with many more in the works.
A first trailer for the newStar Warslimited series Obi-Wan Kenobi, which will debut on May 25 of this year, was shared by Disney on Wednesday.
Ewan McGregor is seen as the fearless and wise Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi who was also featured in the Star Wars prequel movies.
There he is:And for the first time a young Luke Skywalker is seen playing alone at his home on the desert planet of Tatooine where he has been hidden, and where Obi-Wan has offered to keep a watchful eye on him
