Strangle Russia with sanctions until Putin hands back Crimea suggests Boris Johnson as he takes a swipe at Macron for courting Putin  and UK considers supplying Ukraine with heavy artillery
20220330
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10667511/Russian-claims-abandoning-Kyiv-attack-trusted.html
Emergency personnel work at the site of the regional government headquarters in Mykolaiv, Ukraine. Dr Neil Melvin urged 'caution against pinning too much hope' on pronouncements of peace
Ukrainian soldiers stand on top of a Russian artillery vehicle they captured during fighting outside Kharkiv yesterday
Russia may be pulling back from two cities, but in the centre and south of Ukraine, the bloodshed goes on. Putin still wants to win  indeed, believes he must win.
The support would recognise what British commanders believe it a 'new phase' in the war, with VolodymyrZelensky's troops attempting to retake territory rather than just repel the invaders.
The second step has been unfolding in recent weeks before the world's horrified eyes: a full-scale invasion, initially intended to seize Kyiv and depose President Zelensky under the absurd guise of 'de-Nazifying' Ukraine.
Despite overtures towards peace, Vladimir Putin still wants to win in Ukraine, writes Dr Melvin
'Our full-scale defence is coming to an end. A successful defence... It is the brave and effective actions of our defenders who force the enemy to retreat.'
Certainly, that is the view of Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been hosting face-to-face talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul.
Russia announced yesterday amid renewed peace talks that it would reduce its military presence in and around Kyiv pictured and Chernihiv, in what appears to be its first concession since the war began just over one month ago
Economic sanctions helping to cripple the Russian economy should not be lifted until Crimea is returned to Ukrainian control, Boris Johnson suggested today.
He also brushed off the shift in tactics as nothing more than a forced retreat in the face of strong Ukrainian resistance rather than any step towards peace.
'The Russian military command allegedly decided ''to reduce hostilities in the directions of Kyiv and Chernihiv'' - as if Russian planes just decided to fly less and military vehicles to drive less,' the President quipped sarcastically.
Sadly, however, I would also firmly caution against pinning too much hope on these announcements.
Mr Johnson told Cabinet yesterdayhe is looking at providing 'more lethal' equipment to help Ukraine's campaign. The Times said there was speculation that could mean the army's Vickers AS90 Braveheart howitzers - although that is considered fairly old kit.
The Black Sea peninsula has been in Russian hands since an invasion and annexation in 2014.
Putin knows that if he is to remain in power, he cannot be seen to have failed.
Meanwhile,Western leaders were warned against dropping their guard after Russiaannounced its planned scale back of military operations near Kyiv and Chernihiv, with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson declaring Putin may still look to 'twist the knife' and inflict more damage.
'In order to increase mutual trust and create the necessary conditions for further negotiations and achieving the ultimate goal of agreeing and signing an agreement, a decision was made to radically, by a large margin, reduce military activity in the Kyiv and Chernihiv directions,' Fomin said.
I have no doubt that the luckless residents of both Ukraine's besieged capital and of Chernihiv  where tens of thousands are trapped without running water and electricity  will welcome this development.
'In my view, we should continue to intensify sanctions with a rolling programme until every single one of his troops is out of Ukraine,' he said.
The Prime Minister told senior MPs he wanted the economic blockade of the Putin regime tightened until 'every single one of his troops is out of Ukraine'.
Zelensky's address went on to cover the launch of a new government scheme which aims to provide compensation to individuals and families whose property or land has been damaged amid the war.
Dr Neil Melvin is Director of International Security Studies at the Royal United Services Institute
Mr Johnson told Cabinet yesterday he is looking at providing 'more lethal' equipment to help Ukraine's campaign. The Times said there was speculation that could mean the army's Vickers AS90 Braveheart howitzers pictured
In its latest assessment, the Ministry of Defence said today: 'Such activity is placing further pressure on Russia's already strained logistics and demonstrates the difficulties Russia is having re-organising its units in forward areas within Ukraine.'
'There is what Russia says and there is what Russia does, and were focused on the latter,' Blinken said yesterday.
The Kremlin has yet to capture any major city in its month-long invasion of its neighbour
Zelensky also discussed an address he made earlier in the day to the Danish parliament, and said Denmark was interested in helping Ukraine with rebuilding projects in the aftermath of the war.
'There must be real security for us, for our state, for sovereignty, for our people,' he said.
Wrecks of a Russian Armoured Personnel Carriers APC and military vehicles are seen on the front line near Kyiv yesterday
But experts said the pledge mostly covered areas where Putin has been losing ground or had been stalled for weeks, and the vow did not even last long with Chernihiv shelled 'all night long', its governor said.
'Ukrainians have already learned during these 34 days of invasion and eight years of war in the Donbass that only a concrete result can be trusted.'
I have no doubt that Erdogan is sincere when he speaks of his hopes that they may be a prelude to peace.
The first step in executing these ambitions was his 2014 annexation of Crimea and the occupation of parts of the Donbas region by Russian separatist groups.
Yet whatever common ground has been found on the shores of the Bosphorus, this is definitively not a peace agreement - nor even a ceasefire.
Russian units are suffering such heavy losses in Ukraine that they have been forced to flee home and to neighbouring Belarus. Pictured: An abandoned Russian military vehicle inTrostianets
Mr Zelensky has scoffed at the idea Russia would be scaling back its barbaric assaults after peace talks were hailed by some yesterday as 'major progress', despite the lack of any concrete steps towards a ceasefire.
Firefighters scramble to extinguist a huge fire at a fuel base located near Ukraine's western settlement of Klevan in the Rivne region and supplying fuel to Kyiv for the Ukrainian army, which was hit with high-precision air-launched cruise missiles by Russia, on March 28, 2022
At first glance, the temptation is surely to cheer the news that Russia has said it will 'drastically reduce' its combat operations around the Ukrainian capital Kyiv and the northern city of Chernihiv.
But he made no mention of other areas that have seen heavy fighting, including around Mariupol in the southeast, Sumy and Kharkiv in the east and Kherson and Mykolaiv in the south.
Asked if that included Crimea, he added: 'As I said, every single one of these troops is out of Ukraine.'
'Ukrainians have already learned during these 34 days of invasion, and over the past eight years of the war in Donbass, that the only thing they can trust is a concrete result.'
And he said the UK was 'certainly looking at going up a gear in our support for the Ukrainians as they defend themselves' from the Russian attack.
Some 10,000 Russian troops now are dead, several initial gains have been lost, the Russian economy has been crippled by sanctions and its international reputation destroyed.
Boris Johnson left told Cabinet yesterday he is looking at providing 'more lethal' equipment to help Ukraine's campaign. Dominic Raab right said that Russia's words should not be trusted
One Western security official speaking on condition of anonymity said:'Nothing that we have seen so far has demonstrated to us that President Putin and his colleagues are particularly serious about scaling back. It is more of a tactical exercise playing for time.
'Russian troops must leave the occupied territories - Ukraine's territorial integrity must be guaranteed. There can be no compromise on sovereignty. And there will not be any.
Putin knows he has badly over-reached  and must now see that the victory he imagined is beyond his grasp.
Facing senior backbenchers on the Liaison Committee today, Mr Johnson said a ceasefire would not be enough to ease pressure on oligarchs and the Russian war machine.
Residents walk past a damaged Russian tank in the northeastern city of Trostianets yesterday amid heavy Kremlin losses
That is the crucial background to yesterday's claims of progress in negotiations between the warring countries.
Yes, there is a flickering of hope. But this war has a long way to run.
Russian Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin said the offer to reduce some military operations was a confidence building step for the ongoing negotiations with Ukrainian officials in Istanbul.
The Kremlin has yet to capture any major city in its month-long invasion of its neighbour, and yesterday promised to 'radically' reduce military operations around Kyiv and Chernihiv.
But the same day that Russia's Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin said his nation would 'fundamentally scale back' its operations to 'increase trust', a Russian missile killed eight in Mykolaiv, while the decimated city of Mariupol endured further bombardment three year old boy wounded in shelling of Mariupol pictured today
Details of the scheme will be released in the coming days, the President said, before stressing to viewers that the state will compensate 'for every lost metre of real estate'.
President Recep Erdogan, of Turkey, speaks at peace talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations in Istanbul. He hailedRussia's announcement has said it will 'reduce' combat operations around Kyiv and Chernihiv as 'the most significant progress' yet
Russia's apparent climbdown must be seen in the context of Putin's long-held wider ambitions for Ukraine.
Erdogan hailed Russia's announcement yesterday in the wake of these talks  along with proposals mooted by Ukraine to become a 'neutral state'  as 'the most significant progress' towards peace since Vladimir Putin launched his horrific invasion five weeks ago.
'Even if they do do what they say they are going to do that is not in any shape or form a cessation of hostilities... I think we can continue to see continued death and destruction in the Donbass.'
But Russia is likely to continue to compensate for its reduced ground manoeuvre capability through mass artillery and missile strikes, the ministry added.
Western officials have remained highly suspicious of Russia's true intentions, arguing that Russian attacks have continued despite the Kremlin's promise to scale back troops in major urban centres Russian President Vladimir Putin and Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu pictured
A Russian missile blasted a gaping hole in a government administration building in Mykolaiv yesterday, killing eight and wounding over 30
He wants to weaken his democratic neighbour, prevent it from joining Nato and ensure that it can never escape from Russia's 'sphere of influence'.
US and UK intelligence did identify movements in Kremlin Battalion Tactical Groups around the capital yesterday evening, but attributed this largely to the defensive efforts of Ukrainian forces
'We are hearing positive signals from the negotiating table... but positive signals do not silence the explosions of Russian bombs,' he said in a video address last night.
And although there was positivity surrounding yesterday's peace talks in Istanbul, US Secretary of StateAntony Blinken said he had not seen anything to indicate that negotiations were progressing in a 'constructive way,' speculating Russia's pullback is likely an attempt to 'deceive people and deflect attention'.
Mr Johnson is voiced fears at Cabinet yesterday that Putin would seek to 'twist the knife' and become more 'unpredictable', playing down the idea that a settlement between the sides is close.
As such, he may well be using the veil of diplomacy to achieve his goals: buying time so that his forces can regroup and resupply while he plots his next move.
Zelensky also last night declared that Ukraine is ready to negotiate a ceasefire, but said there would be no compromise over Ukraine's 'sovereignty and territory'.
Ministers earlier warned that Russia's claims to be abandoning the assault on Kyiv cannot be trusted. Deputy PM Dominic Raab said the Kremlin should be 'judged by its actions, not its words' and there was a risk that forces would merely 'regroup to attack again'.
Mr Johnson also questioned attempts by French President Emmanuel Macron to talk peace directly with Putin. He said the question of 'the value of those of those negotiations with Putin is an open one', adding:'My view is that, that Putin is plainly not to be to be trusted.'
'We are hearing positive signals from the negotiating table... but positive signals do not silence the explosions of Russian bombs,' Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his latest video address last night.
This satellite image distributed by Maxar Technologies shows destroyed apartment buildings and houses east of Mariupol, Ukraine on March 29, 2022
