Thank you Britain Ukrainian troops celebrate as they shoot down Russian drone with a UKmade missile  and flip the bird at the wreckage as it tumbles from the sky
20220411
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10706937/Ukrainian-troops-celebrate-shoot-Russian-drone-UK-missile.html
Slovakia's prime minister office issued a statement late Sunday calling the news that the S-300 system given to Ukraine was destroyed 'disinformation.' It was unclear, however, whether both sides are referring to the same airstrike.
Karl Nehammer said he would meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and is expected to raise alleged war crimes in devastated areas around Kyiv that were under Russian occupation, including the town of Bucha.
'Air defence destroyed the Russian UAV Orlan. This is the greeting of Ukrainian paratroopers to Boris Johnson.
Asked whether Russia has destroyed Slovak supplied S-300s, Slovakian Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok said that 'we have no evidence of this.'
Once hitting full speed it releases its three 'hittiles' which are then guided to the target.
Electrician Evhen Perepelytsia was evacuated after he lost his leg in shelling in his hometown of Hirske in Lugansk.
A local resident sits amongst rubble and glass after Russian troops destroyed a building in Mariupol on Sunday
The catastrophic death toll comes as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky defended his criticism of NATO and the UN, saying he has had enough of diplomacy with Vladimir Putin
In Buzova, a village in the Kyiv region, Ukrainian officials said the bodies of 50 people, all of whom were shot at close range, were discovered on a road. Another mass grave with dozens of bodies were also found in the village.
The Starstreak high-velocity surface-to-air missile is designed to defend against conventional air threats like fixed wing fighter planes and helicopters.
A US defence expert told Sky News that the next three weeks will 'determine the outcome of the war' in Ukraine.
The mass killing of civilians Ukraine have been widely condemned by the West as war crimes with piles of bodies showing signs of torture and execution were pictured in Bucha after the city had been recaptured by Ukrainian forces.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday that Russia will not pause its military operation in Ukraine for subsequent rounds of peace talks.
Ukraine's defence ministry said as of April 11, the Russian forces have lost over 19,500 soldiers and officers, 723 tanks, 1,923 armoured personnel vehicles, 347 artillery systems,154 Russian aircraft, 137 helicopters, and 119 unmanned aerial vehicles.
Russian forces have said that fighting has recently centred around the city's Azovstal iron and steel works and in the port.
'The battle for Donbas will last several days, but during these days our cities may be completely destroyed,' Gaiday said.
Russian-backed separatists have been fighting Ukraine in the eastern Donbas region since 2014 and parts of the region are under Moscow's control.
It comes amid warnings from Britishintelligence chiefs that Putin's troops could use white phosphorous munitions in Mariupol as fighting there intensifies, with Ukrainian forces saying they are preparing for the 'last battle' in the city.
Tens of thousands of Russian troops are heading to the regions of Luhansk and Donetsk  known collectively as the Donbas.
'Russian troops will move to even larger operations in the east of our state,' Zelenksy said in his nightly address on Sunday. 'They can use even more missiles against us, even more air bombs.
'Luhansk and Donetsk - we will fully liberate in the first place... and then take Kyiv and all other cities.'
He estimated just 20 to 25 per cent of the local population remained, with 'fewer and fewer' now evacuating.
EU foreign ministers will also meet Monday to discuss a sixth round of sanctions, with concerns that divisions over a ban on Russia gas and oil imports could blunt their impact.
It said it had been defending the port for 47 days and 'did everything possible and impossible' to retain control of the city.
Ukrainian soldier Yuriy Kochevenko, who posted the footage online, thanked Britain for supplying the missile system, adding that Kyiv uses the 'support of allies effectively'.
Lavrov said that President Vladimir Putin had ordered to suspend military action during the first round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian negotiators in late February but that Moscow's position had changed since.
Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said the military used sea-launched Kalibr cruise missiles to destroy four S-300 air defense missile launchers on the southern outskirts of the city of Dnipro.
Residents carry their belongings near buildings destroyed by Russian troops, in the southern port city of Mariupol on Sunday
Britain's Ministry of Defence today said Russian forces prior use of phosphorous munitions in the Donetsk region in eastern Ukraine 'raises the possibility of their future employment in Mariupol as fighting for the city continues'.
Buildings are shown destroyed or severely damaged by the attacks of Russian forces in the Makariv region on Sunday
Lugansk governor Sergiy Gaiday warned that the region could suffer as badly as Mariupol, a besieged port city that even pro-Russian authorities say has been 70 percent ruined by fighting.
'I'm no longer interested in their diplomacy that leads to the destruction of my country. A lot of countries have changed their mind about Ukraine and about our people. But I think we've paid too high price for that.'
Zelensky told CBS 60 minutes on Sunday:'When you are working at diplomacy, there are no results. All this is very bureaucratic. That's why the way I'm talking to them is absolutely justifiable. I don't have any more lives to give. I don't have any more emotions.
In the interview aired on Monday, Lavrov also said that calls by Josep Borrell, the European Union's top diplomat, for the bloc to continue arming Kyiv marked a 'very serious U-turn' in European policy.
'It's death for some of us, and captivity for the rest,' it added, saying it had been 'pushed back' and 'surrounded' by the Russian army.
The missile has a range of more than 7km and carries a three dart payload.
Russia has deployed Chechen fighters, reputed to be particularly fierce, in Mariupol.Capturing the city on the Sea of Azov would give Russia a land bridge to the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia seized from Ukraine and annexed eight years ago.
'When people lack the courage to admit their mistakes, apologise, adapt to reality and learn, they turn into monsters. And when the world ignores it, the monsters decide that it is the world that has to adapt to them. Ukraine will stop all this,' Mr Zelensky said.
It accelerates to a speed of more than Mach 3 - approximately 2,300mph - in a 'fraction of a second'.
Gaiday said a missile strike on a railway station in the city of Kramatorsk on Friday, which killed 57 people, had left many afraid to flee. Russia has denied involvement in the strike.
A building is shown severely damaged by the attacks of Russian forces in the Makariv region on Sunday
In a later Telegram message, he said Russian troops knew that 'there is no surviving critical or any other infrastructure in our area'.
The weapon can be launched from lightweight land, sea or air platforms and can be unleashed as soon as a target is detected - there is no wait for 'lock on'.
Putin's forces have also lost111 multiple rocket launcher systems, 1,387 various motor vehicles, 76 fuel tanks, 55 anti-aircraft systems, and four short-range ballistic missiles SRBM systems.
'The Russian army continues to wage war on civilians due to a lack of victories at the front,' Synegubov said on Telegram.
A mother reacts as police members exhume the body of her son, who according to the head of the village was killed by Russian soldiers, from a well at a fuel station in Buzova, on Sunday
The catastrophic death toll comes as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky defended his criticism of NATO and the UN, saying he has had enough of diplomacy with Vladimir Putin.
A roadway is shown damaged by the attacks of Russian forces in the Makariv region near Kyiv on April 10, 2022 in Marakiv, Ukraine
As Russia's invasion of Ukraine enters its 47th day, evidence of Russian troops committing war crimes continues to mount.
'Russian political elites and propaganda have been inciting hatred, dehumanising Ukrainians, nurturing Russian superiority and laying ground for these atrocities,' he tweeted.
Civilians fleeing from the conflict zones in Kyiv, Kramatorsk, Kharkov, Mariupol, take temporary shelter at the sports hall of Lviv Polytechnic National University in Lviv, Ukraine
A man pushes a bicycle by a buidling severely damaged in attacks by Russian forces in Makariv on Sunday
Cemetery workers carry a corpse of a man from a mass grave to be identified in a morgue, in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, on Sunday
Civilians fleeing from the conflict zones in Kyiv, Kramatorsk, Kharkov, Mariupol, take temporary shelter at the sports hall of Lviv Polytechnic National University in Lviv
Ukrainian troops have repelled scores of Russian attacks, killing 19,500 Russian troops and masses of artillery according to Kyiv's estimates.
Photos from the scene show the destroyed remains of the Russian drone, which is designed for visual, radar or radio reconnaissance with the possibility of long-term patrol of an area.
Residents look at destroyed Russian tanks outskirts of Buzova village, west of Kyiv, on Sunday
Kadyrov has been repeatedly accused by the United States and European Union of rights abuses, which he denies.
Civilians fleeing from the conflict zones in Kyiv, Kramatorsk, Kharkov, Mariupol, take temporary shelter at the sports hall of Lviv Polytechnic National University in Lviv, Ukraine, on Thursday
But the Russian military said on Monday that it destroyeda shipment of air defense missile systems in Ukraine provided by the West.
A view shows the building of a theatre destroyed in the course of Ukraine-Russia conflict in the southern port city of Mariupol on Sunday
Zelensky said that tens of thousands of people have been killed in Mariupol. He said: 'Mariupol has been destroyed. There are tens of thousands of dead, but even despite this, the Russians are not stopping their offensive.'
The missiles are similar to the US-made Stinger which is already being used by Ukrainian forces.
Praskovya, 77, is walking in a carriage of a medical evacuation train on its way to the the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, on Sunday
'Thank you Britain. We use the support of allies effectively, send more of it. For our freedom and yours!'
In Dnipro, an industrial city of around a million inhabitants, a rain of Russian missiles nearly destroyed the local airport, causing an unknown number of casualties, local authorities said.
Kadyrov, who has often described himself as Russian President Vladimir Putin's 'foot soldier,' said there should be no doubt about Kyiv.
Bucha - where authorities say hundreds were killed, some with their hands bound - has become a byword for the brutality allegedly inflicted under Russian occupation.
Russia on Monday continued its shelling of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine, but battling Ukrainian forces repulsed several assaults and destroyed Russian tanks, vehicles and artillery equipment, the UK's MoD said.
Russian officials say peace talks with Ukraine are not progressing as rapidly as they would like, and have accused the West of trying to derail negotiations by raising war crimes allegations against Russian troops in Ukraine, which Moscow denies.
Zelensky on Sunday warned Ukrainians to brave for a Russian onslaught in the country's east within days, as he vowed that his forces will 'respond'.
'Today will probably be the last battle, as the ammunition is running out,' the 36th marine brigade of the Ukrainian armed forces said on Facebook.
'We've been hearing news to that end, but based on information provided by the Ukraine side we cannot confirm that. The Ukrainian side has excluded that,' he said at an EU meeting in Luxembourg.
Russian troopsdrive an armoured vehicle on a road outside the southern port city of Mariupol on Sunday
On Monday, Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine suffered another devastating blow after his force's death toll rose to 19,500 according to Kyiv's estimates.
Russia is believed to be seeking a link between occupied Crimea and Moscow-backed separatist territories Donetsk and Lugansk in Donbas.
It uses a laser beam guidance system which the manufacturer says is 'immune to all known countermeasures'.
But other villages, towns and roads on the northwest flank of Kyiv have their own tragedies.
But officials have now revealed that even greater damage was done by Putin's thugs in Borodyanka, northwest of Kyiv and about 15 miles from Bucha.
The brigade said around half of its men are wounded, adding: 'The mountain of wounded makes up almost half of the brigade. Those whose limbs are not torn off return to battle.'
He said that whilst Putin's troops had 'reassessed their objectives in the war' to focus on eastern Ukraine, their 'major problem' is whether they can 'reconstitute enough combat power' to take on a 'very experienced' Ukrainian force there.
Ukrainian troops cheered and celebrated after they shot down a Russian drone with a British-made missile.
An AFP reporter saw at least two corpses inside a manhole at a petrol station on a motorway outside Kyiv on Sunday, in a mix of civilian and military clothing.
The World Bank warned Sunday that Ukraine's economy would collapse by 45.1 per cent this year - a much bleaker outlook than it predicted even a month ago - while Russia would see an 11.2 per cent decline in GDP.
Over the weekend, nearly 50 wounded and elderly patients were transported from the east in a hospital train by medical charity Doctors Without Borders MSF, the first such evacuation since the attack on the Kramatorsk station.
The wreckage from the Russian drone can be seen lying in a field in Ukraine
Meanwhile, Zelensky on Sunday night accused Russia of trying to evade responsibility for war crimes.
'The infantry was all killed and the shooting battles are now conducted by artillerymen, anti-aircraft gunners, radio operators, drivers and cooks. Even the orchestra.'
'If sitting down with the Russians will help me to prevent at least one massacre like in Bucha, or at least another attack like in Kramatorsk, I have to take that opportunity,' he said.
Photos from the scene show the destroyed remains of the Russian drone, which is designed for visual, radar or radio reconnaissance with the possibility of long-term patrol of an area
The MoD warned that Russia's 'continued reliance' on unguided bombs in Ukraine increases the risk of further civilian casualties as the weapons decrease their ability to discriminate when targeting and conducting strikes.
Meanwhile,Austria's chancellor on Monday will become the first European leader to visit Moscow since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as Kyiv prepares for a huge Russian offensive in the country's east.
The UK-made Starstreak missile took down the Russian Orion drone in Ukraine, prompting cheers from the Ukrainian troops.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian forces are preparing for a 'last battle' to control the southern port of Mariupol, besieged by Russians since the invasion, marines in the city said Monday.
But in an interview with NBC's 'Meet the Press', Kuleba said he was still open to negotiating with the Russians.
The downing of the Russian drones comes after Mr Johnson revealedBritain is to send Ukraine more weapons worth 100million and will work to get more tanks to Kyiv in the face of Russian war crimes.
'We hope that the worst is over - that after what I've been through, it will be better,' said the 30-year-old after arrival in the western city of Lviv.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Sunday accused the Kremlin and Russian media of laying the groundwork for war 'for many years'.
Video shows a Ukrainian soldier firing the laser-guided missile that travels at more than three times the speed of sound at the unmannedaerial vehicle UAV in Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian forces are preparing for a 'last battle' to control the southern port of Mariupol, besieged by Russians since the invasion, marines in the city said Monday
Konashenkov said in a statement Monday that Ukraine had received the air defense systems from a European country that he didn't name. Konashenkov's claim couldn't be independently verified.
Speaking in an interview with Russian state television, Lavrov said he saw no reason not to continue talks with Ukraine but insisted Moscow would not halt its military operation when the sides convene again.
Ukraine is believed to have tens of thousands of soldiers in the east, the majority of its military force, ahead of what is believed to be a decisive battle in the war.
Kochevenko said: 'Successful combat use of Starstreak man-portable air-defence system MANPADS in the Ukrainian-Russian war.
Oleg, 56, mourns for his mother Inna, 86, killed during the war against Russia in Bucha, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, on Sunday
The US defence expert said: 'The next three weeks will be decisive. It will determine the outcome of the war.
Soldiers hold a dismounted machine gun from a Russian tank destroyed during Russia's invasion near the village of Motyzhyn, in the Kyiv region, on Sunday
The UK-made Starstreak missile took down the Russian Orion drone in Ukraine, prompting cheers from the Ukrainian troops
'If we in the West can increase our sense of urgency in supplying the Ukrainians, wrapped up to the level of the Berlin Airlift, the Ukrainians can really come out of this with a victory.'
Last week, Slovakia said it had handed over its Soviet-designed S-300 air defense systems to Ukraine, which has pleaded with the West to give it more weapons, including long-range air defense systems.
The chancellor decided to organise the meeting after he met Zelensky in Kyiv on Saturday, his office said.
Mr Johnson said: 'I'm in principle willing to consider anything by way of defensive weaponry to help the Ukrainians protect themselves and their people.
Ukraine's allies have sought to pile pressure on Moscow over allegations its troops carried out war crimes in areas around Kyiv, and there has been little sign that intermittent peace talks are progressing.
One soldier could be seen swearing at the wreckage with his middle finger as it tumbled from the sky.
Boris Johnson has not ruled out considering arming Ukraine's resistance against Russian troops with tanks from former Warsaw Pact nations. Czechia has already sent some T-74 tanks east.
Residents look at a destroyed Russian tank outskirts of Buzova village, west of Kyiv, on April 10
'I think it's important that we should be giving equipment that is genuinely useful and is operable by Ukrainians, that's our consideration.'
The General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces said on Facebookthat Ukrainian soldiers on April 10 downed another Russian Orlan-10 droneusing the Starstreak missile system.
Mariupol has seen the most intense fighting since the Kremlin launched its attack on Ukraine, with the city being virtually razed to the ground. Thousands of civilians are thought to have died in the city.
A resident looks on near a building destroyed by Russian troops in Mariupol on Sunday
The Starstreak system is a shoulder-mounted missile that travels at more than three times the speed of sound to take down low-flying enemy aircraft
'There will be an offensive... not only on Mariupol, but also on other places, cities and villages,' Kadyrov said in a video posted on his Telegram channel.
On Monday, the Chairman of the Board of Ukrainian Railways Alexander Kamyshin said another railway station in the east had been attacked overnight.
While strictly not considered a chemical weapon, the substance burns fiercely and can cause horrendous injuries, and its use on civilians constitutes a war crime.
A distraught woman peered in before breaking down, clawing at the earth and wailing: 'My little son.'
An elderly woman points towards a partially destroyed five story building in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv on Sunday
The marines complained over a lack of support from Ukraine's military leadership: 'No one wants to communicate with us anymore because we've been written off.'
A building is shown severely damaged by the attacks of Russian forces in the Makariv region near Kyiv on Sunday
Lavrov last week accused Kyiv of presenting Moscow with an 'unacceptable' draft peace deal that deviated from agreements the sides had previously reached. Kyiv dismissed Lavrov's comments at the time as a tactic to undermine Ukraine or divert attention from war crime accusations against Russian troops.
Russiahas only admitted 1,351 of its troops have died fighting in Ukraine since Putin invaded on February 24, a fraction of the figure estimated by Ukraine's armed forces.
A young man pushes a wheelbarrow in front of a destroyed apartment building in the town of Borodyanka, Ukraine, on Sunday
MeanwhileRamzan Kadyrov, the powerful head of Russia's republic of Chechnya, said early on Monday that there will be an offensive by Russian forces not only on the besieged port of Mariupol, but also on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities.
Over the weekend, ongoing attacks on the region hampered evacuations, and 12 people were killed in and around northeast Kharkiv, regional governor Oleg Synegubov said.
He wants 'to do everything so that progress towards peace can be made' even if the chances of success are minimal, the spokesperson added.
They have retreated from other areas, including around Ukraine's capital city Kyiv, to focus their efforts there. But Ukrainian forces are determined to push them back.
Video shows the Ukrainian soldiers, believed to be from the 95th Air Assault Brigade, downing the drone on April 9, the General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces said.
The marines said that is where 'the enemy gradually pushed us back' and 'surrounded us with fire, and is now trying to destroy us.'
Residents carry their belongings along a street near a building burnt during the invasion of Ukraine in Mariupol
Korcok says Slovakia is supplying the systems 'because we want to beef up the air defense of Ukraine.'
But Slovakia said it cannot confirmthat air defense systems it has provided to Ukraine have been destroyed by the Russian armed forces.
The Kremlin is seeking a victory there to justify its 'special military operation', which has failed to capture any major cities. According to Western officials, Russian commanders believe the Donbas represents their best chance of success.
Britain is supplying and training Ukrainian troops in the use of the high-velocity anti-air missiles as well as providing body armour, helmets and combat boots.
He pledged high-tech supplies including more Starstreak anti-aircraft missiles, anti-tank rockets and drones as he hosted a joint press conference with German chancellor Olaf Scholz on Friday.
Military sappers dismount a machine gun from a Russian tank destroyed during Russia's invasion near the village of Motyzhyn on Sunday
They can be heard jubilantly celebrating as they watched the drone tumble from the sky, with one shouting: 'There's contact, we destroyed the sh.'
Ukrainian authorities say over 1,200 bodies have been found in the area so far and that they are weighing cases against '500 suspects' including Putin and other top Russian officials.
Video shows a Ukrainian soldier firing the British-made missile that travels at more than three times the speed of sound at the unmanned aerial vehicle UAV. The soldier could be seen swearing at the wreckage with his middle finger as it tumbled from the sky
'We are militarily neutral, but have a clear stance on the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine,' Nehammer tweeted, calling for humanitarian corridors, a ceasefire and a full investigation of war crimes.
A Ukrainian soldier stands watch by a building severely damaged in attacks by Russian forces in the Makariv region near Kyiv on Sunday
'After we became convinced that the Ukrainians were not planning to reciprocate, a decision was made that during the next rounds of talks, there would be no pause in military action so long as a final agreement is not reached,' Lavrov said.
The Pope has urged an Easter ceasefire, denouncing a war where 'defenceless civilians' suffered 'heinous massacres and atrocious cruelty.'
The military wrote: 'In Kharkiv region, the air defense unit of a separate airborne assault brigade with British-made MANPADS 'Starstreak' successfully destroyed another Russian UAV 'Orlan-10'.'
