The Putin battle plan that was doomed to fall apart The seeds of the Russian failure in Ukraine lay in the campaign plan itself which was plagued by a litany of errors writes General RICHARD DANNATT
20220325
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10653585/Putin-battle-plan-doomed-fall-apart-says-General-RICHARD-DANNATT.html
In the meantime, President Volodymyr Zelensky's impressive leadership and his forces' performance in holding the Russians at bay is buying him time around the negotiating table.
There is no doubt Russian units were deliberately misbriefed that the operation was to be something of a peacekeeping mission and that the Russian forces would be greeted as liberators. Above, smoke rises from the cities of Bucha, Irpin and Hostomel near Kyiv in Ukraine on Friday
Perhaps like much modern equipment, the T-14s are still experiencing teething problems. However, plans and equipment are but two of the three elements of overall fighting power  the third element is the human factor.
Not only that, the current air operations have failed to integrate with ground forces. Their tanks need to be supported by infantry and artillery and protected by air defence weapons.
But despite reports that Russia was training for the invasion along Ukraine's borders for weeks, when the first attack was finally mounted, the crucial cooperation between air and ground forces was missing.
Moreover, the lack of a strong non-commissioned corps  essentially the sergeant and corporal class  within the structure of the Russian army has left young conscripts without the low-level leadership that is the backbone of successful armies.
Russian losses are estimated at between 7,000 and 14,000  that's 15 per cent of the entire invading force  and their 40-mile tank column north of Kyiv had made little to no progress in a month.
Despite the relative success of the Ukrainians so far, the big battalions of Russia may well grind down their smaller opponent  but at a growing cost.
We have seen from social media videos that when they come face to face with the reality  Ukrainians determined to defend their nation  these young Russians are shocked and often demoralised.
According to the old military truism, 'no plan survives first contact with the enemy'. In the case of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the plan's survival was doomed before it reached first contact.
This in turn places additional pressure on officers of all ranks to go ahead and lead their soldiers and this is evidenced by the well-documented deaths in action of nearly 20 colonels and generals.
In the face of these weaknesses, the Ukrainians have done all that the Russians have not.
Unable to force their way into city centres on the ground, and certainly not into Kyiv, the Russians will be forced to stand off and shell their enemy, perhaps to the point of near total destruction like Mariupol.
The seeds of the Russian failure lay in the campaign plan itself which was plagued by a litany of errors.
There is no doubt Russian units were deliberately misbriefed that the operation was to be something of a peacekeeping mission and that the Russian forces would be greeted as liberators.
To make matters worse, Russia's T-90 and Cold War-era T-72 tanks are easily damaged with anti-tank weaponry and difficult to repair.
Russian losses are estimated at between 7,000 and 14,000  that's 15 per cent of the entire invading force  and their 40-mile tank column north of Kyiv had made little to no progress in a month. No wonder Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu above, with Putin has disappeared from public view, citing 'heart problems'. And there must be several high-ranking military officers shaking in their boots and dreading the next call into the Kremlin
This has been exposed further by the failure of the logistic tail  that is the supply of essentials like fuel, water, ammunition and energy to the front line  to support the advancing forces. This has resulted in a nightmare of log-jammed tanks north of Kyiv.
No wonder Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu has disappeared from public view, citing 'heart problems'. And there must be several high-ranking military officers shaking in their boots and dreading the next call into the Kremlin.
Vladimir Putin all-too readily believed his own propaganda: that his army was modern, well-equipped, highly-trained and that a lightning strike into Ukraine would be swift, successful and largely bloodless. Yet the Russian military performance in Ukraine has been woeful  an embarrassment to the profession of arms. Above, a column of tanksmarked with the Z symbol stretches into the distance as they proceed northwards along the Mariupol-Donetsk highway
Too many Russian units have resorted to using the insecure Ukrainian 3G mobile phone network, making interception by Kyiv relatively straightforward and identifying targets for precision attack.
President Volodymyr Zelensky's impressive leadership and his forces' performance in holding the Russians at bay is buying him time around the negotiating table
Moreover, the rapid ground movement required was predicated on Russian air superiority, something they still have not achieved thanks to Ukraine's tactically skilled air defence system.
Had the Ukrainians more air power available, then that 40-mile column of vehicles could make the infamous scenes on Basra Road in Iraq in 1991 look like a picnic in the park.
Putin's initial invasion strategy  a three-pronged attack south from the border with Belarus to Kyiv, north from Crimea towards the Donbas region, and a general attack west, was too ambitious, and too demanding of resources. Above, destroyed buildings in Mariupol
Although outnumbered and outgunned by the Russians, the Ukrainians have used their older T-64 and T-72 tanks to good effect in conjunction with the plentiful and modern anti-tank and air defence weapons supplied by the West.
Yet the Russian military performance in Ukraine has been woeful  an embarrassment to the profession of arms.
Motivated by an indefatigable survival instinct, the Ukrainian army and hastily-assembled squads of volunteer fighters have demonstrated a determination and commitment that will go down in military history.
Putin's initial invasion strategy  a three-pronged attack south from the border with Belarus to Kyiv, north from Crimea towards the Donbas region, and a general attack west, was too ambitious, and too demanding of resources.
Vladimir Putin all-too readily believed his own propaganda: that his army was modern, well-equipped, highly-trained and that a lightning strike into Ukraine would be swift, successful and largely bloodless.
And why haven't the Russians deployed their state-of-the-art T-14 Armata tanks? Why these fourth-generation tanks with their laser-guided missiles were absent from the battlefield remains a mystery.
