The world right now is extremely sinister Killing Eves Jodie Comer speaks out on playing shows Russian hired assassin Villanelle as country continues attacks on Ukraine
20220407
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-10696763/Killing-Eves-Jodie-Comer-playing-shows-Russian-Villanelle-country-attacks-Ukraine.html
TV fame: Killing Eve, written and executively produced by Phoebe Waller-Bridge, sent Jodie skyrocketing to fame back in 2018
Meanwhile Mariupol remains under siege with 170,000 still trapped in the besieged city where the civilian death toll has risen to 5,000, including 210 children.
Jodie pulled out of starring in Ridley Scotts upcoming film Napoleon to take part in the play.
She recently told PORTER: 'It's so present and so upsetting. When you do material like this it feels so relevant to today, but it's sadly never been any other way.'
Honest:Jodie Comer, 29, has spoken out about playing Russian brutal hired assassin Villanelle in Killing Eve as the government of the character's native land continues its attacks on Ukraine
War:Her comments come as Russia completed the pullout of 24,000 troops from Kyiv and Chernihiv in preparation for an expected major offensive in the Donbas
Drama: Jodie stars alongside Sandra Oh pictured, who playsMI5 intelligence operative Eve Polastri in Killing Eve, with the pair involved in a cat-and-mouse game on the show
Later this month, Jodie will make her West End debut in a one-woman play, Suzie Miller's Prima Facie, following a barrister, Tessa, who is subjected to a sexual assault, with the audience acting as witnesses to the attack and the grim aftermath.
She said she threw herself into research for the role, speaking to numerous barristers about their experiences as well as a Rape and Serious Sexual Offences officer.
And Jodie says she finds it 'terrifying' how Russian citizens are being fed misinformation about the war in their home nation by President Vladimir Putin and his state, describing the current situation as 'extremely sinister' as she continues with her life and career in peace and safety.
Jodie Comer has spoken out about playing Russian hired assassin Villanelle in Killing Eve as the government of the character's native land continues its attacks on Ukraine.
I wish I would have found that earlier, but you have to go through your own experiences in life, so that's how I feel the change. But I haven't had any awful experiences to speak of I've been extremely lucky.'
The show, written and executively produced by Phoebe Waller-Bridge, sent Jodie skyrocketing to fame back in 2018.
'They care so much about what theyre doing, but its very evident that the system doesnt work for women,' she said. 'If a woman reports being raped, its her whos on trial. Shes given this burden of responsibility to prove what happened.'
Speaking on the impact of the MeToo movement, she added: 'I think I've noticed it in myself and finding my own boundaries and what I'm comfortable with and not comfortable with, and the ability to be vocal about it.
She told the Evening Standard: Everything else is so insignificant. The world right now is extremely sinister.
Jodie has earned a BAFTA and Emmy for playing Villanelle in Killing Eve but the current fourth series is the show's last.
Telling the tale: The actress has portrayed the psychopathic killer since the BBC drama first aired in 2018
'Its terrifying when you realise there are people in power who have the ability to do that, and choose to do that. And the number of people who are none the wiser.'
The actress, 29, has portrayed the psychopathic killer who has been involved in a cat-and-mouse game with MI5 intelligence operative Eve Polastri Sandra Oh since the BBC drama first aired in 2018.
The story is a timely one in today's current climate, something that has not been missed by Jodie.
Her comments comeas Russia completed the pullout of 24,000 troops from Kyiv and Chernihiv in preparation for an expected major offensive in the Donbas with Donetsk, Luhansk and Kharkiv now seeing the worst of the fighting.
