The signs of people being raped tortured executed are an outrage to our common humanity Biden applauds Russia being kicked off the UN Human Rights Council and making Putin more of an international pariah
20220407
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10694821/UN-Assembly-vote-suspending-Russia-rights-council.html
Sergiy Kyslytsya, Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations, speaks during a meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, Thursday, April 7, 2022, at United Nations headquarters
Before the vote, Ukraines U.N. Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya urged assembly members to keep the Human Rights Council from 'sinking' and suspend Russia, saying it has committed 'horrific human rights violations and abuses that would be equated to war crimes and crimes against humanity.'
The U.N. General Assembly voted Thursday to suspend Russia from the world organizations leading human rights body over allegations of horrific rights violations by Russian soldiers in Ukraine, which the United States and Ukraine have called war crimes.
A completed resolution vote tally to affirm the suspension of the Russian Federation from the United Nations Human Rights Council is displayed during a meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, Thursday, April 7, 2022, at United Nations headquarters. UN General Assembly approved a resolution suspending Russia from the world body's leading human rights organization. AP PhotoJohn Minchillo
'The signs of people being raped, tortured, executedin some cases having their bodies desecratedare an outrage to our common humanity.'
China abstained in both assembly votes last month but voted against suspending Russia from the Human Rights Council.
President Joe Biden on Thursday praised the UN General Assembly for its vote to kick Russia off its human rights council following images of horror in Bucha and other Ukrainian towns amid Russia's invasion.
Biden said Russia's 'lies are no match for the undeniable evidence of what is happening in Ukraine. That's why nations in every region condemn Russia's unprovoked and brutal aggression against Ukraine and support the brave people of Ukraine in their fight for freedom.'
'The images we are seeing out of Bucha and other areas of Ukraine as Russian troops withdraw are horrifying,' he said in a White House statement.
Kyslytsya responded to Russias complaints saying: 'We have heard, many times, the same perverted logic of the aggressor trying to present itself as the victim.'
The General Assembly voted 140-5 with 38 abstentions on March 24 on a resolution blaming Russia for the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and urging an immediate cease-fire and protection for millions of civilians and the homes, schools and hospitals critical to their survival.
He pledged to work with responsible nations to gather information to hold Russia accountable  amid reports that Germany had intercepted communications of Russians discussing shooting civilians in Ukraine. '
U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield called the vote 'a historic moment,' telling the assembly: 'We have collectively sent a strong message that the suffering of victims and survivors will not be ignored' and that Russia must be held accountable 'for this unprovoked, unjust, unconscionable war.'
The Geneva-based Human Rights Council is tasked with spotlighting and approving investigations of rights violations, and it does periodic reviews of the human rights situation in all 193 U.N. member nations.
The 47-member Human Right Council was created in 2006 to replace a commission discredited because of some members poor rights records. The new council soon faced similar criticism, including that rights abusers sought seats to protect themselves and their allies, and for focusing on Israel.
Explaining their decision not to support the resolution, some countries called it premature, noting there are ongoing investigations into whether war crimes have occurred, or said it would undermine the credibility of the Human Rights Council and the United Nations. Others said the resolution reflected American and European geopolitical agendas and what opponents called Western hypocrisy and selective outrage about human rights.
'The United States worked closely with our Allies and partners around the world to drive this vote because Russia is committing gross and systemic violations of human rights. Russian forces are committing war crimes. Russia has no place on the Human Rights Council. After today's historic vote, Russia will not be able to participate in the Council's work or spread its disinformation there as the Council's Commission of Inquiry investigates Russia's violations and abuses of human rights in Ukraine,' BIden said.
In a document circulated by Russia and obtained by The Associated Press, Russia said the U.S. and other opponents want to preserve their control over the world and continue 'the politics of neo-colonialism of human rights' in international relations.
While almost half the U.N.s 193 member nations supported the resolution, more than half either voted against it, abstained or didnt vote.
Among the key 58 abstentions was India, an emerging economic power that has declined to blame Russia for civilian deaths but cited reasons of 'substance and process' for abstaining.
Russia's deputy ambassador, Gennady Kuzmin, said after the vote that Russia had already withdrawn from the council before the assembly took action, apparently in expectation of the result. By withdrawing, council spokesman Rolando Gomez said Russia avoided being deprived of observer status at the rights body.
The vote was almost exactly the same as for a March 2 resolution that the assembly adopted demanding an immediate Russian cease-fire, withdrawal of all its forces and protection for all civilians. That vote was 141-5 with 35 abstentions.
In addition to a Human Rights Council investigation, being led by former Norwegian judge Erik Mose, who previously served as president of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, the International Criminal Court is conducting an investigation of possible war crimes in Ukraine.
Both of those votes were not legally binding but did have clout as a reflection of global opinion.
Thursdays vote and Russia's withdrawal, however, have a direct impact on Moscows voice in a human rights body that has increasingly become a venue for a global stand-off between Western democracies and autocratic countries. China will lose a key ally there.
Thomas-Greenfield launched the campaign to suspend Russia from the U.N. Human Rights Council in the wake of videos and photos showing streets in the town of Bucha strewn with the bodies of civilians after Russian soldiers retreated. The deaths have sparked global revulsion and calls for tougher sanctions on Russia, which has vehemently denied its troops were responsible.
Biden referenced the horrors in Bucha, where bodies were found in the street after Russian troops left
Kuzmin said Russia considers adoption of the resolution 'an illegitimate and politically motivated step' by a group of countries with 'short-term political and economic interests' that he accused of 'blatant and massive violations of human rights.'
It has created commissions of inquiry - which provide its highest level of scrutiny on rights violations and abuses - for conflicts in Ukraine, Syria, the Palestinian territories and elsewhere. It has also set up fact-finding missions in places like Libya, Myanmar and Venezuela.
It was a rare, if not unprecedented rebuke against one of the five veto-wielding members of the U.N. Security Council.
'The images we are seeing out of Bucha and other areas of Ukraine as Russian troops withdraw are horrifying,' said President Joe Biden, as he applauded the UN General Assembly vote to suspend Russia from the body's Human Rights Council
The vote on the U.S. initiated resolution suspending Russia was 93-24 with 58 abstentions, significantly lower than on two resolutions the assembly adopted last month demanding an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine, withdrawal of all Russian troops and protection for civilians. Both of those resolutions were approved by at least 140 nations.
'Russias actions are beyond the pale,' he said. 'Russia is not only committing human rights violations, it is shaking the underpinnings of international peace and security.'
'Biden called the move  a rare rebuke of the powerful member of the UN Security Council  a 'meaningful step by the international community further demonstrating how Putin's war has made Russia an international pariah.
Gennady Kuzmin, Deputy Permanent Representative of Russia to the United Nations, speaks during the debate on kicking Russia off the council
Along with Russia, four other permanent members of the U.N. Security Council - Britain, China, France, and the United States, which rejoined this year - currently are serving three-year terms on the Human Rights Council. Other members with widely questioned rights records include, along with China, Eritrea, Venezuela, Sudan, Cuba and Libya.
Russia is only the second country to have its membership rights stripped at the rights council. The other, Libya, was suspended in 2011 by the assembly when upheaval in the North African country brought down longtime leader Moammar Gadhafi.
