The dawn of EU lite Macron invites Britain to join an alternative European political community with full political integration oneandahalf years after Brexit became official
20220509
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10798859/Macron-invites-Britain-join-alternative-European-political-community.html
French President Emmanuel Macron today invited Britain to join a new European political community outside the EU.
Mr Macron  who was fiercely opposed to Brexit  said this new status would allow the UK to enjoy full political integration within the 27-country bloc, and have a say in crucial decisions.
Joining it would not prejudge future membership of the European Union, and it would not be closed to those who have left the latter.
Mr Macrons has previously suggested that Europe form an array of alliances making up 'concentric circles' and his new organisation would see the UK on the outer ring.
It was Mr Macrons first speech on Europe since his re-election and came as Russian President Vladmir Putin celebrated Russias victory over Nazi Germany in Moscow with a military parade.
This new European organisation would allow democratic European nations adhering to our core values to find a new space for political cooperation, and security.
Even if we grant it candidate status tomorrow, we all know perfectly well that the process to allow it to join would take several years indeed, probably several decades.
Mr Macron also said that Ukraines wish to join the EU could take decades, so the new political union might act as a stop-gap measure.
Mr Macron, who won a second five-year term in his own country last month, said he was also in favour of the revision of EU treaties, as proposed by the European Parliament.
However, 13 of the 27 EU countries have already made it clear that they are opposed to the launch of a procedure to change the treaties.
Britain already rejected clsoer security ties with Europe as part of the Brexit agreemet - and Eastern European countries have been ciritical of plans for an apparently two-tier European Union.
He said this would make it easier for the bloc to deal with emergencies such as the Ukraine War and the Coronavirus pandemic.
In a keynote speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg on Monday, Mr Macron said he was all in favour of creating what I would call a European political community.
Ukraine by its fight and its courage is already a heartfelt member of our Europe, of our family, of our union, said Mr Macron.
Mr Macron is still in regular contact with the Russian head of state, despite condemning the war crimes associated with Russias illegal invasion of Ukraine.
During a trip to Berlin later in the day, Mr Macron confirmed that Britain would be invited to take its full place in the new community.
