These are not warriors of a superpower these are confused scared children President Zelensky says morale of Russian troops is constantly deteriorating as soldier breaks down in tears when locals give him tea and call his mother after he surrenders
20220302
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10570529/Russian-soldier-breaks-tears-surrenders.html
Zelensky, who has become a symbol of Ukrainian defiance and courage since the war began, told his people today that Russians 'know nothing about our capital. About our history. But they have an order to erase our history. Erase our country. Erase us all.'
Russian soldiers taking part in the invasion of Ukraine are in 'complete disarray', according to voice recordings obtained by a British intelligence company. Above: Images of captured Russian troops
The footage emerged as the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence said Russian mothers could could come to Kyiv and collect their sons who had been taken prisoner.
Earlier on Wednesday, a video of a Russian soldier breaking down in tears as he spoke to his mother on the phone after surrendering to Ukrainians went viral.
He maintained the claim his troops did not know they were about the invade Ukraine and urged Moscow to end the conflict.
The intercepted radio messages indicate that troops are refusing to obey central command orders to shell Ukrainian towns and are complaining about running out of supplies of food and fuel. Above: Another captured Russian soldier
As Russian forces readied themselves to push on with the assault, those wounded and captured by Ukraine in the opening stages were left to reflect on their decisions behind enemy lines.'No one has attacked us and what Russia wants from the war, I cannot understand. Mum, Dad, I love you,' one said.
If they wanted to collect the child they would have to get to Kaliningrad or Minsk in Belarus before taking a taxi to the Polish border where they could then be escorted to a handover point.
While both US and Ukrainian intelligence believes morale within the Russian ranks is low, Putin and his commanders have showed no sign they are about to give up the fight - and have instead vowed to press even harder to try and capture key objectives.
An official wrote: 'We Ukrainians, unlike Putin's fascists, do not fight mothers and their captive children. We are waiting for you in Kyiv!'
'We are a nation that broke the enemy's plans in a week. Plans written for years: sneaky, full of hatred for our country, our people,' Zelensky said in a video posted across multiple social media channels.
He also claimed that Russian soldiers 'in our unit at least, don't want this war. We want to go home, we want peace.'
ShadowBreak's founder Samuel Cardillo, 26, told The Telegraph he had been sent the messages by amateurs listening in with antennas.
At least one of the soldiers urged Kyiv and Moscow to evacuate children from the warzone while another warned 'no-one wants war'.Meanwhile a handcuffed prisoner of war burst into tears and was filmed wiping his eyes after what sounded like a female relative told him 'I love you' down the phone.
Another recording obtained by ShadowBreak is said to reveal a soldier in tears, pleading with his command: '...it's slow, it's slow.'
But Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov sought to warn western powers away from the conflict today, saying that a Third World War in Europe - should it start - would be 'nuclear' and 'destructive'.
Zelensky, who has drawn praise from Ukrainians and the international community alike for his leadership since the invasion began, also accused Russian troops of looting out of desperation for food and supplies.
Police officers stand guard at the site of yesterday's airstrike that hit Kyiv's main television tower
Ukrainian forces are also said to have had no problem jamming Russian communications and interrupting them with the sound of their national anthem.
Many Russian troops claimed that they believed they were conducting training exercises in the border regions and did not know they were being sent to invade Ukraine.
They were among around 24 hours of material obtained by intelligence firm ShadowBreak since the invasion of Ukraine began last week.
Mariupol, another key port city in Ukraine's south, is also reported to be under heavy bombardment as Russian forces attempt to encircle it. If the city falls then Putin's men are expected to push northwards, trying to encircle Ukrainian forces fighting near Donetsk and force them to surrender.
Footage posted online show tied up'demoralised and exhausted' Russian prisoners of war captured after they failed to break through Ukrainian defences in Kyiv and Kharkiv over the weekend.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russia is trying to erase Ukraine and its people as Vladimir Putin's invasion entered its seventh day today with renewed attacks on all fronts including an expected assault on the city which houses Europe's largest nuclear power plant.
'We were told we would be enemies of the state and because it's wartime, we might even be shot if we refused.We were thrown in as cannon fodder.'
Kyiv has sought to undermine Russian public support for the invasion by opening a telephone hotline for Russian parents to find out if their sons are among the dead or captured. The defence ministry has published telephone numbers and and an email address to provide information about captured Russians, and mothers will be invited to Kyiv to collect their missing sons.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky last night claimed the morale of Vladimir Putin's Russian forces is crumbling in a powerful address pictured, and added that his country's forces has so-far killed 9,000 invaders.
Several of the videos were posted on a Telegram channel set up on Saturday by Ukraine's Interior Ministry called 'Find Your Own'.
The young soldier also appeared to shed tears for those who die on the battlefield because 'they have no funeral'.
'It was decided to give the captured Russian soldiers to their mothers if they come to Ukraine, to Kyiv for them,' it read.
'They will not have peace here, they will not have food here, they will not have a single quiet moment here,' he warned. 'The occupiers will receive only one thing from Ukraine - a rebuff, a worth rebuff. They will remember that we do not give up.'
It is believed Putin's forces are starting to run out of food and fuel, with some resorting to looting, while others are even reportedly sabotaging their own military equipment in a bid to get out of the war.
The body of a soldier, without insignia, who the Ukrainian military claim is a Russian army serviceman killed in fighting in Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine
'All the captives say only one thing: they do not know why they are here. Despite the fact that there are dozens of times more than them, the morale of the enemy is constantly deteriorating.'
Others have noted how young the man is - like many Russian soldiers that have been captured by Ukraine's forces.
The ministry provide an email address and phone numbers that could be used to find out if a soldier was 'in captivity or had died'.
In one of the eavesdropped conversations, listened to by The Telegraph, a soldier reportedly sounds as though he is crying.
Meanwhile, the command of Ukraine's Special Operations Forces warned that it would no longer take Russian artillerymen as prisoner of war in response to their 'brutal shelling' of cities. 'Each and every gun crew will be slaughtered like pigs,' a statement on Wednesday evening said.
Ukraine's State Emergency Service said Wednesday more than 2,000 civilians have died, though it was impossible to verify that claim. There are fears that the number could be higher.
Captured men said they had no idea they were being sent to invade Ukraine and were used like 'cannon fodder' by commanders who threw them into battle against 'peaceful people defending their territory' after Vladimir Putin's forces took heavy losses in the opening days of the conflict.
The emotional clip shared on Twitter shows local Ukrainians welcoming the soldier with food after his reported surrender.
Ukraine on Wednesday invited the worried mothers of Russian troops captured on the battlefield to come and collect their sons, in Kyiv's latest apparent attempt to embarrass Moscow after opening a telephone hotline for Russian parents to find out if their sons are among the dead or captured.
Instead, Ukrainian forces are now in the seventh day of resistance to the Russian attack and multiple videos reveal civilians confronting the invading troops and convoys.
The leader of the besieged nation also said that his country had thwarted Russia's 'sneaky' plans, saying he was proud of the 'heroic' resistance to Moscow's shocking invasion.
The communications are also said to show that soldiers were told they would meet little resistance upon entering Ukraine.
A convoy of Russian vehicles is seen parked along a residential street in an unknown area of Ukraine, in footage released by Russia's armed forces on Wednesday
'You will be received and taken to Kyiv where your son will be returned to you,' the ministry statement said. 'Unlike Putin's fascists, we Ukrainians are not waging war against mothers and their captured children.'
A male voice off camera is heard saying in Ukrainian: 'These young men, it's not their fault. They don't know why they are here. They are using old maps, they are lost.'
Police officers remove the body of a passerby killed in yesterday's airstrike that hit Kyiv's main television tower
'There were periods where we heard them Russian soldiers crying in combat, a period where they were insulting each other  obviously not a sign of great morale.'
Parts of the Russian military are also still using analogue 'walkie talkie' two-way radios, making them more vulnerable to interception.
Kherson, an important port city in Ukraine's south, appeared to be an early casualty as Russian tanks occupied the city centre overnight and then began arriving in numbers. Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, also came under heavy bombardment in the early hours as paratroopers dropped in, sparking gunfights near a military hospital.
In a verified post on social media, officials claimed mothers could make the arduous journey to the Ukrainian capital from Russia if they had found that their child was in captivity.
An armed man stands by the remains of a Russian military vehicle in Bucha, close to the capital Kyiv, Ukraine
Recordings obtained by British intelligence companyShadowBreak revealed Russian soldiers retreating afterbecoming frustrated with the war, indicating that Moscow's forces are in 'complete disarray'.
The video came after other footage showed Russian prisoners of war weeping and claiming they had no idea they were being sent into a warzone rather than to act as peacekeepers.
olice officers examine the bodies of passersby killed in yesterday's airstrike that hit Kyiv's main television tower
In separate video posted on Telegram showed soldiers saying they were 'demoralised' when they realised they were being sent to fight in Ukraine. 'We were told we would be enemies of the state and because it's wartime, we might even be shot if we refused. We were thrown in as cannon fodder'
'This is not our war. Mothers and wives, collect your husbands. There is no need to be here,' an injured soldier sat in front of a Ukrainian flag was filmed saying.Other footage showed handcuffed Russian prisoner crying, while saying: 'They don't even pick up the corpses, there are no funerals'.
The United Nations Refugee Agency reported Thursday morning that over 1 million refugees have fled Ukraine since the beginning of the war, which has so far claimed thousands of lives in its first week.Pictures and videos from Kyiv have shown thousands crowding railways stations in a desperate bid to get a ride out of the city.
A week into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Kyiv claims to have captured dozens of Russian servicemen, and cellphone videos are circling online of bewildered and disarmed young men in uniform.
The remains of a destroyed Russian military convoy are seen on a street in Bucha, to the south of Kyiv, on Wednesday morning
The young prisoner of war is seen drinking tea and eating a pasty as another woman offers him a phone
Footage shows captured a handcuffed Russian prisoner crying over the death and destruction wrought by the war, saying: 'They don't even pick up the corpses, there are no funerals'
Captured Russian soldiers left and right, speaking in video posted to the Ukraine security services' Facebook page, claimed they were 'deceived' and did not realise they were going to invade Ukraine
'We are killing peaceful people,' he said. 'This is not our war. Mothers and wives, collect your husbands. There is no need to be here.'
Mr Cardillo said the some of the messages were also 'proof of war crimes' because they revealed ordered to fire missiles into urban areas.
Russia's advance has since slowed to a crawl as commanders regroup, change strategy, and renew their assault in what is now expected to become an increasingly bloody war of resources with Kyiv's men facing overwhelming odds. The Ministry of Defence said Russia had renewed the fight on 'all fronts' Wednesday and 'suffered losses'.
In separate video posted on Telegram showed soldiers saying they were 'demoralised' when they realised they were being sent to fight in Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky last night claimed the morale of Vladimir Putin's Russian forces is 'constantly deteriorating' in a powerful address, and added that his forces have so-far killed 9,000 invaders.
Footage shows a young surrendered soldier from Putin's forces breaking down in tears as he speaks to his mother on the phone after being comforted and fed by Ukrainian women
He went on to urge the person to call for the end to the war because 'to these bes it's just a case of killing everyone'.
Reports suggest that many tired and demoralised Russian forces are either fleeing battle or surrendering to Ukraine.
The new recordings come after Ukraine on Monday paraded captured Russian soldiersin dozens of online videos.
He is then seen drinking tea and eating a pasty as another woman offers him a phone.The young prisoner of war blows kisses as his mother answers, and bursts into tears as soon as he sees her.One of the other women is heard speaking to her down the phone, saying: 'Natasha, God be with you. We will call you later. He is alive and healthy.'
The footage showed a young fighter from Putin's forces being comforted by a group of women after throwing down his weapon. One of the women tells him 'everything his OK' while patting him on the back.
The president, unshaven and wearing a military-style khaki T-shirt, said the West's response was not enough, calling for more international support, including backing Ukraine's bid to join the European Union. 'This is no time to be neutral,' he added.
The president said he 'sincerely admired the heroic residents' of cities who have resisted the advance of Russian forces.He added that around 9,000 Russian soldiers had been killed since the invasion began, a claim disputed by Moscow who released contesting figures for the first time earlier on Wednesday.
The video has since gone viral in both Ukraine and Russia, with people praising the compassion shown by the Ukrainian women towards the man who has been ordered to invade their country.
'Our military, our border guards, our territorial defence, even ordinary farmers capture the Russian military every day,' he said in the video, similar to several others he has previously recorded during the war.
Zelensky's comments was posted before Ukraine's capital Kyiv and many other cities around the country came under heavy fire from Putin's forces. Videos in Kyiv showed at least two huge explosions light up the night sky at around 2am local time, whileKherson city in the south was reportedly brought under Russia's complete control.
He said: 'What we have found is that the Russian operatives are operating in complete disarray. They have no clue where they are going and how to really communicate with each other properly.
Intercepted radio messages indicate troops are disobeying orders from Moscow to shell Ukrainian towns, and complaining about running out of food and fuel.
Ukraine's military said Russia today renewed its assault 'on all fronts', with paratroopers landing in Kharkiv, tanks and trucks rolling into the centre of Kherson, and strikes in Mariupol and Zhytomyr
He said Ukrainian civilians had driven Putin's soldiers out of grocery stores as they searched for food. 'These are not warriors of the superpower, these are confused children who were used,' he said.
In a further sign that morale may be poor, a senior US defence official told the New York Times on Tuesday that some troops have 'deliberately punched holes' in their vehicles' petrol tanks in the hope of avoiding combat.
Captured Russian soldiers have been filmed describing themselves as 'cannon fodder' and warning 'everyone is going in columns and they all die'
A third message reviewed by ShadowBreak reveals a tense exchange in which the same soldier has to remind a colleague speaking from a command centre that they cannot use artillery on an area until civilians - who are labelled 'the goods' - have left.
Sergey Shoigu, the country's defence minister, said on Tuesday that they offensive would keep going until all objectives had been completed - which he said was the removal of threats to Russia by the West.
'You don't touch the corpses because otherwise the FSB Russian federal security service will arrest you,' he said.
Ukraine says Russia has lost 5,840 soldiers in the opening days of the conflict - some of its fastest losses since the Second World War, if the figure proves accurate - with Putin's men suffering a series of embarrassing defeats as they tried to pull off a quick victory but instead met with stiff resistance from Ukrainian forces.
In another, a soldier is heard losing his temper when asking when food or fuel will arrive. He says: 'We've been here for three days! When the hell is it going to be ready?'
Another soldier, injured during the fighting, was positioned in front of a Ukrainian flag as he spoke to the camera.
