Top Russian biologist turns on Putins propaganda insisting claims of USfunded Ukrainian biowarfare labs researching Black Death anthrax and cholera are pure lies and absurd fakes
20220312
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10605417/Russian-biologist-turns-Putins-propaganda-machine-insisting-claims-Ukrainian-biowarfare-labs.html
The White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki called the Russian claims 'preposterous' in a series of Tweets, adding that it is all an 'obvious ploy' to try and justify the attack on Ukraine.
'They published pure lies. This is a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way,' he said of the bio-weapons.
'That's how propaganda works. The Ministry of Defence made a false, unfounded statement - and now, if I talk to people, 90 per cent of them will say: "Bioweapons were made in Ukraine"...
All donations to the Mail Ukraine Appeal will be distributed to charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.'
Dr Levitin said there was nothing in the documentation at all to back up Russian claims that the plague, anthrax, tularemia, or cholera were being researched as bio-weapons Russian President Vladimir Putin, pictured, chairing a meeting in Moscow last week
The Russian propaganda onslaught also claimed that Ukrainian labs had developed bio-weapons to be especially effective against Slavic DNA, meaning they will selectively target Russians as an ethnic group.
On Tuesday Russia repeated its accusation of several years that Ukrainian laboratories are developing biological weapons, spearheading claims that diseases like plague, or the Black Death, and anthrax were illegally researched in Ukraine.
'The Americans have already managed to remove from the laboratories in Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odesa a large amount of documents, including databases, biomaterials and equipment to the Lviv Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene and to the U.S. consulate in Lviv.
He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him.
'Special interest was raised by detailed information about the plan by the USA to study carrying pathogens from Ukraine by wild birds migrating between Ukraine, Russia and other neighbouring countries.
They also alleged a plot by Ukraine to use birds, bats and reptiles to carry coronaviruses or African Swine Fever into Russia.
'The probability of the transfer of part of the collection to Poland has not been ruled out.'
In a sign of rising dissent in Moscow over the war, he went public with his critique and wrote an open letter with other unnamed graduates of his top university to major state and other pro-Kremlin media outlets in Russia which had trumpeted the bioweapons allegations from the country's defence ministry.
Top Russian biologist Dr Levitin squashes these assertions: 'The claim of "Slavic DNA" is just nonsense for anyone who remembers a high school biology course.
'We are publishing instructions by the Ukrainian Health Ministry to destroy pathogens and the certificates of destruction at bio-laboratories in Poltava and Kharkiv.'
It was not sinister but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US, he said.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
Igor Kirillov, head of Radiation, Chemical and Biological Protection Troops of theRussian Armed Forces, said on Thursday: 'It can be said with a high degree of probability that one of the objectives of the United States and their allies is the creation of bio-agents capable of selectively hitting various ethnic groups of the population.
Ukraine, like many countries, has public health laboratories researching on how to mitigate threats of serious diseases that can affect the human population as well as animals.
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from Russia's invading armed forces.
Dr Levitin said there was nothing in the documentation at all to back up Russian claims that the plague, anthrax, tularemia, or cholera were being researched as bio-weapons.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
'Ukrainian bio-laboratories in the immediate vicinity of Russian territory were engaged in developing components of biological weapons.
The documents outlined by Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov in his televised briefing reportedly come from Ukraine and detail the country's plans to study biological weapons, which wouldwhich would flout International law
But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous.
'Its Russia that continues to support the Assad regime in Syria, which has repeatedly used chemical weapons. Its Russia that has long maintained a biological weapons program in violation of international law.
'The purpose of this and other Pentagon-financed biological research in Ukraine was the creation of a mechanism for the secret spread of deadly pathogens.'
Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in a televised briefing pictured that 'the purpose of this - and other Pentagon-funded biological research in Ukraine - was to establish a mechanism for the stealthy spread of deadly pathogens'
Russia's foreign ministry spokesperson Zakharova claimed that Russia was in possession of documents which showed that the Ukrainian health ministry had ordered the destruction of samples of plague, cholera, anthrax and other pathogens before 24 February, when Russian forces made their move into Ukraine pictured in Moscow at a press briefing on foreign policy issues in February
These claims in Russian media increased during the run-up to Russia's military invasion on Ukraine, with Russia's foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova making the assertion as recently as Wednesday.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
In the broadcast, Konashenkov said: 'Russian specialists from the radiation, chemical and biological protection troops studied documents about handing over - at the US representative's order - human biomaterials to foreign states.
He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said.
'I will explain with a simple example. Imagine you come to an office and see a writing in one of the rooms - "Instruction for the cleaner. Clean the room with a wet wipe twice a day".
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Wednesday accused Russia of trying to stage a 'false flag operation' by pushing claims the US was creating bioweapons in Ukraine
A Moscow microbiologist has accused the Kremlin of 'pure lies' and 'propaganda' in claiming Ukraine had secret US-funded biowarfare labs which they claim could attack Russia.
The Kremlin's accusation came after the White House warned on Wednesday that Russian President Vladimir Putin could deploy chemical or biological weapons in the country.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
'Its Russia that has a long and well-documented track record of using chemical weapons, including in attempted assassinations and poisoning of Putins political enemies like Alexey Navalny,' Psaki wrote on Twitter.
Calling upon that human spirit, we are now launching an appeal to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
'The American side planned to carry out works in Ukraine in 2022 on birds, bats and reptiles' pathogens, to then study the possibility of the carying the African Swine Fever and anthrax.
'It is a pity that in Russia it is now possible to publish such absurd fakes.
'Such statements go back to the theories of the German National Socialists with their cult of the "Aryan superior race".
It was impossible to immediately verify the authenticity of the documents, which the Russians say they are still studying
'The statement from the official representative of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, Igor Konashenkov, in combination with the documents attached to this statement, produces just such an impression.'
On Thursday Russia accused the United States of experimenting with 'bat coronavirus samples' and developing of biological weapons in Ukraine, without providing evidence, as Moscow continued its attempts to justify its brutal invasion.
From a scientific perspective, he says the claims are 'absurd fakes' and 'a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way'.
'It is clear that with the launch of the special military operation, the Pentagon was seriously worried about disclosure of secret biological experiments in Ukraine.
'The calculation is simply that people do not read either Ukrainian or Latin and do not know the names of pathogens.
Zakharova claimed that Russia was in possession of documents which showed that the Ukrainian health ministry had ordered the destruction of samples of plague,cholera, anthrax and other pathogens before 24 February, when Russian forces made their move into Ukraine.
But Moscow State University microbiologist Dr Yevgeny Levitin analysed the documentation allegedly seized by the invasion force - and strongly criticised the Russian claims.
Moscow microbiologist Dr Yevgeny Levitin pictured has accused the Kremlin of 'pure lies' and 'propaganda' in claiming Ukraine had secret US-funded biowarfare labs which they claim could attack Russia
'As the documents show, the laboratories in Ukraine financed by the US held experiments on bat coronavirus.
The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said.
'Now that Russia has made these false claims, and China has seemingly endorsed this propaganda, we should all be on the lookout for Russia to possibly use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, or to create a false flag operation using them. Its a clear pattern. '
Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov expressed this claim in his televised briefing: 'We have received documents from Ukrainian bio-lab employees on the urgent destruction on 24 February of particularly dangerous pathogens of plague, anthrax, tularemia, cholera and other lethal diseases.
Russia claimed their pathogens were destroyed ahead of the war to stop Moscow seeing what biowarfare agents were being prepared.
'From this you conclude that Ukrainian nationalists dismember people alive in this room twice a day and sacrifice them ... and then cover up the traces.
Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in a televised briefing that 'the purpose of this - and other Pentagon-funded biological research in Ukraine - was to establish a mechanism for the stealthy spread of deadly pathogens.'
