Ukrainian soldier is killed by Russian separatist mortar attack as Putin demands NATO keeps out of Eastern Europe amid warnings of an invasion
20211217
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10320579/Ukrainian-soldier-killed-fighting-pro-Russian-separatists-tensions-continue-rise.html
A Ukraine minister warned on Thursday that a full Russian invasion wouldspread global conflict and could be the trigger for World War Three.
But she warned that the consequences of an invasion ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putinwould be far-reaching, and would not be contained in her country.
'Starting from 2022, it is planned to begin gradual removal of the heavy-class silo-based Voyevoda missile system, and replace it with Sarmat,' announced Karakayev, referring to the newly developed biggest beast in the Russian nuclear arsenal known in the West as Satan-2.
One soldier died and another was injured after Ukrainian positions came under fire from machine guns, mortars, and grenade launchers overnight, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry said today without giving exact details.
'If Russia will invade you know, you should also take care about the Balkans. What Russians are doing now in Serbia - they try to provoke a situation in the Balkans,' she told Sky Newsin an interview on Thursday.
Stoltenberg said that NATO had received the documents, and 'that any dialogue with Russia would also need to address NATO's concerns about Russia's actions, be based on core principles and documents of European security, and take place in consultation with NATO's European partners, such as Ukraine.'
'We must understand this and do it and go further with hypersonic weapons,' he said.
Russia wants guarantees that no short or medium-range missiles will be moved into zones where they can strike its territory, that neither side do anything that could be perceived as a 'threat', and that information on drills should be regularly shared.
The latest death brings Ukraine's toll in the simmering conflict to 65 since the start of the year, according to an AFP tally based on official figures, compared to a total of 50 in all of 2020.
It comes amid a massive build-up of troops on the Russian side of the border, with Moscow on Friday laying out a list of demands for the US and its NATO allies.
Kiev and its allies accuse Russia of supporting the rebels militarily - claims which Moscow denies
And the head of Moscow's strategic missile forces Col-Gen Sergey Karakayev vowed to replace the Mach-27 capable Avangard hypersonic gliding unit by the time the West finds an 'antidote' to it.
The Kremlin will also significantly increase the number of test launches of its ICBMs in 2022, it was announced.
A Ukrainian soldier has been killed in a mortar attack by suspected Russian separatists in fighting around the border, amid fears Moscow is about to invade.
'There are developments, there is work in progress. I think that this task is within our reach.'
A Ukrainian soldier has been killed in fighting with pro-Russian separatists as tensions on the border continue to escalate. Pictured: a Russian rocket launcher fires during military drills in Orenburg
Russia has submitted draft documents outlining security arrangements it wants to negotiate with the United States and its NATO allies.
AUkrainian serviceman keeps watch at a position on the frontline with Russia-backed separatists near the village of Pesky
European Union leaders on Thursday urged Moscow to halt its military build-up and return to talks led by France and Germany.
'We are ready to immediately, even tomorrow - literally tomorrow, on Saturday - to go for talks with the US in a third country,' he said, noting that 'Geneva was suggested to the Americans'.
It comes after President Putin spoke angrily of 'red lines' which he said were not being 'respected' in recent weeks.
'If we look at the statistics for the past five years, I think it becomes clear how intense and difficult the next year is going to be,' he said.
The head of Moscow's strategic missile forces Col-Gen Sergey Karakayev vowed to replace the Mach-27 capable Avangard hypersonic gliding unit pictured
Russia now has 50 battalions comprising up to 94,000 troops stationed on the Ukrainian border with another 80,000 - 100,000 sitting in reserve and will be ready to invade within weeks, the US has warned
In a statement late Thursday, NATO envoys warned that they are 'seriously assessing the implications for alliance security of the current situation.' They said the world's biggest security organization stands ready to bolster its presence in eastern Europe, near to Russia, if necessary.
Russian state newswires published the list on Friday as Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said the US and NATO have so-far rejected the ideas, and called the response 'not encouraging'.
Moscow also made clear that in the coming year it would launch more than ten ICBMs.
The Ukrainian army said separatists had targeted its positions with grenade launchers and mortars. Pictured: Russian military drills
This compares with a total of 25 such launches in the past five years, indicating a significant increase.
The 15,880 mph weapon can deliver a MIRV warhead that weighs up to 10 tonnes to any point in the world flying over both the North and South Poles, say the Russians.
Kiev has been battling a pro-Moscow insurgency in two breakaway regions bordering Russia since 2014, when the Kremlin annexed Ukraine's Crimean peninsula.
'By the time they find an antidote, we must have found another solution to this. And today we are working on it.
The Kremlin wantsguarantees that Ukraine never be allowed to join NATO and that no more troops will be sent to other eastern European nations, state media said.
It has the capability to use trajectories and unpredictable routes which 'substantially impede their destruction even by advanced missile defence systems'.
Moscow said the proposals were handed over to the United States earlier this week in an attempt to ease tensions that have been building in eastern Europe for months.
US President Joe Biden warned his Russian counterpart President Vladimir Putin of 'sanctions like he's never seen' should the troops attack Ukraine.
No details have emerged, but the Kremlin says that a senior Russian envoy stands ready to depart for talks in a neutral country on the proposal.
Kiev and its allies accuse Russia of supporting the rebels militarily - claims which Moscow denies.
It also wants general agreements in place that neither side perceives the other as a threat, and that everything will be done to avoid the use of force.
It comes asRussia today confirmed that its new deadly hypersonic 208-ton 'Satan-2' intercontinental ballistic missile will go into service within a year.
New images purport to show heavy weaponry suspected to be en route to a military field camp near the village of Klintsy in Bryansk region, some 28 miles from the Ukrainian border.
NATO has also been told abandon all military activities in eastern Europe and to call a halt to military drills in border zones.
Yuliia Laputina, the minister for veterans affairs, said that her country was prepared to defend itself should Moscow launch another attack.
He added that the 30 NATO countries 'have made clear that should Russia take concrete steps to reduce tensions, we are prepared to work on strengthening confidence building measures.' He didn't elaborate.
At a briefing with journalists Ryabkov said Russia was ready to hold urgent security talks with the United States 'as early as' Saturday.
MeanwhileNATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has set conditions for working with Russia on its new security proposal and offered to work with Moscow to build fresh confidence if tensions are eased with Ukraine.
Russia has massed tens of thousands of troops near Ukraine's borders and the West has for weeks accused it of planning an invasion, warning Moscow of massive sanctions should it launch an attack.
