Ukrainian soldier proudly poses with flag at recaptured Chernobyl nuclear power plant as retreating Russian forces leave trail of dead civilians in their wake with hundreds buried in mass graves
20220403
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10681177/Ukrainian-soldier-proudly-poses-flag-recaptured-Chernobyl-nuclear-power-plant.html
The Ukrainian Atomic Energy Ministry declared on Friday that there are no longer any 'outsiders' on the land surrounding the power station, according to workers from the plant.
He said that withdrawal would allow for discussions, but did not seem to signal that he is open to more talks before that point.
One had his hands tied behind his back with white cloth. A Ukrainian passport lay on the ground nearby.
'The guns of the cannons of the tanks cannot dictate us or what the future will be for Ukraine,' Zelensky told CBS News' Face the Nation in a live virtual interview on Sunday.
Mass graves have been discovered on the outskirts of Ukraines capital Kyiv, it was claimed yesterday, amid fears that brutal Russian troops are executing civilians as they retreat.
'First the ceasefire, then we can have a meeting with the Russian President if they have an approach,' he added. 'Why do we need this bloodshed?'
Irpin and Bucha, commuters towns outside Kyiv, were retaken by the Ukrainian army this week. Both towns have suffered vast destruction and high civilian death tolls.
The confirmation of the control of the border with Belarus indicates a different stage of the war focussed on the eastern regions of the war-torn nation.
Ukrainian troops have been pictured with a flag at the recaptured Chernobyl nuclear power plant after Russian troops continued to retreat from northern parts of the country.
Bucha's mayor said 280 people had been buried in a mass grave in the town and that corpses littered the streets.
President Zelensky warned Moscow's retreating forces are leaving behind 'catastrophic' situations by mining the areas outside their homes, abandoning their ruined equipment and the 'bodies of those killed'.
The corpses of at least 20 men in civilian clothes were found lying along a single residential street.
'We need to have the ability to defend ourselves,' he said. 'After we discuss this, than all of the troops need to be withdrawn.'
He added that many of the bodies had white bandages on them to show that they were unarmed and that a 14-year-old boy was among the dead.
All were wearing civilian clothes, including jackets or tracksuit tops, jeans or jogging bottoms, and trainers or boots.
A grinning Ukrainian troop was shown holding a large flag with the destroyed nuclear plant in the background in a startling show of strength and tenacity by the nation
Sixteen of the 20 corpses found on one street were lying either on the pavement or by the verge. Three were sprawled in the middle of the road and another was lying in the courtyard of a house. One appeared to have been killed as he rode his bicycle.
At least 200 people have been killed in Irpin, a suburb of Kyiv, since Russia invaded Ukraine in late February, while Gostomel, near Kyiv, was the setting of heavy fighting to take control of the airfield there.
Downing Street said that Boris Johnson had called to congratulate Ukrainian President Zelensky's 'brave armed forces' for successfully pushing back Russia's invading forces and agreed to continue increasing the economic pressure on Vladimir Putin.
'Indeed. This is genocide,' Zelensky said, claiming that Russian forces are 'destroying and exterminating' Ukrainians.
Zelensky said that he will be willing to sit down with Putin again once there is a ceasefire in place and Russian troops leave Ukraine, adding that the world cannot expect him to have further discussions with the authoritarian leader while there is still an active attack.
As Ukrainian units advance, they're met with burned-out tanks and heavily-armoured personnel transport vehicles that line the roads once populated by commuters that would have been heading in or out of the capital.
The Russian capture of the plant sparked fears that Putin may weaponise it and unleash the deadly radiation contained in the area across Europe.
'The guns of the cannons of the tanks cannot dictate us or what the future will be for Ukraine,' Zelensky told CBS News' Face the Nation in a live virtual interview on Sunda
'Will you settle for anything less than a full withdrawal of Russian troops from every inch of Ukrainian soil?' host Margaret Brennan asked Zelensky.
He claimed some of the victims had tried to cross the Buchanka river to Ukrainian-controlled territory and that entire families had perished, including children, women, grandmothers. These are the consequences of Russian occupation, he added.
It came as once-bustling highways on the outskirts of Kyiv have now become a graveyard for scores of Vladimir Putin's tanks as the Ukrainians continue their successful counterattacks around the capital.
Zelensky also said Sunday that Russia is engaging in 'genocide' after the mass graves were found.
In a statement posted on social media, Hanna Maliar said: 'Irpin, Bucha, Gostomel and the whole Kyiv region were liberated from the invader.'
Ukraine has said Russia is withdrawing from northern areas and appears to be focusing on the east and south of the country.
Horrific images emerged of bodies strewn across the streets of commuter town Bucha, which was retaken by Ukrainian forces on Friday. The towns mayor, Anatoly Fedoruk, last night told AFP news agency: We have already buried 280 people in mass graves.
'Let's simply sit down together the two of us,' Zelensky said in a public plea to Putin.
All these people were shot, killed, in the back of the head, Mr Fedoruk said.
Kira Rudik, an MP and leader of Ukrainian Golos Zmin political party, posted a video of the horrifying scene on Twitter and wrote: Russians were killing people with their hands tied behind their backs and left the bodies near the road. I am shaking.
But far more grisly finds are being discovered in the villages and towns in Kyiv's urban sprawl. After recapturing Bucha from the Russian forces, Ukrainian troops found the bodies of 20 men in civilian clothes on a single street.
'This is the bare minimum that we have to start the de-occupation with,' he replied. 'It should be 100 percent withdrawal of troops to their borders that existed prior to the 24 of February, at least.'
It comes as part of a wider withdrawal of Russian troops from northern areas of Ukraine due to their inability to capture the capital city of Kyiv.
Despite the Russian occupation, Ukrainian staff continued to oversee the safe storage of spent nuclear fuel and supervise the concrete-encased remains of the reactor that exploded in 1986, causing the world's worst nuclear accident.
A grinning Ukrainian troop was shown holding a large flag with the destroyed nuclear plant in the background in a startling show of strength and tenacity by the nation.
Columns of Russian armoured vehicles have been reduced to rubble as President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's troops continue to repel Russian forces, and in some instances recapture roads and settlements near Kyiv.
The withdrawal has been coupled with attacks on Odessa in the south today as Russia weighs up an amphibious assault on the vital Black Sea port city.
Russian forces had occupied the area since the early days of the invasion but have allegedly retreated due to soldiers coming down with radiation sickness.
Shell explosions have blown gaping holes in apartment blocks and crushed cars litter the streets, according to the first journalists to reach the town.
Russian troops who were stationed at Chernobyl were treated for radiation sickness in Belarus, an employee at the Ukrainian state agency overseeing the exclusion zone has claimed.
The Ukrainian General Staff of the Armed Forces tweeted that their soldiers have today taken control the city of Pripyat, which was abandoned after the 1986 nuclear disaster at Chernobyl.
The Ukrainian account tweeted: 'Today, April 3, units of the Assault Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine took control of the area of the city of Pripyat and the area of the State Border of Ukraine with the Republic of Belarus'.
The Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant is now encased in concrete to prevent radiation from the destroyed reactor from leaking
In what could be further evidence of Russian war crimes, eyewitnesses said one of the corpses had his hands tied, with the dead bodies strewn all over residential roads in the suburban town that was once home to 28,000 people.
The Ukrainian leader said that for de-occupation to be successful, he will accept nothing less than Putin's full withdrawal from all of Ukraine  including resource-rich areas in the east.
Ukraine has taken back the 'whole Kyiv region' from Russian troops, the country's deputy defence minister said as the fightback against the invaders continues.
