Ukrainian peace negotiator is shot dead in attempted arrest by Ukrainian security service amid claims he was a Russian spy
20220227
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10582805/Ukrainian-peace-negotiator-shot-dead-amid-claims-Russian-spy.html
Some 200,000 civilians had been set to leave the port city of Mariupol and 15,000 from Volnovakha in eastern Ukraine at 7am yesterday UK time as part of a temporary ceasefire deal overseen by the Red Cross.
Meanwhile, Prime MinisterBoris Johnson has drawn up a six-point plan to defeat Vladimir Putin as he moves to assume leadership of global efforts to end the horror in Ukraine.
All donations to the Mail Ukraine Appeal will be distributed to charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
The Mi-24 was struck by a rocket before plummeting to the earth, hitting the ground nose-first, with all its pilots and navigators feared killed.
In his action plan, Mr Johnson called for: the creation of an international humanitarian coalition for Ukraine a boost to Kyiv's military self-defence a ratcheting up of sanctions on Moscow concerted diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the crisis and 'a rapid campaign to strengthen security and resilience across the Euro-Atlantic area'.
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003
It comes as dramatic footage emerged yesterday of the final moments of Russian attack helicopter shot down by Ukrainian soldiers over a rural village around 25 miles outside Kyiv.
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from Russia's invading armed forces.
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of a tyrant will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
After his death, the government hailed him as a 'hero' but MPs claimed he was shot and killed by Ukraine's security service after resisting arrest on suspicion of 'treason'.
Photographs were posted online yesterday allegedly showing Mr Kireev dead before rumours that he was spying for Russia began circulating.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
And in another remarkable development yesterday, Putin came under pressure from his own soldiers to stop the war.
An official statement from Ukraine's Ministry of Defence said: 'During the execution of special tasks, three spies were killed - employees of the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
Russia claimed he was killed by the Security Service of Ukraine SBU, while senior Ukrainian politicians claimed he died while in SBU detention.
Both Russia and Ukraine have made claims about his alleged spying activities, each blaming him of working for the other side.
Denis Kireev, 45, was shot and killed yesterday after he was reportedly suspected of spying on behalf of the Russians
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
Ukraine's Ministry of Defence said Denis Kireev, 45, was a spy and former banker who was killed during an operation to 'defend the nation'.
After Mr Kireev'sdeath, the government hailed him as a 'hero' but MPs claimed he was shot and killed by Ukraine's security service after resisting arrest on suspicion of 'treason'
The Prime Minister led the condemnation of Russia and said the world must unite under his plan to thwart the aggression.
Vladimir Putin has faced an unprecedented wave of international fury for offering safe passage to Ukrainian refugees  only to bombard them with artillery as they fled.
Calling upon that human spirit, we are now launching an appeal to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Last month, he was pictured sat on the Ukrainian side of the negotiating table during a summit with Russia on February 28
In addition, Mr Johnson wants to combat 'the creeping normalisation of what Russia is doing in Ukraine' as he fears that the shock value of Putin's actions will start to fade.
Mr Kireev was pictured sat on the Ukrainian side of the negotiating table during last week's peace talks with Russia on February 28, despite not being on the official delegation list, and his role at the summit is unclear.
Russian newspaper Pravda reported that Ukraine's security service had 'clear evidence' of his suspected treason, which included telephone conversations.
Their deaths came on a day when Russian aerial forces lost as many as eight aircraft, as well as multi-role, strike and close air support aircraft and a drone.
At a press conference in Kyiv, captured Russian troops condemned the mission and called on their fellow citizens to rally against the conflict.
A Ukrainian peace negotiator has been shot dead ahead of the latest round of talks to end the war amid claims he was a Russian spy.
