Ukraine fights back in key city of Severodonetsk dubbed the new Mariupol in a new potential blow to Vladimir Putin
20220605
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10885561/Ukraine-fights-key-city-Severodonetsk-dubbed-new-Mariupol.html
But in another sign that the war is not going according to Putins plans, a Ukrainiancounter-offensive stormed back through Severodonetsk. Heralding the advances, Serhiy Haidai, the governor of the Luhansk region of the Donbas, said: As soon as we have enough Western long-range weapons, we will push their artillery away from ourpositions.And then, believe me, the Russian infantry, they will just run.
Ukrainian soldiers walk in the city of Severodonetsk carrying weapons back in April as they look poised to take the city back
A Ukrainian army officer posted a photo on social media with the caption: Another crime of Russian barbarians for whom there is nothing sacred.
CLOSE UP: Destroyed Russian tanks and armoured vehicles on display in Saint Michaels Square, Kyiv, yesterday
A Ukrainian soldier stands guard in the city of Severodonetsk, six weeks into the Russian invasion
Ukrainian forces were last night poised to retake the key city of Severodonetsk in what would be another blow to Russian president Vladimir Putin.
Russian air strikes have increased in the Donbas as the Kremlin seeks to repel Ukrainian advances, Britains Ministry of Defence said last night.
More than 70 per cent of the city had been seized by Russian troops as the Kremlin sought to control the Donbas industrial heartland in the embattled east of Ukraine. Pictured: Solider in April
A 500-year-old monastery in the region was engulfed in flames last night after reportedly being struck by Russian artillery. Russia blamed Ukrainian nationalist troops. Pictures show the Sviatohirsk Lavra monastery, made almost entirely of large logs, in flames. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky condemned the shelling and said there had been 300 people, including the elderly, disabled and 60 children, sheltering inside.
The Ukrainian advance came as its foreign minister rebuked Emmanuel Macron for suggesting it was important not to humiliate Moscow. In an interview, the French president had said: We must not humiliate Russia, so that the day when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means.
But Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said: Calls to avoid humiliation of Russia can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it. Because it is Russia that humiliates itself. We all better focus on how to put Russia in its place. This will bring peace and save lives.
Residents chat in front of a destroyed building in Borodianka, as Russia's attacks on Ukraine continue
More than 70 per cent of the city had been seized by Russian troops as the Kremlin sought to control the Donbas industrial heartland in the embattled east of Ukraine.
But in echoes of the bitter siege of Mariupols Azovstal steelworks, about 800 people  including children  are hiding in Soviet-era bomb shelters beneath the citys Azot chemical factory.
Severodonetsk  a central part of the strategically important Donbas region  has faced bombardment for weeks and the fate of residents who chose to remain is unknown.
