Ukrainian doctor tells TV interviewer he has ordered his staff to CASTRATE Russian soldiers because they are cockroaches
20220321
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10636597/Ukrainian-doctor-tells-TV-interviewer-ordered-staff-CASTRATE-Russian-soldiers.html
The head of the committee Alexander Bastrykin, a former university classmate of Vladimir Putin, initiated a criminal case over his castration demand which is 'contrary to the law and the norms of medical ethics.'
But he later clarified, saying no order to castrate prisoners had been given and that his hospital 'saves lives, period.' However, he then added on Facebook: 'We are going to kill. Not prisoners - but brutal bds who rape my land.'
The head of the committee Alexander Bastrykin pictured, a former university classmate of Vladimir Putin, initiated a criminal case over his castration demand
The owner of a war-zone mobile hospital in eastern Ukraine has told a broadcast that instructed his doctors to 'castrate captured Russian soldiers'
The Russian Investigative Committee opened a criminal case into the comments, which means that if Druzenko is captured he will face trial under Russian law.
The owner of a war-zone mobile hospital in eastern Ukraine has told a Ukrainian TV interviewer that he has instructed his doctors to 'castrate' captured Russian soldiers.
'The head of the Ukrainian Mobile Hospital project, Gennady Druzenko, called for violence against captured soldiers of the Russian Armed Forces live on a Ukrainian TV channel.
Gennadiy Druzenko, 49, made the extraordinary remark during an interview with Ukrainian TV - saying: 'I have always been a great humanist and said that if a man is wounded, he is no longer an enemy but a patient.
'But now I gave very strict orders to castrate all captured Russian men, because they are cockroaches, not people.'
Since 2014, some 500 doctors - male and female - have worked with Druzenko's mobile hospital.
He also told famous Russian TV host Yevgeny Kiselyov on the Ukraine-24 channel: 'Believe, all doctors who saved the patients - Russians will die here. Die in large numbers.
A lawyer by training, he set up the First Voluntary Mobile Hospital which deploys civilian doctors and nurses in the conflict zone close to the separatist republics in eastern Ukraine.
