Ukrainian people smuggler 28 tells judge he is desperate to return to his pregnant wife in Kyiv as he is jailed for trying to smuggle an Albanian woman into Kent in a lorry
20220225
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10552505/Ukrainian-people-smuggler-tells-judge-desperate-return-wife-Kyiv.html
The judge acknowledged his situation but said he could not be swayed in his sentencing by events in Ukraine.
Andrii Kuzmych, 28, said he was 'desperate' to return to his pregnant wife in Kyiv and was living in fear for his brother who was working in a hospital that had been bombed yesterday morning.
The lorry driver tried to smuggle an Albanian woman into Kent for 500 which he accepted to pay for a family member's medical treatment, the court heard.
'A female was detected in the top bunker of the cab where a mattress had been used to attempt to conceal her.'
He added: 'His family are all in the Ukraine, he spoke to some of them this morning, and knows full well his country has been invaded.
'The vehicle had travelled from Calais and when stopped the driver had identified himself as Mr Kuzmych and declared himself to be the only person in the vehicle.
Sian Priory, prosecuting, said: 'People smuggling threatens not only the security of our borders but the security of others, of those citizens who are legally residents here and those who are visitors.
Recorder Matthew McDonagh, said the sentence 'cannot be affected by the developing situation in the Ukraine.'
'His family live in Ukraine, in Kyiv, his brother is a doctor in a hospital that was bombed this morning, so as he sits in HMP Elmley he fears very deeply for his family and his country.
A Ukrainian people smuggler told Canterbury Crown Court he was 'desperate' to return to his homeland following the Russian invasion, minutes before being jailed for two years
Kuzmych was stopped in a Belgian car park where he took up a people smuggler's offer, Canterbury Crown Court heard yesterday.
But he added: 'I acknowledge the threat to your family and friends in Western Ukraine particularly your wife who, I'm told, is pregnant.'
Border Force discovered the woman stowed inside Kuzmych's cabin at Dover's inbound freight lanes in September.
A Ukrainian people smuggler told a court he was 'desperate' to return to his homeland following the Russian invasion, minutes before being jailed for two years.
