US government says Russia is planning to kill FAMILY MEMBERS of Ukrainian soldiers who wont surrender to Putins troops
20220226
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10554001/US-government-says-Russia-plans-kill-FAMILY-MEMBERS-Ukrainian-soldiers-wont-surrender.html
Bodies of Russian servicemen wearing Ukrainian service uniform lie inside and beside a vehicle after they were involved in a raid and were shot during a skirmish in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on Friday
A column of army trucks approaches the Perekop checkpoint on the Ukrainian border with the Russian invasion in full swing
'All evidence suggests that Russia intends to encircle and threaten Kyiv, and we believe Moscow has developed plans to inflict widespread human rights abuses  and potentially worse  on the Ukrainian people,' Blinken stated on Thursday.
The U.S. State Department has shared intelligence that suggests the Russian military has a plan in which it intends to threaten to kill the family members of Ukrainian soldiers who do not surrender to Putin's troops.
The Biden administration believes that Russia will threaten to kill the families of Ukrainian soldiers if they do not surrender. A Ukrainian serviceman is pictured earlier this week
'We commend the Ukrainian people for showing strength and determination in response to an unprovoked attack by a significantly larger military,' the official said.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky told how 137 people lost their lives during the first day of the invasion.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has warned of the possibility of widespread human rights abuses against the Ukrainian people carried out by Russia
Putin's threat comes as Russia appears to be embarking on a campaign of disinformation that has cast Ukrainian soldiers as standing back and surrendering, even though no such surrenders are taking place, according to the Department of State.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said that there is also the possibility of widespread human rights abuses against the Ukrainian people by the Russian military.
The view was shared by Ukraine's foreign minister that human rights abuses may be forthcoming.
The idea by Russia is get word out that would ultimately sew doubt in the minds of other Ukrainian soldiers and possibly encourage them to surrender sooner than they would have otherwise.
That information has come from the U.S. State Department, which has shared a great deal of intelligence over Russia openly in recent weeks, particularly when it came to plans for the Ukrainian invasion.
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has said there may also be Russian false flag operations that would deliberately depict the Ukrainians as the aggressors, despite the opposite being true.
'We are concerned, however, that Russia plans to discourage them and induce surrender through disinformation. Our information indicates Russia is creating a disinformation campaign by publicizing false reports about the widespread surrender of Ukrainian troops.'
'According to intelligence, Russia plans a massive false flag operation to 'dehumanize' Ukrainians and accuse Ukraine of alleged inhuman actions. Don't trust fakes. Ukraine defends its land in a just and defensive war. Unlike Russia, we don't target kindergartens and civilians,' Kuleba tweeted.
Aside from false flag operations, one U.S. source told CNNhow Moscow was focused in carrying out a campaign of disinformation in which they would suggest large numbers of Ukrainian troops have surrendered to Russian forces.
Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro KulebaUkrainian Foreign Minister has said there might be Russian false flag operations that would deliberately depict Ukrainians as the aggressors
