US paratroopers land in Poland to deter Putin just hours after the US accused him of a false flag plot to start a war by faking a Ukrainian genocide with graphic video of fake bodies
20220204
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10477073/US-paratroopers-land-Poland-deter-Putin.html
Pictures today from an airfield inRzeszow confirmed this, showing aU.S. Air Force Lockheed C-130J-30 Hercules transport aircraft on the tarmac as U.S. troops disembarked.
Russia has amassed more than 100,000 troops near Ukraine's northern and eastern borders, raising concern that Moscow might invade again, as it did in 2014
Also in Poland, photographs showed more than 200 pieces of U.S. military hardware from the U.S. Army National Guard's 1st Battalion, 185th Infantry Regiment and equipment for upload from the 3rd Battalion, 161st Infantry Regiment, being moved at the Port of Gdynia - found in the north of the country - on Friday
Kirby assured reporters during his Wednesday briefing of the latest deployments: 'These are not permanent moves. They respond to current conditions. We will adjust our posture as those conditions evolve.'
Department of Defense Spokesperson John Kirby detailed on Wednesday the latest U.S. troop movements approved by President Joe Biden. He said that plan was laid out to the president in three parts:
Kirby said the Pentagon worked with Poland and Germany and have support for deployment. He assured: 'Again, these are not permanent moves. They respond to current conditions. We will adjust our posture as those conditions evolve.'
Moscow's troop presence and resulting uncertainty have unnerved Ukrainians, hurt the country's economy and raised the alarm bells of its neighbours.
According to Stars and Stripes, the soldiers arefrom the Fort Bragg-based 82nd Airborne Division, and have been deployed to reassure concerned allies.
The 1,700 soldiers join roughly 4,000 that are already stationed in various parts of Poland, including hundreds of soldiers that are supporting a NATO mission. Pictured:A U.S. Air Force Lockheed C-130J-30 Hercules transport aircraft lands at Jasionka Airport near Rzeszow
The demand for NATO to stop expanding came after a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping in Beijing that saw Putin hail the two countries' "dignified relationship".
Erdogan also said that Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy strongly supports a Turkish proposal for mediation to reduce tensions between the two nations.
Ukraine's foreign minister said Friday that Washington shared the information with Kyiv and that it did not surprise Ukrainian authorities.
In recent weeks, the White House has said that U.S. intelligence shows Russia has launched a malign social media disinformation campaign against Ukraine and has dispatched operatives trained in explosives to carry out acts of sabotage against Russia's own proxy forces.
After weeks of talks in various diplomatic formats have led to no major concessions by Russia and the U.S., it's unclear how much impact the trips will have. But Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Friday that 'top-level visits seriously reduce challenges in the sphere of security and upset the Kremlin's plans.'
President Biden put 8,500 troops on heightened alert last month in preparation for movement to Eastern Europe to help bolster the region against threats from Russia should NATO activate its response force.
'Unfortunately, the West has not contributed anything toward a solution of this issue,' Erdogan said. 'They are just creating obstacles.'
The US suggested in letters that Russian inspectors can gain access to NATO bases in Romania and Poland pictured above to guarantee that no Tomahawk missiles are being stationed there. Comes as Pentagon announces 2,000 troops in the U.S. will deploy to Poland and Germany and another 1,000 will head to Romania from their base in Germany
The call echoes demands from Russia that have been at the centre of weeks of intensive negotiations between Moscow and the West, under the shadow of a potential conflict.
The majority of those deployments, approximately 1,700, will comes from the 82nd Airborne Division's infantry brigade combat team, which will go to Poland.The 82nd specializes in parachute assault operations and is a rapid ready team prepared to response anywhere in the world within 18 hours.
Biden saidhis decision to deploy troops to Eastern Europe is 'totally consistent' with what he has communicated to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
In a long strategy document, Moscow and Beijing hit out at what they said was Washington's destabilising role in global security.
Macron is following a French tradition of striking a separate path from the United States in geopolitics, as well as trying to make his own mark on this crisis and defend Europe's interests.
Britain has divulged intelligence findings that it says show Russia plotting to install a pro-Russian puppet government in Ukraine.
Russia won China's backing in its showdown with the West over Ukraine on Friday, as Beijing agreed with Moscow that the US-led NATO military alliance should not admit new members.
Also in Poland, photographs showed more than 200 pieces of U.S. military hardware from the U.S. Army National Guard's1st Battalion, 185th Infantry Regiment and equipment for upload from the 3rd Battalion, 161st Infantry Regiment, being moved at thePort of Gdynia - found in the north of the country - on Friday.
It was announced Friday that the French president and the German chancellor will head to Moscow and Kyiv in the coming weeks.
'As long as he's acting aggressively, we are going to make sure we reassure our NATO allies in Eastern Europe that we're there and Article 5 is a sacred obligation,' he told reporters at the White House on Wednesday.
While France is a major player in NATO and is moving troops to Romania as part of the alliance's preparation for possible Russian action, Macron has also been actively pushing for dialogue with Putin and has spoken to him several times in recent weeks.
In a call Wednesday with U.S. President Joe Biden, Macron filled him in on his diplomatic efforts.
In talks with the Russian and Ukrainian leaders Thursday night, Macron's office said they discussed ways to 'identify elements that could lead to de-escalation,' and 'conditions for strategic balance in Europe, which should allow for the reduction of risks on the ground and guarantee security on the continent.'
Moscow has been signalling an apparent readiness for more talks with Washington and NATO in recent days. Some experts say that as long as Russia and the West keep talking, that's a reason for cautious optimism.
France's Emmanuel Macron is scheduled to visit Moscow on Monday and Kyiv on Tuesday, while Germany's Olaf Scholz will travel to Kyiv on February 14 and Moscow on February 15.
2  Approximately 2,000 troops stationed in Fort Bragg, North Carolina will deploy to Europe this week.
The troop movements come as the west waits to see if Moscow will invade Ukraine after moving at least 130,000 troops to its border.
Polish Defense Minster Mariusz Blaszczak announced the arrivals, saying: 'This is a strong signal of allied solidarity in response to the situation in Ukraine.'
It was the latest example of the Biden administration divulging intelligence findings as a tactic to stop Russian disinformation efforts and foil what it says is Putin's attempt to lay the groundwork for military action.
The official announcement did not say where they had landed, but Stars and Stripes reported said they arrived inRzeszow, a southeastern Polish that is around 45 miles from the country's eastern border with Ukraine.
Biden told reporters Wednesday that his decision to deploy troops to Eastern Europe amidst rising tensions is 'totally consistent' with what he has communicated to Russian President Vladimir Putin ever since they started building a troop presence at the border with Ukraine
It carries a U.S. Department of Defence requirement to be able to 'respond to crisis contingencies anywhere in the world within 18 hours,' its website says.
In this photo taken from video and released by the Russian Defense Ministry Press Service on Friday, Feb. 4, 2022, tanks fire during the Belarusian and Russian joint military drills at Brestsky firing range, Belarus
1 1,000 U.S. troops part of the Germany-based infantry Stryker squadron will reposition to Romania 'in the coming days.'This mounted cavalry unit is designed to deploy in short order and move quickly once in place.
The82nd Airborne Division is a decision within the United States Army that specialises in parachute assaults into areas that are otherwise unreachable.
The high-level visits come after the U.S. accused the Kremlin on Thursday of an elaborate plot to fabricate an attack by Ukrainian forces that Russia could use as a pretext to take military action.
Erdogan visited Kyiv this week and upon returning to Turkey charged that Western leaders have failed to make a positive contribution toward the resolution of tensions between Russia and Ukraine.
The 1,700 soldiers join roughly 4,000 that are already stationed in various parts of Poland, including hundreds of soldiers that are supporting a NATO mission, 50 miles from Russian-controlledKaliningrad.
Another 1,000 troops part of a Germany-based infantry Stryker squadron will reposition to Romania at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's NATO closest flank to Russia. They will add to the 900 U.S. forces already in Romania
Russia has amassed around 130,000 troops near Ukraine's northern and eastern borders, raising concern that Moscow might invade again, as it did in 2014.
The movement to Romania will add to the 900 U.S. forces already in that country to help deter aggression from Russia and enhance defensive capabilities in frontline NATO allied states.
Around 1,700 U.S. troops touched down in Poland on Friday, near the Ukrainian border, where they will take up positions amid fears of a Russian invasion. Pictured:Military personnel are seen next to a U.S. Air Force Lockheed C-130J-30 Hercules transport aircraft after landing at Jasionka Airport near Rzeszow, Poland
In addition to the 1,700 troops the US is deploying to Poland, another 300 will be sent to Germany from the 18th Airborne Corps to create a joint task force capable headquarters to provide mission command in Germany.
U.S. troops touched down in Poland on Friday, near the Ukrainian border, where they will take up positions amid fears of a Russian invasion.
Another 300 or so are coming from the 18th Airborne Corps, which will create a joint task force capable headquarters in Germany.The corps provides mission command and is designed for rapid deployment anywhere in the world.
Kirby said: 'Those 8,500 are not currently being deployed but remain ready to move, if called, for the NATO Response Force NRF or as needed for other contingencies as directed by the Secretary of by President Biden.'
Germany has emphasized the importance of various diplomatic formats in tackling the tensions and has refused to send weapons to Ukraine, irking some allies. Scholz also has faced criticism at home lately for keeping a low public profile in the crisis.
'Since 2014, we have seen many insidious actions by Russia. We have seen that nothing stops them from fabricating something and accusing Ukraine of something,' Kuleba told reporters.
Kirby said Pentagon Secretary Lloyd Austin discussed reposition with Romania last week and the movement there is coming at the invitations of the Romanian government.
News of the soldiers' arrival came hours after the United States said it had evidence of a plan by Moscow to film a fake Ukrainian attack on Russians to justify an attack on its neighbour.
3  All of these troop movements and deployments are 'separate and in addition' to the 8,500 U.S. military personnel put on heightened alert posture last week.
The Pentagon revealed Wednesday that US President Joe Biden approved deployment of 3,000 American troops to Eastern Europe 'in the coming days'
Their visits add to diplomatic efforts to try to deter Putin from launching an invasion of Ukraine and find a way out of the growing tensions.
But the Kremlin reacted angrily, withRussian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko telling Russian news agency Interfax that the U.S. moves are 'not substantiated by anyone' and are 'destructive steps which increase military tension and reduce scope for political decisions.'
Meanwhile in Washington, U.S. officials said a plan for a fake attack on Russian territory or Russian-speaking people was described in declassified intelligence shared with Ukrainian officials and European allies in recent days.
Separately from Macron and Scholz, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has offered to mediate talks between Russia and Ukraine.
Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said the US had 'information that the Russians are likely to want to fabricate a pretext for an invasion', but did not provide evidence.
"The parties oppose the further expansion of NATO and call on the North Atlantic Alliance to abandon the ideological approaches of the Cold War era," the document read, urging respect for the "sovereignty, security and interests of other countries."
The U.S. has not provided detailed information backing up the claims, which Moscow has vehemently denied.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, who today made an appearancein Beijing at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics, has repeatedly claimed he does not intend to attack Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin had his eyes closed and hands folded as Ukraine's athletes arrived at the Winter Olympic Opening Ceremony in Beijing today, seemingly pretending to be asleep
Russian officials have rejected the allegations. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Friday spoke about the 'absurdity' of the claims, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recommended reporters 'not to take anyone's word for it, especially the U.S. State Department's, when it comes to these issues.'
