US should formally recognize Taiwan as a country to stop Chinas egomaniacal President Xi seizing it after Beijings brutally successful takeover of Hong Kong says Mike Pompeo
20220304
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10576925/Mike-Pompeo-formally-recognize-Taiwan-country-stop-Chinas-President-Xi-seizing-it.html
'Taking over Taiwan, a necessary mission, is not only to boost Xi's egomaniacal claim of greatness, but indeed to solidify it,' Pompeo said.
The formation also featured a $50million KC-135 Stratotanker refueling plane,assigned to the 909th Air Refueling Squadron, as well as a $270million E-3 Sentryaerial command and control craft,assigned to the 961st Airborne Air Control Squadron.
The US should formally recognize Taiwan as a country to stop 'egomaniacal' Chinese President Xi Jinping from seizing the island after Beijing's 'brutally successful takeover of Hong Kong', former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo pictured said today
Self-governed Taiwan's 23 million people live under the constant threat of invasion by authoritarian China , which views the island as its territory and has vowed to one day seize it, by force if necessary
Pompeo said after Beijing's 'brutally successful takeover of Hong Kong,' Chinese President Xi Jinping feels more powerful and 'won't be satisfied stopping at Hong Kong'.
Meanwhile, Pompeo's visit to Taiwan came shortly after a separate trip by a delegation of former US security officials aimed at assuring regional allies that Washington 'stands firm behind its commitments'.
China put sanctions on 'lying and cheating' Pompeo and 27 other top Trump-era officials as President Joe Biden took office in January 2021.
China routinely protests U.S. contacts with Taiwan's government and announced in November that its military conducted air and naval readiness patrols in the direction of the Taiwan Strait after five U.S. lawmakers met with Tsai on an unannounced one-day visit.
Pompeo's demand for Taiwan to be recognized as a country drew a stern rebuke from Beijing for his 'babbling nonsense', whilst pro-China activists protested outside the hotel were the former secretary of state was delivering a speech.
Biden has followed his predecessors in stepping up contacts between Taiwan and both serving and retired administration officials, along with selling it military equipment.
Hydro and other power plants are now being brought online to provide electricity, as Taiwan blamed negligence during the annual maintenance at the Hsinta power plant in the southern city of Kaohsiung for the mass outage.
The show of force comes after months of mounting and increased Chinese aggression directed at Taiwan, including nine Chinese aircraft entering the nation's air space Thursday - the day Russian troops invaded Ukraine
The show of force comes after months of mounting and increased Chinese aggression directed at Taiwan, including nine Chinese aircraft entering the nation's air space Thursday - the day Russian troops invaded Ukraine.
In a report printed on Wednesday and sent to the parliament for review by lawmakers, a copy of which was reviewed by Reuters, the defence ministry said the extra spending included plans to boost annual missile production capacity to 497 from the current 207 a year.
Asked about his trip, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said: 'The relevant actions from Pompeo are despicable and inevitably a futile effort'.
Pompeo's demand for Taiwan to be recognized as a country drew a stern rebuke from Beijing for his 'babbling nonsense', whilst pro-China activists protested outside the hotel were the former secretary of state was delivering a speech pictured
Taiwan last year approved extra military spending of T$240 billion $8.6 billion over the next five years as tensions with China, which claims the island as its own territory, have hit a new high and Chinese military planes have repeatedly flown through Taiwan's air defence identification zone.
Taiwan's democratically elected government says it wants peace but will defend itself if attacked, and that only the island's people have the right to decide their future.
Tsai praised Pompeo for facilitating 'multiple breakthroughs' in Taiwan-US relations after conferring him an honorary medal to recognise his contributions
Tsai bestowed a presidential honor to Pompeo during his visit on Thursday for his contribution to boosting relations with the island, as China's government lambasted his record as 'despicable'.
The visit comes a day after the US Air Force displayed its military force at one of its airbases in Japan, showcasing a fleet of more than two dozen warplanes in an apparent effort to deter Chinese forces from invading Taiwan.
Meanwhile, the US Air Force displayed its military might at the Kadena Air Base in Japan on Tuesday, showcasing a fleet of warplanes in an apparenteffort to deter Chinese forces from invading Taiwan.
The US should formally recognize Taiwan as a country to stop 'egomaniacal' Chinese President Xi Jinping from seizing the island after Beijing's 'brutally successful takeover of Hong Kong', former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said today.
The power failures occurred on Thursday morning across the island, from the capital Taipei to central Taichung city and southern Pingtung county.
The Donald Trump administration gave strong backing to Taiwan, despite the lack of formal diplomatic ties, including high-profile arms sales and visits by top U.S. officials.
Cabinet spokesperson Lo Ping-cheng said state-run operator Taipower's initial probe found the outage was caused by human negligence during annual repairs of a generator at the Hsinta plant.
The US Air Force displayed its military force at one of its airbases in Japan on Tuesday, showcasing a fleet of more than two dozen warplanes in an apparent effort to deter Chinese forces from invading Taiwan
Pompeo, speaking during a visit to the capital Taipei, urged the US to recognize Taiwan as a 'free and sovereign' country because the Chinese President will not 'be satisfied stopping at Hong Kong'.
Among them are Taiwan's self-made Wan Chien air-to-ground missiles as well as the upgraded version of the Hsiung Feng IIE missile, the longer-range Hsiung Sheng land-attack missile which military experts say is capable of hitting targets further inland in China.
Taiwan plans to more thandouble its yearly missile production capacity to close to 500 this year, Taiwan's defence ministry said in a report, as it boosts its combat power amid what it sees as China's growing military threat.
Its sabre-rattling has increased considerably over the past year, with warplanes breaching Taiwan's air defence zone on a near-daily basis.
Tsai praised Pompeo for facilitating 'multiple breakthroughs' in Taiwan-US relations after conferring him the Order of the Brilliant Star with Grand Cordon, one of Taiwan's top honours, in recognition of his contributions on Friday.Former U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld is a previous recipient.
The display of military mightat the base, which officials called a 'routine wing readiness exercise,' came two days after President Biden dispatched several former senior defense staffers to the island nationin a show of support,as many wonder whether Russia'sinvasion of Ukrainecould trigger a Chinese invasion of the country.
'While the United States should continue to engage with the People's Republic of China as a sovereign government, America's diplomatic recognition of the 23 million freedom-loving Taiwanese people and its legal, democratically-elected government can no longer be ignored, avoided, or treated as secondary,' Pompeo said.
Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen poses for pictures with Former U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo after he was bestowed with an Order of Brilliant Star with Grand Cordon at the presidential building in Taipei, Taiwan, on Thursday
'If any of us were mistaken or complacent about the risk to that freedom, I think we need only watch what's taking place in Europe today to see that this continues to demand deep concerted focus leadership from those of us who cherish freedom,' Pompeo said in a meeting with President Tsai Ing-wen on Thursday.
Pompeo's visit to Taiwan came at a time when massblackouts hit Taiwan,leaving more than five million households without power, with authorities blaming human negligence at a major power generation plant for the outage.
Yesterday, Pompeo met with Taiwan's president Tsai Ing-wen to warn that Taiwan must not be allowed to suffer the same fate as Ukraine following Russia's barbaric invasion of the country.
The so-called 'Elephant Walk' - a term referring to the taxiing of large numbers of military aircraft before takeoff, when they are in close formation - saw a grouping of two dozen F-15 fighter aircraft andan HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopter, collectively valued at just over a billion dollars.
While Taiwan's official name is the Republic of China, politicians often add 'Taiwan' in their public comments.
The so-called 'Elephant Walk' - a term referring to the taxiing of large numbers of military aircraft before takeoff, when they are in close formation - saw a grouping of two dozen F-15 fighter aircraft and an HH-60 Pave Hawk helicopter, collectively valued at just over a billion dollars
Just weeks before Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, China and Russia signed a joint statement agreeing to a host of foreign policy goals, including Taiwan being 'an inalienable part' of the mainland.
Pompeo announced in January last year as the outgoing state secretary that Washington was ending restrictions on official contacts with Taipei island in a move that angered Beijing.
China's top newspaper, the party's official People's Daily, weighed in with a commentary earlier on Thursday, calling Pompeo an 'extremely notorious' anti-China politician who 'took pride in lying and deceit' while in office.
But the circumstances are different. Taiwan lies 100 miles across theTaiwan Strait from mainland China and enjoys strong support from the U.S., which is legally bound to ensure the island can defend itself and to treat all threats to it as matters of 'grave concern.'
Pompeo, speaking during a visit to the capital Taipei, urged the US to recognize Taiwan as a 'free and sovereign' country because the Chinese President pictured will not 'be satisfied stopping at Hong Kong'
Pompeo's comments cross a sensitive red line for China, which claims Taiwan as its own territory and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under Chinese control.
China placed sanctions on Pompeo when he left office at the end of the Trump presidency last year, angered by his repeated criticism, especially of its ruling Communist Party, and support for Chinese-claimed Taiwan.
Pompeo, one of former President Donald Trump's most hawkish advisers on China, arrived in Taipei on Wednesday for a visit at a time of rising tensions between Washington and Beijing over the self-ruled island as well as the crisis sparked by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
'Pompeo is a former politician whose credibility has long gone bankrupt. Such a person's babbling nonsense will have no success,' said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin.
China has ramped up its military and diplomatic pressure against Taiwan since the 2016 election of Tsai, who rejects its stance that the island is part of Chinese territory.
The statement did not elaborate, though it added that Taipower's chairman Yang Wei-fu had submitted his resignation.
Self-governed Taiwan's 23 million people live under the constant threat of invasion by authoritarian China, which views the island as its territory and has vowed to one day seize it, by force if necessary.
The fleet of jets are assigned to the 44th and 67th Fighter Squadrons, better known by their colloquial epithets, the Vampires and the Fighting Cocks, respectively. The chopper belongs tothe 33rd Rescue Squadron, which boasts the motto 'That Others May Live.'
'The United States government should immediately take necessary and long overdue steps to do the right and obvious thing: that is to offer the Republic of China, Taiwan, America's diplomatic recognition to the self-ruled island China claims as its own territory,' Pompeo said in a speech organized by a Taiwan think-tank.
Washington ended formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan in 1979 when it recognised the People's Republic of China.
'I think these days call for the simple reminder that it is not provocative to say that one demands freedom,' he added, warning that 'those who desire to destroy freedom, to change human lives' will see silence as 'their opportunity'.
The ministry was also planning to start manufacturing unspecified "attack drones" with an annual production target of 48 such aircraft.
China has not condemned Russia's war against Ukraine and its criticism of sanctions leveled against Moscow is widely seen as a sign of commitment to the two countries' mutual defiance of Washington and the West, despite Beijing's longstanding defense of the principle of national sovereignty.
Democratic Taiwan has watched the Ukraine situation closely, as many fear that Russia'sinvasion of Ukrainecould trigger a Chinese invasion of the country.
