Vlad tidings we bring Russias National Guard wear Santa outfits and carry assault rifles as they lead young cadets on military manoeuvres in Siberia
20211224
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10343267/Russias-National-Guard-wear-Santa-outfits-lead-young-cadets-military-manoeuvres.html
Grandfather Frost - or Ded Moroz - often carries a magical staff and is usually accompanied by his snow maiden, Snegurochka.
Moscow has for weeks been massing tens of thousands of troops, tanks and artillery pieces along its eastern flank, sparking fears of an invasion, though the Kremlin has insisted it is merely a defence force pictured, Russian forces currently massed in border regions
Moscow presented its demand amid soaring tensions over a Russian troop build-up near Ukraine that has stoked fears of a possible invasion.
'To discuss de-escalation, we expect our opponents in Washington to provide specific answers to our proposals in January,' Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said during a Friday conference call with reporters.
The Kremlin said today that it expects the United States to respond next month to Moscow's request for security guarantees precluding NATO's expansion to Ukraine.
The image of the Russian Santa was formed during Soviet times, when he became the main symbol of New Year celebrations instead of Christmas.The first Father Frost arrived in Moscow in 1937, during Joseph Stalin's rule.
Military exercises: The students watched on as Putin's forces put on their display of strength
U.S. President Joe Biden warned Putin in a video call earlier this month that Russia will face 'severe consequences' if it attacks Ukraine
During the training event, the troops and older students used genuine weapons while the younger ones practised with fake guns.
Putin urged the West on Thursday to 'immediately' meet Russia's demand, accusing the U.S. and its allies of maintaining a military presence 'on the threshold of our home'.
During the cadet manoeuvres, troops wore both colour schemes, while their young charges raced around the snow in khaki uniforms.
Grandfather Frost's birthday is November 18, the coldest day ever recorded in the town of Veliky Ustyug.
It is here the Russian Post Office delivers his mail, but with this being such a large country, he has regional residences, for example at Royev Ruchey Zoo in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia.
Russia has denied plans to launch an attack but has described a NATO expansion and weapons deployment in Ukraine as a 'red line.'
Grandfather Frost above - or Ded Moroz - often carries a magical staff and is usually accompanied by his snow maiden, Snegurochka. He may looks like Father Christmas, yet there are key differences
Traditionally, in deep history Ded Moroz wandered around the forest, controlling the frost, bringing presents to the good, and punishments to the bad.
All present and correct: A participant dressed as Grandfather Frost trudges through the snow during the holiday season event
She remained when Stalin permitted Grandfather Frost to return two decades after the Russian Revolution.
These images actually show members of the Russian National Guard putting police cadet students through their paces on Christmas Eve in the wilds of Kemerovo, Siberia.
Gung-ho ho ho! Grandfather Frost - known in Russian as Ded Moroz - is a figure similar to Santa, whose roots lie in Slavic mythology. He is usually dressed in red but is also sometimes seen in a blue costume
Anyone got the slay bells?Russia's National Guard put police cadet students through their paces on Christmas Eve in the wilds of Kemerovo, Siberia
Someone's getting the Santa sack if they mess up:During the cadet manoeuvres, troops wore both blue and red outfits, while their young charges raced around the snow in khaki uniforms
He lives not at the North Pole but in the town of Veliky Ustyug, in northern Russia, well shy of the Arctic.
The National Guard is tasked withsecuring Russia's borders, taking charge of gun control and combating terrorism.
Open fire? Kemerovo lies roughly 4,300km 2,670 miles to the east of Ukraine, where tensions are mounting over Russia's build-up of soldiers near the border
U.S. President Joe Biden warned Putin in a video call earlier this month that Russia will face 'severe consequences' if it attacks Ukraine.
Grandfather Frost - known in Russian as Ded Moroz - is a figure similar to Santa, and whose roots lie in Slavic mythology. He is usually dressed in red but is also sometimes seen in a blue costume.
Santa pointing an assault rifle in the snow is enough to terrify any child... but kids on the naughty list have nothing to fear.
Usually he is in red, but he is sometimes seen in blue or very occasionally white.
He often visits excited children in their homes or at parties before New Year's Eve, and since the end of Soviet times, he also appears in some flats and houses to mark Orthodox Christmas Eve and Christmas Day on January 6 and 7.
Santa's gulag: The Russian troops and older students used genuine weapons while the younger ones wielded fake guns
Santa Claus is gunning to town:To keep things 'festive', Vladimir Putin's internal military force wore Grandfather Frost costumes
His traditional mode of transport is a sleigh pulled, not by reindeer, but white horses. Over the years, though, he has also resorted to the Metro and trams.
Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliance's military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe.
The glamorous Snegurochka was originally a character from ancient fairy tales who became part of the Christmas ritual in the late 19th century.
Kemerovo lies roughly 4,300km 2,670 miles to the east of Ukraine, where tensions are mounting over Russia's build-up of soldiers near the border.
Russian troops engaged in a frenzy of 'exercises' on the Ukrainian border hours after Vladimir Putin told US and NATO to 'go to hell', stoking fears of an invasion
Unlike Santa, Grandfather Frost gives his gifts openly when he arrives with a big sack of presents. Typically, children need to show him how good they are, often reciting a poem or singing a song before he hands over the gifts, assisted by Snegurochka.
'Twas the fight before Christmas:The National Guard is tasked with securing Russia's borders, taking charge of gun control and combating terrorism
