Warm wishes to the Russian occupiers Ukrainian troops paint flowers and messages on missilesbefore firing a volley of them at Putins forces
20220519
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10833575/Ukrainian-troops-paint-flowers-messages-missiles-destined-Putins-forces.html
The footage then cut to a Ukrainian serviceman loading a missile into an artillery gun, before covering his ears and firing the rocket into the air.
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called Russia's invasion of Ukraine an 'absolute failure' and said Russian leaders were afraid to acknowledge 'that catastrophic mistakes were made at the highest military and state level'.
On April 8, a Russian missile struck a train station inKramatorsk, eastern Ukraineas thousands were using the station to evacuate the region.The attack killed around 60 people and injured hundreds more.
But pictures posted on Telegram by pro-Kremlin and pro-war channel FighterBomber showed Russian shells emblazoned with messages mocking the band's call for help, hours after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky vowed to hold Eurovision in Mariupol next year.
One fighter painted three rockets with pink and blue flowers along its casing, and a message down the side. The soldier was then seen proudly laying the three missiles out in a row on the back of a Ukrainian military vehicle.
Russian authorities plan to tear down the Azovstal metallurgical plant and turn Mariupol into a 'resort city', according to the Institute for the Study of War.
The Kremlin also says that over 900 Ukrainian fighters from the Azovstal plant have been taken to a former prison colony in a Russian-controlled part of Donetsk.
Ukraine's Kalush Orchestra, who stormed to victory having delivered a rousing folk-rap rendition of their song 'Stefania', made an impassioned plea during their winners' speech calling on Europe to provide further aid and evacuate the soldiers still trapped in the southern port city's Azovstal steel works.
Kyiv's troops decorated the missiles with 'warm' messages for Ukraine's World Embroidery Day,known as Vyshyvanka, which takes place on May 21.
The Ukrainian Armed Forces claim to have killed about 28,500 Russian soldiers since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began on February 24.
'I ask all of you, please help Ukraine, Mariupol. Help Azovstal, right now,' said the band's frontman Oleh Psiuk.
Ukrainian troops have been filmed painting flowers and messages on their missiles, before firing a volley of the munitions at Vladimir Putin's invading forces.
Zelensky also said that said Ukraine is determined to reclaim control over the southern cities of Kherson, Melitopol, Berdiansk, Enerhodar and Mariupol, now occupied by Russian troops.
The holiday - that is also celebrated in Belarus - promotes the tradition of creating and wearing embroidered Ukrainian clothes known as Vyshyvanka.A Vyshyvanka is a casual name for an embroidered shirt that is part of the country's national costume.
Video on Thursday showed Ukrainian service men and women carefully painting missiles with a variety of colourful patterns to mark the holiday - before launching them with deadly intent at Russian military positions.
A female Ukrainian fighter was shown carefully decorating her own shell pictured. She wrote 'Happy Vishivank' in black marker, before decorating the shell with dozens of red cross-stitches to give the effect of an embroidered material
On May 15 a message was written on the side of Russian bombs destined for Mariupol in the wake of Ukraine's Eurovision song contest success
Kyiv's troops decorated the missiles with flowers and 'warm' messages for World Embroidery Day, known locally as Vyshyvanka, which takes place in Ukraine on May 21.
Speaking on Wednesday, the Command of the Assault Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said: 'Soldiers of the Assault Troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine send "warm wishes" to the Russian occupiers for World Embroidery Day!
On the ground, Ukrainian forces have retaken villages around the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, but Russian forces have advanced slowly in the east of the country.
The 81st Airmobile Brigade of the Ukrainian Air Assault Forces explained: 'World Embroidery Day is an international holiday, which is designed to preserve the ancient folk traditions of creating and wearing ethnic embroidered Ukrainian clothes.
Meanwhile, the Russian military has claimed a strategic victory following the fall of the port city on Ukraine's south-eastern coast.
They also say that between February 24 and May 19, the enemy lost 1,254 tanks, 3,063 armoured fighting vehicles, 595 artillery systems, 199 multiple launch rocket systems, 93 anti-aircraft warfare systems, 203 aircraft, 167 helicopters, 2,157 motor vehicles and fuel tankers, 13 shipsboats, 455 unmanned aerial vehicles, 43 pieces of special units and 103 cruise missiles.
The camera then panned along a row of several Ukrainian missiles, all ready to be launched in the direction of Russian forces.
Petr Andryushchenko, adviser to the mayor of Mariupol, shared the images of the Russian bombs on his own Telegram channel, where he condemned Putin's forces for having 'lost their humanity'.
Pictures of the aftermath showed the words 'for the children' painted along the side of the missile's shell - an apparent revenge message possibly referring to the Kremlin's propaganda that Russian speaking Ukrainians have been persecuted.
One fighter painted three rockets with pink and blue flowers up its casing, and a message down the side
More recently on May 15 a message was writtenon the side of Russian bombs destined for Mariupol in the wake of Ukraine's Eurovision song contest success.
Video showed Ukrainian service men and women carefully painting missiles with a variety of colourful patterns. Pictured: A soldier sits on a Ukrainian military vehicle adding a personal touch to his missile, that would soon be fired at Russian positions
Ukrainian police inspect the remains of a large rocket with the words 'for our children' in Russian next to the main building of a train station in Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine, which was hit by two Russian missile strikes on April 8, killing around 60 and injuring hundreds
'On the occasion of the holiday, our artillerymen prepared unusual gifts for the Russian occupiers, dressed in red and black embroidered shirts.'
Russia's defence ministry said 771 Ukrainian fighters from the steelworks had surrendered in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 1,730, and 80 of the fighters were wounded.
More messages were painted down their sides. One said: 'Greetings fromDchiv, pigs', and was decorated with smirking emojis and a love heart.
Ukrainians celebrated the day of Vyshyvanka with their embroidered traditional dress "Vyshyvanka", which was forbidden to be worn during the Soviet Union and was liberalized with the independence of Ukraine
A female Ukrainian fighter was also shown carefully decorating her own missile. She wrote 'HappyVishivank' in black marker, before decorating the shell with dozens of red cross-stitches to give the effect of an embroidered material.
The shirt was forbidden to be worn during the Soviet Union and was liberalized with the independence of Ukraine, and has become a symbol of defiance - and is more relevant than ever with Russia's on-going invasion of the country.
'Just as you asked for, Kalusha! For Azovstal,' the messages read.'Eurovision2022. I heard the call to f up Azov. Help Mariupol. Help Mariupol right now.'
Another soldier was shown sitting on the same vehicle, parked under a tree, carefully painting his own message down the side of the same three missiles.
Women, wearing Vyshyvankas, traditional embroidered shirt, are seen during World Vyshyvanka Day in Kyiv, Ukraine on May 19, 2022
A Ukrainian rocket-launcher vehicle was then seen firing multiple rockets into the sky, also in the direction of Russian positions.
