We feel like we have a home again Ukrainian refugee family of 10 who lost everything before fleeing wartorn Kharkiv to the UK tell of their relief as they move into house in Cambridgeshire donated by a local businessman
20220323
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10643071/Ukrainian-family-10-new-home-Cambridgeshire.html
Asked about those who are helping the family, she said: 'I feel that they're saving our lives, otherwise I don't know where we would stay because it's quite expensive, and OK, we could for couple of weeks, but we need to live every day and we need to find a job first.
Checks in the US need to be made out to 'CAF America' and have 'Mail Force Ukraine Appeal' in the memo.
MrSwinhoe, 52, said he bought the house next to his own in Caldecote just before the war broke out, and he initially planned to use it as a 'project house'.
'You have to fill out arcane forms, and for such a big group there's a lot of repetition, but once that was sorted we went to a visa application centre, they processed us very quickly, that was in Albania,' he said.
This was so they could bring more of their belongings and their two dogs, Yorkshire terrier Mikki and mini Maltese Florie, both aged two.
Mick Swinhoe shows Iryna Starkova and her grandchildren around the kitchen of their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
Mick Swinhoe's property in Caldecote near Cambridge which is the new home of the Starkova family
'We were in the basement,' she said. 'We couldn't go outside.We stayed five days in the basement without going anywhere.
Mr Swinhoe said his two daughters, aged 11 and 15, are 'really delighted' there are three children among the Ukrainian family of 10, and he said they will be able to help integrate them into school.
Kamila Starkova, 11, looks around the bedroom of her new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
Iryna Starkova comforts her daughter Valeriia left and granddaughter Kamila at their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
As this tally of misery increases over the coming days and months, these innocent victims of this conflict will require accommodation, schools and medical support.
Before founding Z-Tech in 2000, Mr Swinhoe spent over of a decade with Northumbrian Water maintaining water and wastewater sites followed by four years as Operations Manager for a system integration company delivering automation projects to the UK water industry.
The four-generation family, ranging in age from 10 to 90, arrived at the property in Caldecote last night having travelled to the UK under the Ukraine Family Scheme.
'We were so afraid someone would shoot our car or something like that. Recently friends of my friends were shot like that.
They were shown around the home then spent Tuesday night in a hotel while the property is furnished.
He has also earned management qualifications from Durham University and holds a HNC in Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Iryna Starkova and her family look around one of the bedrooms in their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
'I did so much, my family, for us to live there, to earn money, nice place to live, work for kids. We lost in one day everything.
Eight of the family members took a flight from Albania to London Luton Airport, with Ms Starkova, who is Mr Starkov's sister, and father their Mykola Starkov, 59, travelling by car and ferry, arriving four days later.
For, surely, no one can fail to be moved by the heartbreaking images and stories of families  mostly women, children, the infirm and elderly  fleeing from the bombs and guns.
Ludmila Starkova, 90, right who fled Kharkiv in the Ukraine with her family following the Russian invasion, talks to Rends Platings in her new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
'There's still hope that maybe they can go back and maybe what they left behind will still be there. Maybe not.
'It's a better use for it really,' he said. 'I can do what I want to do later when things get better.'
The family were reunited at the home in Cambridgeshire on Tuesday, after they separated to travel from Albania to the UK.
left to right Valeriia Starkova with her daughter Kamila, mother Iryna, father Mykola and great grandmother Halyna, who all fled their home in Kharkiv in the Ukraine following the Russian invasion, at their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
He started the company more than two decades ago and boasts over30 years' experience in industrial automation, electrical and mechanical systems.
The family fled Kharkiv, which has suffered bomb craters pictured as a result of Russian shelling throughout the conflict
Calling upon that human spirit, we are supporting a huge push to raise money for refugees from Ukraine.
In the name of charity and compassion, we urge all our readers to give swiftly and generously.
He said his 90-year-old grandmother Ludmila Starkova does not have a valid international passport and had wanted to stay in Ukraine.
Mr Swinhoe, 52, said he wants the house to be used for 'something more useful until I do something else with it'.
The family were helped in their journey to the UK by relative Roman Starkov, who is a British citizen.
Kamila Starkova, 11, is reunited with her dog Florie after fleeing their home in Kharkiv in the Ukraine following the Russian invasion, at their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
Readers of Mail Newspapers and MailOnline have always shown immense generosity at times of crisis.
To add Gift Aid to a donation  even one already made  complete an online form found here: mymail.co.ukukraine
Donations to the Mail Force Ukraine Appeal will be used to help charities and aid organisations providing such essential services.
Mykola Starkov is reunited with his mother Halyna Starkova, 89, at their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
Valeriia Starkova wipes a tear from her eye as she is reunited with her family at their new home
US readers can donate to the appeal via a bank transfer to Associated Newspapers or by sending checks to dailymail.com HQ at 51 Astor Place 9th floor, New York, NY 10003.
The executive at an industrial automation company changed his plans, and after posting on Facebook groups he was connected with a family.
The house is owned by Mick Swinhoe, an executive at an industrial automation firm, who initially wanted to use it as a 'project', but changed his plans after being connected with the family through Facebook.
Make your cheque payable to 'Mail Force' and post it to: Mail Newspapers Ukraine Appeal, GFM, 42 Phoenix Court, Hawkins Road, Colchester, Essex CO2 8JY
Mick Swinhoe shows Iryna Starkova and her grandchildren around the kitchen of their new home
The 38-year-old, of Cambridge, has lived in the UK for 20 years since travelling to the country to study.
'I'm so grateful for everyone who supports us and can give us some place to live. I really appreciate it.'
One of the family members, Valeriia Starkova, 37, expressed her relief and gratitude that Mr Swinhoe opened the doors for them.
'I can feel maybe I have a home again because I feel that I lost everything that I had,' she said.'My kids Alikhan, 10, and Kamila, 11 lost everything.
'I had really nice job that I love, nail technician, but I really love my job. I feel that I need to start again from zero.'
Mr Swinhoe said he wants the house to be used for 'something more useful until I do something else with it'.
'And there's a lot of uncertainty about their future here. Will they fit in, will they find a place, will they feel comfortable? I don't know.'
'It was so scary but we managed to go through the borders and when we passed several cities we felt relieved as we couldn't hear those bombs and those scary noises.
'Then we decided that we had to leave as we couldn't sleep, it was so scary. We just put our bags in the cars and went.
Ms Starkova said that when the war broke out in Kharkiv 'it was 5am, we packed a few suitcases and I went to my mum's home and we stayed there for five days as it was so scary to go outside'.
A Ukrainian refugee family of 10 who 'lost everything' before fleeing war-torn Kharkiv say they feel like they 'have a home again' after moving into a house in Cambridgeshire, donated by a local businessman.
A car destroyed by shelling is seen in a street in Kharkiv, Ukraine - where the family have escaped from - earlier this week
Ludmila Starkova, who fled her home in Kharkiv in the Ukraine with her family following the Russian invasion, wipes a tear from her eye at their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
Iryna Starkova and her husband Anatolii Subota help great grandmother Ludmila Starkova into their new home in Caldecote near Cambridge
The software developer helped his family through the visa process which he described as 'pretty involved'.
