We need to be tough to get peace Britain warns against offering Vladimir Putin an easy way out of the Ukraine war by offering early concessions to end bloodshed
20220322
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10639107/Britain-warns-against-offering-Vladimir-Putin-easy-way-Ukraine-war.html
She said: 'If a country is serious about negotiations, it doesn't indiscriminately bomb civilians that day.'
In a weekend interview, Foreign Secretary Liz Trusssaid it was up to Zelensky how his country approached peace talks.
She added: 'What we've seen is an attempt to create space for the Russians to regroup.'
Peace talks have stalled with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky refusing to make heavy territorial concessions to the invaders. He last night suggested any deal involving ceding ground will be submitted to a referendum to let the people 'weigh in'.
Some of those who want the EU to go further showed impatience at the pace of talks after a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels.
Officials want to see G7 unity against generous 'early concessions' to the Kremlin in a bid to end the fighting that has cost thousands of lives in the past three weeks.
A UK government source said: 'Any negotiations with Russia should come from a position of utmost strength. The G7 needs to stay united.
EU foreign ministers on Monday disagreed on whether and how to include energy in sanctions, with Germany saying the bloc was too dependent on Russian oil to impose an embargo.
At the same time the Russian advance has become stalled, with some suggestions its army can no longer win the war outright in the face of tough defensive action.
Russia's siege and bombardment of Mariupol port, which EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell called 'a massive war crime', is increasing pressure for action.
The Foreign Secretary added that she was 'very sceptical' about the talks between the two countries.
The European Union's foreign ministers disagreed on Monday on whether and how to slap sanctions on Russia's lucrative energy sector over its invasion of Ukraine, with Germany saying the bloc was too dependent on Russian oil to decide an embargo.
Any deal agreed in peace negotiations with Russia will be submitted to a referendum in Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelensky has today said
'There should be no easy off-ramp for Putin. We shouldn't be in the business of making early concessions. We need to be tough to get peace.'
But targeting Russian energy exports, as the United States and Britain have done, is a divisive choice for the 27-nation EU, which relies on Russia for 40 per cent of its gas.
Britain has warned its allies against offering Vladimir Putin an easy way out of Russia's brutal assault on Ukraine as they push for a peace deal.
'So now I'd like to receive security guarantees for my people,' the Ukrainian leader said.
Sanctions have banished Russia from international commerce to a degree never before visited on such a large economy. But an exception has largely been carved out for Russian energy exports to Europe, its biggest oil and gas customer.
Amid continued heavy fightingshe told the Times that if Moscow was serious about peace talks being held with Ukraine, they would not be using such methods.
A group of countries led by Germany wants a pause on new sanctions for now, amid concerns about high energy prices and fears that Russia might halt gas exports to Europe. Some also want to save sanction ammunition for any new and major war atrocity, like the use of chemical weapons.
The EU and allies have already imposed hefty measures against Russia, including freezing its central bank's assets.
On Sunday in an interview with Fareed Zakaria for CNN's GPS, Zelensky said he is thankful to NATO members for supporting Ukraine 'economically or militarily' but added that the war 'wouldn't have started' had Ukraine been a part of it.
