What IS a vacuum bomb Savage superweapon Ukraine claims Russia has detonated uses oxygen from the atmosphere to generate an enormous explosion powerful enough to vaporize bodies and crush internal organs
20220222
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-10563669/How-vacuum-bombs-work-Ukraine-claims-Russia-detonated-one.html
Thermobaric weapons were developed by both the US and the Soviet Union in the 1960s.
The bomb works by using oxygen from the surrounding air to generate a high-temperature explosion, making it far deadlier than a conventional weapon.
Thermobaric weapons were developed by both the U.S. and the Soviet Union in the 1960s. Here, athermobaric bomb explosion during the Caucasus 2016 strategic drills at Opuk range of Russia's Southern Military District
A thermobaric bomb dropped by the US on Taliban in Afghanistan in 2017 weighed 21,600 pounds and left a crater more than 300 metres 1,000 feet wide after it exploded six feet above the ground.
Thermobaric explosives apply the principles underlying accidental unconfined vapor cloud explosions, just like those that plagued British flour mills in the 19th century. Pictured, a volley heavy surface-to-surface missile system with thermobaric weapons in an undisclosed location
According to the Journal of Military and Veterans' Health, they affect organs where there is a tissue interface of varying densities, such as the lungs, bowel and inner ear.
According to the Journal of Military and Veterans' Health, this cloud flows around objects and into cavities and structures, and may penetrate small openings, such as openings in buildings, bunkers and engine bays of armoured vehicles.
Those on the fringe are likely to suffer many internal, invisible injuries, including crushed organs, severe concussions and possibly blindness.
Cluster munitions were also to destroy a school in Okhtyrka, activist group Amnesty said, in which three people including a child were killed.
In the worst cases, the inner ear is damaged producing 'sensori-neural' deafness and disabling pain, nausea and balance problems.
But just what are vacuum bombs, how do they work and what happens to innocent civilians caught in their wake?
General Sir Richard Barrons, a former head of the UK's joint forces command, had said on Sunday that it remained unclear whether Putin would order his troops to use the weapons.
A thermobaric bomb dropped by the US on Taliban in Afghanistan in 2017 weighed 21,600 pounds and left a crater more than 300 meters 1,000 feet wide after it exploded six feet above the ground
A thermobaric bomb explosion during the Caucasus 2016 strategic drills at Opuk range of Russia's Southern Military District
Thermobaric explosives apply the principles underlying accidental unconfined vapor cloud explosions, just like those that plagued British flour mills in the 19th century. The weaponry initially releases an aerosol consisting of very fine particles, such as metal, flammable dusts or chemical droplets. An ignition source then ignites the cloud of particles and their rapid combustion causes an explosion and a vacuum in the surrounding vicinity
The russian army has deployed the TOS-1 heavy flamethrower which shoots thermobaric rockets, the was South of Belgorod. pic.twitter.comXCxMI3bNB3
Thermobaric explosives apply the principles underlying accidental unconfined vapor cloud explosions, just like those that plagued British flour mills in the 19th century.
A vacuum bomb, or thermobaric weapon, sucks in oxygen from the surrounding air to generate a high-temperature explosion, typically producing a blast wave of a significantly longer duration than that of a conventional explosive and is capable of vaporizing human bodies.
Vacuum bombs  also known as thermobaric weapons  are among the most powerful non-nuclear weapons ever developed, and arebanned under the Geneva Conventions.
The cardiovascular system may be affected by an air embolus in the heart or coronary arteries or by diffuse damage to the myocardium - the muscular tissue of the heart.
An ignition source then ignites the cloud of particles and their rapid combustion causes and explosion and a vacuum in the surrounding vicinity.
Ukraine has accused Russian of launching cluster and vacuum bomb attacks as part of a terrifying offensive, with the country's president claiming that Vladimir Putin's actions amountedtowar crimes.
There has been no official confirmation that thermobaric weapons have been used in the conflict in Ukraine, although CNN reported that one of its teams had spotted a Russian thermobaric multiple rocket launcher near the Ukrainian border.
According to reports, Russia is already using a thermobaric rocket system called TOS-1 Buratino, also referred to as a flamethrower.
The alveoli, if ruptured, leak fluid into the lungs, which could lead to complete filling or 'shock lung' or 'blast lung'.
'The thing we have never known  and nobody knows  is the intent behind this, because nobody understands what is in Putin's mind.'
'General treatment is based on airway breathing and circulation assessment, in conjunction with oxygen therapy. Prophylactic antibiotics and tetanus vaccine should be considered.'
'They don't adhere to the same principles of necessity and proportionality and rule of law that Western forces do.'
In terms of the pulmonary system, when the blast wave hits, a stress wave causes damage, particularly at the lobes, along the ribs on the side of the blast, mediastinum and alveoli, and, may rupture the more rigid bronchioles.
There has been no official confirmation that vacuum bombs have been used in the conflict in Ukraine, but footage from the country has shown thermobaric rocket launchers on Russia's TOS-1 vehicles.
Footage has also emerged of the use ofcluster bombs, which are banned by an international treaty called the Convention on Cluster Munitions CCM.
Cluster bombs, a type of explosive weapon which scatters 'bomblets' over an area.Russians are now using banned cluster munitions against civilian areas in Kharkiv, experts and activists have warned.
In September 2007, Russia detonated the largest thermobaric weapon ever made, which created an explosion equivalent to 39.9 tons.
Thermobaric weapons - also known as vacuum bombs - are high-powered explosive that use the atmosphere itself as part of the explosion.They are among the most powerful non-nuclear weapons ever developed.
'They used the vacuum bomb today,' Markarova said after a meeting with lawmakers. 'The devastation that Russia is trying to inflict on Ukraine is large.'
The TOS-1 Buratino multiple rocket launcher, pictured here in June 2020 during Moscow's Victory Day military parade, is believed to have been deployed in Ukraine
According to the Journal of Military and Veterans' Health, vacuum bombs affect organs where there is a tissue interface of varying densities, such as the lungs, bowel and inner ear.
A thermobaric bomb dropped by the US on Taliban in Afghanistan in 2017 weighed 21,600 pounds and left a crater more than 300 meters 1,000 feet wide after it exploded six feet above the ground.
Thermobaric weapons were developed by both the US and the Soviet Union in the 1960s. In September 2007, Russia detonated the largest thermobaric weapon ever made, which created an explosion equivalent to 39.9 tons.
The high-powered explosive weapons, which use the atmosphere itself as part of the explosion, arecapable of vaporising bodies, crushing internal organs and reducing cities to rubble, causing huge loss of life.
As for auditory damage, the eardrum is ruptured, with mild hearing loss. In more severe cases, the membrane could disintegrate and the ossicles three bones in either middle ear dislocate, requiring surgical intervention.
'Unleashing thermobaric weapons and the mass concentrated use of heavy artillery will cause the indiscriminate, unnecessary and unwarranted slaughter of tens of thousands of innocent people,' he told the Mail on Sunday.
Ukraine has accused Russian of launching cluster and vacuum bomb attacks as part of a terrifying offensive, with the country's president claiming that Vladimir Putin's actions amounted to war crimes
The weaponry initially releases an aerosol consisting of very fine particles, such as metal, flammable dusts or chemicaldroplets.
On September 11, 2007, Russia announced to the world that it had successfully tested the world's most powerful nonnuclear bomb.The FOAB, according to RT, is a thermobaric bomb
Oksana Markarova, Ukraine's ambassador to the United States, told reporters after meeting with members of the US Congress that Russia had used a vacuum bomb.
Ukraine's ambassador to the US accused Putin's forces of using a banned thermobaric bomb on the capital of Kyiv overnight.
Last week, it emerged that Russia may use the weapons if their assault in Ukraine became bogged down.A western official said: 'My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence.
