Woman 37 who traded in her husband 47 for his 23yearold son reveals shes expecting their second child
20220815
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-11112203/Woman-married-stepson-expecting-second-child.html
She told her followers: 'Did I have regrets that I destroyed the family? Both yes and no.
'After that she was coming back and lying in bed with me as if nothing had happened.'
The couple together. Vladimir's father Alexey did not take kindly to their relationship and said Marina seduced his son
She and her former stepson already have a daughter Olga, 20 months, who was born after her split from his father.
Vladimir, who is supported financially by Marina, features heavily on her social media, where she documents their family life
Marina said: 'We learned about the new pregnancy on an embankment in Sukhumi Black Sea resort.
The couple already have a daughter, Olga, and document their life as a family on social media.
She added that the children she shares with Alexey took the news of their divorce 'absolutely calmly.'
She has known him since he was seven, calls him 'the most charming blue-eyes in the world', and was previously married to his father Alexey Shavyrin, 47, who now cares for their five adopted children.
The mother shared a video of her husband learning he was going to be a father for the second time, where Vladimir was visibly emotional
On the beach during a walk with Olga when she was a newborn. The couple are looking forward to welcoming their second child
'What do I have today? I am married. I moved to a bigger city. I love and I am loved,' she concluded.
Vladimir is not involved in the war in Ukraine due to a medical exemption that keeps him from serving.
Marina calls her second husband 'the most charming blue-eyes in the world' and often teases him on their social media
A woman who traded in her husband for her step-son revealed she is now expecting their second child.
Marina, who is a popular weight loss influencer, announced her baby news online, sharing a video of the moment Vladimir learned she was going to be a father for the second time.
She also revealed she insisted on a prenup when the pair got married, so that she keeps all her money and assets in case of divorce from her new husband.
'We are accepting your hearts and sincere wishes,' she posted to her 620,000 followers after announcing her pregnancy,receiving more than 31,000 likes on her happy news.
Marina used to be married toAlexey Shavyrin, 47, Vladimir's father, but she left him in 2020 for his son
Marina Balmasheva, 37, from Russia, already has a 20-months-old daughter with Vladimir 'Vova' Shavyrin, now 23.
Pictured left: Marina with Vladimir when he was seven. Pictured right: the couple in 2020, when he was 20 and she was 35
She added that the second pregnancy came as a shock, but thatVladimir was happy to become a father for the second time.
She makes clear that she supports him from her social media earnings rather than allow him to do a mundane office job.
Marina Balmasheva, 37, from Russia, already has a daughter with Vladimir 'Vova' Shavyrin, now 23, who she raised from the age of seven. The couple, who already share a daughter, Olga, pictured, are expecting their second child
The mother also revealed she insisted on a prenup when the pair got married, so that she keeps all her money and assets in case of divorce from her new husband
After revealing her relationship with her former stepson, she said: 'So many people tell me to use makeup - make lashes, and curl my pubic hair - because of my young husband.
'But there is one thing - he fell in love with me with all my scars from plastic surgeries, cellulite, excessive skin and personality.
Marina calls her second husband 'the most charming blue-eyes in the world' but scolds him on social media for being 'clumsy' pushing their daughter's pram, and failing to hold down a well paid job in Krasnodar region, close to Ukraine, where war is raging.
'They were not shy to have sex while I was at home. I would have forgiven her cheating, if it wasn't my son.
Going on a family trip! Vladimir and Marina both look after their daughter Olga, who was born in 2021
'Did I want to return to my ex? No. Do I feel anger and hatred towards him? Not any longer.
She seduced my son. He had not had a girlfriend before her,' he told journalist after Marina made headlines.
Vladimir with Olga when she was a newborn. The 23-year-old has a medical exemption preventing from fighting in the war against Ukraine
Marina showing her baby bump during her last pregnancy. She announced the news of her second pregnancy online, saying she was tired but happy
