Wrenching moment Australian woman flees Ukraine and breaks down in tears crossing the border after publicly announcing return to her homeland
20220225
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10549061/Pixie-Shmigel-Australian-woman-flees-Ukraine-announcing-return.html
Sydneysider Pixie Shmigel right fought back tears as she told a reporter she was 'shattered not for myself, I don't care about my own safety, I just ... I care about Ukraine and Ukrainians'
Ms Shmigel right, whose grandparents fled Ukraine after World War II, returned to live in the capital Kyiv six months ago with Blake because she missed life in the eastern European country
Ms Shmigel thanked the United States for its assistance in helping her and Blake leave the country via the border crossing.
US authorities believe Putin plans to encircle forces in Kyiv and force them to either surrender or be destroyed by Sunday, and the leadership of Ukraine to fall in a week.
'I just called it when I saw it. I think there were reports of ... Kharkiv and Mariupol getting approached on so then I just knew we had to get out,' he said.
Traffic jams are seen as people leave the Ukrainian capital city of Kyiv on Thursday
'But the Ukrainians stay strong. They need to. But they're stronger than me. The world gets behind them.'
Above, Ms Shmigel - a businesswoman - is seen in Sydney before she and partner Blake decided to relocate to Kyiv, Ukraine
She and Blake have now fled the the Russian invasion, escaping to Poland via Medyka on the border with Ukraine, where she was interviewed by Reuters.
Ms Shmigel left and her partner Blake right are seen leaving Ukraine by crossing into Poland at Medyka as the Russians advance on the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv
'We'll get to the U.S. assistance centre down the line and then ask them where to go and what to do, what they think is best, see if there is a train to, I don't know, Krakow, maybe, but I didn't think that far...' she said.
Despite the drums of war, people kept going about their business planning birthday parties and raves, enjoying their morning coffees, 'continuing life', she wrote.
Blake said the two had not slept for the past two nights as reports filtered in about the encroachment of the Russians.
It came after Vladimir Putin personally gave the order to attack early on Thursday morning, unleashing a salvo of rocket fire that American intelligence said involved more than 100 short and medium-range ballistic missiles, cruise missiles and surface-to-air missiles, and 75 bombers that targeted military sites including barracks, warehouses and airfields in order to knock out the country's military command structure.
A source close to the Ukrainian government said they agreed that Kyiv will be surrounded within 96 hours but believed the government will stay strong and not collapse.
'I'm of Ukrainian heritage, and seeing this happening to the country is just devastating. I just can't believe someone could be so evil.
Ms Shmigel had recently written an opinion piece on her decision to return to the land of her forebears.
Sydneysider Pixie Shmigel,whose grandparents fled Ukraine after World War II, returned to live in the capital Kyiv six months ago with her partner, Blake, because she missed life in the eastern European country.
The Ukrainian army is currently fighting in almost every region of the country, battling the Russians for control of military bases, airports, cities and ports from Kharkiv to Kyiv, and Donetsk to Odessa.
Ms Shmigel had only just returned to Ukraine after three weeks in Montenegro when Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his assault on the country on Thursday.
An Australian woman and her partner who recently returned to Ukraine's capital despite the threat of war has spoken of her heartbreak as they fled the country in the wake of the Russian invasion.
In the area of Glukhova, overnight the Ukrainian military engaged a armoured column of 15 Russian T-72 tanks with American Javelin missiles
'Just shattered. Shattered not for myself, I don't care about my own safety, I just ... I care about Ukraine and Ukrainians,' Ms Shmigel told a reporter as she fought back tears.
'One of our Ukrainian friends showed me a meme which sticks in my mind. It depicts Putin as a very small man and Ukrainians as giants. Thats how Ukrainians think of themselves, as staunch and steadfast protectors of their country.'
Citizens in the Ukrainian capital have beenordered into bomb shelters and declared a curfew amid concerns the Russian are poisedto strike the capital.
She wrote that the 'panicked headlines' around the world had not squared with her experience of life in Kyiv.
Ukrainian troops lost control of a key airfield around 35km away from Kyiv. Russian forces had attacked it with around two dozen attack helicopters earlier in the day, four of which are thought to have been shot down.
'I can choose to be afraid of a bully in the Kremlin, or I can continue to stand strong like all the Ukrainians who are currently doing the same,' she wrote in the Sydney Morning Herald.
'I'm of Ukrainian heritage, and seeing this happening to the country is just devastating. I just can't believe someone could be so evil,' Ms Shmigel said as she fled the country to Poland in the wake of the Russian invasion
