Young Labour are condemned for accusing Keir Starmer of siding with NATO aggression over Ukraine
20220214
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10511787/Young-Labour-condemned-accusing-Keir-Starmer-siding-NATO-aggression-Ukraine.html
The group has been singled out heavy criticism by centrist sections of the party and accused them of parroting Russian narratives intending to justify a landgrab in Ukraine.
'Thats why the likes of the Stop the War coalition are not benign voices for peace. At best they are naive at worst they actively give succour to authoritarian leaders who directly threaten democracies.
The group claimed that 'Nato aggression' was a threat to world safety despite reports that Russia are looking to use a 'false-flag' attack to justify an invasion of its neighbour.
'NATOs acts of aggression both historical and present are a threat to all of our safety. Young Labour's delegates from across our membership and affiliates voted that we should withdraw from NATO and pursue an international policy based on peace, adopting this as official policy.
'Stoking up tension, macho posturing  trying to 'out do' the Tories on hawkish foreign policy will only lead to further devastation, loss of life and displacement of people across the world.
Sir Keir Starmer's party's youth wing criticised him after his full-throated support for Nato last week
The UK, EU and US have set out brutal options for sanctions including starving Russia of foreign capital, holding up the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and targeting banks and oligarchs close to the Kremlin.
Sir Keir also used a visit to Nato headquarters in Brussels to blast organisations including the Stop The War Coalition - a group launched in 2001 to oppose US military action following the 911 terrorist attacks - of which Mr Corbyn is deputy leader.
One wrote: 'Young Labour have more solidarity with The Stop Some Wars Coalition than they do with Ukrainian victims of Russian imperialism.'
'What I think all European countries need to do now is get Nord Stream out of the bloodstream,' he said on a visit to Scotland. 'Yank out that that hypodermic drip feed of Russian hydrocarbons that is keeping so many European economies going.
Some pointed out that it was Labour Prime Minister Clement Attlee who led the UK into Nato in 1949 as one of the organisation's founding members and that this rejection of the alliance was against his legacy.
National Secretary of Jewish Labour Adam Langleben wrote sarcastically:I'm certain Putin is up for this. No doubt in my mind. Man of peace.'
A person who claimed to be a Labour member said: 'Young Labour are a total embarrassment to the Party.'
But there is not yet a clear package agreed across Nato allies, with Germany among the countries seen as dragging their heels.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace revealed his frustration at the weekend by warning there was a 'whiff of Munich in the air' - a reference to the appeasement of Hitler.
'But to condemn Nato is to condemn the guarantee of democracy and security it brings, and which our allies in eastern and central Europe are relying on, as the sabre-rattling from Moscow grows ever louder.
Labour's youth wing has come under fire for accusing Sir Keir Starmer of backing 'Nato aggression' over the Ukraine crisis.
'We need to find alternative sources of energy  and get ready to impose some very, very severe economic consequences on Russia.'
Former special adviser to Boris Johnson Gabriel Milland tweeted that the members responsible should: 'Maybe join a party with a different set of values and history then?'
Sir Keir used media appearances in recent days to try and paint Labour as the 'party of Nato' and has heavily criticised former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn for 'siding with Britain's enemies'.
Mr Johnson took a thinly-veiled swipe today insisting that 'the world needs to learn the lesson of 2014' when not enough was done to move away from Russian gas and oil following the Russian activity in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea.
The left-wing youth section of Labour posted the anti-Nato thread in response to Sir Keir's vocal support of the alliance
Sir Keir added: 'Nobody wants war. At first glance, some on the left may be sympathetic to those siren voices who condemn Nato.
The youth wing, chaired by left-wing activist Jess Barnard, said: 'While we accept difference in policy positions to the current leadership of our party, we are especially concerned in this instance to see Keir Starmer pushing not only for further engagement with NATO, but celebrating it while attacking Stop The War and other pro-peace activists.
Twitter users took issue with the claims that Nato were aggressors in the Ukraine crisis, slamming them for their lack of concern for potential Ukrainian victims of a Russian invasion.
Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy turned up the heat on Germany this afternoon, saying after talks with Mr Scholz - who again dodged on whether the pipeline could be mothballed - that everyone should 'clearly understand' that Nord Stream 2 is a 'geopolitical weapon' for Russia.
'Labour has too often been on the wrong side of international issues. Young Labour calls on the leadership to stop backing NATO aggression, call wholeheartedly for peace, commit to constructive engagement with activists and deliver international policy around peace and cooperation.'
The youth wing is chaired by left-wing activist Jess Barnard and the group have voted in favour of a UK withdrawal from Nato in the past
Young Labour took to their Twitter account today to criticise the Labour leader for his vocal support for Nato North Atlantic Treaty Organization as over 130,000 Russian troops amass on the border with Ukraine ahead of a potential invasion in the coming days.
