Zelensky mocks Putin for trying to discover a wunderwaffe like the Nazis after Russia claimed it had developed laser weapon
20220518
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10833881/Zelensky-mocks-Putin-trying-discover-wunderwaffe-like-Nazis.html
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has mocked Russia for 'trying to find its wunderwaffe' following reports Putin's military had successfully tested drone-busting laser weapons.The term 'wunderwaffe' translates as 'wonder weapon', and was a key part of Hitler's propaganda campaign to preserve public confidence as Allied forces slowly began to overcome Nazi Germany's military
The new generation of weapons comes as Putin's war machine falters in the Ukraine conflict
It remains to be seen whether Russia's Peresvet laser weapon and similar new-age equipment will prove to be more effective amid its ongoing war in Ukraine.
'Three months into its full-scale war, Russia is trying to find its ''wunderwaffe'', supposedly a laser.
The system is said by Russia to be able to scupper satellites orbiting up to 932 miles 1,500km above Earth.
The new generation of weapons comes as Putin's war machine falters in Ukraine with some estimates saying that the dictator has lost up to a third of Russia's troops since the February 24 invasion.
Borisov's remarks indicate Russia could blind the satellites and an array of other systems which the United States uses to monitor Russia's intercontinental ballistic missiles
The term 'wunderwaffe' translates as 'wonder weapon', and was a key part of Hitler's propaganda campaign to preserve public confidence as Allied forces and Soviet Union slowly began to overcome Nazi Germany's military.
In 1942, the fearsome Nazi Germany war machine began to falter as it tried to fight battles on all fronts and encountered stiff resistance in Western and Eastern Europe from Allied powers and the Soviet Union.
'The clearer it became the Nazis had no chance in the war, the more propaganda there was about the wonder weapon, which would be so powerful that it would provide a turning point in the war,' Zelensky said.
Borisov's remarks indicate that Russia has made significant progress with Peresvet, and other yet-to-be-announced weapons - a trend of considerable interest to other nuclear powers such as the United States and China.
'This clearly indicates a complete failure of the invasion and against shows its reluctance to admit catastrophic mistakes have been made at the highest state and military levels,' the president quipped.
Yury Borisov, the man in charge of military development in Putin's government, said that the Peresvet system was already being deployed, and had been tested on Tuesday - burning up a drone 3 miles 5km away.
Though some prototype weapons and innovations were deployed successfully deployed later in the war, they were simply not effective enough, and often proved too costly, to reverse Hitler's fortunes.
Historian Michael J. Neufeld said Germany poured significant resources into the development of myriad new weapons, planes, tanks, rockets and other artillery which became a key cornerstone of Nazi propaganda.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has mocked Russia for 'trying to find its wunderwaffe' following reports Putin's military had successfully tested drone-busting laser weapons.
Putin in 2018 unveiled an array of new weapons including a new intercontinental ballistic missile, a small nuclear warhead that could be attached to cruise missiles, underwater nuclear drones, a supersonic weapon and a laser weapon.
But Borisov said yesterday: 'It is already being mass-supplied to the missile troops, and it can blind all satellite reconnaissance systems of a likely enemy in orbits of up to 1,500 km, disabling them during flight due to the use of laser radiation.
As it became clearer that his regime was losing the war, Hitler's propaganda ministry began promising the advent of several new 'wonder weapons', which would unquestionably boost the war effort and overcome Germany's enemies on the battlefield - though very few ever materialised.
Yury Borisov said that the Peresvet system was already being deployed, and had been tested
Russia's deputy prime minister yesterday said the military had successfully tested new laser weapons which can 'blind satellites and destroy drones'.
His remarks indicate Russia could blind the satellites and an array of other systems which the United States uses to monitor Russia's intercontinental ballistic missiles - or the drones used to target artillery positions in the Ukraine war.
Borisov said he had just returned from Sarov, a closed town in the Nizhny Novgorod region once known as Arzamas-16 because it was so secret, which is a centre of Russia's nuclear weapons research.
'This is primarily a laser weapon, an electromagnetic wideband weapon that will replace conventional weapons in the next decade - this is not some sort of exotic idea it is the reality'.
Drawing yet more comparisons between Russian President Vladimir Putin's regime and the Nazis, Zelensky incredulously declared during yesterday's daily presidential address the Kremlin was boasting about its new laser weapon to mask its failures on the ground in Ukraine.
'But that, let's say, is of today, or even in some ways of yesterday: our physicists have now created, and practically mass-produced, laser systems which are more powerful by an order of magnitude that can inflict thermal destruction on various apparatus'.
Little is known about the capability of the laser weapon, which was named Peresvet after a medieval Orthodox warrior monk Alexander Peresvet who perished in mortal combat.
But he noted that'the net result of all these weapons, deployed or otherwise, was that the Reich wasted a lot of money and technical expertise and killed a lot of forced and slave laborers in developing and producing exotic devices that yielded little or no tactical and strategic advantage'.
