Zelensky says its a pity Biden and the Wests support came after the war started and the end of the world has arrived in defiant news conference as US warns 90 of Putins border forces have now crossed into Ukraine
20220303
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10575007/Zelensky-says-pity-Biden-Wests-support-came-war-started.html
Three boys wounded by apparent Russian shelling while they were playing football Wednesday were rushed into a hospital. One lost his leg, and died soon after
Zelensky repeated his plea for a NATO no-fly zone to protect his cities and troops.
But the White House and allies stepped up its pressure only after Putin ordered troops into Ukraine.
'The goal was to maximize impact on Putin and Russia and minimize the harm on us and our allies and friends around the world,' said Biden as he opened a Cabinet meeting at the White House.
Gorenka - Ukrainian reservists have set up checkpoints to stop Russian advance outside of Kyiv
Ukrainian PresidentVolodymyr Zelensky said the US and the West had acted too late to protect his country from the might of the Russian army and described how 'the end of the world has arrived' during a news conference on Thursday.
They included Putin's press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, and Alisher Burhanovich Usmanov, one of Russia's wealthiest individuals.
More support arrived on Thursday in the form of sanctions on oligarchs and other's in the Russian president's inner circle.
And eight days into the war he said he now had good lines of communication with the President Joe Biden and other leaders, but lamented that they only stepped up their support once Russia launched its invasion.
'It's a pity it began after the beginning of this war, but we have it. And my appreciation to Biden and to his team. We can speak now often,' he said
A Ukrainian armored personnel carrier in Sytniaky, west of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. Russia continues its assault on Ukraine's major cities as fighting entered its second week
Donetsk and Luhansk - UNHCR said today96,000 people had crossed into Russia from the separatist regionsbetween February 18 and 23- days before Russia's invasion began
Pictured: A map showing the Kyiv region and the area occupied by Russian troops as they close in on Ukraine's capital
Mariupol Mayor reports full-scale genocide with 15-hour Russian shelling killing hundreds of people.Russia says it has surrounded the port city.
Zelensky and his allies had urged the West to step up financial sanctions on Moscow as Vladimir Putin massed his troops on the border with Ukraine to deter an invasion.
The US State Department also imposed visa bans on 19 Russian oligarchs and dozens of their family members and close associates.
Kyiv - Powerful blasts heard overnight, with people on the ground reporting car alarms being set off. 40-mile column of military vehicles is outside the city
Sergyi Badylevych, 41, hugs his wife Natalia, 42, and child in an underground metro station used as bomb shelter in Kyiv
Passers-by inspect past a destroyed Russian military vehicle at a frontline position in Irpin, Ukraine. Ukrainian resistance has been credited with stalling the Russian advance
'We want a no-fly zone because our people are being killed. From Belarus, from Russia  these missiles, these Iskander missiles and bomber planes, are coming,' Zelensky said.
The White House and and NATO allies have ruled out a move that would directly pit its warplanes against Russian forces.
After saying the world had been too slow to act, he called on Western leaders to step up their support now with a no-fly zone that would deny access to Russian warplanes.
Kherson -Ukrainians said they were battling in the port,the first sizeable city Russia claimed to have seized
Irpin - Mayor of town 15 miles west of Kyiv reported a rocket strike on a multi-storey residential building
'The Ukrainian army is brave and they will continue to defend the city, but Russia does not fight with their army, they just destroy districts... We are in a terrible situation.'
Kherson, a city of 300,000 on the Black Sea, appears to have fallen under Russian control after the mayor said 'armed visitors' had taken over a council meeting and imposed curfews. If Putin's men are in full control then it opens up the city of Odessa, home to Ukraine's main naval port, to attack - with amphibious assault ships seen forming up near Crimea today
In a sarcastic reference to a the size of table Putin used for meetings with other foreign leaders, he said: 'Sit down with me to negotiate, just not at 30 meters.
He appealed for more help during a defiant appearance in his capital Kyiv as fighting entered its second week.
'I asked President Biden, and Scholz and Macronand I said, if you cant provide a no-fly zone right now, then tell us when?'
Foreign leaders have hailed the spirit of the Ukrainian resistance, which is credited with slowing or stopping the Russian advance.
The White House announced more sanctions on Russian oligarchs and Putin's inner circle on Thursday.'The goal was to maximize impact on Putin and Russia and minimize the harm on us and our allies and friends around the world,' said Biden
More than 150,000 troops, along with tanks, aircraft, armored vehicles carriers and missile systems had gathered around the borders ahead of the invasion.
Kharkiv -Bombing of Kharkiv, a city of 1.5 million people, has left its centre a wasteland of ruined buildings and debris according to eyewitnesses
Russia has accelerated the arrival of troops into Ukraine, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters, with 90 percent of the assembled troops now having crossed into Ukraine.
'We are near to a humanitarian catastrophe,' said Sergiy Orlov. 'Russian forces are several kilometers away on all sides.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the US and the West had acted too late to protect his country from Russian might and described how 'the end of the world has arrived' during a news conference on Thursday
Part of theKarazin National University campus in the city of Kharkiv is destroyed after being struck by a Russian missile which was seemingly intended for a nearby police or interior ministry building
He said the world was too slow to offer support for Ukraine and prodded Western leaders to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine to deny access to Russian warplanes that were bombing civilian areas.
The deputy mayor of Mariupol said hours of shelling and besieging Russian troops had cut off power, food and water to his city.
A Pentagon official said Russia has now sent almost all its assembled combat power across the border into Ukraine, while reports suggested they were gaining ground across the south.
Odessa -Ukrainian deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar said on Wednesday said reports suggested Russian artillery struck the city's airport this morning
And officials in Kyiv, Ukraines second-largest city Kharkiv, and the northern city of Chernihiv, said they had come under fierce attack but remained under Ukrainian control.
