Zelenskys former press secretary tweets and then deletes message saying it would be a tragedy if Kamala Harris becomes President after laughing during press conference
20220310
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10599855/Zelenskys-ex-press-sec-deletes-tweet-saying-tragedy-Harris-President.html
Russian tanks push to within just a few miles of Kyiv's outskirts, analysts and witnesses claim, though initial assaults to the west and east of the capital were repelled Wednesday as President Vladimir Putin's men face a long and bloody campaign to take the capital.
'Do you have any plans to visit the border?' came the question while on the tarmac in Jacksonville, Florida.
'The issue facing the Ukrainian people and our allies in the Eastern flank is something that occupies one of our highest priorities,' the vice president said, calling it a 'dynamic situation' that 'requires us to be nimble and to be swift.'
A Russian armored vehicle sits by the side of the road in Brovary, to the east of Kyiv, after being destroyed in an artillery and rocket ambush that caused heavy casualties
Harris has faced backlash previously for laughing during inappropriate moments. After the Biden administration's botched withdrawal from Afghanistan in August, Harris cut off reporters asking questions by giggling and saying 'Hold on, hold on  slow down, everybody.'
Analysts believe the Russian assault on Kyiv is now underway, as troops massed in both the west and east try to push into the city limits - with missions also underway to surround the capital from the south west
'There is an official decision of Poland to transfer the planes to the relevant base - the American base. We also have confirmation - we have all heard - that the agreement between the American party and Poland has been reached,' Zelensky said in a speech Wednesday.
March 22, 2021: Harris was asked if she had plans to visit the US-Mexico border on Monday but appeared to laugh at the question when posed by a reporter.
During her Thursday remarks with Duda in Warsaw, Harris faced a slew of backlash for laughing off questions about the refugee crisis and dodging inquiries on why a deal fell through with Poland for sending fighter jets to Ukraine.
Britain calls on the G7 to ban Russian oil, but move is opposed byFrance, Germany, Italy and Japan
Despite the Pentagon denying a deal to enter a war plane deal with Poland, Harris announced Thursday that the U.S. did deliver on its promise to send patriot missiles to Warsaw to ramp up their protection against possible attacks from Russia.
Duda, however, did address the issue of warplanes, explaining that the situation is 'extremely complicated', and that the mix up came because Poland was making these aircraft available for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to decide if they wanted to send them to Ukraine.
The vice president's now commonplace laughter at inappropriate moments with world leaders was met with widespread criticism.
The trip comes as Poland already took in upwards of 1.5 million refugees fleeing Ukraine in the 15 days since Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded.
US lawmakers pass a $14bn aid package for Ukraine with Canada pledging more military equipment
Harris held a press joint press conference in Warsaw with Duda after the United Nations said at least 2.2 million people fled Ukraine in the 15 days since Russia launched its invasion and at least half are now in Poland
Ukraine accuses Russia of a 'war crime' over a devastating attack on a children's hospital
Vladimir Putin is going is on his 15th dayof invasion in Ukraine. The Russia leader pictured above at a video meeting with government members in Moscow on Thursday
The vice president had a much more tame stance toward the violence than President Duda during Thursday's joint remarks.
Shelling in Kharkiv overnight killed four people, two of them children, with a five-year-old girl injured and rushed to hospital. Emergency workers said they are still working to pull people from the rubble of houses in the town of Slobozhanske. Three people were also killed in shelling on the city of Sumy - two women and a 13-year-old boy.
Zelensky told D.C. and Warsaw to stop their 'ping pong' and hand over the MIG-29 combat planes to bolster Ukrainian firepower against Russian troops as they continued their relentless shelling campaign in cities across the country.
Thousands of U.S. troops were deployed to Eastern European countries to assist in defending NATO ally nations as Russia continues its assault on Ukraine. Pictured: U.S. troops during a military drill in Rutja, Estonia on Thursday
Nuclear watchdog says it is not receiving updates from either Chernobyl or Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plants, both of which are in Russian hands
Ukrainian armed forces collect captured ammunition on Thursday, March 10, 2022 as Russia continues its 15th day of invasion and closes in on Kyiv
'The night was quite difficult, but in general we can say that the Ukrainian army counterattacked near Kyiv,' he said. 'There is no further detailed information yet.'
UN says at least 2.2 million people have fled Ukraine, with more than half now in Poland
'Not today,' responded Harris, before laughing. 'But I have before, and I'm sure I will again.'
Oil prices tumble while US and European and Asian stocks surge after days of market turmoil
'We are trying to do our best,' Duda said in a frank moment during his joint briefing with the vice president as Poland takes in millions of refugees fleeing their neighbor Ukraine.
Vadym Denysenko, adviser to the interior ministry, said Ukrainian forces had managed to stop the attack in Irpin and were counter-attacking on Thursday morning with battles now underway.
She also pledged that the U.S. will send $50 million more in humanitarian aid to help Ukraine as it faces attack from Russia.
It means the Russian mission to assault the Ukrainian capital is now underway, analysts at the Institute for the Study of War said.
Harris is the first ever woman and person of color to serve as a U.S. vice president  before being selected as President Joe Biden's No. 2, she was running for his spot in the Democratic primary.
Fearing a wider conflict, the Pentagon rejects a Polish offer to give MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine
Zelensky's former press secretaryIuliia Mendel,who served from June 2019 until July 2021, tweeted Thursday it would be a 'tragedy' if Vice President Kamala Harris became president after she laughed during her press conference in Poland. She later deleted her tweet
Kyiv estimates that Russia has lost some 12,000 troops in the fighting, along with 335 tanks, 1,100 armored personnel carriers, 500 vehicles, 81 helicopters and 49 planes. Moscow has admitted suffering losses, but has not given an accurate figure.
Refugees from Ukraine stand near tents as they wait to be transported away from the border after crossing into Poland in Medyka on Wednesday, March 9
January 20, 2022: Harris is hit with a barrage of criticism for laughing during interviews where she said the COVID pandemic was under control
Although there has been no word on Ukrainian military casualties, Russia says it has destroyed more than 2,900 Ukrainian military infrastructure facilities and has taken control of a number of neighborhoods in besieged southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol.
Four people are killed in bombing on Kharkiv, with a five-year-old girl rushed to hospital wounded
U.S. troops prepare to fire Stinger missiles from their Stryker armored fighting vehicle during Saber Strike military drill in Rutja, Estonia on Thursday, March 10, 2022
But Duda sayid: 'It is obvious to us that in Ukraine Russians are committing war crimes.'
'Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital. People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity!' Zelensky tweeted.
When asked Thursday about the building refugee crisis in Poland, Harris laughed and handed the question off to Duda, saying through chuckles: 'A friend in need is a friend indeed'
'It would be a tragedy if this woman won the presidency,' Mendel tweeted, then quickly deleted, in response to the vice president laughing and deflecting her way through ajoint press conference with Polish President Andrzej Duda on Thursday
Mariupol continues to be surrounded by Russian forces but is still in Ukrainian hands, chiefs said. They said Ukrainian fighter jets and anti-aircraft missile units destroyed four Russian Su-25 attack jets and two Russian helicopters over the past 48 hours.
U.S. troops prepare to fire Stinger missiles from their Stryker armored fighting vehicle during Saber Strike military drill in Estonia on March 10, 2022
Ukrainian-born Republican Representative Victoria Spartz slammed the vice president by saying 'this is a very serious situation requiring action, not a laughing matter,' as critics tore into Harris' conduct at her press conference with Duda.
September 8, 2019: Harris apologizes for laughing when man at New Hampshire town hall described Trump as 'mentally retarded' - and claims she hadn't heard the words he used 'in that moment'.
Ukraine has rejected most Russian evacuation routes because they lead to Russian soil or that of its ally, Belarus, while routes that Ukraine has proposed have come under bombardment. The only successful evacuation to take place so far has been from Sumy to Poltava in green
Among the vehicles seen driving towards Kyiv before they were ambushed was a missile launcher which carries thermobaric warheads - missiles that suck oxygen out of the air and crush the lungs of victims.
Harris three-day Eastern European trip includes a stop in Poland and Romania, where the U.S. has sent troops to help defend the NATO ally countries
'In terms of the work the United States has done so far, we have, as you know, given military, humanitarian and security assistance, and that is an ongoing process,' the vice president continued without addressing the defunct plan to send war planes to Ukraine.
Harris left Wednesday for a three-day trip to Eastern Europe as the 15th day of Russian invasion continues in Ukraine and troops close in on the capital city of Kyiv.
Mendel's comments were in response to another tweet with a video showing Harris laughing when asked about the refugee crisis resulting from people displaced from Ukraine fleeing to neighboring countries and saying through giggles: 'A friend in need is a friend indeed.'
Harris initially claimed to have had a key role and that she was 'the last person in the room' when Biden chose to follow through with the May 1 deadline to retreat US troops from Afghanistan.
Fears are mounting Kyiv will also soon be encircled, with Russian tanks just a few miles away
'Listen,' the Ukrainian leader pleaded, 'We have a war! We do not have time for all these signals. This is not ping pong! This is about human lives! We ask once again: solve it faster.'
He also said that a 'refugee crisis is unfolding' in Eastern Europe, and claimed that more than 1 million people arrived at his country's borders from Ukraine in just 10 days of the so-far 15-day conflict.
At the same time, U.S. troops conducted military drills in Rutja, Estonia on Thursday by firing Stinger missiles from their Stryker armored fighting vehicles.
Turning Point USA's chief creative officer Benny Johnson posted: 'Only Kamala Harris would find it appropriate to laugh when talking about the topic of Ukrainian Refugees.'
Harris left inappropriately laughed when a reporter asked the vice president and President Duda right about the refugee crisis in Ukraine. Harris said through giggles, 'A friend in need is a friend indeed,' and turned to have Duda answer the question
The vice president held a joint press conference alongside Polish President Andrzej Duda regarding the Russian invasion of Ukraine during her three-day trip through Eastern Europe.
'It would be a tragedy if this woman won the presidency,' Iuliia Mendel, who served Zelensky's administration from June 2019 until July 2021, wrote on Twitter before quickly deleting the post.
More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have arrived in Poland since the start of he conflict last month. Pictured:People wait to board buses after crossing the Ukrainian border into Poland, at Medyka borders crossing on Thursday, March 10, 2022
Volodymyr Zelensky's former press secretary tweeted then deleted a post on Thursday saying it would be a 'tragedy' if Vice President Kamala Harris were to one day be president after she awkwardly laughed through questions at a press conference in Poland when asked about the Ukrainian refugee crisis.
August 23, 2021: Harris nervously laughed and dismissed a reporter's inquiry as she headed to Singapore amid Afghanistan chaos.
'Kamala Harris has been very consistent during her live remarks with Poland's leader,' former Donald Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos tweeted Thursday. 'She is awkwardly laughing. Again. Discussing refugees is no laughing matter. Why she laughs at this is deranged.'
Duda confirmed at the press conference that he had asked Harris to help speed up the consular process so Ukrainian refugees could go stay with family they have in the U.S.
A White House fact sheet on the new announcement Thursday claims: 'This assistance builds on the United States' announcement less than two weeks ago of nearly $54 million in humanitarian assistance to provide critically needed health supplies, food assistance, high thermal blankets, and other relief.'
Red Cross calls situation in Mariupol 'apocalyptic' after more than a week without water, power or heat
January 20, 2022: Harris is hit with a barrage of criticism for laughing during interviews where she said the COVID pandemic was under control.
Zelensky shared a video Wednesday of destruction at a maternity hospital as buildings were turned to rubble in Mariupol, Ukraine.
'Some expectations were addressed in a very strong and a vocal way, also towards us, towards Poland,' he added. 'However, we are members of the North Atlantic Treaty alliance and as far as security issues are concerned we have to look at this not only through our own lens  through the prism of the security of Poland  but we also have to adopt the perspective of the security of NATOas a whole.'
Some 1,207 civilians have been killed in the 10-day Russian siege on Mariupol, its mayor says
October 26,2020: Harris burst into laughter when asked if she would bring a 'socialist or progressive perspective' to the White House in an interview with CBS News.
Duda left and Harris right met in Warsaw, Poland on Thursday, March 10, 2022 as the Russian attack on Ukraine entered its 15th day and forces closed in on Kyiv
Residents and troops help civilians flee on Thursday from the town of Irpin in the Kyiv region of Ukraine as Russia tries to take the capital city after almost a week of fighting in the area forcing thousands of people to escape the town
When asked about the issue of refugees, Harris looked at Polish President Andrzej Duda like she expected him to respond first.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused the U.S. and Poland of playing games with people's lives after the Pentagon poured cold water on a plan to get them fighter jets.
'We are also very clear that any intentional attack on innocent civilians is a violation,' the vice president said, stopping short of calling Russia's actions 'war crimes.'
'I want to be very clear, the United States and Poland are united in what we have done and are prepared to do to help Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. Full stop,' Harris said when she was asked about the lack of movement on a fighter jet deal.
The vice president pledged during her Thursday press conference that the U.S. will send more than $50 million more in humanitarian aid to Ukraine, while also dodging questions on a failed deal to send the country warplanes.
'But at the same time, we hear that Poland's proposal is allegedly unfounded,' he continued. 'And that's what they say in Washington. We also read this. So when will the decision be made?'
While Duda explained that Poland is trying to act in the interest of their own country, Ukraine and NATO, Harris appeared on more shaky ground as she deflected and dodged.
'Today we are also announcing in pursuit of what must happen, which is to provide humanitarian assistance, that we will give another $50 million  the United States will  through the UN's World Food Program to assist in humanitarian aid,' she said.
'How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror?' he questioned in a tweet. 'Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity.'
The United Nations predicts that at least 2.2 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded and more than half of those refugees are now in Poland.
Washington rejects Russian claims it funded bioweapons research in Ukraine, and warns Russia could be about to use chemical or biological weapons itself
'The NATO alliance is stronger and Russia is weaker because of what Putin has done, that is very clear to us,' Harris said in her remarks with Duda on Thursday.
