Zelensky invokes MLK as he tells congress I have a need and BEGS Biden to step up and be the leader of peace because its been Ukraines 911 every day for three weeks  before playing heartbreaking video of Russian invasion
20220316
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10619181/Zelensky-urges-Biden-leader-world-speech-telling-Congress-more.html
'Today, Russian forces shot and killed 10 people standing in line for bread in Chernihiv. Such horrific attacks must stop,' declared the US Embassy in a statement on Twitter, adding they were considering options to 'ensure accountability' for the 'atrocity'.
'Being the leader of the means to be the leader of peace,' he said in halting, accented English.
A grab from the video montage played by Zelensky shows babies huddles together on a couch
Ukraine rejected on Wednesday a Russian peace talk proposal to become a 'neutral' state like Sweden or Austria. Zelensky's administration instead demanded guarantees that international forces will 'prevent attacks' in the future.
AndSenator Angus King aid there was a 'collective holding of the breath' in the room as Zelensky spoke.
And he added: 'This is a time to unify the nation behind Ukraine against one of the most evil forces we've seen since my father's war. And that's World War Two, Adolf Hitler.'
He also said his late friend, the well-respected Senator John McCain, who died in 2018, would agree with him.
Kyiv was rocked overnight by new explosions which wounded at least two people and damaged two residential buildings hours after the city was placed under curfew amid warnings to brace for a 36-hour bombardment at the hands of Russian forces
'We don't want to sit back and let the bully hit the little kid on the playground. At what point is the red line crossed,' he noted.
Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.S. Oksana Markarova left attended the address and was escorted out by House SpeakerNancy Pelosi right
The CVC Auditorium in the Capitol, where Zelensky's live speech was played on screen, was completely filled with both Democrat and Republican members of Congress eager to hear what the Ukrainian president had to say
'Vladimir Putin is not a legitimate leader, he is a war criminal. He needs to be dealt with by the Russian people,' he said.
Ladies and gentlemen, Americans, if such alliance would exist today, that is U24, we would be able to save thousands of lives in our country, in many countries of the world those who need peace, those who suffer inhumane destruction. I ask you to watch one video, video of what the Russian troops did in our country, in our land. We have to stop it. We must prevent it, preventably destroy every single aggressor who seeks to subjugate other nations.
If the West thought that Russia would step back, it did not understand Russia, Putin said on the 21st day of the war against Ukraine.
But he also told Russians,in words ironically reminiscent of Ukrainian President Vlodymyr Zelensky's speeches, that'we are fighting for our sovereignty and the future of our children'.
At one point she bent down to check her phone, apparently uninterested in joining fellow lawmakers' praise
President Biden made his own speech following Zelensky's address. Biden will head to Brussels next week for a hastily arranged NATO meeting to discuss the situation in the Ukraine.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends, Ukraine is grateful to the United States for its overwhelming support, for everything that your government and your people have done for us for weapons and ammunition, for training, for finances, for leadership in the free world which helps us to pressure the aggressor economically. I'm grateful to President Biden for his personal involvement for his sincere commitment to the defense of Ukraine and democracy all over the world. I am grateful to you for the resolution which recognizes all those who commit crimes against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian people as war criminals. However, now, it is true in the darkest time for our country, for the whole Europe, I call on you to do more. New packages of sanctions are needed, constantly, every week until the Russian military machine stops.
One thing Biden didn't mention and didn't want to talk about were MiG fighter jets Zelensky is pleading for and his administration has refused to authorize the transfer of.
A senior US official told CNN that the U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO allies are sending several surface-to-air missiles systems to Ukraine, including Soviet-era SA-8, SA-10, SA-12 and SA-14 mobile air defense systems.
Senator Elizabeth Warren told DailyMail.com that the mood in the room was 'very sober and very supportive', claiming Congress is 'looking for the right ways' to be able to support Ukraine.
Democratic Senator Richard Blumethal made a plea for time, saying the harsh economic sanctions imposed on Russia by the U.S. and its allies needed time to work.
He also spoke in unusual detail about the latest package of aid, which brings U.S. military assistance to $1 billion just this week.
Sen. Graham originally suggested in early March that Russian President Vladimir Putin should be assassignated and was criticized by both Republicans and Democrats for it
Ahead of Zelensky's remarks to the U.S. legislative body, news emerged that Biden is considering sending U.S.-made kamikaze 'Switchblade' drones to Ukraine as part of a $1 billion defense package aimed at answering pleas for help.
We in Ukraine want the same for our people. All that is normal part of your own life. Ladies and gentlemen, friends, Americans, in your great history, you have pages that would allow you to understand Ukrainians, understand us now when you need it right now. When we need you right now.
Democrats were cautious in their words, tempering the desire to help Ukraine without going to far in pledging direct military assistance, which the Biden administration has worried could lead to escalation with Russia and World War III.
The number of people who have fled Ukraine since the start of the conflict topped three million this week, according to the UN whose human rights body said691 civilians have been killed and 1,143 injured, thought it has acknowledged those numbers were likely an undercount.
He said the package would include drones, 'which demonstrates our commitment to sending our most cutting-edge systems to Ukraine for its defense.' He didn't specify if he meant the latest kamikaze killer drones that the administration had been considering.
'Ukraine is now in a direct state of war with Russia,' Kyiv's top negotiator Mikhailo Podolyak said in comments published by President Volodymyr Zelensky's office. 'As a result, the model can only be 'Ukrainian' and only on legally verified security guarantees.'
He switched to English to make his dramatic, final, closing appeal where he said the deaths of his country's children and the destruction Russia brought was making him lose the will to live.
The senator was promoting his resolution that would encourage President Joe Biden to transfer Polish MiG planes to Ukraine. The Biden administration had ruled out such a move, saying it could cause escalation with Russia and lead to World War II.
'There's not any member of Congress left that room without thinking what more the United States can do to stop this carnage. Just a gut wrenching speech,' said Democratic Senator Chris Murphy.
Restrictions are needed for everyone on whom this unjust regime is based. We propose that the United States sanctions all politicians in the Russian Federation who remain in their offices and do not cut ties with those who are responsible for the aggression against Ukraine, from state Duma members to the last official who has lack of moral to break this state terror. All American companies must leave Russia from their market, leave their market immediately because it is flooded with our blood. Ladies and gentlemen, members of Congress, please take the lead if you have companies in your district who finance the Russian military machine leaving business in Russia, you should put pressure. I'm asking to make sure that the Russians do not receive a single penny that they use to destroy people in Ukraine. The destruction of our country, the destruction of Europe all American ports should be close for Russian goods. We're -- peace is more important than income, and we have to defend this principle in the whole world.
McConnell said after Zelensky's remarks that 'the message to President Biden is that he needs to step up his game.'
Lindsey Graham on Wednesday reiterated his call for Russian President Vladimir Putin to be assassinated despite criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for pushing the drastic step.
'We in Ukraine want the same for our people. All that is normal part of your own life. Ladies and gentlemen, friends, Americans, in your great history you have pages that have allowed you to understand Ukrainians and understand us now when we need you right now.'
He said Russia was ready to discuss Ukraine's neutral status in talks aimed at ending hostilities, but it would still meet the objectives of its military operation, which was 'going to plan'.
'Were going to give Ukraine the arms to fight and defend themselves through all the difficult days ahead,' Biden pledged, as he faces pressure from Congress and from Zelensky to provide Ukraine with a means to defend itself.
It comes after drone footage emerged of a group of Russian soldiers executing a lone Ukrainian civilian who was trying to surrender on a highway west of Kyiv last week.
It came as reports emerged overnight that Russian forces in Mariupol had rounded up 400 people from houses neighbouring the city's hospital number two, along with 100 doctors and patients who were already inside, and were refusing to let them leave in a bid to use civilians as human shields.
'It really is just a fundamental question of how much risk are we willing to take  that a cornered authoritarian with one of the world's largest nuclear arsenals will use it?'
'President Biden needs to make a decision today: either give Ukraine access to the planes and anti-aircraft defense systems it needs to defend itself or enforce a no-fly zone to close Ukrainian skies to Russian attacks.'
Zelensky joined the body by live video feed streamed in the Capitol's CVC auditorium as the leader remained in Ukraine following Russia's invasion on February 24, 2022.
Pelosi sat with Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.S. Oksana Markarova during Zelensky's speech and escorted her out through the Capitol building afterward.
'Yeah, I hope he'll be taken out, one way or another. I don't care how they take him out. I don't care if we send him to the Hague and try him, I just want him to go,' Graham said of the Russian president.
New drone footage appeared toshow Russian soldiers executing a lone Ukrainian civilian as he held his hands up to surrender on a highway west of Kyiv last week.
Zelensky asked the body if it was 'too much to ask for' Washington's help in establishing a no-fly zone over Ukraine  and said an OK alternative was to send fighter jets so they could defend their own air space against Vladimir Putin.
Russian authorities have repeatedly insisted that their forces are only targeting strategic military locations and are not waging war on the civilian population of Ukraine but it comes after two residential apartment blocks in west Kyiv were hit in shelling overnight.
Aftermath of Russian shelling of a 12-storey residential building in Svyatoshyn district of Kyiv early on Wednesday, hours after the Ukrainian capital was placed under a 36-hour curfew
'If John McCain were here, he'd be saying the same thing, I think,' said Graham. 'It's time for him to go. He's a war criminal. I wish somebody had taken Hitler out in the 1930s.'
'I think he's making an argument that he needs to make I don't necessarily believe that it will spiral in that way that fast. I think. I mean, it's hard to say when people are dying, but erring on the side of caution for something that doesn't spiral out of control, and allow some of the tools that we've put in place, because Russian economy has cratered,' he said.
And Republican Rep. Michael McCaul said it was time to start considering what a 'red line' would be for America.
Biden said the package included 'additional longer range anti-aircraft systems,' which he described as coming at Zelensky's request.
He also confronted President Joe Biden and told him to become the 'leader of the free world', demanded more sanctions for Russia to stop the 'war machine', asked for fighter jets and shared devastating footage of civilians being maimed in Kyiv as he called on lawmakers to 'do more' to protect his country.
We already became part of the anti-war coalition, a big anti-war coalition that unites many countries, dozens of countries, those who reacted in principle to President Putin's decision to invade our country, but we need to move on and do more. We need to create new tools to respond quickly and stop the war, the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine, which began on February 24th. And it would be fair if it ended in a day, that in 24 hours, that evil would be punished immediately. Today, the world does not have such tools. The war of the past have prompted our predecessors to create institutions that should protect us from war, but they unfortunately don't work. We see it, you see it, so we need new ones, new institutions, new alliances and we offer them. We propose to create an association, 'U24,' 'united for peace,' a union of responsible countries that have the strength and consciousness to stop conflicts immediately, provide all the necessary assistance in 24 hours, if necessary, even weapons, if necessary, sanctions, humanitarian support, political support, finances, everything you need to keep the peace and quickly save the world, to save lives.
Lawmakers watch in stunned silence as Zelesnky showed the graphic video and then concluded his address in English. He asked for something bigger than sanctions against Russia, saying: 'Peace is more important than income'
Nearly every lawmaker in Congress stood up to applaud Ukrainian President Zelensky when he appeared via video link on Wednesday morning. Greene right, brown dress can be seen keeping her hands still while her colleagues applaud
It includes 800 anti-aircraft systems, 9,000 anti-armor systems, portable 'high accuracy' shoulder mounted missiles, and 7,000 small arms, plus machine guns, shotguns, and grenade launchers.
Footage published by Ukrainian website Public, which was corroborated by the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv, shows the lifeless bodies of ten people sprawled on the street after they were apparently executed in cold blood.
The auditorum was packed with members of both parties. Many lawmakers sported a pin in the blue and yellow colors of the Ukrainian flag.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky issued a heartfelt plea for President Joe Biden and America to 'be the leader of the world' and help his country against Russian attacks in a speech where he appealed to U.S. heartstrings by comparing the crisis to the tragedies of 911 and Pearl Harbor and invoked Martin Luther King Jr. by saying: 'I have a dream... I have a need'
The outspoken Georgia Republican stood along with the other lawmakers but instead of clapping, reached for her phone.
Graham's remarks came after the joined his fellow lawmakers listen to Volodymyr Zelensky's address to Congress. In his remarks, theUkrainian president painted a picture of the devastation Russian troops have caused in his country and pleaded with America to send more aid, particularly in the form of military equipment.
Against our desire for happiness, against our national dreams, just like the same dreams you have, you Americans. Just like anyone else in the United States. I remember your national memorial in Rushmore, the faces of your prominent presidents, those who laid the foundation of the United States of America as it is today: democracy, independence, freedom and care for everyone, for every person, for everyone who works diligently, who lives honestly, who respects the law.
And this is my main issue as the leader of my people, great Ukrainians and as the leader of my nation, I'm addressing the President Biden. You are the leader of the nation, of your great nation. I wish you to be the leader of the world. Being the leader of the world means to be the leader of peace. Thank you.
Structural changes to the economy would be needed, Putin said, as he accusedthe West of trying to 'squeeze us, to put pressure on us, to turn us into a weak, dependent country.'
The Russian President, speaking in a televised government meeting in Moscow, saidthat keeping Russia in check was a long-term policy of the West, and that its economic measures were short-sighted as'most countries do not support sanctions'.
Footage published by Ukrainian website Public and corroborated by the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv shows the lifeless bodies of ten people sprawled on the street after they were shot and killed by Russians while waiting in line for bread outside the northern city of Chernihiv, Ukraine on Wednesday, March 16, 2022
Though after the brief portion he attended, the freshman lawmaker declared 'emotion shouldn't guide foreign policy' despite the majority of his caucus calling for more weapons and aid to be sent to Kyiv.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had said ahead of the address that he wants to hear Zelensky tell Congress 'what we need to send him', as Republicans push for a proposed deal with Poland to send MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine.
They are designed by Washington DC-based AeroVironment, and would be part of a huge package of military aid approved for Ukraine by Biden, which the president is set to discuss on Wednesday.
In addition, such association, such union would provide assistance to those who are experiencing natural disasters, man-made disasters who fell victims to humanitarian crisis and epidemic. Remember how difficult it was for the world to do the simplest things, just to keep vaccines, vaccines against Covid to save lives, to prevent new strains? The world spent months, years doing things like that much faster to make sure there are no human losses, no victims.
Her claims are centered around a nationalist paramilitary group based in Ukraine called the Azov Battalion.
The North Carolina congressman was caught on video earlier this month disparaging Zelensky as a 'thug' and calling his democratically-elected government 'corrupt' and 'evil.'
Putin claimed that the conflict had merely been a pretext for the West to impose sanctions because 'they just don't want a strong and sovereign Russia'.
The small, lightweight and comparatively cheap 'kamikaze' weapons, which are effectively remote-controlled bombs, come in two versions which have been designed to take out tanks or artillery positions. They are believed to be the same missiles that killed Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani under Donald Trump's administration in 2020.
'I think we need to start looking at red lines' over chemical weapons and tactical nuclear weapons, he said, referring to concerns Russia could escalate its arms use against Ukraine.
He claimed thethe operation in Ukraine is unfolding 'successfully, in strict accordance with pre-approved plans' and warned the West is trying to stoke up civil conflict.
Podolyak called for a legally binding security agreement, signed by international partners, who would 'not stand aside in the event of an attack on Ukraine, as they do today.'
'The destiny of our country is being decided,' he told lawmakers, adding a plea to the U.S.: 'We need you right now. I call on you to do more.'
And Republican Senator Rick Scott called on Biden to decide to today if he's going to send additional miltary equipment to the Ukraine.
During the address to Congress, Zelensky pleaded that the U.S. help set up a no-fly zone over Ukraine and said if that's 'too much to ask' then send fighter jets to allow them to defend against Russia. Zekensky received a standing ovation from Congress as Pelosi on stage right introduced the Ukrainian leader
'Emotion should never guide our foreign policy. The United States must be extraordinarily careful to implement logical, rational foreign policy that tactfully strengthens the Ukrainian people while simultaneously putting America first,' Cawthorn told the Times after Zelensky's speech.
'The destiny of our country is being decided,' Zelensky, sporting a green t-shirt and several-days-old beard, said during his address as he urged the U.S. help establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine
Graham floated the idea to take out the Russian president earlier this month, which drew the ire of Republicans and Democrats alike.
Thank you very much. Madam speaker, members of the Congress, ladies and gentlemen, Americans, friends, I'm proud to greet you from Ukraine, from our capital city of Kyiv, a city that is under missile and air strikes from Russian troops every day. But it doesn't give up, and we have not even thought about it for a second. Just like many other cities and communities in our beautiful country which found them shelves in the worst war since World War II. I have the honor to greet you on behalf of the Ukrainian people, brave and freedom-loving people, who for eight years have been resisting the Russian aggression. Those who give their best sons and daughters to stop this full-scale Russian invasion.
Our country experienced the same every day. Right now, at this moment, every night, for three weeks now, there are various Ukrainian cities Odesa names long list of Ukrainian cities, Russia has turned the Ukranian sky into a source of death for thousands of people. Russian troops have already fired nearly 1,000 missiles at Ukraine, countless bombs, they use drones to kill us with precision. This is a terror that Europe has not seen for 80 years, and we are asking for our life for an answer to this terror from the whole world. Is this a lot to ask for? To create a no-fly zone over Ukraine to save people? Is this too much to ask? Humanitarian no-fly zone, something that Russia would not be able to terrorize our free cities.
On Capitol Hill, Speaker Nancy Pelosi introduced Zelensky to the packed auditorum. Lawmakers gave him a standing ovation before he spoke a single war. The Ukrainian president was visibly moved, putting his hand on his heart and smiling in gratitude.
'Democracy, independence, freedom for every person, everyone who works diligently, who lives honestly, who respects the law,' Zelensky described the United States.
Putin says the West's 'attempt to have global dominance' is coming to an end and its 'economic blitzkrieg' of sanctions will only 'strengthen Moscow'
It is the latest in the propaganda pushed by Moscow in a bid to justify their invasion of Ukraine to Russian citizens - including claims the war is about 'de-nazifying' the country and preventing a genocide of minorities waged by Kyiv.
He noted the U.S. 'wants to do everything in coordination with our allies, which sometimes means it takes a couple extra days.'
'The West doesn't even bother to hide the fact that its aim is to damage the entire Russian economy, every Russian,' he said, adding that the West's actions would 'only strengthen' Moscow.
Remember Pearl Harbor. Terrible morning of December 7, 1941, when your sky was black from the planes attacking you. Just remember it. Remember September 11th, a terrible day in 2001 when evil tried to turn your cities, independent territories, in battlefields. When innocent people were attacked from air, yes. Just like nobody else expected it, you could not stop it.
And in the end, to sum it up, today, today it's not enough to be the leader of the nation. Today, it takes to be the leader of the world, being the leader of the world means to be the leader of peace. Peace in your country doesn't depend anymore only on you and your people. It depends on those next to you, on those who are strong. Strong doesn't mean big. Strong is brave and ready to fight for the lives of his citizens and citizens of the world. For human rights, for freedom, for the right to live decently and to die when your time comes, and not when it's wanted by someone else, by your neighbor. Today, the Ukrainian people are defending not only Ukraine, we are fighting for the values of Europe and the world inaudible in the name of the future. That's why today, the American people are helping not just Ukraine but Europe and the world to keep the planet alive, to keep justice in history. Now, I'm almost 45 years old. Today, my age stopped when the heart of more than 100 children stopped beating. I see no sense in life if it cannot stop the deaths.
In his nearly 20-minute remarks, Zelensky invoked some of the memorable moments in American history, comparing them to what his country is going through: the surprise Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 that brought the U.S. into World War II and the September 11th attacks in 2001 that brought down the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York.
The White House have warned against developing a no-fly zone above Ukraine, claiming it could lead to World War III. Ahead of Zelensky's speech on Wednesday, Pelosi echoed that argument.
'Why wait until he rolls over Moldova and Georgia and the Baltics? Why wait until he finishes destroying a proud and independent nation to act?' Coons said of Putin's potential ambitions in Europe.
'I am addressing the President Biden. You are the leader of the nation, of your great nation. I wish you be the leader of the world. Being the leader of the world means to be the leader of peace,' he said in his closing.
Zelenskly has been a personal appeal tour to Western nations as he tries to ramp up their response to Russia's invasion. Using the power of his personality, appearing before lawmakers in green military fatigues with shades of stubble on his cheek, the Ukrainian president has pushed his country's cause.
Zelensky repeated the plea he has made to countries around the world - including in addresses to the Canadian and British parliaments - to enforce a no-fly zone over his country. The U.S. and its allies fret such a move would escalate into World War III.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made a nearly 20-minute speech to Congress on Wednesday, speaking via video conference from Kyiv.
Right now, the destiny of our country is being decided -- the destiny of our people, whether Ukrainians will be free, whether they will be able to preserve their democracy. Russia has attacked not just us, not just our land, not just our cities, it went on a brutal offensive against our values -- basic human values. It threw tanks and planes against our freedom, against our right to live freely in our own country, choosing our own future.
'We are considering all available options to ensure accountability for any atrocity crimes in Ukraine,' the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv said in a statement following the attack.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said his country is going through its own version of September 11th and Pearl Harbor every day since Russia invaded and he urgedthe US to protect his skies while invoking Martin Luther King and the Founding Fathers in a heart-wrenching speech to Congress on Wednesday morning.
Greene engaged on a Twitter rant on Tuesday night, accusing the US and NATO of funding 'neo-Nazis' in Ukraine.
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene R-Ga. was spotted checking her phone while her colleagues gave Zelensky a standing ovation ahead of his remarks.
Biden, for his part, gave his own speech after Zelensky's where he announced a $800 million military assistance package. He also, for the first time on Wednesday, called Russian President Vladimir Putin a 'war criminal.'
It comes as new allegations of war crimes were hurled at Putin after video emerged that purported to show at least 10 Ukrainian civilians gunned down while they were queueing for bread outside Chernihiv.
Greene and Cawthorn, who both took office in 2021, have been among the minority of Republican lawmakers who have called for less US involvement in Ukraine's resistance to a Russian invasion.
'My advice to him was to provide the arms earlier,' said House GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy on his conversations with Biden. 'The problem is this administration has delayed time and again.
And the Republican senator from South Carolina said he wants the Russian people to do it.
Just as Zelensky was preparing to speak with lawmakers, Russian forces shot and killed 10 civilians standing in line for bread in the north central city of Chernihiv, Ukraine.
The Pentagon poured cold water on the idea last week after Putin warned any further involvement in Ukraine by the U.S. would be an escalation that could result in dragging the west into the conflict.
President Joe Biden outlined details the latest package of U.S. military assistance to Ukraine Wednesday as the country battles Vladimir Putins 'depraved onslaught'
And Moscow's men started pounding the southern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia hours after around 20,000refugees arrived through a humanitarian corridor from Mariupol.
Vladimir Putin was last night unanimously declared a war criminal in a vote late Tuesday night by the US Senate, which called for an investigation into the Russian president and his authoritarian regime amid the invasion of Ukraine.
Russian forces have been targeting civilians in Ukraine, including women and children. On Wednesday, forces ruthlessly gunned down ten Ukrainian civilians waiting in line for bread outside the northern city of Chernihiv.
Senator Chris Coons, a Democrat from President Joe Biden's home state of Delaware, spoke to reporters Wednesday morning, saying: 'I suspect that what he will say will weigh very heavily on the hearts of a lot of folks here. He makes an incredibly compelling case that Putin will only stop when we stop him.'
Shortly before House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's D-Calif. brief introduction to Ukraine's leader, he appeared via videolink and was welcomed by enthusiastic applause from nearly the entire chamber.
'I think he is a war criminal,' Biden said to reporters at the White House.
During his remarks on Wednesday, Biden provided a detailed laundry list of a new tranche of $800 million in deadly arms the U.S. is providing to Ukraine.
The fringe group, which has no widespread influence over Ukraine's multi-ethnic society led by a Jewish president, has fueled Russian leader Vladimir Putin's claims that he is attacking the country to rid it of 'Nazi' rule.
The slaughtering of civilians, particularly those who do not pose a threat, is considered a war crime under international humanitarian law.
'I am almost 45 years old. Today when the hearts of more than 100 children stopped beating, I see no sense in life,' he added.
Vladimir Putinsaid today that the West's 'attempt to have global dominance' is coming to an end as he warned it is trying to 'cancel Russia' with an 'economic blitzkrieg' of sanctions.
Zelensky also called for a new alliance outside of NATO to prevent future attacks and protect from Vladimir Putin's bullying and invoked the civil rights leader MLK by saying 'I have a dreamI have a need. I need to protect our sky. I need your decision exactly the same you feel when you say I have a dream.'
MeanwhileRussian state TV Rossiya aired a segment on battle plans to invade the Baltic states, showing a white board with potential routes on live television.
In his most explicit acknowledgment of the pain inflicted by Western sanctions, he said inflation and unemployment would rise, but promised support to families with children.
Vladimir Putin said today that the West's 'attempt to have global dominance' is coming to an end as he warned it is trying to 'cancel Russia' with an 'economic blitzkreig' of sanctions
Zelensky showed a video montage to Congress of the destruction and death in Ukraine pictured, and said his country isfacing a 911-like attack every day
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's impassioned speech to Congress on Wednesday morning left most lawmakers in the chamber in awe of his bravery and some were even nearly reduced to tears -- but two Republican firebrands seemed largely unaffected.
'The only way this ends is for somebody in Russia to take this guy out. You would be doing your country - and the world - a great service,' Graham said in early March.
In part of the video Zelensky played, it showed people moving bodies into a mass grave as the death toll climbs and Russia continues to targetcivilians in the now-20-day conflict
Members of Congress rise to their feet to give Zelensky a standing ovation during his remarks on the US response to Putin's invasion and the atrocities on his people
He included in his remarks a graphic video, showing the death and destruction that Ukraine has endured. The images included the deaths of young children and mass graves for civilian and military casualties. Several lawmakers were in tears as it played.
Meanwhile Rep. Madison Cawthorn R-N.C. missed that portion altogether, along with most of the Ukrainian president's speech, according to the New York Times.
If this is too much to ask, we offer an alternative. You know what kind of defense systems we need: S-300 and other similar systems. You know how much depends on the battlefield, on the ability to use aircraft, powerful, strong aviation to protect our people, our freedom, our land. Aircrafts that can help Ukraine help Europe and you know that they exist, and you have them, but they are on Earth, not in the Ukrainian sky. They do not defend our people. 'I have a dream' -- these words are known to each of you. Today I can say, 'I have a need.' I need to protect our sky. I need your decision, your help, which means exactly the same, the same you feel when you hear the words 'I have a dream.'
Yet Russian authorities continue to insist that their forces have only targeted strategic military locations and are not waging war on the civilian population of Ukraine.
Zelensky added a new twist to his remarks to Congress. He called for a new alliance outside of NATO to prevent future attacks.
After the speech, lawmakers exited the auditorium in droves, talking quietly among themselves about what they heard.
'I am addressing the President Biden. You are the leader of the nation, of your great nation. I wish you be the leader of the world. Being the leader of the world means to be the leader of peace,' he told members in the sobering address to Congress.
