Zelensky praises Boris for helping more than other Western leaders after outcry of emotion for Ukraine from Britons  as he slams Macron for being afraid of Russia
20220328
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10658965/Zelensky-praises-Boris-helping-Western-leaders.html
The verdict on Emmanuel Macron was particularly scathing, saying France was hesitant in sending weapons 'because they are afraid of Russia'
In a highly charged speech in Warsaw, Mr Biden appealed to Russian people directly with comparisons between the invasion of Ukraine and the horrors of the Second World War.
French President Emanuel Macron said he 'wouldn't use those terms' voiced by Mr Biden and suggested they could make it harder to resolve the conflict, adding: 'We want to stop the war that Russia launched in Ukraine, without waging war and without escalation.'
Meanwhile, the UK has distanced from Joe Biden's apparent call for regime change in Moscow - after he said in an impassioned speech that Mr Putin 'cannot remain in power'.
US secretary of state Antony Blinken insisted 'we do not have a strategy of regime change' as the Kremlin said it is 'not up to the Americans to decide who will remain in power in Russia'.
Mr Zelensky said in the interview that 'Britain is definitely on our side' and is 'not performing a balancing act', but declined to say whether the UK wants to end the war quickly at any cost.
Asked if the PM had been keener than Mr Macron to send weapons, Mr Zelensky responded: 'Yes. To be honest, Johnson is a leader who is helping more.
Mr Zelensky put foreign nations into categories, ranging from those who want the conflict to end quickly by any means so they can keep access to Russian markets to those supporting the Ukrainian people who 'want the war to end quickly at any cost'.
The president added that Ukraine could consider offering security guarantees to the Kremlin involving his government agreeing to stay out of Nato.
Ms Truss said Mr Putin was resorting to 'desperate measures' as British military analysts said Russia's invasion had suffered from a lack of momentum, poor logistics and low morale.
The Ukrainian president gave the PM pictured in Westminster on Friday a positive write-up, saying he had been backed by the outpouring of emotion from Britons
Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawi said Mr Putin's fateis 'up to the Russian people' after the White House scrambled to row back on the remark.
'Britain wants Ukraine to win and Russia to lose, but I'm not ready to say whether Britain wants the war to drag on or not.'
Mr Johnson has forged a close relationship with the Ukrainian leader, speaking to him almost daily. Sources say that the calls are often emotional, with the PM said to be 'moist around the eyes' after being updated on the staunch resistance to Vladimir Putin.
The Ukrainian president gave the PM a positive write-up, saying he had been backed by the outpouring of emotion from Britons, as he revealed his assessment of the response by Western countries.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has accused Putin's forces are abducting Ukrainian politicians, activists and journalists as Russia fails to meet its military objectives, .
'Britain is definitely on our side. It is not performing a balancing act. Britain sees no alternative for the way out of the situation,' he said.
She condemned the 'abhorrent tactic' following work by Ukrainian human rights group ZMINA, which claimed to have identified dozens of individuals who had been abducted, with thousands more deported to Russia.
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Steve Barclay said: 'Public money should not fund Putin's war machine. We are asking hospitals, councils and other organisations across the public sector to urgently look at all the ways they can go further to sever their commercial ties to Russia.
At a summit of Nato leaders last week, Mr Johnson said sending the tanks and fighter jets requested by Mr Zelensky would be very difficult 'logistically' but did not rule it out.
The Foreign Secretary said: 'Putin continues to use abhorrent tactics against the Ukrainian people, including abducting innocent civilians.
In contrast, Mr Macron warned providing armoured vehicles and fighter jets could drag Nato into a direct conflict with Russia by crossing a 'red line'.
He told the reporters that the issue of neutrality should be put to Ukrainian voters in a referendum after Russian troops withdraw.
Volodymyr Zelensky has heaped praise on Boris Johnson for 'helping more' than other leaders in the battle against Russia
Volodymyr Zelensky has heaped praise on Boris Johnson for 'helping more' than other leaders in the battle against Russia.
The verdict on Emmanuel Macron was particularly scathing, withFranceaccused of being hesitant in sending weapons 'because they are afraid of Russia'.
Guidance issued today says government departments, hospitals, councils and other organisations should try to cancel any deals they have and switch suppliers.
But a White House official swiftly tried to clarify and argued that the US President's point was that the Russian leader 'cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbours or the region'.
'The government will continue to work closely with these organisations, ensuring they are able to take the necessary steps as quickly as possible, including taking legal routes where necessary.'
Vladimir Putin pictured has been urged to call a ceasefire and enter talks after his invasion of Ukraine stalled
'For God's sake this man cannot remain in power,' he said at the close of his speech about the Russian president he earlier described as a 'butcher'.
Speaking in Kyiv, Mr Zelensky told the Economist magazine that Germany 'are making a mistake' by trying to take a balanced approach due to deep economic ties with Moscow.
Mr Zelensky's comments last night were followed by a late-night video interview with independent Russian journalists in which he reiterated earlier statements that signalled he was willing to discuss neutrality with Russia.
'The leaders of countries react according to how their constituents act. In this case, Johnson is an example.'
He said a vote could take place within a few months of the troops leaving.
The Cabinet Office has urged public sector bodies to week out Russian and Belarussian firms from contracts.
