Britain offers Ukraine a big Navy on credit to defend againt Russian land invasion
20211123
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2021/11/22/britain-offers-ukraine-a-big-navy-on-credit-to-defend-againt-russian-land-invasion/
 Editors Note: This is a strange and silly show boating move literally by Boris Johnson seeming to claim the role of Ukraines shore line protector. And why?
As there is a mutual geostrategic interest in this deal  given the UKs ambitions to weaken Russian presence in Eastern Europe  there appears to be little concern on the part of the British over how the debt generated by this deal will be paid off.
According to the data released so far, the sale includes the negotiation of two mine countermeasure ships and the joint production of eight warships with missiles, as well as a new frigate. Possible aid from London to Kiev for the construction of a naval infrastructure platform, with the modernization of the weapons systems of current Ukrainian ships, is also being negotiated.
Well, maybe those navy ships to defend against Russian land invasion are amphibious vessels or boats with wheels
Tensions on the rise in the Black Sea. London recently announced that it will be selling warships to Ukraine. The vessels would be allocated in the Black Sea region. The possible deal belies a previous announcement by the British government that it would not sell arms to Ukraine and increases regional frictions between Ukraine, NATO, and Russia.
The Russian government frequently denounces NATOs dangerous maneuvers, with the international society remaining silent. Recently, for example, Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced that NATO planes are operating maneuvers just 20km away from the Russian border, which is a real provocative affront  and, as on previous occasions, no action has been taken within the UN in order to investigate the case or demand a more peaceful posture from NATO.
This is the perfect opportunity for France to get even with the USUKAUS. Macaroon could offer lower rates and ships that actually can go to sea. It would be even better if they could convince Russia to attack only by sea.
It seems that Russias moving troops around inside its own country did not have the permission of Boris or NATO, and hence is a threat despite NATOs longer running border provocations with Russia.
It seems the British shipyards have a friend in Boris Johnson, who slipped them this business as an early Christmas present
Secured by bonds on Ukrainian farmland and minerals? Ask Nigerian and other African governments how it worked out  for them.
Why do I get the impression that the govmediasocial medias howling, hand wringing, hysteria over an alleged immanent Russian invasion of Ukraine is an embarrassing nothing burger.
Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving  more.  Thanks for helping.  Click to donate 
As we can see, once again, the West is trying to arm Ukraine and turn this state  which has an openly anti-Russian political and ideological orientation  into a regional power to face Moscows presence within its own strategic environment.
To that end, the British secretary also said that Kiev could pay for the ships using the amount received from the loan taken by the Ukrainian government as part of a trade agreement signed between the two countries in early November.
Both Ben Wallace and his Ukrainian counterpart Oleksii Reznikov, commenting on the case, emphasized the fact that the agreement is aimed against Russia, which makes the project a real open affront to the stability of Russia-Ukraine and Russia-West relations.
Those Hebrew mobsters have long tribal memories, Konehead, like the Pale of Settlement that Catherine the Great set up for them in 1791.  Is it any wonder that the Ashkenazim have it in for Russia, and Ukraine?  That was their old Khazar stomping ground after all.
It remains to be seen, however, what will be the position of British public opinion. Unlike international society, citizens of Western countries are already tired of seeing their states investing billions in military operations abroad while the Western social rates decline, and state investments are absent.
Obviously, such a scenario would be disastrous for Ukraine, but geostrategy is a minor point in Kievs geopolitical orientation, which is motivated by a fanatical anti-Russian ideology. This should be reason enough for the international society to intervene in the case, condemning the negotiation and applying sanctions against the Ukraine and the UK.
Anyone with half a brain could figure out that the 90,000 Russian troops might be on the border to flood into Donbass if the Ukies attempted a military solution to Donbass refusal to accept Kiev hegemony over them after the violent coup.
UK ships either blown to bits in 5 seconds notice or surrendered to Russian navy to be flying Russian flag, should piddly English bulldog poke the sleepy Russian bear.
Jim W. Dean is VT Editor Emeritus. He was an active editor on VT from 2010-2022. He was involved in operations, development, and writing, plus an active schedule of TV and radio interviews. He now writes and posts periodically for VT.
Our governments have no desire to be adversarial, or seek in any way to strategically encircle or undermine the Russian Federation  We are concerned by Russias military build-up and activity around the borders of Ukraine.
Written byLucas Leiroz, research fellow in international law at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.
Indeed, in the current international arena, it has become commonplace for NATO and Ukraine to conduct aggressive operations against Russia and justify them with defamatory speech about an alleged Russian intention to invade Europe. This has simply been passively accepted by the UN and peacekeeping organizations, with no action being taken.
Now, with this acquisition of new war equipment, the situation becomes even more complicated. The UK is providing heavy weapons to a state that is currently being denounced in international courts for maintaining ethnic persecution against the Russian population and that is openly considering the possibility of attacking Russia.
But let me see if I have this straight. The British people are going to take on loaning their money to build and retrofit the ships it is proposing, which will take years, and therefore have no impact on the current simmering hostilities in Ukraine.
Hebrew mobster Oligarch Igor Kolimoisky got a quick start on that when their civil war began, and he froze and cleaned out all of the Donbass peoples accounts in his bank, and they have never seen a dime of their money to this day.
Tensions are simmering solely due to the Ukrainian military continuing to shell and launch drone strikes on the Donbass contact line. Donbass defenders are protecting themselves from the long promised Kiev threat to wipe out all of the ethnic Russians living there and steal everything they have. Some would call this the antithesis of the good neighbor policy.
The presence of modern and equipped Western ships in that area will generate a new escalation of instability, unnecessarily undermining international peace.
The accusations made by Kiev and London  adopting the Washington-born speech  against Russia, pointing to it as a threat to international security due to its actions on the western border, are truly weak and unsubstantiated. Moscow has not only repeatedly denied all accusations, but it has also demonstrated through its actions in that region that it does not plan to start a war or heighten existing tensions.
However, in a joint statement, they both tried to be delicate in their words and said the aim was not to make the UK and Ukraine adversary to Russia, but that the move comes amid concerns about Russias presence in the border region:
The UK is one of the countries with the greatest popular rejection of partnerships with Ukraine, due to allegations of corruption against the Ukrainian government. Considering this, how will the people react when they see their taxes being once again converted into arms supply for Kiev? Certainly, there will be a negative response.
It seems the British shipyards have a friend in Boris Johnson, who slipped them this business as an early Christmas present Jim W. Dean 
Several British military vessels have circled the Black Sea in recent months, with London openly trying to elevate its geopolitical status in a post-Brexit scenario. So, it is possible to say that, in addition to all the factors mentioned here, once again Ukraine is being used by Western powers to secure interests that do not concern it.
Previously, several Western governments  including the UK itself  had pledged not to sell heavy weapons to Ukraine amid rising tensions at the border. But the move comes amid recent UK interest in increasing its naval expansionism.
In a statement this week, UK Defense Secretary Ben Wallace gave a positive signal for heavy weapons sales to Ukraine. The equipment to be traded would be focused on modern warships with high destruction power. The aim is to significantly increase Ukrainian naval power amid a regional context of tensions in the Black Sea.
On the contrary, Russian military movements on the western border have been minimal in recent years  at least when compared to NATO maneuvers, which have now become constant and virtually uninterrupted.
