Erdogan Triumphs as Putin Stabs His Best Ally in Back
20220204
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/02/03/erdogan-triumphs-as-putin-stabs-his-best-ally-in-the-back/
True, Russia may now have more control over Armenia and has deployed 2000 troops in Artsakh. But Russia could have gotten these without the war. Instead, the Kremlin chose anger and war over sound judgment.
Russia dislikes democratic leaders. Theyre harder to arm-twist and bribe. True, Pashinyan has been somewhat friendlier to Western nations than Armenias earlier leaders.
Ironically, though livid at Pashinyans mild Western outreach, Moscow seems fine with Turkeys Western military, economic, and political memberships: NATO, EU Customs Union, and scores more.
Simple when you have control of all media and NATO. CIA, Israel, Qatar, UAE, Saudis, joining in on the massacre of a million innocents and theft of everything.
It did no good at all for Russia for that region of Azerbaihan to be part of Armenia.  Just needless
The Caucasuss future is hard to predict, but some major things  unlikely as they seem now  could reshape the region in the medium and long terms.
Suppose Yerevan could escape the Russian bears grip. Joining NATO would not guarantee its security. Turkey, which has murderous plans for Armenia, would vastly outweigh it.
Russia supplies nearly all its allys gas, oil, and weapons, controls much of its energy infrastructure, including the Metsamor nuclear power plant, and has two military bases in Armenia.
Yet, post-independence 1991, Yerevan has maintained excellent political and economic relations with the EU, U.S., and NATO. In 2005, America built one of its largest embassies in the world under President Robert Kocharyan, a Putin favorite.
So instead the USA with sec of state then Killary Clintcock hired 250,000 terrorist head chopper mercenaries, paid bonuses for kills, and invaded Libya killing and torturing all Libyans they could find to kill and torture.
David Boyajians main foreign policy focus is the Caucasus. His work can be found atArmeniapedia.org
The Caspian would become a NATOTurkic lake. Moreover, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Turkeys pan-Turkic aspirations lie just across the Caspian. Russia would face a future grimmer than what NATO in Europe poses.
It would be part of Azerbaijan, but Armenia took this region of Azerbaijan by military force in a war that ended in 1994. So a few decades later Azerbaijan takes it back.
As for Armenia, it must maneuver between the regions competing powers as it has for 3000 years.
Besides Moscows recent treachery, Armenians remember Moscows gifting Artsakh, Nakhichevan, and Western Armenian territory to Azerbaijan and Turkey in the 1920s, Russias growing weakness also makes Armenians question its reliability.
Russia has lost most of eastern Europe to NATO. Despite territorial gains in Ukraine and Georgia, Moscow may eventually lose them and Belarus unless it invades some or all of them, which is possible but risky.
Turkey and Azerbaijan one nation, two states subsequently defeated the Armenian populated Artsakh RepublicNagorno-Karabagh and Russias longtime ally, Armenia. Israel and Pakistan backed Azerbaijan militarily.
Elected on an anti-corruption platform in 2018s democratic Velvet Revolution, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan was reelected in 2021.
Over Putins protests, Turkey sells Bayraktars and other weapons to Ukraine. Ankara demands that Crimea be returned to Kyiv. President Erdogan has threatened Russia with a Muslim uprising and declared that Turkey is ascendant in Central Asia. Russia still cant oust Turkey from Syria.
he used to mercilessly grill Psaki back in 2014 over US paying billions to  Ukrainian nazis to perform mass ethnic cleansing of Russians from East Ukraine as well, the only one in the Obama house briefings who would do such a thing.  Just asking for the actual date of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia in 2014 would cause constant stuttering and loopy robotic lies.
He hasnt stopped.A Russian agent? Haha they wish he was and could deport or imprison him and his foul mouth, but he is just a US journalist who asks the obvious questions and is always calling an obvious lie what it is.
No wonder the neo-con U.S. State Departments and NATOs condemnations of TurkishAzerbaijani aggression have been generally low-key.
Armenia has, nevertheless, allied itself with Russia for historical reasons and as security against genocidal Turkey and Azerbaijan. A more reliable Russian ally doesnt exist.
Western money helped build Azerbaijani energy pipelines which avoided Russia, going instead through Moscows adversary, Georgia. Even Donald Trump attempted to build a $200 million hotel in Baku.
Were Armenia to somehow exit Moscows camp, Turkey and NATO would rapidly displace Russia from the Caucasus because:
EuropeanArmenian relations go back thousands of years. A strong U.S.Armenian friendship dates to the 19th century. This is natural for an ancient Christian nation speaking an Indo-European tongue.
Talking about Russia, Matt Lee has always had cojones but this is a whole new level  and he works for APP ! Go Matt 
The area you refer to of Artsakh that has been surrounded on the north and east by Azeris, and now too to the south, is ancient Armenian land, as is the entire of the are between it and the Iranian border and much of the area lying to the noeth and stretching to the border with Georgia. So too is the land lying to the west of Armenia and stretching north from the border with Iran and now populated with Azeris a part of ancient Armenia. Need I point out that parts of present-day Georgia and of north-east Turkey are also within ancient Armenian Lands. Regardless of geo-politics, Armenia has made critical mistakes over the course of the past 10 years by cosying up to both the EU and US when what it should have been doing is playing to its friends in Moscow, specifically to Sergey Lavrov who is of Armenian descent and likely represents Armenias best friend and best hope of solving its problems with a Turkey greedily wishing to restore its Empire under the snake that is Erdogan.
Similarly for Azerbaijan: The UK has invested $100 billion, the EU is a major trade partner, and American investment is massive.
NATO must cease military activity in non-NATO territories: Georgia, Ukraine, the Caucasus, Central Asia, and parts of eastern Europe.
Turkey threatens Greece, Cyprus, and others, invades whatever countries it pleases, and supports ISIS and other international terrorists while the U.S., NATO, and Europe look the other way.
Not one Russian soldiers life is worth sacrificing for Armenia to have this reigion be part of Armenia, and none were too.
The Kremlins imperialist attitude towards small allies: You wouldnt exist if not for Russia, so be eternally grateful. Otherwise, well punish you even if it severely damages Russia.
Yet, incredibly, Putin has himself been enabling a NATO members aggression bordering Russia. In 2020, the Kremlin embraced Turkeys sending American-designedequipped F-16s and Bayraktar drones containing NATO components into Azerbaijan.
And all this humanitarian intervention saving the Libyan people from their evil dictator, and all atrocities blamed on Ghaddafi.
Armenia has always been faithful to both Russia and Iran! These countries better look after Armenia with countries like Azerbaijan and Turkey surrounding it which are heavily influenced by Zionists which are generally traitors.
The brutal 44-day war ended with a so-called peace agreement on November 9, 2020. Russia facilitated Turkeys and, de facto, NATOs participation in Putins self-defeating grudge war against Armenians:
So Azerbaijan buys a few thousand Israeli and Turkish drones and in a couple days wipes out the Armenian tanks and artillery protecting this region, that really should be part of Azerbaihan in first place.
Central Asia looks shaky due to Turkish, Western, and Chinese inroads. Without allies in the Black Sea, Russia worries about NATO exercises such as Sea Breeze 2021. Turkey poses other problems for Russia.
Influenced by Russias Eurasianist theorist Aleksandr Dugin, Putin thinks hes luring Turkey away from NATO. Erdogan is unlikely to fall for that trap.
Ghaddafi signed treaties with USA where he reduced his military to 14 size, Ghaddafi stepped down as president part of deal, and in exchange the US guaranteed to protect Libya.
I thought that they brought it on themselves. Didnt the nitwit president make overtures to the west? Didnt he tell Russia to stay out, they could handle things themselves? Did he not try to put the defeat on others in his gov? The fact that he is still there says that the people arent any smarter than he is. The only surprise was his, that he was as stupid as he was to believe western promises. AFAIR, Russia intervened as soon as they asked. It is not the first time Russia saved their back side. Lesson, if youre going to entertain the enemy in your BFs back yard, dont be surprised if they get pissed. Another is, when you play with fire you can get burned.
It is time for Armenia to stand up for itself as part of the Russian family  or alternatively with Iran. Turkey  Azeris represent a slavering pack of hungry hounds and Armenia needs friends and Allies to defend its lands, people and traditions.
But no, Moscow prefers to bully and betray its best ally. Is Armenia really an important ally?
Yerevan and Pashinyan certainly made mistakes before and during the war. But Putins angry betrayal of Armenians has been undeserved and irrational.
