Exposing Ukraines Endless War Lies Fun Maybe But Dont Get Carried Away
20220302
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/03/02/exposing-ukraines-endless-war-lies-fun-maybe-but-dont-get-carried-away/
However, the final moment will come when it suddenly turns out that this very Mordor with the orcs turned out to be the winner.And all the pure elves of Ukraine will have a question: how so?We beat the enemy on all fronts, the whole of Europe was with us, everyone supported us  why?
Now the entry has been deleted, but the Internet remembers everything.Plus, some people there added that Ukrainian pilots would operate from Polish airfields, where Russian missiles would definitely not arrive.
Here is a win so win!For some reason, the Ukrainian Navy was the first to write about it on its official website, but since thefleetno longer exists, the former sailors need to be occupied with something.Otherwise, they may start to think, and this does not lead to good.
Lies cannot always be defeated.Yes, you can fool the head of the enemy, using disinformation as aweapon.But the main thing here is not to get carried away.Otherwise, The promised tomorrow will be bitter and intoxicated, as Vladimir Semenovich Vysotsky sang.
Everyone was stunned.On the Russian side, this message aroused thoughtfulness, since, indeed, they would have to somehow intercept the Ukrainian Air Force aircraft and shoot them down.
We are not sending our planes, as this would mean military intervention in the conflict that is being waged in Ukraine, and thereby the inclusion of NATO in this conflict.NATO is not a party to this conflict.Our planes will not fly to Ukraine.
As evidence, a list of pilots participating in raids on Ukraine was cited.Ukrainian intelligence  its like that  But there is a small problem that brought to naught all the efforts of the heroes-scouts of Ukraine. And they turned out to be complete crap, since the list includes pilots Alexander Marfitsky and Alexander Zhuravlevich, who died back in 2009.
Sofia will not help Ukraine with fighters.There were no commitments regarding Bulgarian fighters.At present, we have few flying aircraft, and we cannot transfer them to another country.
Since we have no information from our side, from the first day, like everyone else, we had to work with what came from Ukraine.After our people walked through the towers, there are doubts that the information flow will remain at the same level.
It is clear that I really want to show that everything is going according to plan, but 
It is the MLRS projectile that flies along a pronounced ballistic trajectory.In our case, since they fired from a short distance, the barrels were raised as much as possible during launch, which ensured such a steep angle of incidence.The plant was nearby.A cruise missile flies differently.
In general, the Ukrainians came up with a good idea.Say, Azov was supposed to meet in front of the Regional State Administration.It is difficult to say for what devil, in theory, the regiment should have been in position for a long time and fight the invaders.And they, you know, decided to go to the Maidan, hold a rally.Well, or something else, fantasy fails, to be honest.
The specific photo provided by the Ukrainians shows an ordinary accelerator, which is not ammunition and does not pose a danger, unless, of course, it falls on something like a car.
Here is a map of Kharkov, which was maximally oriented to the cardinal points.If you look at how the projectile fell, you can conclude that it came from the north.But we are not there.For now, but no!
The Russian side, having learned about this, decided to strike.And she did.But Azov did not come to the rally, because there were no victims either.
The fact that all this rubbish was removed from the facilities of the RF Armed Forces a long time ago, and you rarely see such fossils in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, suggests that most likely all this stuff belongs to the National Guard of Ukraine.So what about the occupiers  this is too much.In addition, there are clearly no signs inherent in our equipment participating in the special operation.
Well, it was very simple for the shooter to want this neatly standing rubbish to be Russian technology.He may have been, but Soviet and so 40 years ago.
Moreover, the T-72tanksand Msta-S howitzers are officially in service with the Armed Forces of Ukraine.All this was inherited from the division of the inheritance of the USSR in the 90s.
If ours really used cluster munitions, then there would be dozens, if not hundreds, of corpses in urban areas. Plus, the cassette, from which submunitions are separated, greatly increases the area of destruction. So that would have gone to the houses, which is not in any of the photos.
The secret is revealed very simply: from the very beginning of the special operation in some cities of Ukraine, morgues stopped giving out the bodies of the dead precisely for the purpose of using them in such productions.That is why they are all face down.The same thing, by the way, was on the video from Kharkov.Everyone is lying face down so that you cant see on the video that these people died a long time ago.
Since we are still being read in Ukraine, for these people we will give a few examples of how Ukrainian sources lie.
Chemodanovka, Sumy region.The occupiers abandoned their equipment and fled.Very joyfully, UNIAN screamed about this and others followed them.And for some reason, no one pays attention to some understaffing of equipment, quite evenly placed in the backyards of some warehouses.
The Poles sorted it out a little longer, but President Duda himself made a refutation:
And among other things: ours do not shoot at urban areas, no matter how it is attributed.Moreover, if they fired, then for such a target as the Azov regiment, they would certainly be generous with a volley.And here  one rocket, more precisely, one projectile.
There are doubts here.Starting from how the bodies lie all face down for some reason to the fact that there is no damage corresponding to the explosion.
Of course, the Ukrainians really want the valiant Armed Forces of Ukraine to be able to resist and push the aggressor back, but But they want to.
The fact that the warning was heard confirms the statement of the TV center management that there were no casualties among the employees.Naturally, no one began to evacuate the houses located next to the repeaters.This is, as it were, good material for propaganda about Russian aggression.But  it worked out.
In Kyiv, the forensic medical examination bureau is literally 200 meters from the television center.So thats where it could have come from.In Kharkov, by the way, a little further away, about 2 km, but not particularly critical.
Perhaps this is not entirely bad, because from the first moment I had to deal mainly with filtering incoming information.And here all data of a false nature can be divided into two parts: erroneous information and outright lies.
As I understand it, it is also from that opera when, with complete evil, a victory is needed.At least some.It is obvious that the city of Trostyanets is half the size of Ukraine, since the photos of the destroyed trucks date back to the war in the Donbass.
I perfectly understand Ukrainians.They are very scared today.It is very scary for those who try on life in Donetsk and Lugansk.In cellars with stale air, feeling the earth tremble from explosions  yes, its scary.
And after a while, from an hour to two, videos began to appear, which depicted the victims of Russian aggression.Killed civilians of the city of Kyiv.
Here it is worth starting with the fact that the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation warned in advance that they would shy away from the tower. And it demanded, right in the spirit of the Israeli military, to remove the residents of nearby houses and employees of the television center in order to avoid unnecessary casualties.
Currently, there are literally a couple of channels on our side that deal with revelations.Very little, given the size of the disinformation that the Ukrainian side is spreading and which is believed in Ukraine.
Clearly there was panic.In principle, for more than cooling relations with the brothers, it is enough that the leadership of Bulgaria has already done it.And military assistance, and even in such volumes 
The first to rush into battle was Bulgarian Prime Minister Kirill Petkov.The head of the Cabinet was puzzled by the presence of such a number of operational aircraft in the country and hastened to dispel this myth:
It is worth paying attention to the fact that there are no identification marks of the Russian contingent on all the equipment.They just pulled pictures from the Internet and passed them off as a win.
It is scary for those who look at it from the outside.And he hopes as in the central regions that he will continue to look from the outside.But thats scary too.
In this regard, the Ukrainian media did an excellent job.They showed everything that could raise the spirit of the population and inspire confidence.And they did not disdain anything.
Modern man is so accustomed: he lives in the flow of information and he just needs to receive it.And preferably one that is digestible and brings positive emotions.
We look.It is perfectly clear that this is not a cruise missile.This is the most common projectile from the large-caliber MLRS of the Smerch or Hurricane type.Which, I repeat, the Armed Forces of Ukraine also have.
The video was seen by everyone who did not see  it is very clearly visible how the projectile falls in front of the OGA and explodes.Naturally, the Ukrainian side presented this as a hit by a Russian cruise missile.And even some on our side, out of illiteracy, picked up this utter nonsense.
Lets step back a bit, shall we?There were hundreds of such cluster ammunition in the DPR and LPR.
In general, this list can be continued for a very long time, because Ukrainians lie, and they do it in all industries.They lie about the victories of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, they lie about the defeats of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, they lie about what is happening in our country and at home.
