False Flag Watch NATOs Fake Corpse Express in Bucha Ukraine
20220403
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/04/03/russia-nato-staged-false-flag-atrocities-in-bucha-kiev-with-crisis-actors/
Please go to Twitter and plugin bucha and see what we are talking about. Delightful videos of carefully left corpses in the streetsdo drive around. Helllet me get you one nowit takes a second because NATO and Twitter want this passed around. We are only too glad to help except with a tad of debunking as well.
Of course, when Ukie Nazis need real dead, they simply hunt down Russian-speaking families and butcher them like they have been doing for 8 years. Now from Russia:
Sputnik: Earlier, Ukrainian authorities claimed that they have found the bodies of civilians lying in the streets of the city of Bucha in the Kiev region, claiming that they had been killed by Russian troops, who had been stationed in the city for several days ago.
You know, back in college I worked for a bit at a funeral home LaveyLansing Michigan picking up bodies in a 1968 Mercury station wagon. I had seen others dead as well. Blood pools, skin goes white immediatelyno color can remain with a heart no longer functioning unless, of course, you are Ukrainian.
Russias Defence Ministry has rejected allegations promulgated by Kiev, claiming that Russian troops had killed civilians in the Ukrainian city of Bucha. The ministry stated that the images and videos claiming to depict dead civilians on the streets of Bucha were staged photos and videos created specifically to distribute via the western media. Here is a clearly faked photo:
The ministry further noted that the images of the bodies on the streets emerged four days after the Russian troops left the city and immediately after the Ukrainian Security Service SBU and the Ukrainian media arrived at the scene. The bodies which have been videoed and photographed show no signs of rigor mortis or lividity, and the blood on the wounds is fresh.
The defense ministry stressed that Russian troops abandoned the city on 30 March and reminded the audience that the citys mayor, Anatoly Fedoruk, confirmed this fact the next day. Furthermore, the mayor never mentioned on 31 March that any civilians had been shot in the street with their hands tied, as claimed by Kiev.
New Srebrenica. The Ukrainian city of Bucha was in the hands of  animals for several weeks. Local civilians were being executed arbitrarily, some with hands tied behind their backs, their bodies scattered in the streets of the city.RussianWarCrimes pic.twitter.comoutzejdidO
VT has learned that NATOUkraine planned to stage a chemical attack on Bucha but, with major publicity debunking false flag chemical attacks like NATO used in Syria with the White Helmets, another ploy was sought.
These images are yet another provocation. During the time this settlement was under the control of the Russian armed forces, not a single local resident was hurt This is yet another example of providing staged material from the Kiev regime for the consumption of western media, as it was the case with the Mariupol maternity hospital, not to mention other cities, the ministry said.
