Former US Ambassador to Russia No Evidence Russia to Blame in Bucha During CNN Interview
20220405
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/04/05/brilliant-former-us-ambassador-to-russia-no-evidence-russia-to-blame-in-bucha-during-cnn-interview/
Firstly, we dont know exactly what really happened in Bucha, and secondly, there is no evidence that Moscow is to blame. The fact is that Ukrainians need to make a deal with Russia so that she can keep Crimea, where the majority of the population is Russian and where their naval base is located, the former ambassador explained.
Matlock said he was skeptical of the idea. We do not know for sure exactly what happened with these apparent atrocities. And, certainly, we dont know that they were ordered from Moscow,he also pointed out.
Matlock said that feeling outrage over what he calledhorrors of war was a normal human reaction, but suggested that the only way to end them was to negotiate a path towards de-escalation.
Ambassador Jack Matlock has said it is not wise to make a nuclear-armed equivalent of the US into a pariah state
FILE PHOTO. Artists from Gurukul Art paints canvas as tribute to the innocent people of Bucha. Anshuman Poyrekar  Hindustan Times via Getty Images
Despite attempts by the presenter to focus on the events in Bucha, where media traps are trying to accuse Russia of attempting to genocide the Ukrainian population, Matlock continues to assert the need for a diplomatic settlement of the issue.
There is no evidence that Moscow is to blame for the events in Bucha.This was stated on CNN by former US Ambassador to the USSR Jack Matlock."The fact is that Ukrainians need to make a deal with Russia so that it can keep Crimea, where the majority of the population is Russian pic.twitter.comXX7nU7IHUa
Jack Matlock held various positions during the height of the Cold War and was Washingtons representative to the USSR in the final years of the communist powerhouse. The veteran diplomat warned CNN audiences that the drive to further antagonize Russia, which prevails in the West, is ill-advised, especially since its driven by emotions rather than reason.
It is noted that Matlocks speech subsequently did not appear on the CNN website, and the prospects for his new appearance on the channels air in the near future are in serious doubt.
The CNN segment, in which Matlock was one of the experts providing their opinion, put the blame for the civilian deaths squarely on Russia.Of course, there is no one else who could have committed these atrocities,an EU spokesperson quoted by the news network said. Host Ana Cabrera said images from Bucha were particularly horrific because the alleged crimes were committed not bysome rogue actor like the Taliban or a terror group like ISIS or al Qaeda,but by a UN nation.
Matlock: Firstly, we dont know exactly what really happened in Bucha, and secondly, there is no evidence that Moscow is to blame. The fact is that Ukrainians need to make a deal with Russia so that it can keep Crimea, where the majority of the population is Russian and where their naval base is located. Because the creation of Russia  a nuclear power equivalent to the United States, a pariah country, is definitely not in our interests.
Ukrainian officials claimed this were evidence that Moscow was pursuing genocide of the Ukrainian people. Russia has denied any responsibility for what appeared in the images and said that Kiev was manipulating public opinion with staged scenes of brutality.
US sacrificed Ukraine to prevent nuclear arms race w Russia, Jack Matlock https:t.coFXmPCBvJfy via YouTube
Russia is demanding that Ukraine officially declare itself a neutral country that will never join the US-led NATO military bloc. Kiev insists the Russian offensive was completely unprovoked and has denied claims it had planning to retake the two secessionist regions by force.
I share many of these emotions, but to the idea that we can make a major nuclear-weapon state a pariah, that by our actions we actually are destroying those elements in that society that could bring a positive change in the future. I think that is not wise,he said.
Moscow attacked its neighbor in late February, following Ukraines failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements of 2014, and Russias eventual recognition of the Donbass republics in Donetsk and Lugansk. The German- and French-brokered protocols had been designed to regularize the status of those regions within the Ukrainian state.
Moral outrage over images of apparent war atrocities in Bucha, Ukraine is understandable, but the calls to turn Russia into a pariah state are ill-advised, a former US ambassador to the Soviet Union warned on Monday, during an appearance on CNN.
The veteran diplomat reiterated his long-held position, that NATOs expansion in Europe and the gradual rising of tensions between Western powers and Moscow, which escalated into a shooting war in Ukraine this year, were an avoidable mistake of US foreign policy.
Veteran US diplomacy Jack Matlock aired on CNN. Matlock began by correcting the presenter, who called him a former ambassador to Russia.
The former US ambassador to the USSR called for refraining from premature assessments of events in the settlements that the Russian military left.
He stressed that the creation of a rogue state from Russia, which has nuclear weapons, is clearly not in the interests of the United States.
Klaas dismissed the notion, stating thatthe characterization that this is somehow our fault was wildly wrong.
The diplomat said that he was the ambassador to the USSR, of which Ukraine was a part. And then completely sedition: Matlock: In my opinion, the main goal now is to end the conflict in Ukraine, and this can only be achieved through diplomacy
Matlock was referring to the moral outrage that has been dominating the Wests coverage of the Ukrainian crisis since Kiev accused Russian troops of war crimes. The allegations focus on Bucha, a small town northwest of Kiev from which Russian troops withdrew last week. Days after the withdrawal, images of apparent atrocities targeting its civilian population started pouring in from Bucha.
Opposing his view was Brian Klaas, associate professor of global politics at the University College of London, who argued that Russia has made a pariah of itself by committing war crimes in Ukraine. He believes that the killings of civilians in Bucha were orchestratedby senior Russian leadership.
To think that the world would benefit from making Russia, a nuclear power equivalent to the United States, a pariah, I think, does not really represent our interests in the future. I fear a world of that sort,he said.
Theres no way that you could have such atrocities without at least the knowledge of senior officials in the Russian military,he said,Theres no way that you could have such atrocities without at least the knowledge of senior officials in the Russian military,he said. He offeredno explanation for why Russian officers would make a display of brutality, an action that would not appear to benefit Russias objectives.
Veteran American politician Jack Matlock spoke on the air of CNN, in which he spoke about the tasks that Russia is pursuing in Ukraine.He stressed that at one time Ukraine was part of the USSR, where he acted as ambassador, blogger Valentin Bogdanov reports Madlocks words in his Telegram channel.
VT: The US is removing all evidence this CNN interview ever happened, scouring it from the web using Israeli software and assets that control Google, Facebook, Twitter, and most tech companies
