Francis Boyle Biological Warfare Labs in Ukraine ConfirmedProven
20220317
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/03/17/francis-boyle-biological-warfare-labs-in-ukraine-confirmed-proven/
Finally, Russia has a track record of accusing the West of the very crimes that Russia itself is perpetrating. These tactics are an obvious ploy by Russia to try to justify further premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attacks on Ukraine. We fully expect Russia to continue to double down on these sorts of claims with further unfounded allegations.
Read The Full Official Statement here at State.gov  The Kremlins Allegations of Chemical and Biological Weapons Laboratories in Ukraine
Francis Boyle, JD, professor of International Law at the University of Illinois, and the leading expert on biological weapons emphatically states that the labs found in Ukraine by Russian troops are funded and run by the USA. The thousands of scientists working in these labs all over the world he calls, Death Scientists. Message from Regis Tremblayhttps:www.youtube.comchannelUC53-SsNriAHSZJPN3g0gPwandhttps:www.bitchute.comchannelZejQZ1pkbGaq
Regis Tremblay and Vladimir Kozin with an update on the real, verifiable information on what is happening today in Ukraine: The Liberation of Ukraine  USNATO Arms to Ukraine, Putin  70 Approvalhttps:www.bitchute.comvideofBrnOBKMjU4U
STATE.GOV  On March 9, 2022, the U.S. State Department issued an Official Press Statement refuting all Bio and Chemical Weapons claims made by Russia.
As we have said all along, Russia is inventing false pretexts in an attempt to justify its own horrific actions in Ukraine. The United States does not own or operate any chemical or biological laboratories in Ukraine, it is in full compliance with its obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention and Biological Weapons Convention, and it does not develop or possess such weapons anywhere. It is Russia that has active chemical and biological weapons programs and is in violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and Biological Weapons Convention.
The Kremlin is intentionally spreading outright lies that the United States and Ukraine are conducting chemical and biological weapons activities in Ukraine. We have also seen PRC officials echo these conspiracy theories. This Russian disinformation is total nonsense and not the first time Russia has invented such false claims against another country. Also, these claims have been debunked conclusively and repeatedly over many years.
