Intel Drop The Alternative Media Died Drowned in Kosher Nostra Cash
20210806
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2021/08/06/intel-drop-the-alternative-media-died-drowned-in-kosher-nostra-cash/
COVID kills, today, 2.08 percent, two in one hundred, not one in one hundred thousand. One year ago, the rate was 5.76 percent. The source on this is Worldmeters, the only dependable source with no government funding.
Anyway, one of Kevins friends called COVID a flu that kills only one in a hundred thousand that get it.
4 are hospitalized.low numbers compared to the red states. which are running very high ICU figures.which will be thousands of deaths of unvaccinated 30 and 40-year-olds. Older folks are all vaccinatedeven in red states.
Gordon is an accredited diplomat and is generally accepted as one of the top global intelligence specialists. He manages the worlds largest private intelligence organization and regularly consults with governments challenged by security issues.
This is what we know to be true, we arent guessing. Everyone from the alternative media left or right, and 99 percent were phonies from day one anyway, was offered cash from a Trump supporter during 2018-19. I was offered not just cash but a cabinet office or White House advisory position.
The lesson is simple, Madison Wisconsin finally hit 70 percent vax levels with a huge influx during the past week of frightened people. We note that no one is dying, meaning the most vulnerable were vaccinated early on.
Almost everyone went on a payrollto downplay covid, promote conspiracies.. play anti-vax, to push unlock and back Trump as a freedom fighter.
Duff has traveled extensively, is published around the world, and is a regular guest on TV and radio in more than several countries. He is also a trained chef, wine enthusiast, avid motorcyclist, and gunsmith specializing in historical weapons and restoration. Business experience and interests are in energy and defense technology.
Death rates are extremely low as high percentages of the most vulnerable are vaccinated, where I am 97 and no deaths and only one hospitalization.
You will note that as this process moved forward, we saw total coordination between Russian media giants, RT and Sputnik with Fox, Newsmax, and OANN, same stories, same positions day after day after day.
Friends at the FBI say Putin is behind it and offer extensive evidence. They say paying off bloggers and podcasters is a great way of killing the US. I sat through long conversations over thismany many hours. Their proof is compelling.
Others and we are saying every single one, everybody was approached no matter how small, thousands, empty promises of huge payoffs or stipends. Money was laundered through write for cash sites, fake advertisers, bitcoin, and even Patreon.
Then Kevin came back in defense of the bad math by claiming vaccines dont work and that everyone has secretly had COVID with no symptoms.
Our positive test rates are on average 12 percent today, up from 3 percent two weeks ago. Where I live its 4 percent now.
Heres one classic, as with many I sit in a dozen or so email roundtables, each stupider than the last. I am in one with Ian and Shrimptona volatile combination. They fight continually.
Gordon Duff posted articles on VT from 2008 to 2022.  He is a Marine combat veteran of the Vietnam War. A disabled veteran, he worked on veterans and POW issues for decades.
Where does the cash come from? Our belief, based on more than conjecture, is that Ukraine, laundered cash from oligarchs who met with GOP leaders, tied to what we would like to think is a rogue operation of Russias security agencies.
