INTEL DROP  Is Ukraine being Conquered or Freed
20220224
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/02/24/is-ukraine-being-conquered-or-freed/
Only a few days ago Zelinsky said he was going to activate some of the nuclear weapons the Soviets abandoned in Ukraine. Some are U235 weapons that have usable warheads although most of the 2 dozen or so weapons, maybe more, have plutonium pits and are overage.
While MEGA, Adelson, Murdoch, and the Ukrainian oligarchs poured cash into the American political systemfirst getting Citizens United to clear the way for bribery
It is almost as though Hitler had won World War II. Israel saw the writing on the wall after buying their way into the US with Newt Gingrich and arch-Zionist Rupert Murdoch Greenberg.
Nor was VT making up the role Ukraine played in staging chemical attacks inside Syria, working with Turkeys MIT their CIA and Israel.
US population being led to believe Putin goes into Ukraine because he likes to blow stuff up and slaughter civilians. I guess they associate him with our great Conquistador Baby Bush. In reality, Putin probably has short and long term plans with variables based on reaction of US and jokers in NATO. He didnt spend all this time feeding the US intelligence community if he didnt have some real surprises. We will see. Biden just needs to be kept on a dog leash until this is resolved.
with their useful idiot Evangelical End Times cults selling the plot to traumatised Western Christians
Turkey and Israel have been working together with Georgia and Azerbaijan against Iran since 2009. The recent war on Armenia by Turkey, Israel and Azerbaijan was fallout from this effort.
Gordon Duff posted articles on VT from 2008 to 2022.  He is a Marine combat veteran of the Vietnam War. A disabled veteran, he worked on veterans and POW issues for decades.
Russian paratroopers have captured an airport deep in Ukraine close to the capitol of Kyiv. Ukraine UkraineWar UkraineRussiaWarhttps:t.cowq7PeukFq0
then working with the cartels out of Mexico with Cuban banking and Cayman accountseating the Republican Party alivelock stock and barrel.
911 was the last stage in this operation against the US which Israel brought Saudi Arabia and Turkey into. There is, of course, no such thing as Israel. There is only a fake country put in place by the Freemasons long story therelong and real under the guise of the Kosher Nostra.
Duff has traveled extensively, is published around the world, and is a regular guest on TV and radio in more than several countries. He is also a trained chef, wine enthusiast, avid motorcyclist, and gunsmith specializing in historical weapons and restoration. Business experience and interests are in energy and defense technology.
The best chance to stop our own madness , is to stay out of it. We have been chasing our own tail for so long, we may not recognize the dog in the mirror.
Then the American base American al Qaeda was empoweredto be built on the wreckage of the Reagan era Nazi extremist groups out of Michigan and Ohio, historically a new generation of KKK
Lets also discuss Turkey and Israel and their role in killing Russian civilians in Ukraine for years. They treat Ukraine and in particular, Donbass like it was Syria and that Russians are Palestinians.
Roy Cohn and a very trans looking, Donald Trump. Check the right bicep of supposed athlete Trump.looks like a 12-year-old girl. Check the nose as well. Courtesy of Vanity Fair
Behind it, all is Israels effort to bait Russia into what Israel wants, a war between the US and Russia that will leave them in virtual control of Western Europe through their Nazi partners.
is really going on!! lol thats a loaded statement if i ever heard one. Reality is wild!
This is a very good article. It just told you the real players, their hidden hand in past terrorism and their intentions. We know where everybody stands, including the NAZIs inside the US as well as the Mormon kingdom of deseret drug traffickers. Wonderful to compare notes on gladio, freemasons, likud, mega, nazis like trump and bannon with a quick run down of who was behind what. Man  at least we know what
Gordon is an accredited diplomat and is generally accepted as one of the top global intelligence specialists. He manages the worlds largest private intelligence organization and regularly consults with governments challenged by security issues.
This is another piece of the puzzle that I put together in the Chronicles of the Invisible War article on Delovoy Mir. Look not only at what happened, but also at what did not happen. Scouts understand well what I mean.
I might have some work in Sweden, might go there try to get her son out somehow before he gets drafted into army.
They will have to get them from the west, hopefully the west will not supply them and  just let E Ukraine be part of Russia again and call it good or bad however you look at it.
Then two clever guys sold Israel on a love affair with the NazisBannon and Stone.
Wish it could of been diplomacy and sanctions my wife from Belarus her 21 yr old son in Minsk, I dont think they are going to let americans into Belarus for awhile.
Im speechless Gordon. You cant spell it out in such plain, simple terms. but then again, of course you can, because the truth is so extreme that its obviously misinfo and there easily dismissed as conspiratorial rantings. Nice work
This is not an invasion or an attack. The armed forces of the Russian Army are carrying out a massive operation to force the Ukrainian regime to peace and liberate this fraternal country from supporters of Nazism.
Back during Operation Desert Storm, Ukraine sold 3 fission-based nukes taken off a missile, 550kt each, and sold them to Iran to use as a possible defense against a NATO invasion. When that failed to materialize, Iran removed them from inventory but they still existunusablesomewhere.
All you had to do is set al Qaeda, ISIS, Turkey, and the USall controlled Kosher Nostra clients on Iraq and Syriaand pour refugees into Europe. The GWOT had built a network of secret prisonsand had set up a framework on neo-Nazi organizations in Poland, Latvia, Germany, Hungary, Britain, France, Norway, and Slovakia.
They are isolated from other Russian military units and it is uncertain whether they will be able to hold it. pic.twitter.com1aNyGME4TO
Putin probably targeted the Ukraine dirty nuke storage sites no1 priority besides airfields already so Ukraine cannot retaliate with nukes.
Prior to that, during the Cold War, funds poured into Gladio created the mechanism for terror organizations under a coerced and blackmailed NATO to eliminate any nation not under FreemasonMuslim BrotherhoodAl QaedaISISGladio control like the Western intelligence agencies.
Here is what I take from Putins point. It is one thing for the US to stage color revolutions and even terrorbio-terror attacks on Russias border. VT wasnt making up its stories about Tbilisi and the Lugar Center there.
The Russian An-26 aircraft crashed in the Voronezh region. On board were several paratroopers and crew members. According to eyewitnesses, it was due to a shell hit. pic.twitter.comH0iEnNovha
