Report Russia Claims they prevented US backed bioweapons attack in Ukraine
20220227
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/02/26/report-russia-claims-they-prevented-us-backed-bio-weapons-attack-in-ukraine/
Finally, Russia has a track record of accusing the West of the very crimes that Russia itself is perpetrating. These tactics are an obvious ploy by Russia to try to justify further premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attacks on Ukraine. We fully expect Russia to continue to double down on these sorts of claims with further unfounded allegations.
Read The Full Official Statement here at State.gov  The Kremlins Allegations of Chemical and Biological Weapons Laboratories in Ukraine
Both facilities are owned and secured by the Government of Ukraine, but neither facility is currently performing active biological work because DTRA has asked the Ukrainian authorities not to begin work until acceptance and completion are complete, the procurement materials said.
SF: The Russian military special operation in Ukraine coincided with the planned launch of U.S. military biolaboratories in Kiev and Odessa. On February 26, the US Embassy inUkrainerushed to delete all documents about 11 Pentagon-funded bio-laboratories in Ukraine from its website. All these documents now deleted by the Embassy, you can readHERE.
Now, as Russian forces are advancing in Ukraine, Kiev seems to be in a rush to hide the evidence that the USA violates the convention on the non-proliferation of biological weapons. The end of the Russian operation will show.
Two new laboratories are being created on the basis of the Kiev State Research Institute for Laboratory Diagnostics and Veterinary and Sanitary Expertise and the Odessa division of the State Service of Ukraine for Food Safety and Consumer Protection. The main part of the Ukrainian collection of endemic strains of dangerous disease agents is stored in Odessa. The buildings of the new bio laboratories in Kiev and Odessa were built back in 2019 but were not put into operation.
The ongoing Russian military operation in Ukraine may stop the DTRA program in Ukraine. Anyway, the projects in Kiev and Odessa will be postponed if not canceled.The U.S. has already spent over 2 billion dollars on such programs in Ukraine alone, and there are more in Georgia, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
In October 2021, the U.S. Defense Threat Reduction Agency DTRA of the U.S. Department of Defense published on the U.S. government procurement website anadditional agreementon combating highly dangerous pathogens. The document concerns the final stage of work on the launch of two bio-laboratories in Ukraine: in Kiev and Odessa.
STATE.GOV  On March 9, 2022, the U.S. State Department issued an Official Press Statement refuting all Bio and Chemical Weapons claims made by Russia.
The laboratories in Ukraine were built within the U.S. Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, which was launched in 1991 and was aimed against Russia and the former Soviet Union. They were funded in frame of the Biological Threat Reduction Program. Cooperation between Ukraine and the United States in this field intensified after the first Maidan revolution in Ukraine in 2005.
The additional agreement covers the equipping and training of personnel and commissioning of the facilities. The cost of the work is 3.6 million dollars, but some figures in the document are hidden for reasons of secrecy. According to the document, the laboratories were more than 90 percent ready. However, the projects completion was delayed up to seven months from the date of signing the document July 2021, thus to the end of February 2022:
The document above notice makes it clear that this project is important and urgent for the U.S. government: further potential delays are called unacceptable, and DTRA requires the urgent completion and surrender of both laboratories to ensure the active and safe execution of the DTRA mission.
Moscow has claimed its concern over the development of biological weapons near Russias borders. Russian President Vladimir Putin worried about the purposeful and professional collection of biomaterials of Russians by foreigners.
As we have said all along, Russia is inventing false pretexts in an attempt to justify its own horrific actions in Ukraine. The United States does not own or operate any chemical or biological laboratories in Ukraine, it is in full compliance with its obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention and Biological Weapons Convention, and it does not develop or possess such weapons anywhere. It is Russia that has active chemical and biological weapons programs and is in violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and Biological Weapons Convention.
The Kremlin is intentionally spreading outright lies that the United States and Ukraine are conducting chemical and biological weapons activities in Ukraine. We have also seen PRC officials echo these conspiracy theories. This Russian disinformation is total nonsense and not the first time Russia has invented such false claims against another country. Also, these claims have been debunked conclusively and repeatedly over many years.
