Report  Russia Will Not Allow S300 Air Defense System Transfer To Ukraine
20220320
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/03/20/russia-will-not-allow-s-300-air-defence-system-transfer-to-ukraine-report/
US-based satellite producer terranorbital is providing  with crucial strategic assistance. The company shares with us critical data and images of  troops movement. This critical information helps us defend our country from kremlin's aggression  terrorism.StandWithUkraine
In a key development, US-based satellite, Terran Orbital is providing Ukraine with crucial strategic assistance.
According to Ukraines Ministry of Defence, the satellite producer is sharing critical data and images of the Russian troops movement with the conflict-ridden country.
Earlier on Thursday, Slovakias defence ministry said that the country is willing to send S-300 long-range air defence systems to Ukraine provided that Western allies give them a proper replacement to avoid creating a security gap, reported The Washington Post.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Moscow "will not allow" the transfer of the S-300 air defence system, reported The Kyiv Independent.
The EU President praised the cohesion policy of the union that is helping the Ukrainian refugees to sought shelter in the EU countries at this time of dire need.
Cohesion policy has long been the silent strength of our Union. Helping us grow closer together. And today, cohesion policy can help EU countries welcome Ukrainian refugees, quickly and humanely, wrote von der Leyen in a tweet.
This critical information helps us defend our country from kremlins aggression  terrorism, wrote Ukraines MoD in a tweet.
NDTV: Russia has threatened to attack supply chains of S-300 air defence systems to Ukraine after Slovakia announced that it is willing to support Kyiv by providing the said defence system, reported local media on Friday Local Time.
As the war rages on, the President of the EU Commission, Ursula von der Leyen reiterated the EUs commitment towards Ukraine amid Russias aggression. In a virtual call, von der Leyen assured Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of the EUs unabated support.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Moscow will not allow the transfer of the S-300 air defence system, reported The Kyiv Independent.
