Russia Gifts Nazi War Gear to AntiFascist Peoples Militias
20220314
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/03/14/russia-gifts-nazi-war-gear-to-anti-fascist-peoples-militias/
In the course of a special military operation, units of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation seized a large amount of captured military equipment of the armed forces of Ukraine, the description of the video reads.
It is expected that a new round of the Ukrainian-Russian talks will take place in Belarus on March 14. The Kyiv side already declared that the key goal of the talks is to agree on a meeting between Zelensky and Putin. Therefore, one again, the Ukrainian leadership wants to avoid any real agreements and focus on PR moves that would allow Zelensky to look nice in the eyes of the international audience. This appraoch finds little support among the Russians. Thus, it is likely that the new round of talks will show no breakthrough. So far, the opening of humanitarian corridors has become the only achievement of the negotiations. Nonetheless, even this move has been repeatedly sabotaged by Kyiv.
In the recent statement, the Russian Defense Ministry also reported that Russian units reached the line of Vodyanoe, Sladkoe, Stepnoe, Taramchuk and Slavnoe in the area to the north from the town of Volnovakha, which was previously captured from Kyivs forces.
Berdyansk  the naval base of Ukraine. More than a dozen ships and boats abandoned by Ukrainian Navy, who fled even before the appearance of the Russian military.
The Russian side also released videos from the area of the Berdyansk naval base Azov Sea of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. According to the videos from the area, the base, including warships, were in fact abandonned by fleeing Ukrainian troops. A lot of weapons and equipment were captured in the area.
At the same time, preceise strikes hit 187 objects of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, including: two command posts, a Buk-M1 anti-aircraft missile system, a guidance and targeting radar station, two multiple rocket launchers, two electronic warfare stations, two depots of ammunition and fuels and lubricants, 31 places of gathering of military equipment.
Troops of the Lugansk Peoples Republic that previously blocked Severodonetsk from the east and south, have reached the north-eastern outskirts of the city. Clashes are ongoing there.
On March 14, the Russian Defense Ministry released a video showing the dlivery of military equipment to forces of the Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republic.
Equipment and weapons, both Soviet-made and supplied by Western countries, after checking its technical condition and restoration, are transferred to units of the peoples republics.
According to the Russian military, during the night of March 14, the Russian Aerospace Forces shot down 4 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles, including a Bayraktar TB-2 UAV.
The active offensive is being developed by units of Russia and DPR in the area of Mariupol city. Units of Kyivs forces surrounded there suffer heavy casualties and already retreated from parts of the city in the north and east.
Good Morning ,Berdyansk Naval Base .Ukrainian armada ,fully loaded ,and prepared for battle ,but staff vanished maybe Aliens..? pic.twitter.comakV6dh3Nox
Since the beginning of the military operation, a total of 3920 military infrastructure facilities of Ukraine have been disabled. In the same period, Russian forces destroyed: 143 unmanned aerial vehicles, 1267 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 124 multiple rocket launchers, 457 field artillery pieces and mortars, as well as 1028 units of special military vehicles.
According to the Russian side, the delivered equipment previously belonged to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and was captured during the military operation.
They left holds and warehouses full of USEUUK supplied weapons, ammunition and food. It is almost over. pic.twitter.com9iUxMsI1U8
It is likely that the delivery of these equipment pieces also marks the increase of the direct support of Russian forces to units of the DPR and LPR including weapon supplies on the frontline in the region of Donbass.
