SOROS GANG The Genesis of NATOs Coup in Ukraine
20220408
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/04/07/the-genesis-of-natos-coup-in-ukraine-2/
Indeed: to tell the truth he got on his knees or ninety degrees if you prefer and was forced to take seriously the macroscopic false flag mounted by intelligence, military, andor paramilitary of the Ukrainian National Guard, where there is it is a wide choice of the worst of the worlds guerrillas, from pro-Nazis to jihadists, so much so that it is reminiscent of Mel Brookss Blazing Saddles parody of High Noon. Unfortunately, it has become a grim reality.
First, his ambassador in London and then himself denied that Ukraines entry into NATO was an ambition of his government by responding spades to Jens Stoltenberg, secretary of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, who had already assumed certain entry into the Atlantic alliance of Georgia and Ukraine, without however drawing up a minimum time plan that would make the specious announcement credible.
MATTARELLA AMBASCIATORE NWO: ANNUNCIA CRISI GAS E VENTI DI GUERRA. Biden  NATO gi in Azione in Ucraina e Siria contro la Russia
In March 2014, during an interview with CBC Radio News, Rifkind challenged the Russian annexation of Crimea by Ukraine, stating that this risked destabilizing the entire area and European politics in general. In his opinion, the Ukrainian forces had shown considerable restraint against Russian humiliation, and had turned their military disadvantage into a substantial moral advantage.
Not bad for a comedian: come up with a lethal drama in the world spotlight! Only at that point, probably disgusted by the lack of seriousness in the diplomatic dialectic in the face of the fate of millions of people, the President of Russia Vladimir Putin said ENOUGH!.
Maronkova, who graduated in Economics in Bratislava and with a masters degree in the UK, joined NATO in 2006, as coordinator of the Public Diplomacy Division at the Brussels headquarters where she designed, planned, and carried out communication campaigns in a certain number of member states of the Atlantic Alliance. Before joining NATO, in 2003 he founded and directed a Slovak NGO Center for European and North Atlantic affairs to contribute to the public and academic debate on Slovakias accession to the EU and NATO.
In Ukraine, we are trying to dispel the main myths about NATO and reveal its essence  Mronkova told the 12th Kiev Security Forum organized by Open Ukraine in which he has been a protagonist every year since 2017  We need to clarify the main key concepts: all decisions are taken by consensus and there is no one in Brussels with a magic wand that makes transformations magical.
The accusation of using Damascus chemical weapons, however, wasnt proven. At least in the last Douma massacre of April 2018, it would have been a false-flag attack organized by the Al Nusra terrorists in complicity with the operators of the Syria Civil Defense, the White Helmets constituted and trained by a former British military secret agent. This hypothesis was put forward by two professors from the United Kingdom-based on the dossier of an engineer and already the subject of a report by Gospa News.
Zelenskyj believed  or as a good actor pretended to believe  in the bombing of the asylum gutted probably with pickaxes and authorized the artillery actions against the Donbass that killed at least two pro-Russian civilians on 21 February 2022.
As the Open Ukraine website clearly highlights on June 5, 2019, some young Ukrainians eager to explore national security issues in Kiev had an exceptional speaker: one of the great heads of intelligence in the United Kingdom and an important strategist in NATO policies, Sir Malcolm Leslie Rifkind.
This political alignment allowed the rapid political rise of Arsen Avakov, Minister of the Interior from 2014 to today, despite allegations of office abuse that in 2012 had led to his arrest in the Frosinone prison. He was released for parliamentary immunity obtained from the subsequent elections and today is responsible for the Ukrainian National Guard, which also includes the ultranationalists of the Battalion of Azov, accused by Amnesty International of heinous war crimes.
Ukraine: Bomb? on Kindergarten, Nato False-Flag  Jihadists. Sheikh Mansur Battalion Shielded by Soros-Us Media
and of-course your wonderful selves ..obviously fighting for and disseminating footage of live front-line eventswhere possible.
In recalling that such a mediocre character is the current Ukrainian president, we must not forget that he is surrounded by seasoned ministers such as Interior Minister Arsen Avakov, already arrested in Frosinone for an international arrest warrant from Interpol and capable of delivering automatic rifles Zionist-made Tavor to his loyal criminals in the Azov Battalion, who have become famous not only for their neo-Nazi symbols but also for the denunciations of Amnesty International.
As the readers of Gospa News well know, behind POTUS President of the United Statesmoves that potentate of financiers, Freemasons, and military spies called Deep State, whose existence was confirmed by former CIA director of the Obama-Biden administration, John Brennan, precisely in relation to UkraineGate cost a failed impeachment proceeding to Donald Trump.
In the end, the fearful president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, in the tensest days of the international geopolitical crisis that saw his country at the center of the tug-of-war between NATO and Russia, took on the clothes that were most suited to him: he did the histrionic comedian as in his television career and has staged a theater of antics about the skin and the economy of Kiev and the Donbass.
In the special JIT commission on the plane crash, there is also the component of Belgium that hosts NATOs headquarters in its capital Brussels. It was precisely in Belgium that Barbora Maronkova worked, from March 1, 2017, before becoming the director of the NATO Information and Documentation Center in Ukraine: the entity that has the task of guiding the country of the former Soviet Union into the Atlantic Pact.
In July 2018 he found the counter-information web media Gospa News focused on geopolitics, terrorism, Middle East, and military intelligence. He is a correspondent from Italy for the French news site Reseau International.
As president of ISC Rifkind has designed the transformation of the Committees powers to ensure effective supervision of MI5, MI6, and GCHQ. He persuaded the government to introduce legislation that would allow the ISC, for the first time, to be able to request intelligence agencies to supply any highly classified material required. Rifkind was in favor of NATOs military intervention in Libya and was among those who supported the need to supply arms to the Libyan rebels, said The Times.
In this context, the former premier Yatsenyuk stepped away from active politics to emulate his mentor Soros, and thus remain behind the scenes of every international maneuver thanks to the collaboration with NATO, the US State Department but also prominent personalities of the world intelligence.
When it came to getting serious, Mustafa Masi Nayyem Ukrainian:  , Pashto:  , the Afghan-Ukrainian journalist who was the first to incite people on Facebook to take to the streets for the Orange Revolution in November 2013, came into action. Reporter Nayyems TV was financed by George Soros and some Western Embassies of NATO countries in Kiev.After the coup and calm waters, in 2019, he became deputy director of the most important Ukrainian arms industry.
He takes the function until 2015 then he remains only an Isc member. In January 2015 he was appointed by the OSCE as a member of his group of eminent personalities on European security. In December 2015 he became Visiting Professor at Kings College London in their Department of War Studies.
Thats the dominant mainstream in Ukraine today. Here is the spirit with which Kiev collaborated with the Joint Investigation Team is investigating the MH17 Malaysian Airlines flight. Among the members, in addition to the Ukrainians and the Malays, there were also those of Australia, whose Asis secret services can participate in the meetings of the Joint Intelligence Committee JIC in London as part of the 007 international collaboration in the USA, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia.
With independent investigations, he collaborates with Carabinieri and Guardia di Finanza in important investigations that conclude with the arrest of Camorra entrepreneurs or corrupt politicians.
PUTIN THUNDERS: Bloodbath on Consciousness of Kiev Regime. Russian Troops in Donbass for Recognized Republics
Today Open Ukraine can boast of exceptional partners among which The US State Department, the Center for Documentation and Born Research, and International Renaissance, the Ukrainian army, with 4 branches, of the New York Open Society of the Hungarian-American magnate George Soros. Added to this is the foundation of the oligarch and politician Viktor Pinchuk, who collaborates directly with Soross New York NGO and the Clinton Global Initiative foundation.
Rifkind, writing in The Guardian, accused the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad of doing all this because they think they can get away with staying in power, and then argued that Britain, against the vast international consensus against the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian government, had no choice but to take military action with or without a United Nations mandate.
There are few citizens of the US, supposedly the most educated in the world, who could understand the context of this article, Fabio. But they do know how to put blue and yellow Ukranian flag banners on their Facebook page. And call Putin a dick head.
14 Thousand Jihadist Troops in Libya for Turkey Blitz alongside US Weapons Lobby, NATOs Deep State  NWO
But after all, he too is nothing more than a clown placed there by the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella who, in spite of his ministerial experience with powers of defense and intelligence, is the only true director of the geopolitics of Rome but also the only one ambassador-guarantor of the New World Order in front of that CIA that in the distant 1943 in Sicily then it was called OSS helped to give the start to the political career of his father Bernardo.
Open Ukraine is a foundation established by the former prime minister of Kiev, the economist and lawyer Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who played a fundamental role in the propaganda of the orange revolution of Euromaidan Square and in the subsequent coup against the President of the Republic Viktor Janukovic, forced to flee February 22, 2014, for its pro-Russian policy.
Having said this, lets see the background of the Deep State or NWO in which the NATO coup in Ukraine matured in 2014, carried out on the skin of the victims killed on February, 20, 8 years ago in Maidan Square by some mercenary snipers such as those who acted in the shadow of the CIA in 2002 in Caracas in the attempt of regime-change against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela of President Hugo Chavez.
The Kyiv Security Forum this year has garnered a record number of participants: over 1,000. Among them are senior Ukrainian state officials, Ukrainian state and state officials and diplomats and representatives of community experts from over 20 countries  founder Yatsenyuk said at the end of the summit  We will win this fight, we will have to follow our path and our path is democratic, effective, professional and pro-Western.
For about 15 years he is a correspondent from Northern Italy for the Italian newspapers Libero and Il Giornale, also writing important revelations on the Ustica massacre, a report on Freemasonry and organized crime.
In reminding us of this, the Neapolitan guappo Giggino the Tanned comes to mind, or the Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio who has gone from selling soft drinks at the San Paolo stadium in Naples to the international top inside Government.
NATOs COUP IN UKRAINE: THE GENESIS  1. Snipers Massacre in Kiev Maidan Square 2014 like that on CIAs Shade in Caracas 2002
While declaring concrete economic sanctions as the best response to the situation in Crimea, it nevertheless defined pathetic Western implementation, claiming that the measures concerned only 23 individuals and was the reason why Russia seemed not to be intimidated by the sanctioning threat.
For his criticism of Russian action in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, Rifkind was included in a list of top European political figures and former ministers banned from visiting Russia. The British politician responded by saying that if there had to be such a list he was proud to be there. Today, thanks to Open Ukraine, he teaches the youth of Kiev the strategies of international security, obviously with a very strong Russophobic matrix.
He worked for many years for the magazine Art  Wine as an art critic and curator.
A clear message must have arrived from Washington a few days later and the Kiev head of state stood at attention.
The investigation was published about two years ago in another longer and more complex article on the downing of the Malaysia Airlines flight, obviously also attributed to the Russians as anything evil happens on the new Iron Curtain. of the border between the EU and pro-Russian nations.
He is a long-time British politician, born on 21 June 1946 in Edinburgh where he became a deputy in the Conservatories and held various roles as a minister with Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher and John Major, including positions as Secretary of State for Scotland 1986-1990, Secretary of Defense 1992 -1995 and Secretary of Foreign Affairs 1995-1997.
Zelensky did it when the tension of the media and of the US and EU governments was skyrocketing due to an imminent Russian invasion, fomented by Bloomberg on phantom dossiers of the Central Intelligence Agency CIA, American counterintelligence, and he has dared to ask President Joseph Biden for proof of this.
A milestone for Russia is instead a tombstone on the truth: still hidden amid so much evidence fabricated by Kiev, investigative assumptions, hidden persuasions, and a great underground work of international intelligence. Those nearly 300 dead in 2014 were useful to mainstream media to blame pro-Russian rebels.
But the same baronet was also the director of British counter-espionage in two crucial questions precisely in the international clash between the Atlantic Pact and Russia: Syria and Ukraine. He was among those who called for an intervention against the Damascus government in response to the use of chemical weapons.
So it was: without any resolution by the UN Security Council, rained down over Syria many missiles from the NATO Coalition led by US, France, and England, leaving hundreds of corpses among the civilian population.
Human Organs Traffic in Syria ignored by UN: Sana and CBS videos on White Helmets, Al Qaeda  Turkey Crimes
Stoltenberg: NATOs Already Decided to Make Ukraine, Georgia Members. After UE-US-Soros Coups, Tests on Letal Virus
Curious how easy it is to present history as updatedchallenging new informationlatest theoriesetc..911comes to mind.
The JIC is an inter-agency body responsible for an intelligence assessment, security service coordination, GCHQ Government Communications Headquarters, and United Kingdom Defense Intelligence, and is subject to supervision by the Intelligence and Security Committee ISC, already chaired by Rifkind himself.
In recent days NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg commented on the outcome of the investigation into the downed plane in Ukraine: I welcome todays announcement from the Joint Investigation Team that four suspects will be prosecuted for crimes in connection with the abatement of Malaysian Airlines flight MH17 in July 2014. This is an important milestone in efforts to uncover the truth and ensure that justice is done for the killing of 298 people from 17 countries.
Fabio Giuseppe Carlo Carisio, born on 2421967 in Borgosesia, started working as a reporter when he was only 19 years old in the alpine area of Valsesia, Piedmont, his birth region in Italy. After studying literature and history at the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart in Milan, he became deputy director of a local newspaper and specialized in judicial reporting.
Open Ukraine has among its mission the Kiev Security Forum, now in its 12th edition with the convention of 11-12 April 2019, and inaugurated in 2007 when Arseniy Yatsenyuk was Ukraines foreign minister and president of the Verkhovna Rada, the parliament of Kiev. Also thanks to the international influence of Open Ukraine, supported by Soros, Yatsenyuk managed to become premier from 2014 to 2016, and to found the Narodnij Front, the Popular Front, which welcomed some members of the national defense battalions into the military Council of the party.
UkraineGate: islamic reporter funded by Obama-Biden and Soros in 2014 coup, now at the top of weapons industry
The Majestys 007 mastermind conference could take place thanks to the Open World youth project supported by the Open Ukraine foundation which has also been organizing the Security Forum for Ukrainian children for 7 years. Rifkind, a descendant of a family of displaced Lithuanian Jews in Scotland to escape the Russian Pogroms, was re-elected to the British Parliament in the seat of Kensington and was therefore chosen on 6 July 2010 as President of the Committee for Intelligence and Security ISC by Prime Minister, David Cameron.
