UK to accuse Russia of working to install proMoscow leader in Ukraine  leak
20220122
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/01/22/uk-to-accuse-russia-of-working-to-install-pro-moscow-leader-in-ukraine-leak/
The Foreign Office insists that Russian intelligence agencies have maintained links withnumerousformer Ukrainian politicians, including some top officials from the government of ex-president Viktor Yanukovich, who was deposed as a result of the violent Western-backed Maidan street protests in 2014.
Russia has repeatedly denied accusations that its planning an invasion of Ukraine, which have been made by the US and its allies since November last year, describing the claims as groundless attempts to instillhysteria.
According to Moscow, its the West that has been stirring tensions in Ukraine by supplying weapons to Kiev  which is embroiled in afrozenconflict with self-proclaimed republics in the southeastern Donbass region  and intensifying the NATO buildup in Eastern Europe. The Ukrainian government asserts that the Donbass militias are under Moscows direct control, a charge the Kremlin rejects.
We have information that indicates the Russian government is looking to install a pro-Russian leader in Kiev as it considers whether to invade and occupy Ukraine,reads the correspondence, which was sent to media representativeson the Foreign Offices mailing list on Saturday. No evidence was included to back up the assertions.
Truss warned that any Russian incursion into its neighborwould bea massive strategic mistake with severe costsfor the Kremlin. She also reiterated that Britain backs the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and reminded the recipients that it wasan independent, sovereign country.
The letter also cited Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, who claimed thatinformation being released today shines a light on the extent of Russian activity designed to subvert Ukraine, and is an insight into Kremlin thinking.
Some of these have contact with Russian intelligence officers currently involved in the planning for an attack on Ukraine,it claimed.
It even named the man who the Kremlin supposedly considers to bea potential candidateto replace Ukraines current Western-backed president, Volodymyr Zelensky. According to the Foreign Office, 45-year-old former Ukrainian MPEvgeniy Murayev is the chosen alternative.
However, the Foreign Office didnt reveal the source of its data or expand on what exactly it believes Moscow has been doing to achieve regime change in Ukraine.
A native of Kharkov, Murayev was a member of the Ukrainian parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, between 2012 and 2019. However, his Opposition Bloc party failed to pass the 5 threshold in the latest parliamentary election, having only managed to win six single-seat constituencies.
Obviously timed to top the Sunday newspaper agenda, recipients were ordered not to carry the details until after 10.30pm London time the night before.
Nikolai Azarov, who served as prime minister between 2010 and 2014, two former deputy PMs, and ex-deputy head of the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council RNBO were also mentioned in the email.
RTMoscow:An embargoed UK Foreign Office release to media outlets, which has been seen by RT, claims that Britain has exposed a plan by Moscow to install a pro-Russian leader in Kiev as tensions continue to mount over an alleged threat of invasionby Moscow.
UK sends 30 elite soldiers to Ukraine amid fears of war with Russia  media
