Ukrainian Flu  Millions Dead 20 to 1 Unvaxxed Morons Since January
20220324
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/03/24/the-ukrainian-flu-a-million-dead-20-to-1-unvaxxed-morons-since-january/
Cohen and Gaytandzhieva also discussed censorship policies implemented in the European Union, and the recent pledge of Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkovs comments that Russia looks like a Petrol station with rockets.
These scientists were given diplomatic immunity to research deadly diseases and biting insects at the Lugar Center  the Pentagon bio laboratory in Georgias capital Tbilisi, she wrote.
Gaytandzhievareportedin 2018 that the US embassy in Tbilisi, Georgia, was complicit in secretive military programs and that Pentagon scientists had transported frozen human blood and pathogens as diplomatic cargo for a secret US military program.
Until then, the US government and media outlets had dismissed evidence of biological research laboratories asRussian disinformationandQAnon conspiracy theory.
Gaytandzhievasreportshave proven that Pentagon-funded laboratories have conducted potentially lethal experiments on thousands of soldiers in Ukraine and Georgia.
State Department official Victoria Nuland admitted that the US government is funding biological laboratories in Ukraine, confirming what Washington has long dismissed as Russian propaganda. Correspondent Dan Cohen interviews journalist Dilyana Gaytandzhieva, who has investigated these facilities in Eastern Europe.
If this is not of concern, if these are just simple viruses and pathogens, why are US officials so worried, she wondered.
Sen. Marco Rubio:Im sure youre aware that the Russian propaganda groups are already putting out there all kinds of information about how they have uncovered a plot by the Ukrainians to unleash biological weapons in the country, and with NATOs coordination. If there is a biological or chemical weapon incident or attack inside Ukraine, is there any doubt in your mind that 100 it would be the Russians behind it?
Despite Petkovs remarks, he hasaskedthat the European Union exempt Bulgaria from sanctions on purchasing Russian gas and oil, which his country is totally reliant on.
Dan Cohenis the Washington DC correspondent for Behind The Headlines. He has produced widely distributed video reports and print dispatches from across Israel-Palestine. He tweets at DanCohen3000
Victoria Nuland:Ukraine has biological research facilities which, in fact, were now quite concerned Russian troops, Russian forces may be seeking to gain control of, so we are working with the Ukrainians on how we can prevent any of those research materials from falling into the hands of Russian forces should they approach.
Featured Photo: State Department Under Secretary for Political Affairs Victoria J. Nuland speaks during a briefing at the State Department in Washington, Jan. 27, 2022. AP PhotoSusan Walsh, Pool
And thank you to those who ate their black propaganda about vaccines.they are laughing at you now. For those of you who failed to notice that vaccine propaganda comes from purely Zionist sources tied to the Israel lobby.not much VT can do to help you.
After Bulgaria joined NATO, we were told to destroy everything so we would be totally reliant on NATO, Gaytandzhieva explained.
White House spokesperson posted a lengthy Twitter thread calling the claims preposterous and disinformation, however declining to address the comments made by Nuland.
On March 8, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland commented on a recent Russian Ministry of Defenseannouncedit had obtained documents proving the existence of biological weapons programs in laboratories financed by the United States in Ukraine.
Thank you Kyiv, thank you Zelensky, thank you to our biological researchers who made so much of the world die.
Victoria Nuland:There is no doubt in my mind, senator. And in fact, it is a classic Russian technique to blame the other guy for what they are planning to do themselves.
