Updated Zelenskys Promised Nuclear War Ukie Nazis Plan to Slaughter USNATO Diplomats at Lviv in False Flag confirmed story
20220320
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/03/20/zelenskys-promised-nuclear-war-ukie-nazis-plan-to-slaughter-us-nato-diplomats-at-lvov-in-false-flag-confirmed-story/
The information on the supposed plot was provided by an officer from the Security Service of Ukraine SBU, who Moscow says voluntarily surrendered to Russian forces.
The Corporate Legal Entities that are the populations can then be managed by the Banksters using their organizations to ship displaced persons wherever they deem fit.
Emergency Statutary Powers are then enacted which place the targeted Nation under the Full Military Control of the UN.
Washington and many other Western states moved embassy staff to Lviv shortly before Russia launched its military attack, last month. The city, regarded as a hotbed of Ukrainian nationalism, is about 500km from the capital, Kiev, and just 50km from the Polish border.
Are you aware that the Jewish US Federal Reserve is allowed to make loans to Jewish individuals ?
The officer was directly involved in organizing and training of sabotage and terrorist groups to work in areas liberated from nationalists,the official stated.
The ultimate goal of the alleged attacks is to blame Moscow for them, using the incidents as leverage to push the NATO countries into providing more weaponry and establishing a long-demandedno-fly zoneover the country, the official claimed.
Biden should be impeached but that would require 439 political prostitutes to admit what many of them know..that this Ukranian conflict is a massive charade started by Obumbles for the purpose of further enriching the MICC.
After being whisked out of Kiev, Western diplomats are being housed in a $400night hotel, with two floors completely sealed off for them.
I agree Andrew. The speech given feb. 24 finally calling out the Empire of Lies was a leap of faith. The speech on March 16th I called a Hitler speech to the German people to friends, a call to be free in dignity. Dont be offended please, lets finally look beyond the designs and propaganda of Rule the Waves FiveEyes Roundtable. This is a struggle to end 500 years of Pirate empire, he called it were 89 of the world, theyre 11 telling the rest how to live. And of these 11, theres only a minute number of real actors and true believers of the insane drive to exploit. I know he answers first and foremost to his people of Russia, as it should be, but it is a ray to the rest of long-suffering people around the globe. I noticed the heavy sighs by Putin before each stanza, taking a clean break, no more compromise or in-vane reasoning with the bloodsuckers of human endeavor. Lets hope resolve holds up -which I have no doubt- and no betrayal this time around. Calling the bluff was a signal, the emperor has no clothes.
There can be no doubt that following the Russian campaign to rid Ukraine of a criminal regime, its become appallingly obvious that the entire western media is a captured entity, being used as a weapon of propaganda, to the exclusion of objective fact. Its sickening to watch how easily the masses have bought in. Television and internet ads asking for Ukraine donations, and even in the supermarket checkout line. Appreciate VTs reporting more than ever!
Russian troops as well as the DPR and LPR peoples militias are pressing forward, reclaiming multiple settlements in Donbass and tightening the encirclement around the remaining forces of radicals in Mariupol.
Look, heres the invisible proof that Russia didnt start the war. Russia ends the war. Perhaps this is just an opinion. But many coincidences speak of Divine support for what is happening.
Human commercial stock has to be displaced for the Global Multicultural Agenda of The Corporate Empire to be fulfilled.
As Russian forces continue advancing in the special operation, the Ukrainian military admitted on Saturday that it had lost access to the Sea of Azov.
The officer gave the Russian military a list of SBU agents and other individuals involved in such activities, providing information on the alleged plot to target diplomatic facilities in the west of the country,Konashenkov claimed.
And as for this provocation with the embassies in Lviv  so we know perfectly well whose handwriting it is. We have warned the whole world. And Zelensky is well aware of these provocations. We used to call him a comedian. But he is actually a terrible monster in the guise of a clown. Just like in the work of Stephen King from the movie It.
Moscow and Kiev havemade progresson several issues during peace negotiations, including Ukraine's neutral status and non-entry to NATO
The Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre IDMC, established in 1998 by the Norwegian Refugee Council NRC, monitors conflict-induced internal displacement worldwide
Is it true that the Fed does not have to make known to anyone, who it loaned money to ?
This is the source of tremendous presidential frankness  both in terms of making public how the country will continue to live, and in terms of the terms that are used at the same time.
Russia will never be in such a miserable and humiliated state, and the struggle we are waging is a struggle for our sovereignty, for the future of our country and our children. We will fight for the right to be and remain Russia!  this presidential passage is also very important and also full of hidden meanings.
Search Results: 1932, Congress made the change to the Federal Reserve Act that authorized broader lending in unusual and exigent circumstances. The new section 133 authorized Reserve Banks to lend directly to individuals and corporations in emergencies.
VT: Originally sourced from Russian state-controlled media but confirmed by highest US sources who are lying to the MSM
Placement of their operatives in key positions, Civil Unrest followed by All Out War is their MO.
Russia before February 24 of this year and Russia after February 24 of this year are two fundamentally different states. Of course, the people who inhabit this state have remained the same. But the code of norms, rules and traditions by which they live has changed in the blink of an eye.
The officer spoke about planned terrorist acts in Lvov the citys Russian-language name against employees and facilities of the diplomatic missions maintained by the US and other Western nations. Id like to stress that the Kiev regime is fully aware of the plans harbored by the nationalists, but is doing nothing to prevent them,Konashenkov stated.
Putin now looks like a spring that has been shrinking for a long time, then shrinking again and again  although it seemed that there was nowhere else to shrink further  but at the moment it straightened out and broke out into strategic space. Putin no longer needs to restrain himself, to conceal something in the innermost corners of his soul. Hes free. Finally, the moment for which he had lived and ruled the country for the previous two decades had come.
The Russian military claims it has uncovered a plot by Ukrainian hard-line nationalist groups to target diplomatic facilities of the US and other Western nations in the Ukrainian city of Lviv. The alleged discovery was announced by Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov during a media briefing on Saturday.
Moscow launched a large-scale offensive against its neighboring country last month following a seven-year standoff over Ukraines failure to implement the terms of the Minsk ceasefire agreements, and Russias eventual recognition of the Donbass republics in Donetsk and Lugansk. The German- and French-brokered protocols were designed to regularize the status of the breakaway regions within the Ukrainian state.
British non-governmental organisation provides information on conflict and state-building in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, North Cyprus, Turkey and Ukraine.
Putin is a Sigma male archetype, which is an evolved Alpha male. Trump, the blowhard, on the other hand, was the classical Alpha, deeply insecure but driven to override it by constant chest thumping.  Im a Sigma myself like Putin, the rarest by far.  When you push us over the edge, our determination and inner strength is other worldly.  I have met Vladimir 3 times in the dream state, another dimensional reality form, Mihail might know a thing or two on this and from my recollection, Vladimir is a THE unbreakable hardass.  Woe to the demonic West who dont know who they are dealing with.
Russia launched an operation in Ukraine on 24 February in order to protect the people of Donbass, as they have been suffering from an eight-year-long war waged by Kiev that has claimed some 14,000 lives.
Right now, in Italy, in the most despicable and cheeky sfacciato way imaginable, the Italian press has shown that it is nothing but the worst toilet paper rag sheet propaganda institution one could not hope for. All of those from the MSM, from the Left to Right, if you still believe in these fictitiously constructed dividers, are showing they work for one group only: the Power Oligarchical Elites loyal to Washington. With this said, if Putin were to start targeting and assassinating them, one by one or en masse, they will reap the whirlwind they have sown.
Biden still had a loose right earlobe when photographed in Ukraine with Hunter. When inaugurated as president all of a sudden he had a fastened earlobe. Which simply is not possible. This man is not the same man. The same with Bill Gates. Looking at his handlines in google pictures also not the same handlines. Is also simply not possible. Most likely many politicians have been replaced. The subject of sleeves is interesting. With silicon masks they can make anyone look like someone else. And in every skincolour. Ye walked around in Belgium as a white person.
In the meantime, Moscow and Kiev havemade progresson several issues during peace negotiations, including Ukraines neutral status and non-entry to NATO, according to Russian presidential aide Vladimir Medinsky.
Russia has now demanded that Ukraine officially declare itself a neutral country that will never join the NATO military bloc. Kiev says the Russian offensive was completely unprovoked and has denied claims it was planning to retake the two rebel republics by force.
At the request of the United Nations, the Geneva-based IDMC runs an online database providing comprehensive information and analysis on internal displacement in some 50 countries.
