VT  The morning Ukraine war hype  Its escalation time
20220212
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/02/12/vt-the-morning-ukraine-war-hype-its-escalation-time/
The real threats and counter threats in negotiations between USA and Russia go on behind the scenes that the public will never know about.
These are the same government entities and media that ignored VTs repeated publishing of the simple fact that fertilizer does not burn or explode. Our deep and hugely expensive investigation turned up that the label on ammonium nitrate fertilizer bags clearly states this, and always has.
Overnight, the State Department began evacuating the U.S. embassy in Kyivamid fears that a Russian invasion of Ukraine is imminent. Heres the latest:
 Meanwhile, the State Department has told Americans in Ukraineto leave immediately: the U.S. government will not be able to evacuate U.S. citizens in the event of Russian military action,it said in a travel advisory.
Not a soul in Congress challenges them on any of this. It begs the question that maybe we need to scrap what we have and just start over, as what we have is a mirage. Thus ends my cheery missive for today Jim W. Dean 
UNLESS Russia masses troops tanks missles on border with Ukraine and forces them to talk.
Zelenskis country already lost itself to the devil in 2014 when it began ethnic cleansing of Russian Speakers and the Glory to Ukraine super-bullshit that killed at least 3000 ethnic russian Ukrainian civilians and one million refugees fled into Russia.
Wash DC will not talk, will just ignore, we dont care because we dont have to uppity shmuppity attitude.
Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving  more.  Thanks for helping.  Click to donate 
 Scheduled to speak: President JOE BIDENand Russian PresidentVLADIMIR PUTIN. Before talking to Biden, Putin is to have a call with French PresidentEMMANUEL MACRON,reports APs Jim Heintz.
Negotiations, phone calls  bullshit. No clear and constructive conversation. The West does not want to discuss important topics, hides its eyes and evades direct questions. The Minsk agreements are simple and clear. The conflict in the Donbas can be stopped very easily and quickly. But Zelensky is stuck between two evils: on the one hand, Russia will blow him to smithereens if provocations begin. On the other hand, if he signs the Minsk agreements, his own Ukronazis will devour him. The situation Zelensky found himself in is an unbearable burden for his tender artistic soul.
 Already spoke:Secretary of StateANTONY BLINKENand Russian Foreign MinisterSERGEY LAVROV. Per the White House, Blinken emphasized that a diplomatic path to resolving the crisis remained open, but it would require Moscow to deescalate.  He reiterated that should Moscow pursue the path of aggression and further invade Ukraine, it would result in a resolute, massive, and united Transatlantic response.
Mass media is not reviewing any of that material, which is a measure of what game could be in play now. What we are seeing is what we are accustomed to the speeding up of historical revisionism.
Yet no taxpayer funded government entities report these disinformation scams, not the Justice Department, FBI, CIA, or the Pentagon, with all their billions of resources, and yet they expect to be honored for their work without question.
Jim W. Dean is VT Editor Emeritus. He was an active editor on VT from 2010-2022. He was involved in operations, development, and writing, plus an active schedule of TV and radio interviews. He now writes and posts periodically for VT.
Notice how little mention there has been in the Western news coverage on the massive evidence that came out about the last USNATO coup in Ukraine. VTs archives are full of it, including the phone calls that the Russians intercepted and publicly released.
Material that could easily find its way into a murder trial as certified legitimate is treated like it never happened, yet all these law enforcement people crow over how hard they are working to protect us, and the big journalism platforms, the same.
 Putin reportedly wanted to have the call with Biden this coming Monday,but Biden wanted to conduct it sooner as Washington detailed increasingly vivid accounts of a possible attack on Ukraine,per Reuters.
 Editors Note: This is all rolling out like a planned schedule, a strong hint that it has all been theater all along. Someone wants a war, and the Biden regime seems fully onboard.
Zelenski is not in charge his USA paymasters directing the NAZI pornographic snuff-film he is a character in are.
 A small core of U.S. diplomats will remain in Kyivso the U.S. can maintain a diplomatic presence in the country,writes Myah Ward.
