White Helmets instructors deployed to Ukraine Moscow claims
20220426
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/04/26/white-helmets-instructors-deployed-to-ukraine-moscow-claims/
What is the point of using them in Ukraine in an immediate vicinity of our border? We will get nothing that could not be achieved through conventional means,he said.
The Kremlin has since demanded that Ukraine officially declare itself a neutral country that will never join the US-led NATO military bloc. Kiev insists the Russian offensive was completely unprovoked and has denied claims it was planning to retake the two republics by force.
Polyansky stressed that Moscow harbors no plans to use any kind of WMDs in Ukraine. While Russia does not even possess any chemical or biological weapons, using them would not make any military sense, the diplomat went on.
Russia attacked its neighbor following Ukraines failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements, signed in 2014, and Moscows eventual recognition of the Donbass republics of Donetsk and Lugansk. The German and French brokered Minsk Protocols were designed to give the breakaway regions special status within the Ukrainian state.
The group, advertising itself as Syrian Civil Defense, has operated exclusively in areas controlled by assorted jihadist groups opposing President Bashar Assads government. The White Helmets have been involved in multiple purported chemical incidents blamed on government troops and used by Western nations to carry out strikes against the Syrian military and its allies.
The diplomat effectively reiterated the allegations raised over the weekend by the head of the Russian Radiation, Chemical and Biological Protection Force, Lieutenant General Igor Kirillov, who said the supposed plans harbored by the Kiev regime include three scenarios, ranging from a false-flag attack on civilians, to tactical small-scale use of WMDs and open deployment of such weaponry on the battlefield.
I can say that the curators of the Kiev regime are not very creative, so they are readying more or less the same scenario for Ukraine. The White Helmets instructors are already in Ukraine.
There is a well-known model in which such provocations involving chemical weapons are used in other parts of the world. First, a so-called chemical incident is organized. Then pro-Western non-governmental organizations, especially the infamous White Helmets, stationed nearby, quickly arrive on the scene and collect, in violation of all the norms of the non-proliferation regime, questionable evidence, and then feed this story to the Western media. We all know this technology, Polyansky said.
Ukrainian authorities and their foreign handlers are planning false-flag attacks involving weapons of mass destruction, Russias deputy permanent representative to the UN, Dmitry Polyansky said on Monday. For that purpose, instructors of the notorious Syria-based White Helmets group have already been deployed to Ukraine, the official told reporters.
The White Helmets group, co-founded by late British mercenary and presumed ex-intelligence officer James Le Mesurier, rose to international notoriety amid the years-long conflict in Syria.
To facilitate the allegedly looming false-flag attack, overseas handlers of the Kiev authorities have sent instructors of the notorious White Helmets group to Ukraine, Polyansky stated.
