Who are the real aggressors in the Ukraine spat
20220205
https://www.veteranstoday.com/2022/02/05/who-are-the-real-aggressors-in-the-ukraine-spat/
Jim W. Dean is VT Editor Emeritus. He was an active editor on VT from 2010-2022. He was involved in operations, development, and writing, plus an active schedule of TV and radio interviews. He now writes and posts periodically for VT.
I was a child at the time and of course did not realize that there were institutional sociapaths who had a different but similiar global plan, to create a world of elites and cheap labor slaves with a mandarin middle autocrat class based on the ancient Chinese version.
 Editors Note: During the Cold War we were facing a Communist Soviet government that openly declared its desire for a worldwide Communist system.
The growing cooperation with Turkey is just one element of a broader Kyiv effort to develop smaller security and political pacts, given that Ukraine is facing a lengthy and uncertain path to NATO membership  if it happens at all.
Turkey challenges Russia by selling modern combat drones to Ukraine, paid for by American taxpayers via 'Ukraine assistance', despite Ukraine failing to complete its part of the Minsk agreement.
For anyone thinking I am hyping on steroids I would suggest it is self evident. Russia does not want to restart a Cold War. It does not have the resources to do that and it would be self defeating. The Soviet Union did that and destroyed the country.
And the icing on the cake for this scenario is that few citizens in the supposedly free West seem to have any problem with this, including the vast majority of their military veterans who have a perfect record of supporting ALL of the forever wars, never having seen one they did not like.
The emerging deals were on display this week, with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan traveling to the Ukrainian capital to send a sharp message to Moscow: His country would help expand Ukraines supply of armed, long-range Bayraktar drones  a powerful weapon the Kremlin has warned Kyiv not to use.
This new format is part of our strategy of small alliances as a proactive foreign policy of Ukraine, Kulebawrote, explaining the initiative. The point is that we cannot expect safety and prosperity somewhere in the future when we become members of the EU and NATO. We need them today.
Jim's work includes research, field trips, Heritage TV Legacy archiving  more.  Thanks for helping.  Click to donate 
The country is also working to cement a new partnership with the U.K. and Poland, highlighted this week when leaders from the three countriesmetin Kyiv.
But there is Western power that continues, unashamed, to push for a growing huge military alliance against countries that they have a 10 to 1 advantage over in terms of military spending and relative military power prending the feel threatened, which is a bad joke.
Putin never forcefully responded, leaving the unpleasant conclusion that maybe he too had become a believer in the forever wars where you could maintain troops and military power in a foreign country, by not only protecting it, but allowing the threats to the country to continue, a game the West has played for ages now.
Bowing to the reality that Ukraine wont join NATO anytime soon, Kyiv is putting in place a collection of smaller security pacts with regional military powers, including Turkey and Poland, as well as the U.K., as it seeks help facing down Russia now and in years ahead.
VT has editorialized on how Russia had played a dangerous game by doing a dirty dance with Erdogan in Syria where the latter prevented Syria from pushing the jihadis out of Syria even though Turkey have agreed to that goal.
As Gordon does so love to say, Its a nasty world out there. Thus ends my cheery missive for today Jim W. Dean 
