Biden meets top Ukrainian ministers in Warsaw
20220326
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/biden-meets-top-ukrainian-ministers-in-warsaw/article65262695.ece
Mr. Blinken and Mr. Austin "pledged continued support to meet Ukraine's humanitarian, security, and economic needs," he added.
After talking to the Ukrainian ministers, Mr. Biden met with Polish President Andrzej Duda at the presidential palace.
Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov made a rare trip out of Ukraine in a possible sign of growing confidence in the fightback against Russian forces.
Mr. Biden said he would have liked to see the devastation caused by the conflict "first-hand".
Mr. Biden is on the second and final day of a visit to Poland after he met with EU and NATO leaders in Brussels earlier in the week.
Joe Biden on Saturday in Warsaw met two Ukrainian ministers in the first face-to-face talks between the U.S. President and top Kyiv officials since Russia's invasion began.
The meeting took place at the Marriott Hotel in the city centre  opposite a Warsaw train station where there has been a constant flow of Ukrainian refugees since the conflict started.
Since then, Mr. Kuleba also met Mr. Blinken in Poland next to the border with Ukraine on March 5.
Mr. Biden last met Mr. Kuleba in Washington on February 22  two days before Russia began its assault.
On Friday, the U.S. president spoke to U.S. soldiers stationed in Poland near the Ukrainian border and aid workers helping refugees fleeing the conflict.
The officials discussed "the United States' unwavering commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity," State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters.
He also referred to Russian President Vladimir Putin as "a man who, quite frankly, I think is a war criminal".
He praised Ukrainians for showing "backbone" against the Russian invasion and compared their resistance to the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests in China in 1989.
Mr. Biden could be seen seated at a long white table between U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, facing Kuleba and Reznikov, an AFP reporter said.
Later on Saturday, he is due to visit a reception centre for refugees and give a major speech on the conflict.
Speaking to the troops, he said: "You're in the midst of a fight between democracies and autocrats. What you're doing is consequential, really consequential."
