Despite vows Russia keeps up shelling
20220330
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/despite-vows-russia-keeps-up-shelling/article65275083.ece
The so-called reduction of activity in the Chernihiv region, was demonstrated by the enemy strikes including air strikes on Nizhyn, and all night long they were shelling Chernihiv, said the regional governor, Viacheslav Chaus.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy reacted with skepticism to Russias announcement amid talks in Istanbul on Tuesday that it would reduce military activity near the capital and Chernihiv.
Russian forces pounded areas around Ukraines capital and another city overnight, regional leaders said on Wednesday, just hours after Moscow pledged to scale back military operations in those places. The shelling further tempered optimism about any progress in talks aimed at ending the punishing war.
Ukrainian officials said Russian shelling hit homes, shops, libraries and other civilian infrastructure in the northern city of Chernihiv and on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv.
Moscow reacted coolly to that offer, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying it was a positive factor that Ukraine has submitted its written proposals but that he saw no breakthrough.
We can call those signals that we hear at the negotiations positive, he said in his nightly video address to the Ukrainian people. But those signals dont silence the explosions of Russian shells.
The General Staff of Ukraines armed forces noted intensified shelling and attacks in the Donetsk area, where it say Russian forces were focused on trying to win control over the besieged city of Mariupol and other cities.
Kyivs delegation offered a framework for a peace deal under which a neutral Ukraines security would be guaranteed by a group of other countries.
The Ukrainian military, meanwhile, said Russian troops were intensifying their attacks around the eastern city of Izyum and the eastern Donetsk region, after redeploying some units from other areas.
The United Nations said the number of refugees fleeing the country has now surpassed a staggering 4 million, while European industrial powerhouse Germany issued a warning over its natural gas supplies amid concerns that Russia could cut off deliveries unless it is paid in rubles. Poland announced steps to end all Russian oil imports by the end of 2022.
The United Nations food aid agency said it is now providing emergency assistance to 1 million people in Ukraine.
Russia did not spell out what exactly it planned to do differently, and while the promise initially raised hopes that a path toward peace was coming into view, Ukraines President and others cautioned that the remarks could merely be bluster and the Kremlins spokesman said he saw no breakthrough in the talks.
Still, there were hints of the outline of a possible agreement to end the war after the latest round of talks Tuesday in Istanbul.
