Jaishankar discusses key regional global issues with French counterpart
20220221
https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/jaishankar-discusses-key-regional-global-issues-with-french-counterpart/article65071164.ece
In the context of the Ministerial Forum, the two Ministers agreed to jointly launch the Indo-French call for an Indo-Pacific Parks Partnership during the E.U. Forum.
"Arrived in Paris. Held wide-ranging and productive talks with FM JYLeDrian. Discussions on bilateral cooperation, Ukraine situation, Indo-Pacific and JCPOA reflected our deep trust  global partnership. Look forward to participating in EU Ministerial Forum on IndoPacific, Mr. Jaishankar tweeted.
They also agreed to intensify India-E.U. ties under the French Presidency, and the need to begin negotiations on the Free Trade and Investment Agreements and implement the India-E.U. Connectivity Partnership.
"This partnership aims to build capacities in the Indo-Pacific region, in terms of sustainable management of protected areas, by gathering and sharing the experiences and expertise that exist in the region among key Indo-Pacific public  private natural park managers, the MEA said.
The two Ministers exchanged perspectives on the situation in Afghanistan, the Iranian nuclear deal and the evolving situation in Ukraine.
They also agreed to continue and enhance their cooperation in and agreed to soon conclude a Joint Declaration of Intent in the Area of Sports, aimed at further facilitating people-to-people contact.
According to the U.S., Russia has amassed over 1,50,000 troops near the border with Ukraine. The move has brought increasingly strong warnings from the West that Moscow intends to invade. However, Russia has repeatedly denied that it plans to invade Ukraine.
Mr. Jaishankar will also hold meetings with other French dignitaries, E.U. Commissioners and with his counterparts from other Indo-Pacific countries participating in the Indo-Pacific Forum.
Both Ministers appreciated the close cooperation during the pandemic and agreed to further deepen the Strategic Partnership, particularly in the areas of trade and investments, defence and security, health, education, research and innovation, energy and climate change.
Both sides also adopted the "India-France Roadmap on the Blue Economy and Ocean Governance, which aims to enhance partnership in the field of blue economy by way of institutional, economic, infrastructural and scientific cooperation, the statement said.
Mr. Jaishankar appreciated the French initiative of hosting a E.U. Ministerial Forum on Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific on February 22, where he will participate along with several other Ministers from the Indo-Pacific and the E.U. countries.
Beijing is also involved in a maritime dispute with Japan over the East China Sea. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are also vital to global trade.
External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar held wide-ranging and productive talks with his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian here during which they discussed key regional and global issues, particularly the India-E.U. relationship, and exchanged perspectives on the situation in Afghanistan, Iranian nuclear deal and the Ukraine crisis.
China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea.
They agreed to strengthen the longstanding cooperation on public administration and administrative reforms between the relevant authorities.
The Ministry of External Affairs MEA later said the two Ministers discussed key regional and global issues, particularly the India-E.U. relationship and the priorities of the French Presidency of the E.U. Council that began on January 1.
Mr. Jaishankar, who arrived here from Germany on a three-day visit, and Mr. Drian also reiterated their shared commitment to the principles of multilateralism and a rules-based order, and agreed to coordinate in the Security Council on issues of mutual concern.
