Landslide win sets Orban on collision course with Brussels
20220404
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/landslide-win-sets-orban-on-collision-course-with-brussels/article65290193.ece
Using his strong mandate, Mr. Orban will also entrench his conservative policies at home and could attempt to squeeze out foreign companies in some sectors like retail where Hungarian ownership is still not dominant, as his Fidesz party aims to form its own class of loyal industrialists.
Mr. Orban, who held on to his sweeping majority on Sunday will likely continue to reject any EU sanctions on Russian oil and gas, arguing they would wreck an economy already slowing due to the impacts of the Ukraine war.
Addressing a jubilant crowd chanting his name, many of them wearing Fideszs orange party colour, Mr. Orban said: We have won a great victory  a victory so great you can perhaps see it from the moon and certainly from Brussels.
In his victory speech, Mr. Orban said: We never had so many opponents, reeling off a list that comprised Brussels bureaucrats... the international mainstream media, and finally the Ukrainian President.
Emboldened by a fourth consecutive landslide election victory, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban is expected to dig in against energy sanctions on Russia and toughen his stance in talks with Brussels to unlock frozen EU funds.
But with 94 of votes counted, Fidesz was on 53 compared to 35 for the opposition coalition, according to results from the national election office  a result which means the party will retain its two-thirds majority in Parliament.
Mr. Orbans administration has presided over repeated confrontations with the European Union, including over the neutering of the press and judiciary, and measures targeting the LGBTQ community  also the subject of a vote on Sunday.
The 58-year-old, already the longest-serving head of government in the EU, was challenged by six united Opposition parties seeking to roll back the illiberal revolution Orbans Fidesz party has pursued during 12 consecutive years in office.
Diplomatically, Mr. Orban fell in line with EU support for Kyiv despite his long-standing closeness to Russian President Vladimir Putin. But at home, Mr. Orban has struck a neutral and even anti-Ukrainian tone at times, refusing to let weapons for Ukraine cross Hungarian territory.
