Moscow eyes all of Ukraines east south
20220422
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/moscow-eyes-all-of-ukraines-east-south/article65345391.ece
Kyiv says 1,00,000 civilians are still inside the city, and need full evacuation. It says Moscows decision not to storm the Azovstal steel works is proof that Russia lacks the forces to defeat the Ukrainian defenders.
Russia said on Thursday it had won the wars biggest fight  the battle for the main port of the Donbas, Mariupol  after a nearly two-month siege. President Vladimir Putin decided not to try to root out thousands of Ukrainian troops still holed up in a huge steel works there.
In a Russian-held section of the city, the guns had largely fallen silent and dazed looking residents ventured out on streets on Thursday to a background of charred apartment blocks and wrecked cars. Some carried suitcases.
Maxar, a commercial satelite company, said images from space showed freshly dug mass graves on the citys outskirts. Ukraine estimates tens of thousands of civilians have died in the city during Russias bombardment and siege.
Ukraines general staff said Russian forces had increased attacks along the whole frontline in the east and were trying to mount an offensive in the Kharkiv region, north of Russias main target, the Donbas.
Ukraine said the comments by Rustam Minnekayev, deputy commander of Russias central military district, had given the lie to Russias previous assertions that it has no territorial ambitions.
They stopped hiding it, Ukraines Defence Ministry said on Twitter. Russia had acknowledged that the goal of the second phase of the war is not victory over the mythical Nazis, but simply the occupation of eastern and southern Ukraine. Imperialism as it is.
A Russian General declared on Friday that Moscow wants to seize all of southern and eastern Ukraine, far wider war aims than it had acknowledged as it presses on with a new offensive after its campaign to capture the capital Kyiv collapsed last month.
They Russians were bombing us from day one. They are demolishing everything. Just erase it, she said of the city.
Volunteers in white hazmat suits and masks roved the ruins, collecting bodies from inside apartments and loading them on to a truck marked with the letter Z, symbol of Russias invasion.
The United Nations and Red Cross say the civilian toll is still unknowable but at least in the thousands. Russia says it has rescued the city from nationalists.
In Kharkiv city, Russian shellfire hit the main Barabashovo market. Ambulance services said there had been casualties but no details were available yet. A wedding hall and a residential building were also struck.
Gen. Minnekayev was quoted by Russian state news agencies as saying Moscow aimed to seize the entire eastern Donbas region, link up with the Crimea peninsula, and capture Ukraines entire south as far as a breakaway, Russian-occupied region of Moldova. That would mean pushing hundreds of miles beyond current lines, past the major Ukrainian cities of Mykolaiv and Odessa.
In Zaporizhzhia, where 79 Mariupol residents arrived in the first convoy of buses permitted by Russia to leave for other parts of Ukraine, Valentyna Andrushenko held back tears as she recalled the ordeal under siege.
