RussiaUkraine live updates  EU Commission backs candidate status for Ukraine
20220617
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-ukraine-live-updates-eu-to-give-fast-tracked-opinion-on-ukraine-membership-bid/article65535858.ece
In a show of support, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi are visiting Kyiv. - AFP
A cloud of uncertainty hangs over thousands of students who were forced to return from Ukraine earlier this year following the Ukraine-Russia war. Continuation of the war, coupled with the delay in the governments decision on rehabilitation, has cast a shadow over their education.
Entrance to the religious community, known as a skete, in the village of Adamivka is only possible with permission from the Ukrainian military based in the area.
The leaders of France, Germany and Italy were on a train bound for Kyiv on June 16, a day after the United States announced $1 billion worth of new arms for embattled Ukrainian forces.
In a post on Telegram messenger, he said there were 38 children taking shelter in the bunkers at the chemical plant. - Reuters
Under near-constant bombardment by Russian forces, a group of Orthodox nuns and pilgrims live in one of the villages closest to Ukraine's frontline, near the city of Sloviansk.
The European Commission will meet Friday to give its fast-tracked opinion on Ukraine's bid for EU candidacy, a step closer to membership for the country a day after the bloc's most powerful leaders visited Kyiv as it battles Russia's invasion.
The executive arm of the European Union recommended Friday that Ukraine be granted candidate status to one day join the 27-nation bloc.
Chinese President Xi Jinping on June 15 expressed his readiness to play a constructive role to help settle the Ukrainian crisis, according to the Chinese state-TV.
Its council declared during a meeting on Thursday that it intends to terminate CERNs International Cooperation Agreements ICAs with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus at their expiration dates in 2024, it said.
Ukraine's Naval Command said the tugboat had a TOR anti-air missile system on board but this had failed to stop the strike. - Reuters
Europes physics lab CERN said on Friday, that its decision-making body intended to terminate cooperation agreements with Russia and Belarus after they expire in 2024 over the situation in Ukraine.
But they illustrate how little is known about the health of a leader whose medical condition is fundamental to the future of Europe, all the more so after he ordered Russia's invasion of Ukraine. - AFP
Ukraine will decide when the conditions are met to build peace, and what these political conditions are, Mr. Macron said on Thursday, during an official visit to Kyiv with Germanys Olaf Scholz and Italys Mario Draghi. - Bloomberg
The European Commission recommendation is the first step on the long road toward membership and comes a day after four European Union leaders vowed to back Kyivs candidacy. The recommendation will be discussed by leaders of the 27-nation bloc during a summit next week in Brussels. Launching accession talks requires unanimous approval from all member countries.
The claims made about the health of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who will be 70 in October, are lurid and macabre, as well as impossible to verify.
Kyivs troops are resisting a fierce onslaught in the Donbas region by Russian President Vladimir Putins forces, which are pushing to seize a swathe of eastern and southern Ukraine.
The ray of hope now is the Supreme Court of India, which directed the National Medical Council in May to take appropriate action about the future education of the Ukraine-returned students within two months.
Ukrainian missiles hit a Russian naval tugboat transporting soldiers, weapons, and ammunition to the Russian-occupied Zmiinyi Snake Island south of the Odesa region on Friday, the regional governor said.
French President Emmanuel Macron offered his strongest support for Ukraine yet after comments on the need to communicate with Russia sparked a backlash.
Never before has an opinion been given so quickly on EU candidacy, which must be approved by all 27 member states.
Egypt, Israel, and the European Union on June 15 signed a deal to increase liquified natural gas sales to European Union EU countries, who aim to reduce dependence on supply from Russia as thewar in Ukraine drags on.
The opinion will serve as a basis for discussion at next week's EU summit, where leaders are expected to approve Ukraine's candidate status, but with stern conditions attached, and membership may take years or even decades. - AFP
France wants a military Ukrainian victory against Russia that reestablishes the territorial integrity of the country, including Crimea that was seized by Russia in 2014, a French diplomatic source said on June 16.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has promised Ukraine world-class weapons  from self-propelled howitzers to multiple launch rocket systems and an air defence shield capable of protecting a large city from Russian strikes.
The evacuation of 568 civilians sheltering in bunkers under the Azot chemical plant in the embattled city of Sievierodonetsk is currently impossible due to shelling and heavy fighting, the governor of Ukraine's Luhansk region said on Friday.
Since being evacuated to the safety of their homes, most students, barring those who studied in Ukrainian universities in the eastern parts, are attending online classes.
Baths in blood extracted from the antlers of Siberian deer. Excrements scooped up by loyal officials to evade analysis. Mysterious absences for emergency medical treatment.
Beyond the village and two neighbouring settlements are fields and then Russia's forces, firing at Ukrainian artillery positions. - AFP
