RussiaUkraine crisis updates  March 12 2022
20220312
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-ukraine-crisis-live-updates-march-12-2022/article65216880.ece
Since meeting Mr. Putin in the Kremlin on February 7, Mr. Macron has had nine phone calls with the Russian leader, his office said.- AFP
U.S. President Joe Biden is authorising the State Department to provide additional aid to Ukraine of up to $200 million.
The mosque of Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent and his wife Roxolana Hurrem Sultan in Mariupol was shelled by Russian invaders. More than 80 adults and children are hiding there from the shelling, including citizens of Turkey, the ministry wrote on its Twitter account.
However, the Ukrainian embassy in Ankara told AFP it had alerted Turkeys Foreign Ministry to the attack, without specifying when or whether it had received any response. - AFP
Russian forces appeared to make progress from the northeast in their slow fight toward Ukraines capital, while tanks and artillery pounded places already under siege with shelling so heavy that residents of one city were unable to bury the growing number of dead.
Repeated efforts to evacuate people from the city of 4,30,000 have fallen apart as humanitarian convoys come under shelling. - AP
nuclear plant were continuing and that diesel generators were providing back-up power to systems relevant for safety. - Reuters
A mosque in the southeastern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, where 80 civilians were taking shelter, has been shelled by Russian forces, Ukraines foreign ministry said on Saturday.
The three leaders had already had spoken by telephone on Thursday when both Mr. Macron and Mr. Scholz had demanded an immediate ceasefire by Russia.
In a Facebook update Saturday, the military said the capture of Mariupol and Severodonetsk in the east were a priority for Russian forces. Mariupol has been under siege for over a week, with no electricity, gas or water.
Addressing members of the House Democratic Caucus on Friday, Mr. Biden stressed over "not fighting a third World War in Ukraine" but avowed sending an "unmistakable message that we will defend every inch of NATO territory".
General that around 400 Russian soldiers were being present full time on site at Zaporizhzhya, the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA added in a statement on its website.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO is a group of 30 North American and European nations. According to NATO, its purpose "is to guarantee the freedom and security of its members through political and military means." Mr. Biden said the people of Ukraine have demonstrated remarkable bravery and courage in the face of a Russian military offensive but the security assistance that the U.S. provides has been critical in their defence.
Those hit with sanctions on Friday include 10 people comprising VTB Banks board, 12 members of the Duma and the family of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, the U.S. Treasury Department said in a statement. -Reuters
U.S. soldiers continued to deploy Friday to Europe, joining thousands already sent overseas to support NATO allies amid Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The President of Ukraines nuclear power plant operator Energoatom, Petro Kotin, said in a letter to the Director
There was no immediate word of casualties from the shelling of Mariupols elegant, city-center mosque.
There was no immediate word of casualties from the shelling of Mariupols elegant, city-center mosque. The encircled city of 4,46,000 people has suffered some of the greatest misery from Russias war in Ukraine, with unceasing barrages thwarting repeated attempts to bring in food and water, evacuate trapped civilians and to bury all of the dead.  AP
Mr. Zelenskiys economic adviser previously estimated that the Russian invasion had already caused more than $100 billion of damage.  Reuters
As the Russian invasion of Ukraine entered its third week, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday some progress had been made in Moscows talks with Ukraine, while the Kremlin said the conflict would end when the West took action to address Moscow concerns.
The funds would cover weapons as well as military services, education and training as Ukrainians seek to repel a Russian invasion.
The Pentagon is turning to a special team to respond to increased demand for new weapons sales and requests to transfer existing weapons among U.S. allies as countries including Ukraine scramble to obtain arms following Russias invasion, three people familiar with the effort said.
U.S. President Joe Biden said he has moved 12,000 troops along the borders with Russia, such as Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and Romania while asserting that Vladimir Putin will not be victorious in the war he has waged against Ukraine.
Mr. Biden plans to sign the spending bill with the additional aid when he receives it next week.  AP
The humanitarian situation in Ukraine is deteriorating quickly and has become catastrophic in a number of cities, the Russian military said on Saturday, speaking on the 17th day of what Moscow has termed a special military operation.
French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz were holding new talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin about the war in Ukraine on Saturday, the Elysee palace said.
In Mariupol, unceasing barrages into the city have thwarted repeated attempts to bring in food and water and evacuate trapped civilians. On Friday, an Associated Press photographer captured the moment when a tank appeared to fire directly on an apartment building, enveloping one side in a billowing orange fireball. -AP
The ongoing warfare has led to additional support with Congress this week approving $13.6 billion in additional aid, a sum that includes $6.5 billion for the costs of sending troops and weapons to Eastern Europe and $6.8 billion for refugees and economic aid.
Nepals Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba on Saturday expressed gratitude to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government for evacuating four Nepalese nationals stranded in Ukraine amidst the military offensive by Russia.
The aid is part of broader U.S. support in the form of aid and sanctions. When Russia invaded Ukraine in late February, Secretary of State Antony Blinken noted that $1 billion in aid had been provided to Ukraine.
Most Ukrainian businesses have stopped operating since Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Saturday.
About 130 soldiers from the 87th Division Sustainment Support Battalion, 3rd Division Sustainment Brigade, lined up with rucksacks inside a terminal at Hunter Airfield in Savannah before marching outside and boarding their chartered flight. It departed amid grey skies and rain. -AP
The evacuation of the Nepalese students was done as part of Indias Operation Ganga that was launched to bring back the Indians stuck in Ukraine after Russia launched a military attack on February 24.
The United States on Friday imposed sanctions on more Russian oligarchs and elites, increasing pressure on those close to Russian President Vladimir Putin in punishment over Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
Unfortunately, the humanitarian situation in Ukraine is continuing to deteriorate rapidly, and in some cities it has reached catastrophic proportions, the head of the Russian National Defence Control Centre, Mikhail Mizintsev, said in a statement carried by Russian news agencies. - AFP
The Pentagons Office of Acquisition and Sustainment, the weapons buyer for the U.S. Department of Defense, has been fielding increased demand from European allies hoping to ship weapons to Ukraine through third party transfers or to buy arms to bolster their own defenses, the sources said. -Reuters
They may be subject to potential attempts at criminal prosecution and may be at heightened risk for mistreatment, State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters.  -AP
The U.N. nuclear watchdog said Ukraine told it on Saturday that Russia was planning to take full and permanent control of the Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant, Europes biggest, but that Russia had later denied this.
Zelensky made the announcement in a tweet and also said he had asked Bennett for help in freeing the mayor of the city of Melitopol, whom Ukraine says was abducted by Russian forces. - Reuters
Ukraines military says Russian forces have captured the eastern outskirts of the besieged city of Mariupol.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Saturday he had spoken to Israeli Prime Minister Naftali
The conflict began escalating on February 21, 2022, after Russian President Vladimir Putinrecognised separatist regionsin eastern Ukraine and deployed troops in a peacekeeping role.
Russian forces pounding the port city of Mariupol shelled a mosque sheltering more than 80 people, including children, the Ukrainian government said Saturday. Fighting also raged on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv, as Russias expanding invasion bombarded cities into rubble.
"That's why I've moved 12,000 American forces along the borders with Russia  Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Romania, etc... Granted, if we respond, it is World War three. But we have a sacred obligation on NATO territory... although we will not fight a third World War in Ukraine."
Russian forces pounding the port city of Mariupol shelled a mosque sheltering more than 80 people, including children, the Ukrainian government said on Saturday. Fighting also raged on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv, as Russias expanding invasion bombarded cities into rubble.
The IAEA said the Ukrainian regulator had also informed it that efforts to repair damaged power lines at the Chernobyl
The U.S. State Department on Friday said that U.S. citizens who travel to Ukraine, including those who go to participate in the conflict, face a very real risk of capture or death as it warned that Washington would not be able to facilitate evacuation.
"And as we provide support to Ukraine, we're going to continue to stand together with our allies in Europe and send an unmistakable message that we will defend every inch of NATO territory with a united galvanized NATO," the US president said.
"The idea that we're going to send in offensive equipment and have planes and tanks and trains going in with American pilots and American crews, just understand  and don't kid yourself, no matter what you all say  that's called World War Three," he said.  PTI
Earlier, U.S. President Joe Biden said he has moved 12,000 troops along the borders with Russia, such as Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and Romania while asserting that Vladimir Putin will not be victorious in the war he has waged against Ukraine.
Four Nepali nationals have just arrived in Nepal from Ukraine via India. Thank you Prime Minister narendramodi and the Government of India for the assistance in repatriating Nepali nationals through the OperationGanga, Mr. Deuba said in a tweet on Saturday. - PTI
