Russia launches new military exercises near Ukraine border
20220118
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-launches-new-military-exercises-near-ukraine-border/article38325476.ece
The drills involve combat firing exercises with fighter jets, bombers, anti-aircraft systems and ships from the Black Sea and Caspian fleets, the ministry said.
Russia has put forward a list of security demands including a guarantee that Ukraine never be allowed to join NATO and that alliance forces pull back in eastern European countries that joined the bloc after the Cold War.
Mr. Biden held a one-hour-and-20-minute video conference with allied leaders from Europe and NATO on Monday, telling reporters afterwards: I had a very, very, very good meeting  total unanimity with all the European leaders.
Russia denies it has any plans to invade Ukraine, where as well as seizing Crimea it has backed separatist forces in two breakaway regions.
The West is accusing Russia of preparing a potential invasion of pro-Western Ukraine and tensions with Moscow have reached levels not seen since the Cold War.
The Pentagon said it had put 8,500 troops on standby for deployment in support of NATO, while the alliance said it was sending ships and jets to bolster eastern Europes defences.
The US has stepped up security assistance to Ukraine, with Mr. Blinken on a visit to Kiev last week confirming another $200 million in aid.
A series of talks in various European cities this month have failed to ease tensions, though U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov agreed at a meeting in Geneva on Friday to keep talking.
The United States has promised to provide written answers to Moscows demands this week, but has rejected calls for a ban on possible NATO expansion as a non-starter.
Russia on Tuesday launched new military exercises near Ukraine and in annexed Crimea as it accused the U.S. of ratcheting up tensions by putting several thousand of its own troops on alert.
Russian President Vladimir Putins spokesman Dmitry Peskov said U.S. moves were adding to an already tense atmosphere.
With the West already accusing Moscow of amassing more than 1,00,000 soldiers on the Ukrainian border, the Russian military said it had launched drills involving 6,000 troops in the south and in the Crimean peninsula annexed by Moscow in 2014.
There were hopes for some easing of tensions after the French government announced that Russian and Ukrainian officials would meet, along with French and German counterparts, in Paris on Wednesday to try to find a way out of the impasse.
Moscow has instead accused the West of increasing tensions with deployments and support for Ukraine, a former Soviet republic.
The United States and NATO have rejected the demands and told Russia to withdraw from Ukraines borders, warning that an attack will trigger damaging economic sanctions, as well as a beefed-up NATO presence in eastern Europe.
The new government in EU economic powerhouse Germany in particular has faced criticism from Kiev over its refusal to send defensive weapons to Ukraine, as well as hesitating over one of the harshest economic sanctions under discussion  cutting Moscow from the global SWIFT payments system.
Ukraine said on Tuesday it had dismantled a group of saboteurs coordinated by Russian special services who had planned a series of armed attacks.
After a long video call with European leaders on Monday, U.S. President Joe Biden said there was total unanimity on how to deal with Russia, with officials warning again of severe consequences if Moscow invades.
The crisis has laid bare divisions in the West, with some European Union members appearing less willing to take severe action against Russia, which supplies about 40 percent of the blocs natural gas supplies.
Ukraines SBU security service said it had seized weapons and arrested two residents, one of them a Russian citizen, operating in eastern and central Ukraine.
The United States is escalating tensions, he told reporters. We are watching these U.S. actions with great concern.
A shipment arrived on Saturday and another batch was due on Tuesday which the U.S. said would include equipment and munitions to bolster the defensive capacity of the Ukrainian armed forces.
