RussiaUkraine crisis live updates  Russian official seeks base in Ukraines Kherson region
20220524
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-ukraine-live-updates-may-24-2022/article65455867.ece
Since Moscows invasion in late February, Western support has helpedUkrainehold off its neighbours advances in many areas - including the capital Kyiv - butRussiais now focused on securing and expanding its gains in Donbas and the southern coast. - AFP
Desna is 55 kilometres 34 miles north of Kyiv. Zelenskyy said the debris removal in Desna, in the Chernihiv region, has been completed and the deaths and destruction was caused by only four missiles. -  AP
Also, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for maximum sanctions against Russia in a video address to world leaders and executives at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. He also revealed one of the deadliest single strikes of the war, a missile attack on a village near Kyiv that killed almost 90 people.
While the President did not directly call out any countries, his message appeared to be pointed, at least in part, at Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with whom differences persist over how to respond to the Russian invasion. - AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says last weeks attack on the town of Desna resulted in 87 deaths.
RussiainvadedUkrainein February, seizing, in particular, the Kherson region which is adjacent to Crimea, the peninsula which Moscow has controlled since an earlier conflict in 2014.
Russian forces on May 24 stepped up their offensive on the last pocket of resistance around Lugansk inUkraines eastern Donbas region, as the conflict entered its fourth month.
Outgoing Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte sharply criticised Russian leader Vladimir Putin for the killings of innocent civilians inUkraine, saying while the two of them have been tagged as killers, I kill criminals, I dont kill children and the elderly.
Britains Deputy Ambassador James Roscoe told a U.N. Security Council meeting on the use of digital technologies in maintaining the peace thatRussiahas conducted cyber-attacks and used an online troll factory to spread disinformation and manipulate public opinion about their war. - AP
Stressing that Washington would stand with its close domestic partners to push for a free and open Indo-Pacific region, he said: Russias assault ofUkraineonly heightens the importance of those goals of fundamental principles of international order, territorial integrity and sovereignty. - Reuters
TheRussia-appointed administration ofUkraines Kherson region will ask Moscow to set up a military base on its territory,Russias RIA news agency quoted a local government official as saying.
Jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny on Tuesday lambasted President Vladimir Putin in a live court hearing, casting him as a madman who had started a stupid war inUkrainebased on lies.
A captured Russian soldier who pleaded guilty to killing a civilian was sentenced by a Ukrainian court on May 24 to life in prison  the maximum  amid signs the Kremlin may, in turn, put on trial some of the fighters who surrendered at Mariupols steelworks.
BesidesRussiasbombing strike at a movie theater in Mariupol, Desna may be one of the largest death tolls of any single strike during the war.
The U.S. withdrew its few troops inUkrainebefore the war and has no plans to send in combat forces. Mr. Milleys comments left open the possibility troops could return for embassy security or another non-combat role. - AP
Mr. Shapps said he was very concerned about the issue, which has seen global food prices soar asUkraineis unable to export nearly 25 million tonnes of grains, and met Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksander Kubrakov last week. - Reuters
The crisis inUkraineis a global issue, not a regional one, U.S. President Joe Biden said at a meeting of the Quad grouping of countries in Tokyo on May 24.
Nearly 50 defence leaders from around the world met and agreed to send more advanced weapons toUkraine, including a Harpoon launcher and missiles to protect its coast, Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin told reporters.
This is a stupid war which your Putin started, Mr. Navalny told an appeal court in Moscow via video link from a corrective penal colony. This war was built on lies, Mr. Navalny said. - Reuters
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Kyiv was ready for an exchange of prisoners withRussiaeven tomorrow and called on his allies to put pressure on Moscow.
It has installed a new administration there and started introducing the Russian rouble as a currency. - Reuters
And Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that low-level discussion is underway on how the U.S. may need to adjust its training of Ukrainian forces and on whether some U.S. troops should be based inUkraine.
Britain is in discussions withUkraineabout how to help get grain out of the country afterRussiablocked its main sea ports, Transport Minister Grant Shapps said on May 24.
Meanwhile, in a rare public expression of opposition to the war from the ranks of the Russian elite, a veteran Kremlin diplomat resigned and sent a scathing letter to foreign colleagues in which he said of the invasion, Never have I been so ashamed of my country as on February 24.
President Joe Biden told fellow Indo-Pacific leaders assembled for a four-country summit on May 24 that they were navigating a dark hour in our shared history due toRussias brutal war onUkraineand he urged the group to make greater effort to stop Vladimir Putins aggression.
This is more than just a European issue. Its a global issue, Mr. Biden said.
Mr. Duterte, who openly calls Putin an idol and a friend, voiced his rebuke for the first time overRussiasinvasion ofUkrainein remarks aired on Tuesday where he blamed the three-month-old war for the spike in global oil prices that has battered many countries, including the Philippines. - AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy told global business leaders in Davos that the world must increase sanctions againstRussiato deter other countries from using brute force to achieve their aims. - AP
Moscow faces stiff Ukrainian resistance to its effort to encircle the area around the city of Sievierodonetsk and consolidate Russian control of the Luhansk region  the main focus but not the only Russian effort in the campaign to capture the Donbas, the Ministry said in the update posted on Twitter.
Cities not under Russian control were constantly shelled, and one Ukrainian official said Russian forces targeted civilians trying to flee. - AP
The European Union will likely agree on an embargo on Russian oil imports within days, according to its biggest member Germany, as Moscow said it saw its economic ties growing with China after being isolated by the West over its invasion ofUkraine.
Heavy fighting was raging inUkraineseastern Donbas region, where Russian forces have stepped up their bombardments beyond the frontlines, Britains Defense Ministry said on Tuesday.
The exchange of people - this is a humanitarian matter today and a very political decision that depends on the support of many states, Mr. Zelenskiy said in a question-and-answer video link with the audience at the World Economic Forum in Davos. - Reuters
The United States and Britain are accusingRussiaof spreading disinformation online and manipulating public opinion about the war inUkraineand vehemently rejecting Russian claims that the West is aiming to control all information flows and define what is true or not true.
This is more than just a European issue. Its a global issue, Mr. Biden said as the Quad summit with Japan, Australia and India got under way.
