Russia strikes Ukraines east as Finland inches closer to joining NATO
20220512
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-strikes-ukraines-east-as-finland-inches-closer-to-joining-nato/article65407379.ece
Overnight airstrikes in the Chernihiv region killed three people and wounded 12, according to local media citing emergency services. The regional governor said the strikes on the town of Novhorod-Siverskyi damaged a boarding school, dormitory and administrative building.
Still, the war has unleashed staggering destruction, killed thousands and forced millions from their homes, while shattering Europes sense of post-Cold War stability. It has prompted NATO to send troops and weapons to fortify the alliances eastern frontier and led Sweden and Finland to reconsider longstanding opposition to joining the trans-Atlantic alliance, whose members are committed to mutual defense.
Petro Andriushchenko said there are few apartment buildings fit to live in, and some remaining residents are cooperating with occupying Russian forces in exchange for food, though he did say Thursday the troops have resumed water supplies to two neighborhoods as a test.
The immediate effect is likely to be limited, in part because Russia can divert the gas to another pipeline and because Europe relies on a variety of suppliers. Still, the cutoff underscored the broader risk to gas supplies from the war.
Russian and Ukrainian authorities have periodically agreed to cease-fires to evacuate residents, and repeatedly blamed each other when those efforts failed.
It said that withdrawal was a tacit recognition of Russias inability to capture key Ukrainian cities where they expected limited resistance from the population.
President Vladimir Putin reaffirmed Russias determination to ensure territory in the Donbas held by Moscow-backed separatists never returns to Ukraine in a congratulatory message Thursday to the head of the self-proclaimed Luhansk Peoples Republic.
On the eve of its invasion, Russia recognised the separatists claim to independence in Luhansk as well as in the other Donbas region of Donetsk. Moscow sought to justify its offensive by claiming, without evidence, that Ukraine was planning to attack areas held by separatists and that it intervened to protect people in those regions.
The conflict on the ground slogged on even as the globe-shaking repercussions of the invasion spread, with Ukraines military recapturing some towns and villages in the countrys northeast but acknowledging that Russian forces have seen partial success farther south in the eastern industrial heartland of the Donbas.
I am sure that through our joint efforts we will defend the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Luhansk republic, Mr. Putin said in a statement released by the Kremlin.
It said Ukrainian forces repulsed nine attacks by Russian forces and destroyed several drone and military vehicles. The information could not be independently verified.
It is terrible there now. We were leaving under missiles, said Tatiana Kravstova, who left the town of Siversk with her 8-year-old son Artiom on a bus headed to the central city of Dnipro. I dont know where they were aiming at, but they were pointing at civilians.
In addition to continuing attacks near Kharkiv, Ukraines military also said Russian forces had fired artillery and grenade launchers at Ukrainian troops in the direction of Zaporizhzhia, which has been a refuge for civilians fleeing Mariupol, and attacked in the Chernihiv and Sumy regions to the north.
In the wake of their failure to take Kyiv, Russian forces pulled back and regrouped  and switched their focus to Ukraines Donbas, a region where Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian troops for years. While Russias advance there has been slow, the general staff of Ukraines armed forces noted on May 12 that Moscow has achieved a partial success.
Russia pounded areas in Ukraines east on May 12, including the last pocket of resistance in besieged Mariupol, as the war pushed Finland closer to ending decades of neutrality and seeking NATO membership.
On the economic front, Ukraine shut down a pipeline that carries Russian gas across Ukraine to homes and industries in Western Europe, disrupting the westward flow of one of Moscows most lucrative exports.
In Mariupol, which has seen some of the worst destruction of the war, Ukraine offered to release Russian prisoners of war in exchange for the safe evacuation of badly wounded fighters trapped inside the Azovstal steel mill, the last redoubt of Ukrainian forces in the ruined city.
Elsewhere, Kyiv prepared for its first war crimes trial of a captured Russian soldier. Ukraines top prosecutor said her office charged Russian Sgt. Vadin Shyshimarin, 21, in the killing of an unarmed 62-year-old civilian who was gunned down while riding a bicycle in February, four days into the war.
NATOs support of Ukraine  particularly by supplying weapons  has been critical to Kyivs surprising success in stymieing Russias invasion, which began on February 24. Many observers thought Moscows larger and better-armed military would be hard to stop, but the Ukrainians have bogged Russian troops down and thwarted their goal of overrunning the capital.
Russia said the move would not help stability and security in Europe. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russias response would depend on what specific steps NATO took to bring its infrastructure closer to Russian borders. Finland and Russia share a 1,340-kilometer 830-mile land border.
That was something at least one resident contested. All people in Kherson are waiting for our troops to come as soon as possible, said a teacher who gave only her first name, Olga, out of fear of retaliation. Nobody wants to live in Russia or join Russia.
Evacuees from towns in the embattled east wiped away tears as they carried their children and belongings onto buses and vans to flee.
The occupiers turned Mariupol into a medieval ghetto, said Mayor Vadym Boychenko in comments published by City Hall, as he called for a complete evacuation of the city. Officials said in recent weeks that about 100,000 residents could still be trapped in Mariupol, which had a prewar population of over 400,000.
Finlands president and prime minister today said that the Nordic country should apply without delay for membership in the Western alliance, founded in part to counter the Soviet Union. The announcement means Finland is all but certain to join the military alliance, though a few steps remain before the application process can begin. Neighbouring Sweden is expected to decide on joining NATO within days.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said that negotiations were underway to release the wounded. She said there were different options, but none of them is ideal.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktovas office has said it has been investigating more than 10,700 allegations of war crimes committed by Russian forces and has identified over 600 suspects.
Volodymyr Yavorskyy of the Center for Civil Liberties said the Ukrainian human rights group will be closely following Shyshimarins trial to see if it is fair  noting the difficulty of observing the norms of such trials during wartime.
Britains Defense Ministry, meanwhile, said Russias focus on the Donbas had left its remaining troops around the northeastern city of Kharkiv vulnerable to counterattack from Ukrainian forces, which had recaptured several towns and villages.
Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, has suffered heavy Russian bombardment during the war as Russia sought to encircle it. But the U.K. said on social media that it has reportedly withdrawn units from the region to reorganise and replenish its forces following heavy losses.
In the southern Kherson region, site of the first major Ukrainian city to fall in the war, a Moscow-appointed leader said officials there want Mr. Putin to annex the area. Kirill Stremousov said: The city of Kherson is Russia.
Russias forces have taken control of the rest of the city, which they besieged for weeks, as residents ran short of food, water and medicine. Many thousands have fled, saying almost nothing remains of the port city, but an adviser to the Mariupol mayor said Russian forces have now blocked all evacuation routes.
