RussiaUkraine crisis live updates  February 24 2022
20220224
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-ukraine-crisis-live-updates/article65079550.ece
Mr. Biden earlier said the United States and its allies will respond in a united and decisive way to what he called an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces on Ukraine.
The Russian Defense Ministry has confirmed that its ground forces have moved into Ukraine from Crimea, the first confirmation from Moscow that its ground forces have moved in.
The future of the Ukrainian people depends on every Ukrainian, he said, urging all those who can defend the country to come to the Interior Ministrys assembly facilities. - AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Thursday Kyiv's forces were fighting invading Russian troops for control of the Chernobyl plant, the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster.
Oil prices rocketed with Brent moving within spitting distance of the $100 not seen since September 2014, while gold and the Japanese yen safe havens in times of crisis and turmoil  also jumped.
Ukrainian presidential advisor Oleksii Arestovich said that the Russian troops moved up to 5 kilometres deep into the Ukrainian territory in the Kharkiv and Chernihiv regions, and, possibly in other areas.
Oleksii Arestovich, an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelensky said Thursday that several dozen people have been wounded.
Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda on Thursday signed a decree declaring a state of emergency in the Baltic country in response to Russias military attack on Ukraine.
President Vladimir Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering, Mr. Biden said in a statement. - AFP
Eighteen people died on Thursday in an air strike on a military base near Ukraines Black Sea port city of Odessa, the local administration said.
U.S. President Joe Biden announced additional sanctions on Russian entities and individuals hours after Russia began an assault on Ukraine.
Konashenkov said that the Russian troops move allowed to resume water supply to Crimea. -AP
Mr. Zelensky said the Ukrainian authorities will hand weapons to all those willing to defend the country.
Speaking on UNSC resolution criticising Russias actions, Mr. Shringla saidwe have seen a draft resolution, but it will undergo some changes. Cant say what position we will take right now, he added.
The Chernobyl nuclear power plant has been captured by Russian forces, an adviser to the Ukrainian presidential office, Mykhailo Podolyak, said on Thursday.
It was the deadliest single strike so far of the day reported by Ukrainian officials, who had earlier put the death toll across the country at around 50, including about 10 civilians.
Zelenskyy said that Russia has unleased a war with Ukraine and the entire democratic world.
A Ukrainian military plane was shot down on Thursday and five people were killed, Ukrainian police and the state emergency service said, as its armed forces sought to defend against a massive Russian military operation.
We are still in Kiev and were woken up by a loud blast 15 minutes back from the Boryspil airport side, said Baroon Varma, an Indian student in the city, through a message on the social media.
"All responsibility for bloodshed will be on the conscience of the ruling regime in Ukraine," Mr. Putin told state TV.
The measure, in effect until March 10, allows for a more flexible use of state reserve funds and increased border protection, giving border guards greater authorities to stop and search individuals and vehicles in border areas.
However, it is not clear whether Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, made the statement after Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday announced a military operation in Ukraine, claiming it's intended to protect civilians.
"We can confirm that the NAC the council of ambassadors will hold an emergency meeting this morning Thursday," a NATO official said.
The final of European club footballs premier competition is scheduled for May 28. - AFP
The IPC is in dialogue with both the Ukrainian and Russian Paralympic Committees ahead of the Beijing 2022 Paralympic Winter Games, the IPC said in an emailed statement. As a politically neutral organization, the IPCs focus remains on the upcoming Games rather than the ongoing situation.
In a special televised address on Russian state TV, President Vladimir Putin said Russia has been left with no choice but to defend itself against what he said were threats emanating from modern Ukraine.
The decision to introduce the next degree of readiness is standard practice in such situations. - Reuters
NATO ambassadors are to hold an emergency meeting this morning on Russia's attack on Ukraine, an alliance official told AFP.
Ukraines U.N. envoy says Russia declared a war and that it is the responsibility of the U.N. Security Council to stop the war. Russias U.N. envoy denied the charge and said its not a war but merely a special military drill.  Reuters
China, a close ally of Russia, has called on all parties involved in the Ukrainian issue to exercise restraint and avoid taking any action that may aggravate tensions.
Ukrainian Ambassador to India Igor Polikha has appealed for India's support in overcoming Russian military operation.
Quoting the UN Charter, Mr. Guterres said the use of force by one country against another is the repudiation of the principles that every country has committed to uphold.
Airlines should stop flying over any part of Ukraine because of the risk of an unintended shootdown or a cyber attack targeting air traffic control amid tensions with Russia, a conflict zone monitor said on Wednesday.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, hours after the latter announced military operation in Ukraine.
The conflict began escalating on February 21, 2022 after Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised separatist regions in eastern Ukraine and deployed troops in a peacekeeping role.
PM Modi also sensitised President Putin about concerns over safety of Indians, attaching highest priority to their safe exit, the PMO said. - Suhasini Haidar
He said that Ukraine now needs a greater and very specific support from the world  military-technical, financial as well as tough sanctions against Russia, he said.
United States President Joe Biden was meeting with G7 allies on Thursday to hammer out a raft of new sanctions against Russia after it invaded Ukraine, and will later speak to the American people on a crisis that he warns will cause catastrophic loss of life.
"From a rational point of view, this is completely illogical," he told The Associated Press in an interview hours after Russia unleashed its military might against its smaller neighbour.
The German government, which currently heads the G7, put out a joint statement after a virtual leaders meeting on Thursday, vowing to bring forward severe and coordinated economic and financial sanctions.
The embassy has asked Indian students stuck in Ukraine to refrain from going towards Kyiv and stay in their respective cities, especially on bordering the western side of the country.
Russias military offensive inside the sovereign territory of Ukraine is wrong and against the UN Charter but not irreversible, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said, reiterating his appeal to Russian President Vladimir Putin to stop it.
Prime Minister reiterated his long-standing conviction that the differences between Russia and the NATO group can only be resolved through honest and sincere dialogue.Prime Minister appealed for an immediate cessation of violence, and called for concerted efforts from all sides to return to the path of diplomatic negotiations and dialogue, the Prime Ministers Office said in a statement.
As news of Russian President Vladimir Putin ordering a military operation in eastern Ukraine broke, United Nations Secretary General Atonio Guterres, speaking at a hastily called Security Council meeting, asked Russia to stop the attack on Ukraine and to give peace a chance.
We dont have NATO troops in Ukraine, and we dont have any plans to send NATO troops into Ukraine, Mr. Stoltenberg told a media conference after an emergency meeting of the alliances ambassadors.
Russian forces invaded Ukraine by land, air and sea on Thursday in the biggest attack by one state against another in Europe since World War II.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday that Moscow had no other choice but to invade Ukraine to ensure Russia's security, speaking hours after his army crossed his ex-Soviet neighbour's borders.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to have a late night telephone call with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. This is following a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security in Delhi, say government sources. - Nistula Hebbar
Air India plane enroute to Kyiv, Ukraine, to bring back Indians turns back mid-way and returns to Delhi after Ukraine closed its airspace for commercial flights, says airline spokesperson. reported by Jagriti Chandra
"The complete West will turn away from Russia," he said. "We will diversify our energy system. We will not buy Russian coal and gas in such an amount in the future." Germany currently gets about half of its natural gas and coal from Russia, and a third of its oil. AP
"What was happening left us with no choice," the Russian leader said during a televised meeting with business representatives, adding that "we had no other way of proceeding". -AFP
The European Union on Thursday summoned the Russian ambassador to the EU to convey its strongest condemnation of the attack on Ukraine, the blocs foreign policy service said in a statement.
"I wanted to say in conclusion that we aren't being aggressive against the Ukrainian people but against the junta that is in power in Kiyv," said Vassily Nebenzia. AFP
He added: "Indian officials say they are closely monitoring. What does it mean. Several people have died already. Hundreds and thousands will die. We seek India's support. 70 countries have already supported Ukraine."
Security camera footage shows a line of Russian military vehicles crossing into Ukraine from Russian-annexed Crimea.
This is one of the most serious threats in Europe today, Podolyak said.  Reuters
A screen recording of flight tracking website FlightRadar24 shows aircraft diverting around Ukraine, February 24, 2022 in this still image taken from video.
Briefing media persons after the Cabinet Committee on Security CCS meeting on Thursday, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla says that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has conveyed to the CCS that the topmost priority for India is the safe evacuation of its citizens and students.
Poland has raised the level of readiness of some military units due to Russias attack on Ukraine, its ministry of defence said on Thursday.
At least 68 people have been killed in the military operation launched by Russia on Ukraine. Ukrainian forces also claim they have killed around 50 Russian occupiers. As several fighter aircraft and helicopters are seen in parts of Ukraine, an adviser to the presidential office said they feared that Russian forces could be air dropped into the country and then try to penetrate the government district in Kyiv.
External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar tweeted late on Thursday, that he had spoken to Hungary counerpart on the evacuation of students stranded in Ukraine. Reached out to my friend FM Pter Szijjrt of Hungary on the Ukraine evacuation.
The U.S. President said that he will coordinate with NATO allies to ensure strong, united response to Russian actions.  Reuters
Safe Airspace, which was set up to provide safety and conflict zone information for airlines after Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 was shot down over eastern Ukraine in 2014, said it had increased its risk level to "do not fly".
Scenes from Ukraine, even as the border guard said Russian military columns have crossed Ukrainian border into Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Luhansk regions. Photos: Getty Images, AP, Reuters and AFP. RussiaUkraineConflictpic.twitter.comigx5RYavpU
Mr. Jaishankar will speak to his Ukraine counterpart, Mr. Shringla told the mediapersons. - Suhasini Haidar
The helpline numbers of Indian Embassy in Kiev are: 38 0997300483428, 38 0933980327, 38 0635917881, 38 0935046170
Mr. Podolyak said that "our Army is fighting back inflicting significant losses to the enemy. He said that there have been civilian casualties, but didnt give details.
Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations T S Tirumurti speaks at the UNSC emergency meeting on Ukraine crisis, in New York.
While responding on Ukraine Ambassadors press meet earlier today, the Foreign Secretary said that the Government was in touch with Ukrainian officials including the Ukraine Ambassador but we have not been told of any disappointment.
The virtual, closed-door meeting of G7 leaders -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- was set to start at 7.30 p.m. Indian time, with Mr. Bidens White House speech scheduled for later.
In a televised address, Putin said the action comes in response to threats coming from Ukraine. He added that Russia doesnt have a goal to occupy Ukraine. Putin said the responsibility for bloodshed lies with the Ukrainian regime. Putin warns any foreign attempt to interfere with Russian action would lead to consequences they have never seen AP
Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. And now he and his country will bear the consequences, Mr. Biden said during a televised address to the nation from the East Room of the White House on Thursday afternoon.   Sriram Lakshman
Countries closest to the conflict  Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland  requested rare consultations under Article 4 of NATOs founding treaty, which can be launched when the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the NATO parties is threatened.
We are deploying additional defensive land and air forces to the eastern part of the alliance, as well as additional maritime assets, NATO ambassadors said in a statement. We have increased the readiness of our forces to respond to all contingencies.
The Russian Defence Ministry said the Russian strikes have suppressed air defence means of the Ukrainian military, adding that the infrastructure of Ukraines military bases has been incapacitated. It denied the claims that a Russian warplane was shot down over Ukraine.  Reuters
Urging Mr. Putin to bring back the Russian troops, the UN chief said the decisions of the coming days will shape our world and affect the lives of millions.
The border guard said separately Russian military columns have crossed Ukrainian border into Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Luhansk regions.
U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Thursday said lawmakers want to provide Ukraine with $600 million for lethal defense weapons to battle Russias unfolding attack.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres Wednesday made a personal appeal to Vladimir Putin to not attack Ukraine, minutes before the Russian president announced a military operation against its ex-Soviet neighbor.
Stop the military operation. Bring the troops back to Russia. We know the toll of war. With deaths rising, we are seeing images of fear, anguish and terror in every corner of Ukraine, Mr. Guterres said, adding that innocent people always pay the highest price in a war.   PTI
"We are deeply dissatisfied with the Indian position. We are pleading for strong voice of India," Dr. Polikha told mediapersons in New Delhi.
Ukrainian aviation authorities also have declared some airspace in the east to be danger areas because of attempts by Russian aviation authorities to seize control of the airspace.
Mr. Putin said Russia would respond instantly if any external force tried to interfere with its actions and that Moscow would try to de-militarise and 'de-Nazify' Ukraine.
"Regardless of the actual movements of Russian forces into Ukraine, the level of tension and uncertainty in Ukraine is now extreme," Safe Airspace said on its website. "This itself gives rise to significant risk to civil aviation."
Eighteen died -- eight men and 10 women. At the moment, we are still digging through the rubble, the Odessa regional administration said in a statement.
Germany's vice chancellor said Thursday that Russia's attack on Ukraine is "completely illogical" and will backfire, causing western nations to stop buying Russian coal, oil and gas  an important source of income for the resource-rich country.
He asked for world leaders to provide large-scale defense support and to protect Ukraines airspace from the aggressor.
Russias Federal Security Service FSB said Ukrainian border guards had abandoned all facilities at the Russian-Ukrainian border, the Interfax news agency reported. - Reuters
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged global leaders to provide defense assistance to Ukraine and help protect its airspace from Russia.
Ukrainian police on Thursday said Russia had carried out 203 attacks since the beginning of the day, with fighting going on almost everywhere throughout Ukraines territory.
For the first time since the start of the action, Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov confirmed the Russian ground troops had rolled into Ukraine, saying they advanced toward the city of Kherson, northwest of Crimea.
This applies to the present military offensive. It is wrong. It is against the Charter. It is unacceptable. But it is not irreversible, he said.
India was the architect of Panchshila - 5 principles. We plead for support of India. Modiji is one of the most powerful leaders in the world. The status of Modiji makes me hopeful that in case of his strong voice, Putin will think over, Dr. Polikha said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has ordered a full military mobilisation to counter the Russian invasion.
Equity benchmark Sensex crashed over 2,700 points on Thursday following a severe sell-off in global markets afterRussia launched a military offensive against Ukraine.
He has promised full cooperation to facilitate evacuation from Debrecen. Thank him for his understanding, Mr. Jaishankar tweeted.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday announced a military operation in Ukraine, claiming its intended to protect civilians.
NATO agreed at emergency talks on Thursday to further beef up its land, sea and air forces on its eastern flank near Ukraine and Russia after President Vladimir Putin ordered a military offensive in Ukraine.
A Ukrainian presidential advisor says that Russian forces have launched an attack on Ukraine from the north, east and south. The advisor, Mykhailo Podolyak, said the Ukrainian military is fighting hard.
Russia's ambassador to the United Nations told an emergency Security Council meeting late Wednesday that Moscow's military operation against Ukraine was targeting "the junta" in power in Kiyv.
Gujarat govt sets up an emergency helpline for nearly 3000 students from the State who are stranded in Ukraine. The helpline No is 079-23251900. The State Government is in touch with the Centre for early evacuation of the students, it said.
"President Putin, stop your troops from attacking Ukraine, give peace a chance, too many people have already died," Guterres said during the second emergency Security Council meeting in three days over the Russia-Ukraine crisis. AFP
The Ukrainian official said they feared that Russian forces could be air dropped into the country and then try to penetrate the government district in Kyiv.
The summit is to agree a new round of sanctions -- which Mr. Borrell has said would be the harshest ever imposed by the EU -- that will be both sectorial and individual and coordinated with the EUs partners, particularly the United States. - AFP
The dollar was up more than six percent against the ruble, which has been battered in recent weeks on worries about the impact of sanctions on the Russian economy. Reuters and AFP
The United Nations, NATO and various countries around the world have scrambled to put pressure on Russia to cease the attack by threatening with sanctions and retaliation.
On Thursday morning, a large number of Indian students reached outside the Indian embassy in Kyiv and sought refuge. Not all could be accommodated inside the embassy premises and some have been provided safe premises nearby. No Indian student is stranded outside the Embassy of India at present. - Kallol Bhattacherjee reports via sources
Speaking at the United Nations Security Council, Indias Permanent Representative to United Nations, T.S. Trimurti, said: We call for an immediate de-escalation situation is in danger of spiraling into a major crisis. If not handled carefully, it may undermine security. The security of all parties should be taken into account.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg was to hold a media conference afterwards, expected around 11:30 p.m. GMT 5:00 p.m. IST- AFP
He denied that the government delayed plans for evacuation and said that the Indian Embassy issued advisories,facilitated those wishing to leave, but many students were not keen to leave studies. All options for evacuation are being explored, we are looking at both commercial and military planes to be used, he said.
New Delhi shares a close relationship with both Moscow and Washington and is having to walk a tightrope given the increasingly isolated position Russia finds itself in, following its invasion of Ukraine in the early hours of Thursday.  Sriram Lakshman
There are very few nations in the world that can influence Russia. India can stop escalation, he reiterated. - Kallol Bhattacherjee
This was also the seventh straight session of decline for both the indices. On the Sensex chart, all 30 shares suffered heavy losses, with IndusInd Bank, MM and Bajaj Finance shedding as much as 8.
We have decided, in line with our defensive planning to protect all allies, to take additional steps to further strengthen deterrence and defense across the Alliance, the envoys said. Our measures are and remain preventive, proportionate and non-escalatory.
The Indian embassy in Ukraine said alternative arrangements were being made to evacuate Indians since the Ukrainian airspace had been closed.
U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky soon after Russia launched an attack on Ukraine, the White House said late Wednesday in Washington.
He tasked the military's general staff with determining the number of people eligible for service and the number of reservists as well as the order of the call-up. The president's cabinet has been tasked with allocating money for the mobilisation. -AP
Mr. Biden just spoke with Zelensky, a spokesman said, adding that details would be issued later. -AFP
NATO member Lithuania borders Russias Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south. -AP
Police officers inspect the remains of a missile that fell in the street, after Russian President Vladimir Putin authorized a military operation in eastern Ukraine, in Kiev on February 24, 2022.
It is impossible to say the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe after a totally pointless attack by the Russians, he said.
Several explosions were heard in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, after an initial series of sounds similar to artillery fire, a Reuters witness reported.
External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar expectedto speak with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, said diplomatic sources. - Kallol Bhattacharjee
"Russian occupying forces are trying to take over the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. Our soldiers are giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 does not happen again," he wrote on Twitter, referring to the date of the disaster.
Ukrainian officials say the countrys military is fighting back and asked for Western defense assistance.
Ambassador Vladimir Chizhov was condemned for the unprovoked, unjustified invasion of Ukraine by armed forces of the Russian Federation and told to convey to Moscow Brusselss demand for an immediate end to military operations, the statement said.
What were doing with Ukraine is making sure that we have humanitarian assistance to help the people that we have lethal defense weapons going into Ukraine to the tune of $600 million for them to fight their own fight, she said, speaking to reporters in San Francisco.  Reuters
Asked about Indias sanctions against Russia, he said we have to see what impact sanctions have on our existing relationship and this is an evolving situation.
People wait at Kyiv Airport after Russian President Vladimir Putin authorized a military operation in eastern Ukraine, February 24, 2022.
Kherson sits on reservoir providing the bulk of fresh water for Crimea until Ukraine cut it off with a dam in 2017 in response to Moscows 2014 annexation of Ukraines Crimean Peninsula.
The 30-share BSE gauge plunged about 2,850 points during the session before closing at 54,529.91, registering a massive fall of 2,702.15 points or 4.72. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty nosedived 815.30 points or 4.78 to end at 16,247.95.
UEFA are to hold an emergency meeting on Friday to evaluate the situation concerning Russias invasion of Ukraine with the former set to host the Champions League final in Saint Petersburg in May.
He said that 20 officers are manning the MEAs 247 control room and have answered 980 calls, 850 emails today.
Today, in connection with the Russian aggression, minister Mariusz Blaszczak decided to introduce a further level of readiness in particular units of operational and territorial defense forces, the Ministry said in a statement.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced the decision to rupture ties with Moscow on Thursday after it launched a massive air and missile attack on its neighbor and Russian forces were seen rolling into Ukraine.
U.S. President Joe Biden said that his administration was in consultation with India on Thursday and in the process of resolving issues stemming from Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine on Thursday fought Russian forces along practically its entire border with Russia, and there was fierce fighting in the regions of Sumy, Kharkiv, Kherson, Odessa and at a military airport near Kyiv, an adviser to the presidential office said.
Indian shares plunged more than 3 on Thursday, as investors fled risk assets after Russian President Vladimir Putin authorised a special military operation in Ukraine's Donbass region.
Ukraines president says his country has cut diplomatic ties with Russia after it was attacked.
The International Paralympic Committee said it was in talks with sports officials in Ukraine and Russia as their teams prepare to head to China for the start of the Paralympic Games next week.
According to reports by news agency UKRINFORM, the Armed Forces of Ukraine shot down five Russian planes and one helicopter in the Luhansk region.
An adviser to Ukraines president says about 40 people have been killed so far in the Russian attack on the country.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said on Thursday that the alliance had no intention to send forces into Ukraine after Russia invaded its pro-Western neighbour.
Robert Habeck, a powerful figure in the new German government whose portfolio includes economy and climate, said the crisis will strengthen the case for customers of Russian fossil fuels to pursue energy independence by boosting renewable sources.
The secretary general of the EUs external action service, Stefano Sannino, summoned Mr. Chizhov at the direction of EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell. Secretary General Sannino informed Ambassador Chizov that the EUs firm response to the Russian aggression will be decided at an emergency EU summit taking place later Thursday in Brussels.
Russia's name, flag and anthem are already barred from the March 4-13 Paralympics in Beijing over previous doping disputes. Its team is due to compete as RPC, short for Russian Paralympic Committee.
President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering. Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable, Mr. Biden said via a statement released by the White House.
State border guards said the Ukrainian military was fighting Russian forces near the eastern city of Sumy. Ukraines Defence Minister said some Russian forces had been taken prisoner in heavy fighting. - Reuters
At least eight people have been killed and nine were wounded by the Russian shelling, an advisor to the Ukrainian Minister of Internal Affairs said on Thursday as Russia has launched massive air and ground assault on the neighbouring country.
Mr. Shringla also told that External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar is speaking to his counterparts in Poland, Romania, Hungary and Slovak Republic which share land borders with Ukraine, as well as with European Unions High Representative and U.K. Foreign Secretary.
In a brief statement, the league said the suspension was due to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's decision to impose martial law. It did not give any planned date to resume.
The Ukrainian government is closing airports in eastern Ukraine from midnight through 7 a.m. because of the confrontation with Russia.
Mr. Guterres once again appealed to Mr. Putin to stop the military operation in Ukraine.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky said, We introduce martial law on all territories of the state. Russia has attacked our military infrastructure  Reuters
The attack struck a military base about 100 kilometres north of Odessa, in a region near Ukraines border with Moldova. - AFP
We are seeing Russian military operations inside the sovereign territory of Ukraine on a scale that Europe has not seen in decades. Day after day, I have been clear that such unilateral measures conflict directly with the United Nations Charter, Mr. Guterres said here on Thursday, a day after Russia launched a military operation against Ukraine.
Adviser to Ukraines president says about 40 people have been killed so far in Russian attack on the country.
