Top news of the day Dont share topsecret information over Internet IB Ministry tells its officials UP withdraws cases of destruction of property and more
20220218
https://www.thehindu.com/news/top-news-of-the-day-february-18-2022-dont-share-top-secret-information-over-internet-ib-ministry-tells-its-officials-up-says-it-has-withdrawn-274-recovery-notices-against-anti-caa-protestors-and-more/article65062617.ece
A letter placed on record prima facie speaks that the CPI Maoist was bent upon ending the Modi raj and that they were also thinking of another incident like the death of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, by targeting the road shows of PM Narenda Modi, the court said.
The special designated court also awarded life imprisonment until death to 11 people, who were convicted under various charges for carrying out 22 bomb blasts in various places in Ahmedabad in July 2008.
They have also been told not to use digital assistant devices such as Amazons Echo, Apples HomePod and Google Home in office and turn off digital assistants, including Alexa and Siri, in smartphones or watches.
The list identifies 42 online markets and 35 physical markets that are reported to engage in or facilitate substantial trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy.
Two days ahead of polling for the Punjab Assembly Elections, Congress has released its election manifesto, with a slew of promises surrounding the ending of liquor-sand mafias, generating employment, and providing 170 different government services online to the public.
The Supreme Court hearing had seen verbal battles among the States, with Telangana submitting that there was no information forthcoming from Karnataka for the past 14 years about how much Krishna water it had diverted.
Look-out Circulars have also beenissued against Ms. Ramkrishna former group operating officer and advisor to the exchange, Anand Subramanian and Ravi Narain, who was the managing director and chief executive officer of the NSE from April 1994 to March 2013, an agency official said.
Russian military announced that President Vladimir Putin will monitor a sweeping exercise of the countrys nuclear forces on February 19.
Elgar Parishad case  Accused wanted to create unrest in country, overthrow Modi govt, says court citing letter
The Netherlands Prime Minister Mark Rutte offered a full apology to Indonesia after a historical review found the Dutch had used excessive violence in a vain attempt to regain control of their former colony after World War Two.
The cases would now be referred to a claims tribunal set up under the newly enacted Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Act of 2020 for fresh adjudication.
The National Statistical Office will declare the GDP estimates for Q3 FY 2021- 22 on February 28.
