Ukraine says missiles hit Russias Black Sea fleet Russia says crew evacuated due to fire
20220315
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/ukraine-says-missiles-hit-russian-flagship-crew-evacuates/article65320437.ece
If confirmed, the sinking of the cruiser would be a major blow to Russia, after the tank carrier Orsk was hit and set on fire in an attack in Berdyansk in the Sea of Azov late last month.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has denied his troops committed atrocities, saying Tuesday that Moscow had no other choice but to invade and would continue until its full completion and the fulfillment of the tasks that have been set. He insisted Russias campaign was going as planned despite a major withdrawal after its forces failed to take the capital and suffered significant losses.
Russian troops are gearing up for a major offensive in the eastern Donbas region, where Moscow-allied separatists and Ukrainian forces have been fighting since 2014. Mariupol is a key piece in the Russian campaign and lies in the Donbas, which the Russians have pummeled for weeks.
Russias Defence Ministry confirmed the ship was damaged but not that it was hit by Ukraine  it said ammunition on board detonated as a result of a fire of as-yet undetermined causes. The entire crew was evacuated, it added the cruiser typically has about 500 on board.
The reported ship attack by Neptune cruise missiles came a day after President Joe Biden called Russias actions in Ukraine a genocide and approved $800 million in new military assistance to Kyiv, saying weapons from the West have sustained Ukraines fight so far and we cannot rest now. The munitions include artillery systems, armored personnel carriers and helicopters.
Ukrainian forces said they hit and badly damaged the flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet, and Russia said its crew was forced to evacuate as a result of a fire without acknowledging an attack, as the battle shifts east and around the battered city of Mariupol where the defenders were still holding out.
Russian state television broadcast footage Wednesday that it said was from Mariupol showing dozens of men in camouflage walking with their hands up and carrying others on stretchers or in chair holds. One man held a white flag. In the background was a tall industrial building with its windows shattered and roof missing, identified by the broadcaster as the Iliich metalworks.
It was unclear when a surrender may have occurred or how many forces were still defending Mariupol.
The governor of the Odesa region, Maksym Marchenko, said the Ukrainians struck the guided-missile cruiser Moskva with two missiles and caused serious damage.
