Ukrainian President warns Russia war could lead to famine in other nations
20220322
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/ukrainian-president-warns-russia-war-could-lead-to-famine-in-other-nations/article65248947.ece
pass," he said, adding that the consequences of the war were already being felt in many parts of the world.
Signalling its desire to strengthen ties with the West, Ukraine has long said it wants to join the European Union.
Russian President Vladimir Putin calls the war, the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two, a "special
the largest food exporters, but how can we sow crops under the strikes of Russian artillery?"
military operation" to disarm Ukraine and protect it from "Nazis". The West calls that a false pretext for an unprovoked
Russia's attack on Ukraine risks causing famine in countries around the world, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told the Italian parliament on Tuesday, urging greater help to defeat the invaders.
"For Russian troops, Ukraine is the gates of Europe, where they want to break in, but barbarism must not be allowed to
"The most terrible thing will be the famine that is approaching for some countries. Ukraine has always been one of
Draghi told lawmakers that this was a lengthy process because of the many reforms needed to integrate fully with the
In his latest address to Western lawmakers, Mr Zelenskiy said via a video link that his people were clinging to survival, with the Russian military devastating Ukrainian cities and slaughtering civilians.
Countries such as Lebanon, Egypt, Yemen and others have come to rely on Ukrainian wheat in recent years and the war has caused wheat prices to skyrocket - rising by 50 in the last month.
"The arrogance of the Russian government has collided with the dignity of the Ukrainian people, who have managed to curb Moscow's expansionist aims and impose a huge cost on the invading army," Mr Draghi told parliament.
"I want to say to President Zelenskiy that Italy is at Ukraine's side in this process. Italy wants Ukraine in the
Replying to Mr Zelenskiy, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said that Ukraine had offered "heroic" resistance to the Russian invasion and promised continued support for refugees fleeing the fighting, as well as military aid.
