Ukraine president pleads for worldwide show of support
20220324
https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/ukraine-president-pleads-for-worldwide-show-of-support/article65254815.ece
On the eve of a meeting with Mr. Biden, European Union nations signed off on another 500 million euros $550 million in military aid for Ukraine. Mr. Zelenskyy appealed to Western countries to stay united in the face of Russias efforts to lobby its interests with some partners to bring them over to its side and noted during his national address that Ukraine has not received the fighter jets or modern air-defence systems it requested. He said Ukraine also needs tanks and anti-ship systems.
The Russian Federation is capable of physically destroying any aggressor or any aggressor group within minutes at any distance, said Dmitry Rogozin, who heads the state aerospace corporation, Roscosmos, and oversees missile-building facilities. He noted in his televised remarks that Moscows nuclear stockpiles include tactical nuclear weapons, designed for use on battlefields, along with far more powerful nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missiles.
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss military assessments, said it appears the forces are no longer trying to advance into the city and in some areas east of Kyiv, Ukrainian troops have pushed Russian soldiers farther away.
In the south, the encircled port city of Mariupol has seen the worst devastation of the war, enduring weeks of bombardment and, now, street-by-street fighting. But Ukrainian forces have prevented its fall, thwarting an apparent bid by Moscow to fully secure a land bridge from Russia to Crimea, seized from Ukraine in 2014.
In its last update, Russia said on March 2 that nearly 500 soldiers had been killed and almost 1,600 wounded. Ukraine has released little information about its own military losses and the West has not given an estimate, but Mr. Zelenskyy said nearly two weeks ago that about 1,300 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed. Ukraine also claims to have killed six Russian generals. Russia acknowledges just one dead general.
Ukraine President Volodymr Zelenskyy called on people worldwide to gather in public on March 24 to show support for his embattled country on the one-month anniversary of the Russian invasion that he said breaks the heart of every free person on the planet.
Mr. Zelenskyy said 1,00,000 civilians remain in the city, which had a population of 4,30,000 before the war. Efforts to get desperately needed food and other supplies to those trapped have often failed. Mr. Zelenskyy accused Russian forces of seizing a humanitarian convoy. Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the Russians were holding captive 11 bus drivers and four rescue workers along with their vehicles.
Mr. Zelenskyy  whose video messages have repeatedly riveted the worlds attention  also said he would speak to NATO members by video to ask the alliance to provide effective and unrestricted support to Ukraine, including any weapons the country needs to fend off the Russian onslaught.
Despite evidence to the contrary, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov insisted the military operation is going strictly in accordance with plans. In an ominous sign that Moscow might consider using nuclear weapons, a senior Russian official said the countrys nuclear arsenal would help deter the West from intervening in Ukraine.
It has been a month of defending ourselves from attempts to destroy us, wipe us off the face of the earth, he said. The U. S. has determined that Russian troops have committed war crimes in Ukraine and it will work to prosecute the offenders, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said. He cited evidence of indiscriminate or deliberate attacks against civilians and the destruction of apartment buildings, schools, hospitals, shopping centres and other sites.
Instead, Russian troops appear to be prioritising the fight in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions in the Donbas, in what could be an effort to cut off Ukrainian troops and prevent them from moving west to defend other cities, the official said. The U.S. also has seen activity from Russian ships in the Sea of Azov, including what appear to be efforts to send landing ships ashore with supplies, including vehicles, the official said.
In their last update, over a week ago, Mariupol officials said at least 2,300 people had died, but the true toll is probably much higher. Airstrikes in the past week destroyed a theatre and an art school where civilians were sheltering.
When Russia unleashed its invasion on February 24 in Europes biggest offensive since World War II, a swift toppling of Ukraines government seemed likely. But with Wednesday marking four full weeks of fighting, Moscow is bogged down in a grinding military campaign. NATO estimated that 7,000 to 15,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in four weeks of war in Ukraine, where fierce resistance has denied Moscow the lightning victory it sought.
As U. S. President Joe Biden headed to Europe to meet with key allies about new sanctions against Moscow and more military aid to Ukraine, he warned there is a real threat" Russia could use chemical weapons.
A senior U.S. defence official said on Wednesday that Russian ground forces appear to be digging in and setting up defensive positions 15 to 20km 9 to 12 miles outside Kyiv, the capital, as they make little to no progress toward the city centre.
Come to your squares, your streets. Make yourselves visible and heard, Mr. Zelenskyy said in English during an emotional video address late Wednesday that was recorded in the dark near the presidential offices in Kyiv. Say that people matter. Freedom matters. Peace matters. Ukraine matters.
U.S. officials long have warned that Russias military doctrine envisages an escalate to deescalate option of using battlefield nuclear weapons to force the enemy to back down in a situation when Russian forces face imminent defeat. Moscow has denied having such plans.
Kateryna Mytkevich, 39, who arrived in Poland after fleeing Chernihiv, wiped away tears as she said the city is without gas, electricity or running water, and entire neighbourhoods have been destroyed. I dont understand why we have such a curse," she said.
In Kyiv, where near-constant shelling and gunfire shook the city Wednesday as the two sides battled for control of multiple suburbs, Mayor Vitali Klitschko said at least 264 civilians have been killed since the war broke out. The independent Russian news outlet The Insider said Russian journalist Oksana Baulina had been killed by shelling in a Kyiv neighbourhood on Wednesday.
By way of comparison, Russia lost about 15,000 troops over 10 years in Afghanistan. A senior NATO military official said the alliances estimate was based on information from Ukrainian authorities, what Russia has released  intentionally or not  and intelligence gathered from open sources. The official spoke on condition of anonymity under ground rules set by NATO.
With its ground forces slowed or stopped by hit-and-run Ukrainian units armed with Western-supplied weapons, Russian President Vladimir Putin's troops are bombarding targets from afar, falling back on the tactics they used in reducing cities to rubble in Syria and Chechnya.
In the besieged northern city of Chernihiv, Russian forces bombed and destroyed a bridge that was used for aid deliveries and civilian evacuations, regional governor Viacheslav Chaus said.
Mr. Rogozin, known for his bluster, did not make clear what actions by the West would be seen as meddling, but his comments almost certainly reflect thinking inside the Kremlin. Mr. Putin has warned the West that an attempt to introduce a no-fly zone over Ukraine would draw it into a conflict with Russia. Western nations have said they would not create a no-fly zone to protect Ukraine.
