Hollywood celebs condemn Russia  Ukraine war
20220226
https://www.geo.tv/latest/401682-hollywood-celebs-condemns-russia-ukraine-war
He wrote, To my friends and family in Ukraine - my heart breaks that this conflict has escalated in such a devastating way. Please take great care and be as safe as you can. Sending thoughts to you and your loved ones during this chaotic and disruptive time.
Russia declared a war on Ukraine in the early hours of Thursday. Several casualties have been reported since Russias invasion and many have fled the country to seek protection.
Priyanka Chopra, Ashton Kutcher, Khloe Kardashian, Cardi B, Stephen King were among others who raised their voice for the people of Ukraine.
Celebrities are doing their bid as they request for help and share the current situation of Ukraine.
Kylie Jenner reacted to the crises in an Instagram story, God protect the people of Ukraine. My thoughts and prayers are with you
The Maleficent actor stated "Like many of you, Im praying for the people in Ukraine. My focus along with my refugees colleagues is that everything possible is done to ensure the protection and basic human rights of those displaced, and refugees in the region.
Taking to Twitter, Mark Ruffalo shared a tweet as he sends love and prayers to the people of Ukraine.
We have already seen reports of casualties and people starting to flee their homes to seek safety. It is too soon to know what will happen, but the significance of this moment - for the people of Ukraine, and for the international rule of law - cannot be overstated," the 46-year-old actor concluded her statement.
Sending love and good prayers to all innocent people of Ukraine and Russia and Europe who are caught up in this sad and corrosive moment of asymmetrical violence and destruction, especially the young people, he wrote.
If I could somehow summon the powers of a real life Peacemaker I think this would be a great time to do so, tweeted actor  wrestler John Cena.
Amid the on-going crises, Hollywood celebrities showed their support to the innocent civilians of Ukraine and condemned the war.
Jared Leto  who played the Joker in The Suicide Squad - also expressed his concern in a tweet.
