Life goes on as Ukraine army holds war weddings
20220612
https://www.geo.tv/latest/422078-life-goes-on-as-ukraine-army-holds-war-weddings
The other bride, Kristina, 23, who works in the signals corps, opted for a traditional long white dress with red folk embroidery to marry Vitaliy Orlich, also 23, a sniper.
"I cant give them free days as such. The only thing is that they wont be on the frontline, they will stay in the rear," the brigades commander Oleksandr Okhrimenko told AFP.
Air raid sirens wailed and one of the brides wore camouflage trousers as the Ukrainian army took a break from frontline fighting in the east to hold a double wedding Sunday.
Kristina said that her husband had spoken to her mother online and "she already calls him a son".
"The main thing is that we love each other and we want to be together."
The couples were set to return to serve in the war zone on the same day.
None of those attending reacted. Many war-hardened locals now ignore warnings to go to shelters unless there is an obvious threat.
The brigades chaplain gave them an Orthodox Christian blessing, flicking holy water and placing crowns on their heads, on the day of a major Church holiday, the Festival of the Holy Trinity.
Two young couples who met just months earlier while serving in the army tied the knot together Sunday in the small town of Druzhkivka, 40 kilometres 25 miles from frontline zones where Ukrainian forces are battling Russian invaders.
The couples went through traditional rituals such as stepping together onto an embroidered towel, symbolising togetherness.
Even in relatively untouched Druzhkivka, shelling earlier this month tore apart private houses and crashed through the roof of a Baptist church in one street.
She met her husband Volodymyr Mykhalchuk, 28, just two months ago, when he was mobilised. They live around five kilometres from each other in the same southwestern Vinnytska region but might never have met if it had not been for the war.
Druzhkivka is about 40 kilometres as the crow flies from three fronts, as Russian troops threaten the towns of Sloviansk to the northeast, Bakhmut to the east and Gorlivka to the southeast.
The young couples married in front of a registry office, which had closed due to the war.
The quiet street had few cars and occasional trams. Sandbags were piled up in front of the cafe and shop windows.
The soldiers were from the 14th Separate Mechanised Brigade, which has been fighting Russian-backed forces in Donbas since May.
"I believe that this is about creating a new family -- it doesnt matter where it happens or how," she said.
One of the brides, Khrystyna Lyuta, a 23-year-old contract soldier with the rank of private first class, wore camouflage trousers and army boots with a traditional red Ukrainian blouse embroidered with flowers.
Hours later, AFP reporters heard shelling and saw smoke rising as the two sides exchanged fire close to Bakhmut.
The Priest in a khaki cassock, Yuriy Zdebskiy, told AFP that "its the first marriage in the brigade in wartime", since Russia launched its invasion on February 24.
The sun shone and soldiers carried bouquets in a brief interlude from heavy fighting as Russians intensify efforts to push out Kyivs forces in the east.
