Argentina farmers may miss out on grains rally stoked by Ukraine crisis
20220224
https://nationalpost.com/pmn/news-pmn/disaster-pmn/argentina-farmers-may-miss-out-on-grains-rally-stoked-by-ukraine-crisis
U.S. wheat and corn futures rose by their daily trading limits on Thursday, while soybeans reached the highest level since 2012, after Russian forces attacked Ukraine, exacerbating worries over global supplies.
Idigoras said, however, that there was little remaining wheat authorized for overseas sales due to export caps. Farmers completed the wheat harvest in early January. Other grains have been hit by drought since late last year, hurting production.
High prices will nonetheless counterbalance some of the impact of drought, which have led to Argentinas grains exchanges slashing their harvest forecasts for corn and soy.
There is clearly a positive scenario in this regard, though it will be limited by the weather conditions in the country in the coming months and the prices of inputs, which have grown a lot at the international level, he added. Reporting by Reporting by Maximilian Heath Editing by Adam Jourdan and Lisa Shumaker
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Argentinas 202122 wheat production reached 22.1 million tonnes, according to official data, but farmers have already sold 15.5 million tonnes of the grain and the domestic demand for wheat is 6 million tonnes.
Idigoras said that with export limits to ensure local supply we have very little remaining, less than 1 million tonnes, with which we are not going to be able to take advantage of any price or price displacement benefit from Ukraine.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Russia and Ukraine are the top two global suppliers of wheat, with a combined 29 of world exports.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Rising international prices always have a positive impact on producers in Argentina, said Idigoras, adding that it could encourage Argentine wheat producers when they start the 202223 cycle when the Southern Hemisphere autumn has begun.
Argentina is the worlds top exporter of soybean oil and meal, a major supplier of wheat and the global No.2 corn exporter.
BUENOS AIRES  A severe drought and export caps are limiting Argentine farmers ability to take advantage of spiking wheat and soy prices that have risen due to a spiraling conflict in Ukraine, raising fears over supply from the major European grains producer.
The benefits of incremental prices due to the military conflict are very limited for Argentina due to a poor harvest due to drought, Gustavo Idigoras, head of the CIARA-CEC chamber of grains processors and exporters, told Reuters on Thursday.
