Equipment on Russian trucks jamming satellite navigation on commercial planes French safety official
20220401
https://nationalpost.com/news/world/equipment-on-russian-trucks-jamming-satellite-navigation-on-commercial-planes-french-safety-official
In France, a strong military-jamming event using one truck could cut out a quarter of French skies, Roturier said. This is what is worrisome for civil aviation. Large areas can be affected outside of conflict zones.
While no dangerous in-flight situation has occurred due to backup measures, pilots confronted with an episode are forced to deal with cockpit alerts that can be distracting, he said.
Airline pilots reported disruptions in regions around the Black Sea, eastern Finland and the Kaliningrad enclave, said Benoit Roturier
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Earlier this month, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency warned of an increased probability of problems with the Global Navigation Satellite Systems used by commercial aircraft due to the war.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Russia was responsible for the 2018 incidents as well, according to Roturier, as part of the countrys military support for Syria.
Bloomberg  Russias military has been jamming satellite navigation systems used by commercial aircraft since the invasion of Ukraine, highlighting the need for robust alternatives, according to a French safety regulator.
The issue has a precedent in 2018, when some 60 airlines reported several hundred partial or complete losses of satellite navigation services, according to a 2019 EU report to the International Civil Aviation Organization.
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
In most cases the likely cause was ground-originated jamming, the report said, citing the use of high-power jammers impacting large swathes of airspace in areas where there was political tension.
I dont think the goal is to jam civil aviation at this stage, Roturier said in an interview. That is collateral damage.
Yet the recent incidents related to the Ukraine war have sparked a realization among regulators of the potential for massive airspace disruptions, especially as the European Union pushes for increasing reliance on satellite navigation.
Airline pilots have reported disruptions in regions around the Black Sea, eastern Finland and the Kaliningrad enclave, said Benoit Roturier, head of satellite navigation at Frances civil aviation authority DGAC. The interference appears to be caused by Russian trucks carrying jamming equipment typically used to protect troops and installations against GPS-guided missiles, he said.
Representatives for Russias defense ministry and the Kremlin didnt immediately respond to requests for comment.
The aviation industry generally uses one Global Positioning System frequency for satellite navigation, but there are backup technologies for when signals are lost.
The jamming of satellite signals used for navigation has thrown up yet another aviation complication from the conflict, which has led to flying bans across the countries and triggered a range of sanctions on airlines and jet manufacturers.
All of Europe needs to prepare contingency plans for when these satellite systems are lost, Roturier said. For some countries closer to the front, who may be less advanced in putting in place contingency plans, the current situation has served to highlight the need. Its a wake-up call.
Airplanes hit by jamming can continue to fly using inertial navigation systems  that is standard and works with GPS, Roturier said. This could be less accurate, but can be used when GPS goes down.
