Russia will monitor UkraineUS military drills and react if necessary defense ministry
20210602
https://nationalpost.com/pmn/news-pmn/russia-will-monitor-ukraine-u-s-military-drills-and-react-if-necessary-defense-ministry
The Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation will closely monitor the preparations and the Ukrainian-American Sea Breeze exercises themselvesand if necessary respond appropriately to the situation in the interests of ensuring Russias military security, the ministry said.
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
MOSCOW  The Russian military will closely monitor upcoming naval drills co-hosted by Ukraine and the United States and react if necessary to protect its own national security, the Russian defense ministry said on Wednesday.
The annual Sea Breeze drills, which are focused on the Black Sea area, will involve personnel from a number of NATO countries and are set to take place from June 28 to July 10, the ministry said in a statement.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Tensions between Russia and Ukraine remain acutely strained after Moscow annexed Ukraines Crimea region in 2014 and backed a pro-Russian separatist uprising in eastern Ukraine that triggered a conflict that has killed over 14,000 people. Reporting by Alexander Marrow Editing by Andrew Osborn
Moscow said the drills went well beyond what it called Ukraines own Black Sea zone.
