Russia steps up missile strikes on Ukraine as G7 leaders gather
20220626
https://nationalpost.com/pmn/news-pmn/russia-steps-up-missile-strikes-on-ukraine-as-g7-leaders-gather-4
Russian missiles also struck the central city of Cherkasy, which until now had been largely untouched by bombardment, according to regional authorities, who said one person had been killed and five others wounded.
She was not threatened by anything in our country. She was completely safe, until Russia itself decided that everything was equally hostile to them now  women, children, kindergartens, houses, hospitals, railways, Zelenskiy said.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Russia denies targeting civilians, but Ukraine and the West accuse Russian forces of war crimes in a conflict that has killed thousands, sent millions fleeing Ukraine and destroyed cities.
The Russians hit Kyiv again. Missiles damaged an apartment building and a kindergarten, said Andriy Yermak, head of the presidents administration.
In the Ukrainian-held Donbas town of Pokrovsk, Elena, an elderly woman from Lysychansk in a wheelchair, was among dozens of evacuees who arrived by bus from frontline areas.
The eastern battlefield city of Sievierodonetsk fell to pro-Russian forces on Saturday after Ukrainian troops retreated, saying there was no longer anything to defend in the ruined city after months of fierce fighting.
As Europes biggest land conflict since World War Two entered its fifth month, the Western alliance supporting Kyiv was starting to show signs of strain as leaders fret about the growing economic cost.
War has to be stopped and global food supply chains need to be reactivated, he said before leaving to attend the G7 summit.
A Ukrainian air force spokesperson said the strike was carried out with 4-6 long-range missiles fired from Russian bombers more than 1,000 kilometers away in the southern Russian region of Astrakhan.
Reporting by Reuters bureaux Writing by Michael Perry, Alex Richardson and James Oliphant Editing by Edmund Klamann, David Clarke, Raissa Kasolowsky, Peter Graff, Nick Zieminski and Daniel Wallis
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the Donetsk region, said on the Telegram app that one civilian was killed and eight injured in Russian shelling on Sunday.
Up to four explosions shook central Kyiv in the early hours, in the first such attack on the city in weeks.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the West needed to maintain a united front against Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The United Nations has warned that a protracted war in Ukraine, one of the worlds major grain exporters, threatens to cause a global hunger crisis.
The war has had a huge impact on the global economy and European security, driving up gas, oil and food prices, pushing the European Union to reduce reliance on Russian energy and prompting Finland and Sweden to seek NATO membership.
Lysychansk, it was a horror, the last week. Yesterday we could not take it any more, she said. I already told my husband if I die, please bury me behind the house.
KYIVPOKROVSK  Russian missiles hit an apartment block and kindergarten in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Sunday, in strikes U.S. President Joe Biden condemned as barbarism as world leaders gathered in Europe to discuss further sanctions against Moscow.
The price of backing down, the price of allowing Putin to succeed, to hack off huge parts of Ukraine, to continue with his program of conquest, that price will be far, far higher, he told reporters.
In his nightly address, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said a wounded seven-year-old girl was pulled from the rubble of a nine-story apartment block. The girls father was killed in the strike, he said.
Its more of their barbarism, said Biden, referring to the missile strikes on Kyiv, as leaders from the Group of Seven G7 rich democracies gathered for a summit in Germany.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said the attack also hit a strategic bridge linking western Ukraine and the eastern battlefields. They are trying to limit the transfer of our reserves and Western weapons to the east, he said in a message to Reuters.
The RIA agency quoted a pro-Russian separatist official as saying separatist forces had evacuated more than 250 people, including children, on Sunday from Sievierodonetsks Azot chemical plant. The plants surrounding industrial area was the last part of Sievierodonetsk held by Ukrainian forces.
Deputy Mayor Mykola Povoroznyk said one person was killed and six wounded. He said explosions heard later in other parts if Kyiv were air defenses destroying further incoming missiles.
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Russias defense ministry said it had used high-precision weapons to strike Ukrainian army training centers in the regions of Chernihiv, Zhytomyr and Lviv, an apparent reference to strikes reported by Ukraine on Saturday. There was no immediate comment about Sundays strikes on Kyiv or Cherkasy.
At Sundays G7 meeting, Britain, Canada, Japan and the United States proposed a ban on imports of gold from Russia.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo, who plans to visit Russia and Ukraine this week, said he would urge his counterparts to start a dialog and would ask Putin to order a ceasefire.
It was a major defeat for Kyiv as it seeks to keep control of two eastern provinces, Luhansk and Donetsk, that form the Donbas region, which Moscow demands Kyiv cede to separatists.
Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what the Kremlin called a special military operation it said was needed to rid the country of dangerous nationalists and ensure Russian security. Kyiv and the West dismiss that as a baseless pretext for a land grab.
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said G7 countries should respond to the latest missile strikes by imposing further sanctions on Russia and providing more heavy weapons to Ukraine.
Life had been returning to normal in Kyiv after fierce resistance held off Russian advances in the early phase of the war, although air raid sirens regularly sound across the city.
A Reuters photographer saw a large blast crater by a playground in a kindergarten that had smashed windows.
Russia has stepped up air strikes on Ukraine this weekend, which has also seen the fall of a strategic eastern city to pro-Russian forces.
Zelenskiy said on Sunday that Ukrainian defenses had only managed to shoot down some of the 62 missiles that Russian had fired in the previous 24 hours and reiterated Kyivs demand for partners to supply modern air defense systems.
Russias TASS news agency quoted the same official as saying forces were now advancing on Lysychansk across the river from Sievierodonetsk. Lysychansk is the last major city held by Ukraine in Luhansk.
