Ukraine war threatens to make bread a luxury in the Middle East
20220228
https://nationalpost.com/pmn/news-pmn/ukraine-war-threatens-to-make-bread-a-luxury-in-the-middle-east
The prospect of a further jump in food prices spooked shoppers in Lebanon, where a deep economic crisis and sharp currency devaluation that began in 2019 has already put many basic goods out of reach for millions of people.
But as international prices surge to their highest level since 2008, Egyptian Prime Minister Moustafa Madbouly said on Feb. 16 that the government will raise the price of a subsidized loaf of bread for the first time since the 1980s.
The region is particularly vulnerable to rises in the cost of basic foods due to inadequate local production and high rates of poverty, with anger over food costs fueling the Arab Spring protests in 2011.
A third of Egypts 100 million people were living below the poverty line even before the COVID-19 pandemic struck, according to the World Bank, and the state sets caps on bread prices to make it affordable.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
A devastating August 2020 explosion at Beirut port also obliterated an adjacent grain silo complex  the countrys largest storage space for wheat and other grains.
Hussein Bagoury, 33, who owns a bakery in the east of the capital, Cairo, said his business had been hurt by a 50 jump in flour prices and a smaller spike in cooking oil prices.
ADENCAIRO, Feb 28 Thomson Reuters Foundation  The war in Ukraine may be unfolding several thousand miles away, but 32-year-old Ilham fears her family will feel its consequences on their dinner table in Yemen.
Elsewhere in the food-poor region, shoppers in Lebanon tried to stock up on bread early to avoid higher prices, while bakers in Egypt said they were already feeling the pinch of higher flour costs.
Its going to be a struggle. Reporting by Maya Gebeily in Aden, Tala Ramadan in Beirut and Menna A. Farouk in Cairo Editing by Helen Popper. Please credit the Thomson Reuters Foundation, the charitable arm of Thomson Reuters, that covers the lives of people around the world who struggle to live freely or fairly. Visit http:news.trust.org
Yemen, which is almost entirely dependent on food imports, buys at least 27 of its wheat from Ukraine and 8 from Russia, a senior financial official and a wheat importer said, asking not to be named.
The prospect of a further surge in international wheat prices means Yemenis could be more vulnerable than ever, said Afrah Al-Zouba, who heads a Yemeni nonprofit working on improving aid access.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
Late last year, funding shortfalls forced the World Food Programme WFP to shrink assistance to eight million Yemenis, risking a looming hunger catastrophe.
Its already too expensive for us, so I cant imagine what will happen when the prices jump even further, llham told the Thomson Reuters Foundation, asking not to give her full name.
Across the Middle East and North Africa, fallout on food prices from the war in Ukraine could drive millions more into food poverty, said the WFPs senior regional spokesperson, Abeer Etefa.
We will either have no wheat at all and if we do, the prices will be unaffordable, said Ghassan Abou Habib, who owns one of the countrys main bakery chains, Wooden Bakery.
Seven years of conflict have battered Yemens economy, hitting employment and more than doubling food prices  leaving more than half of the nations 30 million people hungry, according to the International Rescue Committee.
Conflict between Ukraine and Russia https:www.reuters.comworldeuroperussias-isolation-deepens-ukraine-resists-invasion-2022-02-28, which provide more than a quarter of the worlds wheat exports, has sent global prices https:www.reuters.combusinessenergywheat-pulls-back-13-12-year-peak-ukraine-conflict-assessed-2022-02-25 to a 13-year high  causing alarm in Middle Eastern nations that rely on imports for staples from flatbreads to couscous.
Some tried to stock up at the weekend in anticipation that prices would go up in the days ahead.
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
I went to several bakeries and its almost impossible to get more than one bread bundle, said Fady Moussa, a resident of the capital, Beirut, who was out trying to buy bread on Sunday.
Economy Minister Amin Salam said at a Feb. 25 news conference that the country would explore alternative supply options due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which provides about 60 of Lebanons wheat imports.
Egyptian bakers were already feeling the sting of more expensive flour and cooking oil supplies. Russia and Ukraine are also major suppliers of sunflower oil.
This is making us lose a lot of money because our costs increased, he said.
Egypt, often the worlds largest wheat importer, brings in 90 of its wheat from Ukraine and Russia, and government officials have been closely watching the conflict with an eye on local food prices.
I confirm that the rise will be applied, but in a way through which we ensure that the neediest people are not harmed, Madbouly told a news conference, without providing further details.
Though wheat imports are subsidized and the government caps bread prices, bread has already become a luxury for some Lebanese.
Bakeries set rations on how many loaves a customer can buy, and in some cases set a separate black market https:news.trust.orgitem20210907151824-2nsbp  rate for extra loaves.
