Ukraine and Russia What you need to know right now
20220821
https://nationalpost.com/pmn/news-pmn/ukraine-and-russia-what-you-need-to-know-right-now-703
 Russia said on Sunday that its Kalibr missiles had destroyed an ammunition depot containing missiles for U.S.-made HIMARS rocket in Ukraines southeastern Odesa region, while Kyiv said a granary had been hit.
 U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo warned that Russian entities and individuals were attempting to use Turkey to bypass Western sanctions, during a call on Saturday with Turkeys Deputy Finance Minister Yunus Elitas.
 Dnipropetrovsk governor Valentyn Reznichenko wrote on Telegram that the city of Nikopol, which lies across the Dnipro river from the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, was shelled on five different occasions overnight. He said 25 artillery shells hit the city, causing a large fire at an industrial premises and cutting power to 3,000 inhabitants.
 Four more ships carrying food have left Ukraines ports, Turkeys Defence Ministry said on Sunday, bringing the total number of vessels to leave Ukraines Black Sea ports under a U.N.-brokered grain export deal to 31.
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
 The daughter of an ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue who advocates Russia absorbing Ukraine was killed in a suspected car bomb attack outside Moscow on Saturday evening, Russian state investigators said on Sunday.
 Albania said on Sunday it was investigating why two Russians and a Ukrainian had tried to enter a military factory.. Compiled by Nick Macfie
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
 Russia has deployed hypersonic Kinzhal Dagger missiles three times over the course of what Moscow calls a special military operation in Ukraine, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said on Sunday.
 The southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv was hit with multiple S-300 missiles early on Sunday, regional governor Vitaliy Kim said on Telegram.
Artillery shells rained down on a Ukrainian city close to Europes biggest nuclear plant overnight and Russian missiles hit targets near Odesa, a Ukrainian Black Sea port and a grain export hub, as the war headed for its six-month milestone.
