Why is Russias Putin drawing red lines over Ukraine
20220126
https://nationalpost.com/pmn/news-pmn/why-is-russias-putin-drawing-red-lines-over-ukraine
With the 1991 break-up of the Soviet Union, Russia lost control of 14 former republics it had previously dominated, but the loss of Ukraine was the most painful. The two had been linked since the 9th century when Kyiv became the capital of the ancient state of Rus in 988 its ruler, Grand Prince Vladimir, introduced Orthodox Christianity. From 1654, Russia and Ukraine were united by treaty under the rule of the Russian tsar.
Keeping the world guessing about a possible invasion of Ukraine is consistent with those aims. It has forced Russias security demands to the top of the international agenda and compelled U.S. President Joe Biden to re-engage with Putin, although it has also drawn Western warnings of drastic international sanctions.
Here are some of the reasons why Russian President Vladimir Putin is so preoccupied with Ukraine and why he has chosen to bring the crisis to a head now.
Putin alluded to this in a long essay in June 2021 in which he said Russians and Ukrainians were one people who shared a single historic and spiritual space and that the emergence of a wall between them in recent years was tragic. Kyiv rejected his argument as a politically motivated and over-simplified version of history.
Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.
Since the Cold War ended, NATO has expanded eastwards by taking in 14 new countries, including the states of the former Warsaw Pact and the three Baltic nations that were once in the Soviet Union. Russia saw this as a threatening encroachment towards its borders and continues to say it was a betrayal of Western promises at the start of the 1990s  something the United States and its allies deny.
Ukraine has become the main flashpoint in Moscows relations with the West, with Russian troops massed near its border and NATOs forces on standby in case Russia attacks its neighbor.
Putin, who once called the break-up of the Soviet Union the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the last century, has devoted his presidency to restoring Moscows influence throughout the post-Soviet space, defying the West and trying to reassert Russia as a global power.
Russia rejects Ukrainian and U.S. suspicions it may be preparing an invasion of Ukraine, saying it is responding to threats and provocations. It wants security guarantees from the West including the rescinding of NATOs membership promise to Kyiv  something Washington has called a non-starter.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notificationsyou will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.
The two countries speak closely related languages and later formed, with Belarus, the Slav core of the Soviet Union. Many Russians feel a connection with Ukraine that they do not feel with other former Soviet republics in the Baltics, Caucasus and Central Asia.
Putins impassioned public statements on Ukraine suggest his actions are driven by personal conviction as well as politics. Events there have defined the lows and highs of his rule  pro-Western revolutions in 2004 and 2014 dealt blows to Russian interests, but Putin presented the seizure of Crimea as a historic victory. After 22 years as Russias paramount leader, some analysts believe he may be pondering his own legacy and looking to complete unfinished business in Ukraine by blocking its westward shift and reclaiming it as part of a Russian sphere of influence  something that Ukraine, NATO and the United States all say they will never accept. Editing by Timothy Heritage
Ukraine is the second biggest country in Europe after Russia itself, has major ports on the Black Sea and shares borders with four NATO countries. It is a major exporter of corn and wheat. Europe depends on Russia for about one third of its natural gas  providing leverage for Putin in any dispute with the West  and one of the main pipelines passes through Ukraine. Controlling the Ukrainian territory that it crosses would enhance Russias pipeline security and protect its ability to weaponise energy supplies. Most analysts, though, consider it unlikely that Russia would attempt to seize and defend large swathes of Ukrainian territory because the military cost would be too high.
Ukraine is not a NATO member but has a promise dating from 2008 that it will eventually get to join. Since toppling a pro-Russian president in 2014, it has become closer politically to the West, staged joint military exercises with NATO and taken delivery of weapons including U.S. Javelin anti-tank missiles and Turkish drones. Kyiv and Washington see these as legitimate moves to bolster Ukraines defense after Russia seized the Crimea region in 2014 and provided backing to separatists who are still fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine. Putin says Ukraines growing ties with the alliance could make it a launchpad for NATO missiles targeted at Russia. He says Russia needs to lay down red lines to prevent that.
