Morbius is not just another bat man Caitlyn Jenners new job and more trending topics
20220401
https://azdailysun.com/entertainment/morbius-is-not-just-another-bat-man-caitlyn-jenners-new-job-and-more-trending-topics/article_7c383422-498e-57b2-a4f9-d57726beac04.html
Also coming this week: best picture Oscar nominee "Triangle of Sadness" arrives on Hulu, and Riley Keough and Sam Claflin star as bandmates in
The Biden administration is marking the International Transgender Day of Visibility on Thursday with a series of measures in support of transgender Americans as they face efforts to curb their rights across the country.
In Florida, the Washington County Sheriff's Office said Thursday morning that two were killed and two injured when a tornado touched down in the western Florida Panhandle.
The Mississippi Department of Transportation digital message board warns drivers along I-55 southbound in Jackson of a tornado warning during a rainstorm during the outbreak of severe weather in the state, Wednesday, March 30, 2022. AP PhotoRogelio V. Solis
Struggling with a rare blood disorder, Dr. M copters into Costa Rica to subject himself to a caveful of vampire bats. His research suggests a blend of human and bat DNA will cure him, and hell be able to save his similarly afflicted childhood friend nicknamed Milo played by Matt Smith of Doctor Who as he promised him years earlier.
Firefighters, meanwhile, have been trying to get handle on a wildfire spreading near Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee, amid mandatory evacuations as winds whipped up ahead of the approaching storm front. Read all about today's wild weather here:
The Seahawks released the six-time All-Pro anchor of their defense on March 9. Read about it here:
In a tweet, she said: "I am humbled by this unique opportunity to speak directly to FoxNews millions of viewers about a range of issues that are important to the American people." Learn more about it here:
Linebacker Bobby Wagner agreed to a five-year deal Thursday to join his hometown Los Angeles Rams.
Morbius, a Sony Pictures release slated for theaters Friday, is rated PG-13 for intense sequences of violence, some frightening images, and brief strong language. Running time: 104 minutes. Apparently not worth the watch?
Fox News has hired Caitlyn Jenner to an on-air contributor role, the network said Thursday.
A line of severe storms packing isolated tornadoes and high winds ripped across the Deep South overnight  killing at least two in the Florida Panhandle, toppling trees and power lines and leaving homes and businesses damaged as the vast weather front raced across several states.
The 72-year-old reality star - who was born as Bruce Jenner and became known for winning Olympic gold in Decathlon during the 1976 games in Montreal before transitioning into a woman whilst starring on 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' - is "humbled" to become part of the news network and to be able to "speak directly" to Americans.
FILE - Seattle Seahawks linebacker Bobby Wagner pauses during the team's NFL football game against the Houston Texans on Dec. 12, 2021, in Houston. Wagner has been informed he is being released by Seattle. Wagner confirmed the news to The Associated Press on Tuesday night, March 8, 2022, hours after the team agreed to trade quarterback Russell Wilson to Denver. Seattle is expected to make Wagner's release official Wednesday. AP PhotoMatt Patterson, File
A complete recap of Sunday night's 29th annual SAG Awards, including the top winners, a tribute to Sally Field, and all the fashions from the 
The Razzies canceled a 2021 special category for Worst Performance by Bruce Willis despite initially defending a decision to move forward with it.
"Today, doctors informed his family that there is no further hope and have recommended end of life decision," Sizemore's manager said in a statement.
For 15 years, the Viola Awards have been recognized by Flagstaffs creative community as our towns most cherished celebration of the arts, sc
The Super Bowl champions outmaneuvered several suitors for Wagner, one of the NFL's top inside linebackers after his decade with the Seattle Seahawks. ESPN reported Wagner's deal contains $50 million guaranteed and could be worth up to $65 million.
Gigi Hadid and Leonardo DiCaprio were recently spotted together and "get along well" - but they're not dating. Get that and more celeb news here.
