Alexander Bortnikov  Russian spy chief touted as potential successor to Putin
20220321
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/who-alexander-bortnikov-russian-spy-23452750
The Russian invasion of Ukraine - which has now been ongoing for nearly a month - has led to renewed speculation about who could succeed Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has dominated politics in the country for more than 20 years.
However, there are currently no concrete indications that Putin is the subject of a plot to topple him, or that Bortnikov is involved with it. Several other figures, including Russian PM Mikhail Mishustin, have also been touted as potential successors.
According to Ukrainian intelligence, Bortnikov is favoured by these plotters as Putins replacement to restore economic relations with the west. But who exactly is Alexander Bortnikov - and is there really any chance of him replacing Vladimir Putin?
Stay abreast of the latest on days out, nights out, shopping and more with our   Daily What's On Email updates
Ukrainian military intelligence sources have speculated that one figure in the frame is Alexander Bortnikov, a senior member of Putins inner circle. They claim Bortnikov is the preferred beneficiary of a plot to overthrow Putin from within the Russian military.
Like Putin himself, Bortnikov is a former officer of the KGB, the Soviet-era state security and intelligence service. He joined the KGB in 1975 and reportedly first met Putin while the pair were stationed together in Leningrad - now Saint Petersburg - in the 1970s.
READ MORE: Homes for Ukraine: How to take in a Ukrainian refugee as government launches new visa scheme
READ MORE: Why has Russia banned Facebook? Russian authorities to ban Facebook and Instagram over "extremist activities"
It has been claimed that Bortnikov, despite being a longtime ally of Vladimir Putin, has recently fallen out of favour with the Russian President. Ukrainian sources say he is now considered a potential replacement for Putin, The Mirror reports.
Bortnikov, director of Russia's FSB spy agency since 2008, has until now been a senior member of Vladimir Putin's inner circle
Bortnikov continued to serve in the FSB, which replaced the KGB, into the 2000s before being appointed as its director in 2008. In 2006, Russian magazine The New Times claimed that Bortnikov had been involved in the operation to assassinate Alexander Litvinenko.
Alexander Bortnikov is the current director of Russias Federal Security Service, or FSB. He has occupied the role since May 2008 and is regarded as an influential member of Vladimir Putins inner circle.
Last month, Alexander Bortnikov was one of the numerous individuals sanctioned in connection with the Russian invasion of Ukraine by the United States. Bortnikovs son Denis, deputy president of Russias TVB Bank, was also among those hit with US sanctions.
