BBC Strictly Come Dancing star issues lengthy statement after backlash to pro Putin remarks
20220228
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/bbc-strictly-come-dancing-star-23234854
Stay up to date with the latest celebrity and TV news with showbiz updates from our daily newsletter here. If you're on Facebook, you can find out dedicated social media group on all things celeb here.
The ex-Strictly fave has been slammed by fans over an "insensitive" tweet they are branding "pro Putin."
The cartoon showed mock ups of Boris Johnson, Joe Biden and Justin Trudeau with blood on their hands. A speech bubble reads: "Russia man bad."
"If u dont like democracy then u can always go back home where the people are free to say what they like," Darren Morgan said. Eve said: "My child is booked on to one of your upcoming workshops. But your previous tweets referencing the invasion but not condemning the actions of the Russian government make me deeply uncomfortable."
Kristina's statement continued: "My best friend is also from Ukraine. I grew up with knowledge that we were one nation and one country. Im not into politics and hate politicians because THEY ALL LIE. Seeing the news is breaking my heart as I have Russian friends who live in UKRAINE and vice versa.
Former BBC Strictly Come Dancing star Kristina Rihanoff has come under fire from social media users. The ex-Strictly fave has been slammed by fans over an "insensitive" tweet they are branding "pro Putin."
They are standing on a pile of dead bodies. Twitter user Ruth Elms shot back: "Wow you are massively Russian in this statement. Ukraine are not profiting. Ukraine and Russia are not one country. If Russia lay down weapons, war is over but if lay down weapons, they lose... Russia started this. You have a public platform, you literally can help!"
"The awful thing is that there is casualties on both sides and on both sides mums  dads will cry for their lost relatives. The point is that this shouldnt ever taken place, never should have happened. The country leaders should have found the way a long time ago to sort this peacefully but they didnt bcs war is a profitable business and someone unfortunately making profit on this. Im not supporting Putin, war, invasion, lost lives and politics. I hate it as much as a human being possibly can. If I offended anyone it wasnt my intention and Im deeply sorry."
Kristina, aged 44, from Russia, posted a snap of a cartoon criticising Western leaders. She wrote: Dont even have to say anything  pure genius.
In a statement which she posted on social media, Kristina wrote: "I made fun of Eurovision tweet by Sky. I did think there was far more important information on that day that Eurovision. This is in any form says I was supporting whats happening at the moment between Russia  Ukraine. Its absolutely devastating for someone like me whos grandad from Ukraine and I gave Ukrainian name to my daughter - Milena."
READ MOREMark Wright 'banned' by ITV after pulling out of Holly Willoughby show by text
