Does Ukraine have nuclear weapons Historic deal which saw Ukraine give up 5000 weapons in peace deal with Russia and US
20220224
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-nuclear-weapons-historic-deal-23205878
In an attempt to justify his invasion, Vladimir Putin parroted false claims that Ukraine is controlled by the far-right and that the invasion was in the name of "demilitarisation and denazification"
As the invasion began, Ukrainian leader Zelenskiy said to the nation: "If someone attempts to take away our land, our freedom, our lives, the lives of our children, we will defend ourselves. By attacking, you will see our faces, not our backs, but our faces."
As Ukraine gave up their arms, many questioned the move at the time, which risked causing turbulence in the region.
The 1994 agreement which saw Ukraine give up their arms was signed in Moscow, with Russia and the US also putting pen to paper in support.
Diplomatic experts in the early 1990s challenged the wisdom of atomic disarmament, arguing that the weapons provided the only real means of deterring Russian aggression.
Days ago, Putin claimed the sovereign nation of Ukraine was just "a colony with a puppet regime" that had no historical right to exist "created on our historic lands".
The Kremlin's actions have been met with sanctions, most notably of which was Germany's cancelling of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which would transport gas from Russia to the heart of Europe.
At the end of the Cold War, Ukraine had the third biggest nuclear arsenal on Earth. Over 5,000 nuclear warheads were stationed on their soil, in underground silos.
Just a day after Russia sent 'peacekeeping' troops into the newly 'independent' state of Donetsk and Luhansk, all pretence was lost as Vladimir Putin committed to a full-scale military invasion of Ukraine.
When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, Ukraine again became a sovereign country and in return for handing over their nuclear weapons, accepted security deals from Russia and the United States.
However, with the recent Russian invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea in 2014, we now know that the 'ironclad' assurances given by Moscow meant nothing.
Boris Johnson said: "I am appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine and I have spoken to President Zelenskiy to discuss next steps. President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine."
Ukraine demanded the former Soviet Union and America would respect its sovereignty and existing borders, but 28 years on, peace has well and truly been broken.
"We gave away the capability for nothing," said Andriy Zahorodniuk, a former defence minister of Ukraine. In reference to the security promises Ukraine won in exchange for its nuclear arms.
The Eastern European nation is now under attack, with missiles indiscriminately striking civilians and key strategic locations such as fighter jet hangars.
Vladimir Putin is on a collision course with the West, as Russian begins full-scale conflict with Ukraine. Does Ukraine have nuclear weapons?
