Giant United States Air Force B52H Stratofortress heavy bombers spotted leaving UK base
20220310
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/giant-united-states-air-force-23349838
Stay up to date with the latest celebrity and TV news with showbiz updates from our daily newsletter here. If you're on Facebook, you can find out dedicated social media group on all things celeb here.
The B-52H Stratofortress is a heavy bomber that can perform a variety of missions and can fly at high subsonic speeds at altitudes of up to 50,000 feet 15,167 metres. The airplanes can carry nuclear or precision guided conventional ordnance with worldwide precision navigation capability.
U.S. Air Force B-52H Boeing Stratofortress bombers have been operated by the United States Air Force since the 1950s. It comes amid tensions in Europe with the Russia invasion of Ukraine.
Cpl. Lee Matthews said: "The aircraft lifted under FEAR callsigns, heading over Wales and the South West coast of England."
On Thursday, a day after the jets were spotted, Chelsea FC owner Roman Abramovich has been sanctioned over his links to Vladimir Putin as the UK targeted a fresh round of oligarchs accused of having the "blood of the Ukrainian people on their hands".
READ MOREFamilies flee pub without paying 330 bill - having left it in 'ridiculous' state
READ MOREHusband's dying wishes after incurable cancer diagnosis aged 30 - a year after marrying wife
A pair of U.S. Air Force B-52H Boeing Stratofortress bombers, of the 69th Expeditionary Bomb Squadron, departed from RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire on Wednesday 9 March. Cpl. Lee Matthews said: "The aircraft lifted under FEAR callsigns, heading over Wales and the South West coast of England."
And Vladimir Putin would be making a "grave mistake" if he used chemical weapons in his assault on Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said.
It is believed at least four of the subsonic, jet-powered strategic warplanes are currently stationed at RAF Fairford. Dramatic footage shows the huge jets taking off.
