ITV GMB viewers horrified as reporter forced to take cover during live report in Ukraine
20220225
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/itv-gmb-viewers-horrified-reporter-23214425
Putting on a helmet, Richard replied: "Yeah, we have taken a number of precautions but we have got our - in fact, it's just being passed to me.
Richard was speaking to Kate and Ben about the attacks that had happened throughout the night when a siren was heard in the background.
Hosts Kate Garraway and Ben Shephard looked worried as Richard began putting on safety equipment including a helmet and was seen looking over his shoulder. The two decided to cut away from his report to allow Richard to get to safety.
"As I look out now, there are still people walking through the street, walking the dogs."
ITV Good Morning Britain viewers were left deeply concerned for the safety of reporter Richard Gaisford as he reported live from Kyiv on Friday. His live report was interrupted after he was forced to take cover as bomb sirens were heard in the background.
One fan wrote: "GMB GMB benshephard Please can you let viewers know that richardgaisford is safe and will be able to get back to UK."
READ MORE:Ukraine warns of subversive groups in Kyiv as US flags potential siege of city
Kate then interrupted the report and said: "We're going to let you get to safety, Richard, and we'll get you back."
Richard agreed before walking off screen as Kate and Ben urged him to get to safety. He appeared again later on to continue his report but viewers were left deeply concerned for him.
This comes after Russia launched an invasive attack against Ukraine on Thursday as the rest of the world condemned the actions of Russian president Vladimir Putin. Richard is currently based in the Ukrainian capital while the invasion is still ongoing.
He said: "As we talk, the air raid sirens are going off here in Kyiv - becoming something of a regular pattern here now. Just letting the population know that there is a threat where they can to take shelter and to obviously make an assessment for themselves and their own security."
"We have got our personal protective equipment to put on. We also have our vests, should the need arise. It is a tricky time for many, obviously, in the city who don't have this kind of equipment to hand.
READ MORE: Live Ukraine updates: Russian army set to enter Kyiv as world condemns Putin
Richard then looked over his shoulder as Kate then asked: "Richard, when we hear those air raid sirens and I know our viewers are worried for you. Are you safe? Should you be running to take shelter? What precautions have you taken?"
