Russia and Ukraine will meet for talks on Belarus border today
20220227
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-ukraine-meet-talks-belarus-23232247
"Western countries aren't only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading Nato members made aggressive statements regarding our country," Mr Putin said in televised comments.
We send out daily court and crime updates straight to our email inbox - sign up for them here.
The news came shortly after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered Russian nuclear forces to be put on high alert in response to what he called "aggressive statements" by leading Nato powers. Speaking at a meeting with his top officials, Mr Putin directed the Russian defence minister and the chief of the military's General Staff to put the nuclear deterrent forces in a "special regime of combat duty".
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's office said on the Telegram messaging app that the two sides would meet at an unspecified location on the Belarusian border and did not give a precise time for the meeting.
Earlier, Mr Zelenskyy had refused for Ukraine to meet with a Russian delegation in Belarus. It comes after The US government offered to evacuate Zelensky from Kyiv  but he declined saying: The fight is here I need ammunition, not a ride."
Ukrainian and Russian diplomats will meet for negotiation talks today as Russian troops draw closer to Kyiv, the Ukraine president's office has said.
The politicians have agreed that the Ukrainian delegation will meet the Russian delegation without preconditions on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border, near the Pripyat river, read a statement on Zelenskys Facebook page on Sunday. Alexander Lukashenko has taken responsibility for ensuring that all planes, helicopters and missiles stationed on Belarus territory remain on the ground during the Ukrainian delegations travel, talks and return, the statement continued.
Stay abreast with the very latest from our city with our Birmingham News Email Updates.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys office said an agreement had been reached with Alexander Lukashenko, the self-declared leader of Belarus, that negotiators from Kyiv and Moscow would meet on the Ukrainian-Belarus border. The development marks the first possible sign of de-escalation in Russias full-scale invasion of Ukraine that has claimed at least 198 Ukrainian lives so far.
