UK sends 8000 troops to Europe
20220429
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/exercise-hedgehog-uk-sends-8000-23822234
Britain is set to lead the exercise, while forces from Queen's Royal Hussars are already in Finland, who share a 830-mile land border with Russia, embedded within an armoured brigade. At the same time, American troops will take part in exercises in Poland.
Foreign secretary Liz Truss has also called for a doubling down of efforts in Ukraine in a speech this week. She said: "We are going to keep going further and faster to push Russia out of the whole of Ukraine".
Tensions continue to ramp up in Ukraine as the UK sends 8,000 troops the battle Russian aggression
In a marked ramping up of tensions in Ukraine, the UK is set to send 8,000 troops to eastern Europe to combat Russian aggression. This is one of the largest deployments since the cold war and shows there is no sign of any sort of soft de-escalation, in the same week Vladimir Putin again hinted at the use of nuclear weapons.
Tanks will be deployed alongside tens of thousands of NATO troops and the Joint Expeditionary Force alliance, which will range across Finland to North Macedonia this summer. The UK's forces are set to peak in mainland Europe between April and June this year.
Troops will take part in an operation called Exercise Hedgehog, featuring forces from around the continent on the Estonia-Latvia border. Over 18,000 service-people be involved in the event which is due to start in May, despite fears it could further escalate tensions.
On the deployment, defence secretary Ben Wallace, said: "The security of Europe has never been more important. These exercises will see our troops join forces with allies and partners across NATO and the Joint Expeditionary Force in a show of solidarity and strength in one of the largest shared deployments since the cold war".
"Some argue we shouldn't provide heavy weapons for fear of provoking something worse. But my view, is that inaction would be the greatest provocation. This is a time for courage not for caution," she proclaimed.
Read more:The Portugal beach laws which could land you with up to a 750 fine
