Ukranian man working in Birmingham fearful for family over Russian crisis
20220224
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/ukrainian-man-working-birmingham-fearful-23197511
READ MORE: What's happening at the Russian-Ukraine border - and will there be a Russian invasion?
Alex, who works in Birmingham as a civil engineering consultant, told BirminghamLive: "They have been trying to get on with their everyday lives but the situation is changing day to day, not knowing what's happening next.
Alex Kosmirak has family and friends living in the country and is concerned for their safety as the crisis between the two countries reaches boiling point
A British born Ukranian man working in Birmingham is fearful of family and friends living in the country as the further threat of war with Russia looms ever closer. Alex Kosmirak, from Coventry, has family and friends living in the country and is concerned for their safety as the crisis between the two countries reaches boiling point.
"At the moment it feels like Putin is playing an international game of chess and using Ukraine as one of the pieces. But the threat of a further invasion by Russia is very real. Putin has 150,000 troops in place near the borders. We are at a critical point at the moment, in not only Ukraine's history but also Europe's.
He said: "As a band we are really proud of our culture and heritage which has been passed down to us by grandparents who settled in the UK. We're hosting a gig on Saturday, in Coventry to celebrate our album release but we're left questioning the appropriateness of it and whether it should go ahead.
"I have friends who have moved internationally to work in Kyiv but have since left Ukraine after being advised to."
The fundraising event is taking place for HelpUkraine emergency appeal on Saturday Feb 26 at 7.30pm at the Ukranian Association and Social Club on Leicester Causeway in Coventry. He added: "Before the pandemic, I regularly visited family and friends in Ukraine.
"The Ukrainian nation are a strong and proud people with their own identity and culture and if anything Putin's actions have united them in their independence." The UK and other Nato countries have urged their citizens to leave as fears grow that Russian President Vladimir Putin could order an invasion.
Stay abreast of the latest on days out, nights out, shopping and more with our Daily What's On Email updates
"I am also a member of a band and we performed over there in 2018. We have been invited back to perform In August were hoping to go back there in August but this seems really unclear at the moment.
"They are used to threats from Russia and remember it was only back in 2014 that conflict started between the two following the illegal annexation of Crimea and occupation of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. But over the last couple of weeks the mood has changed and I think the realisation is that there could be a further escalation of the war.
"But the overall feeling between us was that now more than ever we need to show support for the Ukraine, our love for the history and culture, because we wouldn't be doing what we do today and we've decided to donate profits from the gig as well as a collection on the night to Ukraine."
Alex said the UK's support to Ukraine since the war in 2014 had 'been massively appreciated by the Ukranian and Ukranians in the UK.' Alex is a member of the Association Of Ukrainians Living in Great Britain and is member of the British Ukranian band called the Cov Kozaks.
