What is Nato which countries are members and what is Article 5
20220126
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/what-nato-countries-members-what-22880436
Ukraine has been attempting to join Nato for years, but Russia is adamant that it doesnt want another former Soviet state - let alone one with which it shares a border - to join the US-led alliance.
Ukraine's bid to join Nato is strongly opposed by Russia and has much to do with the ongoing tensions between the two countries
Stay abreast of the latest on days out, nights out, shopping and more with our   Daily What's On Email updates
During the Cold War, there were continual tensions between the Nato countries and those of the Warsaw Pact - the rival military bloc headed by the Soviet Union.
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, several former Soviet republics have joined Nato - which is at the heart of the current dispute between Russia, Ukraine and the US.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, or Nato, is a US-led military and geopolitical alliance. It currently has 30 members in total.
Nato currently has 30 members - 27 of which are in Europe, two in North America and one in Eurasia:
However, as Ukraine is not currently a member of Nato, it would not be covered by Article 5 in the event of a Russian invasion.
So what exactly is Nato, which countries are members of it - and what does Natos Article 5 mean?
READ MORE: Why are Russia and Ukraine enemies - and will there be a war in Ukraine?
Since German reunification and the demise of the Soviet Union, 14 countries have joined Nato - and the Ukrainian government aspires for its country to become the 15th.
Article 5 of the Nato charter commits all members of the alliance to undertake a collective military response in the event that one Nato member is invaded from outside.
In 2001, Nato invoked Article 5 after the 911 attacks in New York and Washington - the first time it had ever been invoked.
With tensions rising on the border between Ukraine and Russia, the question of Ukraines application to join Nato is at the centre of the row between the two countries.
Nato was officially formed in April 1949, after the signature of the North Atlantic Treaty by several European countries - including Britain - along with the US and Canada.
Europe: Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Montenegro, Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, United Kingdom
