When did Russia annex Crimea UkraineRussia tensions mount amid conflict fears
20220223
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-annex-crimea-ukraine-russia-23194036
However, the legitimacy of the referendum has been called into question by Ukraine and its allies, amid allegations of fraud and intimidation.
Tensions between Russia and Ukraine have escalated sharply in recent weeks, amid concerns that the crisis there could culminate in a full-blown conflict.
Prior to its annexation, Crimea had officially been considered an autonomous republic within Ukraine since 1991, when the Soviet Union collapsed.
As both countries were then part of the Soviet Union, this decision made little real difference at the time - but it became a major source of controversy after the USSRs collapse in 1991.
Stay abreast of the latest on days out, nights out, shopping and more with our   Daily What's On Email updates
For many observers, this has brought back memories of the Russian annexation of Crimea - which is still a disputed territory - several years ago.
Earlier this week, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that he was granting formal recognition to Donetsk and Luhansk, two breakaway quasi-states in eastern Ukraine under the control of rebel militias since 2014, as independent entities.
The Crimean peninsula - where Russia has a strategically important naval base - has been under Moscow's control since 2014
But there have been allegations of human rights abuses, particularly of the Crimean Tatars, since the Russian annexation of the peninsula.
Crimea only became part of Ukraine in 1954, when the Soviet leadership under Nikita Khrushchev - who was himself Ukrainian - transferred control of the peninsula from Russia to Ukraine.
Most of Crimeas residents - 82, according to a 2013 survey - speak Russian as a first language. Its other official languages are Crimean Tatar and Ukrainian.
Crimea was formally annexed and integrated into the Russian Federation in February 2014 by Russian forces and pro-Russian militias.
Russia formally annexed Crimea in 2014. There is a strategically important Russian naval base there at Sevastopol, on the Black Sea.
A referendum was held after the annexation of Crimea by Russia to determine the peninsulas future, in which 97 of those who voted chose to join Russia.
READ MORE: What is guerrilla warfare? Ukraine trains civilians in war tactics as Russia tensions mount
However, historically, it was previously part of Russia. In fact, Crimea was first traded to Russia by the Ottoman Empire in 1774, and then formally annexed to Russia in 1783.
