Why has RT been banned in the UK Russianbacked channel has UK licence withdrawn
20220318
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/rt-been-banned-uk-russian-23437908
Russian-backed television channel RT has had its licence to broadcast in the UK revoked by Ofcom, which has described it as a tool of the Russian government. The channel was first launched in the UK in October 2014.
Labour leader Keir Starmer called for RTs UK licence to be withdrawn last month, while culture secretary Nadine Dorries described it as Putins polluting propaganda machine. Prime Minister Boris Johnson initially resisted calls to review RTs licence, but later relented.
Ofcom stated that this represented a breach of its impartiality rules: We consider that given these constraints it appears impossible for RT to comply with the due impartiality rules of our broadcasting code in the circumstances.
Ofcom announced that the channel would no longer be allowed to broadcast on UK TV. However, it had already vanished from UK broadcasting platforms, following a ban in the European Union which also prevented it from broadcasting to Britain.
Stay abreast of the latest on days out, nights out, shopping and more with our   Daily What's On Email updates
READ MORE: Who is Oleg Deripaska and how much is he worth? Eight arrests after 'oligarch's mansion' occupied
RT had already disappeared from British TV screens after being banned in the European Union. While the UK is no longer in the EU, the RT feed to UK platforms came from satellite firms in Luxembourg and France, which were forced by EU law to stop carrying it.
Ofcom declared that RT UKs parent organisation, ANO TV Novosti, was not fit and proper to hold a UK broadcast licence. In particular, the regulator expressed concern about the channels coverage of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
READ MORE: Homes for Ukraine: How to take in a Ukrainian refugee as government launches new visa scheme
Although Ofcom is independent of government, for some time political pressure had been mounting on the regulator to withdraw RTs licence. So why exactly has RT been banned in the UK?
READ MORE: Bread, beer and pasta - the foods set to rise in price due to the Russian invasion in Ukraine
News channel RT has had its licence to broadcast in the UK revoked by media regulator Ofcom. The channel, which is backed by the Russian government, has been the source of intense criticism and scrutiny since the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
RTs coverage of the invasion had generally stuck closely to the Russian governments official line, presenting it as a peacekeeping operation to defend the breakaway quasi-states - self-styled as peoples republics - in Donetsk and Luhansk.
However, there are concerns that the decision to withdraw RTs UK licence could have repercussions for British media operating in Russia, prompting a tit-for-tat response from Moscow. The BBC has already cut back its Russian-language output.
