Why does Russia not want Ukraine to join Nato RussiaUkraine tensions flare up again
20220222
https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-not-want-ukraine-join-23176995
In fact, Ukraine has aspired to join Nato for a number of years. Its first application to join the military alliance was submitted in 2008.
However, when subsequently asked by Sky News whether Ukraine was prepared to withdraw its application for membership, he replied we are not looking at that.
As Ukraine shares a border with Russia, Moscow wants to prevent it from joining Nato - and thus bringing Nato right into its own backyard.
Stay abreast of the latest on days out, nights out, shopping and more with our   Daily What's On Email updates
Tensions between Russia and Ukraine have again escalated after Vladimir Putin granted official recognition to two breakaway quasi-states in eastern Ukraine.
Earlier this month, Ukraines ambassador to the UK Vadym Pristaiko suggested that Kyiv was prepared to be flexible about its ambitions to join Nato.
However, these plans were shelved after 2010, when Viktor Yanukovych was elected Ukrainian president. Yanukovych was subsequently forced out by protests in 2014.
Several countries which were formerly members of the Soviet Union - which collapsed in 1991 - have subsequently joined Nato.
Vladimir Putin has also accused Nato of fanning the flames of tension to suit its own ends, claiming that it was pushing Kyiv towards a military solution to the so-called Donbas problem.
At the heart of the dispute between Russia and Ukraine is the latter countrys ambitions to join Nato, the US-led military alliance. So why is this such a sore point for Russia?
Russian President Vladimir Putin has been adamant that Ukraine should abandon its efforts to join Nato, and that this is crucial to de-escalating the current crisis.
In a televised address, Putin announced that Moscow would formally recognise the breakaway peoples republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. The US, European Union and Britain are expected to respond with renewed sanctions against Russia.
Ukraine's ambitions to join the US-led military alliance are a sore point for Russia, which has accused Nato of fanning the flames of tension between the two countries
