Russias Nord Stream 2 Pipeline Completes Construction
20210910
https://www.hartenergy.com/exclusives/russias-nord-stream-2-pipeline-completes-construction-196106
Gazproms announcement on the construction completion was met with skepticism in Kyiv, which risks losing billions of dollars in gas transit fees if Moscow completely halts its gas supplies via Ukraine.
The much-politicized Nord Stream 2 pipeline will double Russias gas exporting capacity to Europe via the Baltic Sea and will allow Moscow to circumvent its political foe Ukraine.
Gazproms Western partners in the project are Germanys Uniper, BASF's Wintershall Dea, Anglo-Dutch oil major Shell, Austrias OMV and French energy company Engie.
The project has drawn criticism from the United States and Ukraine among others. Washington says it will increase Europes reliance to Russian energy supplies, while it is seeking to boost its sales of sea-borne LNG to Europe.
The Kremlin said everyone was interested in Nord Stream 2 obtaining the necessary clearance for gas supplies.
Russias current five-year gas transit deal with Ukraine expires after 2024. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said Ukraine must show goodwill if it wants Russian gas transit to Europe to continue.
Germanys energy regulator has to award an operating license to Nord Stream 2, which must comply with European unbundling rules, that require the owners of pipelines to be different from the suppliers of the gas that flows in them to ensure fair competition.
Carlos Torres Diaz, head of Power and Gas Markets at analysis firm Rystad Energy, also said it takes time for gas to flow via the pipes of Nord Stream 2. There hasnt really been a reaction from the market so far so I guess this just also confirms expectations that no commercial deliveries are expected in the short term, he said.
The much-politicized pipeline will double Russias gas exporting capacity to Europe via the Baltic Sea and will allow Moscow to circumvent its political foe Ukraine as a major route for its lucrative gas exports to Europe.
Gazprom said on Sept. 10 it had finished construction of the Nord Stream 2 subsea pipeline to Germany, completing Moscows project to increase its gas export capability and bypass Ukraine, but flows have yet to be cleared by regulators.
2023-03-02 - Undeterred by volatility in U.S. natural gas prices, Houston-based EOG Resources plans to accelerate drilling and gas production this year, including its emerging plays in South Texas and the Utica Shale.
The head of the management board, Alexei Miller, told the morning meeting at Gazprom that the construction of Nord Stream 2 was fully completed today in the morning at 0845 Moscow time, Gazprom said.
Russia said on Sept. 9 pumping commercial gas supplies via Nord Stream 2 would not start until a German regulator gives the green light.
2023-02-22 - Tellurian said its natural gas production increased to about 225 MMcfdin the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with the previous year's 55 MMcfd.
Constructed doesnt mean to put it on stream. And this wont happen until the pipeline is certified, Olha Belkova, a manager at Ukraine's gas pipelines operator, said in emailed comments to Reuters.
By constructing the pipeline, Russia has completed its plans to boost energy exporting capabilities towards Europe, both from the north in the Baltic Sea and from the south in the Black Sea, where it operates the TurkStream pipeline.
Gazprom is Europes largest supplier of natural gas, accounting for more than a third of the regions gas market.
The route, jointly with the existing Nord Stream pipeline, will double the annual export capacity to 110 billion cubic meters, around half of Russia's total gas exports to Europe a year.
Gazprom started construction of the 1,200-km long Nord Stream 2 pipeline from Russia to Germany five years ago. Progress of the $11 billion project stalled at the end of 2019 when then U.S. President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on it.
2023-01-31 - BKV Corp. made the most of its time in the Barnett Shale before filing for IPO in November 2022.
2022-12-30 - From AD to inflation to ESG, take a look back at some of the most important, impactful and interesting stories of the year.
