US Imposes Nord Stream 2 Gas Pipeline Sanctions
20210824
https://www.hartenergy.com/exclusives/us-imposes-nord-stream-2-gas-pipeline-sanctions-195828
Last month the United States and Germany unveiled an agreement under which Berlin pledged to impose costs on Russia should it use energy as a weapon against Ukraine and other central European countries. The pact did not detail specific Russian actions that would trigger such a move.
The sanctions were imposed on ship Ostap Sheremeta, shipowner JSC Nobility and construction company Konstanta, the State Department said in a report to congressional committees. A copy of the report was seen by Reuters.
Under the July agreement, Germany will use all available leverage to extend by 10 years the Russia-Ukraine gas transit agreement that expires in 2024.
Biden has sought to repair U.S. relations with Germany, Europe's biggest economy, as he needs the ally's help on everything from the economy to relations with China and Iran.
Germany will also contribute at least $175 million to a new $1 billion Green Fund for Ukraine aimed at improving the countrys energy independence.
But opponents of the $11 billion project to bring Arctic Russian gas under the Baltic Sea to Germany said the pipeline would likely be completed despite the sanctions.
Nord Stream 2, led by Russian state energy company Gazprom and its Western partners, is almost complete with only 9 miles 15 km left to construct, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Aug. 20.
ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington-based nonpartisan research group, estimated it could be completed by Sept. 3.
2023-03-02 - Undeterred by volatility in U.S. natural gas prices, Houston-based EOG Resources plans to accelerate drilling and gas production this year, including its emerging plays in South Texas and the Utica Shale.
But in May the U.S. State Department waived two sanctions that opponents say would have stopped the project. The measures were on Nord Stream 2 AG, the company behind the project, and its CEO, Matthias Warning, a Putin ally.
2023-02-22 - Tellurian said its natural gas production increased to about 225 MMcfdin the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with the previous year's 55 MMcfd.
U.S. President Joe Biden separately issued an executive order allowing for sanctions to be imposed on certain Russian pipelines.
Biden has opposed the pipeline, like the previous two U.S. presidents, because it would bypass Ukraine, putting at risk lucrative gas transit fees and potentially undermining its struggle against Russian aggression.
These sanctions do nothing to halt Nord Stream 2, said Daniel Vajdich, president of Yorktown Solutions, which advises the Ukrainian energy industry on the matter.
2023-01-31 - BKV Corp. made the most of its time in the Barnett Shale before filing for IPO in November 2022.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement that the administration has now sanctioned seven entities and identified 16 of their vessels as blocked property under sanctions laws passed by Congress.
2022-12-30 - From AD to inflation to ESG, take a look back at some of the most important, impactful and interesting stories of the year.
The only thing that can stop NS2 from becoming operational is lifting the waivers and sanctioning ... Nord Stream AG, which they refuse to do, Vajdich said.
Amos Hochstein, the State Departments senior adviser for energy security appointed earlier this month, will focus on measures to reduce the risks posed by Nord Stream 2, the report to Congress said.
The Biden administration on Aug. 20 slapped sanctions on a Russian ship and two companies involved in the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, but opponents of the nearly completed project said the measures would not stop it.
