Live Russia pummels last Ukrainian defenders in port city Mariupol
20220421
https://www.sydneysun.com/news/272501391/live-russia-pummels-last-ukrainian-defenders-in-port-city-mariupol
"Russia likely desires to demonstrate significant successes ahead of their annual 9th May Victory Day celebrations. This could affect how quickly and forcefully they attempt to conduct operations in the run-up to this date," the tweet added.
Johnson's spokesman told reporters that Ukraine would feature in summit talks on Friday. He said the intention was not to "lecture" Modi but to "broaden the Western coalition".
In addition, it said, "some cybercrime groups have recently publicly pledged support for the Russian government".
"The International Red Cross is not fulfilling its mandate, I am certain of that," Denisova said on Ukrainian television Wednesday after meeting with the head of the ICRC's Ukrainian branch.
Relentless Russian attacks pounded a giant steel plant in Mariupol - the last Ukrainian stronghold in the besieged port city - with a top ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin saying Russian forces would overcome the city's remaining defenders on Thursday. Follow our live blog for all the latest developments. All times are Paris time GMT2.
The official said she had asked both her Russian counterpart Tatyana Moskalkova and the ICRC for help in getting information on these refugees so that Ukraine could facilitate their return home, but had received "zero answer from her or from the Red Cross".
It added: "Building and maintaining a dialogue with parties to a conflict is essential to get access to all people affected and obtain necessary security guarantees for our teams to deliver life-saving aid."
G7 finance ministers said they have provided and pledged together with international community additional support to Ukraine exceeding $24 billion for 2022 and beyond, adding that they were prepared to do more as needed.
Russian forces said they will seize the Mariupol steel plant that is the last main stronghold of resistance in the besieged city on Thursday after Ukraine proposed talks on evacuating troops and civilians there.
In a statement, the ministers said they regretted Russia's participation in international forums, including G20, International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings this week.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss came away from New Delhi empty-handed last month when she pressed the Indians to do more against Russia, and Modi has also given short shrift to appeals from US President Joe Biden.
A top ally of President Vladimir Putin said Russian forces will seize the last main stronghold of resistance in the besieged city of Mariupol on Thursday, after Ukraine proposed talks on evacuating troops and civilians there.
Five allied countries including the United States warned Wednesday that "evolving intelligence" indicated Russia was poised to launch powerful cyberattacks against rivals supporting Ukraine.
Russian forces are advancing from staging areas in Donbas towards Kramatorsk, which continues to be hit by rocket attacks, a British military update said on Thursday.
Asked by the TV anchor whether Denisova suspected that the Red Cross was working "in concert" with Russia, Denisova replied: "Yes, I suspect they are."
"Evolving intelligence indicates that the Russian government is exploring options for potential cyberattacks," they said in an official cyber threat alert.
"Before lunchtime, or after lunch, Azovstal will be completely under the control of the forces of the Russian Federation," Ramzan Kadyrov, the head of Russia's north Caucasian republic of Chechnya, whose forces have been fighting in Ukraine, said of the steel plant.
Biden is to address Americans from the White House Roosevelt Room at 9.45 a.m. 1345 GMT and a source familiar with the planning said he is "expected to provide an update on our efforts to support Ukraine and the assistance we are providing."
Mariupol would be the biggest city to be seized by Russia since invading Ukraine eight weeks ago in an attack that has taken longer than some military analysts expected, seen over five million people flee abroad and turned towns and cities to rubble.
Mariupol would be the biggest city to be seized by Russia since it invaded Ukraine eight weeks ago in an attack that has taken longer than some military analysts expected, seen over five million people flee abroad and turned cities to rubble.
"The ICRC does not ever help organize or carry out forced evacuations. We would not support any operation that would go against people's will and international law," the organisation said in a statement to AFP.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson arrived in India on Thursday touting job-creating investment but facing long odds to get his reluctant counterpart Narendra Modi to back Western action against Russia.
"International organisations and multilateral fora should no longer conduct their activities with Russia in a business-as-usual manner," the ministers said.
"Russia's invasion of Ukraine could expose organizations both within and beyond the region to increased malicious cyber activity. This activity may occur as a response to the unprecedented economic costs imposed on Russia as well as materiel support provided by the United States and US allies and partners," it said.
Ombudswoman Lyudmyla Denisova decried ICRC's announcement last month that it was planning to open a branch in Russia's southern Rostov region to help Ukrainian refugees, who, Kyiv says, have been forcibly deported to Russia.
A senior Kyiv official on Wednesday accused the International Committee of the Red Cross of working "in concert" with Russia in Ukraine, a charge the organisation denied.
High levels of Russian air activity continue as it seeks to provide close air support to its offensive in eastern Ukraine, and to suppress and destroy Ukrainian air defence capabilities, the British Ministry of Defence tweeted in a regular bulletin.
Citing data from the United Nations, Denisova said that some 550,000 Ukrainians, including 121,000 children, have been taken to Russia during the course of the war, but Kyiv has no information on who these people are and where they are being kept.
"Before lunchtime, or after lunch, Azovstal will be completely under the control of the forces of the Russian Federation," Ramzan Kadyrov, the head of Russia's republic of Chechnya, whose forces have been fighting in Ukraine, said of the steel plant.
The new arms package was likely to be roughly the same size as an $800 million one announced last week but details were still being worked out, another US official told Reuters earlier.
The members of the "Five Eyes" intelligence sharing network - the US, Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand - said Moscow could also involve existing cybercrime groups in launching attacks on governments, institutions and businesses.
"Some groups have also threatened to conduct cyber operations against countries and organizations providing materiel support to Ukraine," it said.
US President Joe Biden will deliver an update on the Russian invasion of Ukraine on Thursday as he works to complete a new arms package for its military.
India has refused openly to condemn the Kremlin for its invasion of Ukraine, reliant as it is on Russian imports of energy, agricultural goods and military hardware.
