IMF approves 14BN emergency financing support for Ukraine
20220310
https://sofiaglobe.com/2022/03/10/imf-approves-1-4bn-emergency-financing-support-for-ukraine/
The Ukrainian authorities have cancelled the Stand-by Arrangement and the authorities have expressed their intent to work with the IMF to design an appropriate economic program aimed at rehabilitation and growth, when conditions permit, the statement said.
IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva said that the Russian military invasion of Ukraine had been responsible for a massive humanitarian and economic crisis.
The war in Ukraine is resulting in tragic loss of life and human suffering, the statement said.
Please support independent journalism by clicking on the orange button below. For as little as three euro a month or the equivalent in other currencies, you can support The Sofia Globe via patreon.com:
For the rest of The Sofia Globes continuing coverage of Russias invasion of Ukraine, please click here.
While the outlook is subject to extraordinary uncertainty, the economic consequences are already very serious, with refugee flows of over two million persons in just 13 days and large-scale destruction of key infrastructure in Ukraine.
This disbursement under the RFI, equivalent to 50 per cent of Ukraines quota in the IMF, will help meet urgent balance of payment needs arising from the impacts of the ongoing war and will provide critical support in the short term while playing a catalytic role for financing from other partners, the IMF said.
The authorities intend to remain in close consultation with staff as they continue to design and implement effective crisis mitigation measures, the IMF said.
The executive board of the International Monetary Fund IMF approved on March 9 a disbursement of $1.4 billion to Ukraine under theRapid Financing Instrument RFIto help meet urgent financing needs and mitigate the economic impact of the war, the IMF said.
The tragic loss of life, huge refugee flows, and immense destruction of infrastructure and productive capacity is causing severe human suffering and will lead to a deep recession this year. Financing needs are large, urgent, and could rise significantly as the war continues, Georgieva said.
