BREAKING NEWS  UN General Assembly demands Russia withdrawal from Ukraine
20220302
http://theindianawaaz.com/breakingnews-un-general-assembly-demands-russia-withdrawal-from-ukraine/
The 193-member United Nations General Assembly voted on the resolution titled aggression against Ukraine after hearing 120 speeches. India and China refrained from voting at the UNGA resolution that strongly deplores the Russian invasion of Ukraine and seeks an end to it.
A spokesman for longtime Kremlin critic Alexey Navalny posted on the jailed opposition leaders Twitter account that Russian President Vladimir Putin is not Russia and that people cannot wait any longer to rally against the invasion.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said a Russian delegation was ready to hold a second round of talks with Ukrainian officials, after a first round earlier this week yielded only an agreement for further negotiations.
In a video released Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy recalled a bombing Tuesday that hit a TV tower in Kyiv located next to Holocaust memorial site Babi Yar.
Violence Wednesday included shelling of the southeastern port city of Mariupol, and unconfirmed Russian military claims of seizing the southern city of Kherson.
India, China, Iran, Iran, Pakistan and 30 others abstained from voting against Russia at the UNGA. Of the total votes, 141 were in favour of the resolution, 5 against, 35 abstentions. India is to address the UNGA on the reason for its vote.
In historic "Uniting for Peace" session, UNGA adopts resolution demanding that the Russian Federation immediately cease its use of force against Ukraine and withdraw its military forces. https:t.coxWc4QO8ruV pic.twitter.comNZ5xG7Cfu2
Russian officials said they were ready for another round of talks with Ukraine even as Russian forces shelled multiple Ukrainian cities Wednesday.
This is beyond humanity. Such missile strike means that for many Russians our Kyiv is absolute foreign. They know nothing about our capital, about our history. They have orders to erase our history, our country and all of us.
Zelenskyy, who is Jewish, called on Jews across the world to not stay silent about what is happening in Ukraine.
Navalny called for people in Russia, Belarus or on the other side of the planet to gather in the main square of their towns and demonstrate.
Because Nazism is born in silence. Scream about murdering of civilians, scream about murdering of Ukrainians, he said.
In historic Uniting for Peace session, UN General Assembly UNGA adopted a resolution demanding that the Russian Federation immediately cease its use of force against Ukraine and withdraw its military forces.
On the seventh dayof the war, Russia intensified its attacks on crowded Ukrainian cities and a lengthy convoy of tanks and other vehicles advanced towards the capital, Kyiv. The 64-kilometre convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles is on a road to Kyiv, a city with almost 3 million people. The West feared that it was Kremlins bid to topple the government and install a Kremlin-friendly regime.
The UNGA resolution also condemned Russias decision to increase the readiness of its nuclear forces and urged the immediate peaceful resolution of the conflict between the two countries.
The resolution also deplored the involvement of Belarus in this unlawful use of force against Ukraine, and calls upon it to abide by its international obligations.
The 193-member General Assembly voted on Wednesday, demanding that Russia immediately stop using force against Ukraine. The resolution was supported by 141 members as five member states voted against the motion and 35 abstained.
A key Russian opposition leader urged people in Russia and across the world to hold daily protests against the invasion of Ukraine.
The resolution urged the immediate peaceful resolution of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine through political dialogue, negotiations, mediation and other peaceful means.
