NATO UK will support Ukraine if invaded by Russia but wont send troops
20220131
https://theindianawaaz.com/nato-uk-will-support-ukraine-if-invaded-by-russia-but-wont-send-troops/
Truss, however, said it was very unlikely British troops would be involved should there be a fight for Ukraine.
Last week, the United States warned that the UKs acceptance of what it called Russian dirty money threatened the effectiveness of any sanctions regime Washington will seek to impose to deter and potentially punish Russia.
Lavrov told the program Sunday Time on Russias Channel One that the Kremlin intends to protect its interests, according to state-run news agency Tass.
UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss told Sky News that her country will seek to tighten sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin so there is no place for his oligarchs to hide.
London and its City financial hub have come under renewed attention as a primary destination for politically sensitive Russian businessmen and their funds, earning the British capital the nickname Londongrad.
Russias security concerns are defensive, unlike NATORussian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov also reiterated his position that NATO cannot claim to be defensive with foreign interventions such as the ones that occurred in Afghanistan, Libya and the former Yugoslavia under its belt.
Washington has been coordinating with allies should Moscow follow through on its military buildup on Ukraines borders and invade and occupy parts of that country beyond Crimea and the eastern region known as the Donbass.
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg reiterated on Sunday that NATO would not send troops to Ukraine should Russia invade.We are focusing on providing support, he said. There is a difference between being a NATO member and being a strong and highly valued partner such as Ukraine. Theres no doubt about that, he said in an interview with BBC.
She said the short-term profits came at a real cost of longer term threats to democracy and freedom in the United Kingdom and other Western allies.
This is about making sure that the Ukrainian forces have all the support we can give them, she said.
When the Cold War was going on and the Berlin Wall existed, it was clear what territory to defend, he said.
CNN has reported that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Russian leader Putin are set to speak this week. On Sunday, Johnson said the potential for Russian military action in Ukraine is increasingly concerning.
