Ukraine crisis Update Russian parliament approves Putins troop deployment
20220222
http://theindianawaaz.com/ukraine-crisis-update-russian-parliament-approves-putins-troop-deployment/
Russian Parliament has backed President Vladimir Putin to use troops abroad after Moscow recognized two separatist regions in Ukraine as independent.Russia has recognized and ordered troops into the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.The US says an invasion of Ukraine is underwayVladimir Putin says the best solution is for Kyiv to drop its bid to join NATOEU ministers have unanimously agreed on a new sanctions packageGermany says approval of Nord Stream 2 cannot go forward
But what is essential is knowing that Ukraine will fight for its territorial integrity. Now EU, NATO, US and particularly Great Britain  should impose severe individual sanctions to those who legitimized yesterdays decision to deter Russia from further military invasion.
So now is the day where we should think that maybe dialogue and discussions is not the right instrument to deter, she added.
Michel and von der Leyen concluded by emphasizing the EUs solidarity with Ukraine in what is a dire hour for European security, or what the statement by the two European presidents terms the illegal actions of Russia.
Ukraine is not just a neighbouring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space. These are our comrades, those dearest to us  not only colleagues, friends, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties : President Putin
Were clear in our position that its our territory. It has always been our territory and it will be our territory, regardless of any decision that Putin would take, Stefanyshyna said.
Those involved in the decision to recognize Donetsk and Luhansk as independent Banks financing Russian military and other operations in eastern Ukraine The Russian states access to the EUs capital and financial markets and services Trade from Luhansk and Donetsk to and from the EU
Will impose sanctions on Russia far beyond previous measures. Sanctions cut Russia off from Western financing. We will impose sanctions on Russias elites: US President Joe Biden
Asked about the Minsk agreements, Stefanyshyna said that Putin has shown a total negligence to any peaceful efforts, which has been taken for the last eight years.
Pentagon: Putin can still avoid warUS Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Russian President Putin can still avoid a full-blown, tragic war of choice.Austin was speaking at the Pentagon with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba.Austin told Kuleba that Washington will continue to work closely with Kyiv and allies in trying to find a way to avoid further conflict.My message is simple: a strong Ukraine is the best deterrence of Russia.
EU agrees new sanctions packageThe European Union foreign ministers have agreed on sanctions targeting individuals and entities that undermine Ukrainian integreity, the blocs foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said.Borrell said the package will hurt Russia, and it will hurt a lot.French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told reporters after a Paris meeting of the EUs top diplomats that they unanimously agreed to the sanctions package.Earlier on Tuesday, the presidents of the European Council and the European Commission, Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen, outlined the possible sanctions on:
Ukrainian deputy PM: West must impose severe sanctionsOlga Stefanyshyna, Ukrainian deputy prime minister for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, told DW that the Ukrainian military will make sure that no inch of Ukrainian land is occupied.
However, the move raises tensions, as Western leaders have warned Moscow could use a skirmish in the restive region as an excuse for a larger Russian attack.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered his Defense Ministry to send Russian troops into eastern Ukraines two breakaway regions, according to a decree published early on Tuesday, after he said Moscow would recognize their independence.
Russia to evacuate its diplomats from UkraineRussias Foreign Ministry announced that it has decided to evacuate its diplomatic staff from Ukraine.To protect the lives and safety of diplomats, the Russian leadership decided to evacuate the personnel of Russian foreign missions in Ukraine, which will be implemented in the near future, the ministry said in a statement.
