Ghost of Kyiv fighter pilot is a myth Ukraines air force says
20220502
https://www.fox13news.com/news/ukraine-ghost-of-kyiv-fighter-pilot-myth-air-force-says
"The Ghost of Kyiv is a super-hero legend whose character was created by Ukrainians!" Ukraines air force said in Ukrainian on Facebook.
The statement came after multiple media outlets published stories wrongly identifying Major Stepan Tarabalka as the man behind the moniker. Tarabalka was a real pilot who died on March 13 during air combat and was posthumously awarded the title Hero of Ukraine, Ukraines air force said last month.
On Feb. 25, former Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko tweeted a photo that Ukraines Ministry of Defense had shared three years earlier, falsely claiming it showed the Ghost of Kyiv who had taken down six Russian pilots.
FILE IMAGE - A t-shirt featuring "The Ghost of Kyiv" is seen at the Aviatsiya Halychyny clothing company on April 22, 2022, in Lviv, Ukraine. Photo by Leon NealGetty Images
The legend emerged just a day after Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, as social media users began to spread claims, without evidence, of an anonymous fighter pilot who had single-handedly taken down multiple Russian planes.
Two days later, Ukraine's official Twitter account shared a video including the same picture, along with footage of fighter jets in combat, set to pulsating music, with the caption: "People call him the Ghost of Kyiv. And rightly so  this UAF ace dominates the skies over our capital and country, and has already become a nightmare for invading Russian aircrafts."
KYIV, Ukraine - On social media, the "Ghost of Kyiv" was a military hero, an ace fighter pilot hailed for supposedly shooting down multiple Russian planes. The tales began just days into the war and circulated for months, bolstered by official Ukrainian accounts.
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
Memes, unrelated photos, and even footage from a flight simulator video game circulated on social media, claiming to show the Ghost of Kyiv during combat.
By the time news outlets, including the Times of London, falsely identified the pilot as Tarabalka on Friday, reports had increased the ghosts toll to 40 planes. The Times later updated its story to reflect the air forces new position on the Ghost of Kyiv.
U.S. Senate Majority leader Chuck Schumer said Sunday he will add provisions to the $33 billion Ukraine aid package that will allow the United States to seize Russian oligarchs' assets.
"The information about the death of the The Ghost of Kyiv is incorrect," Ukraines air force wrote in a separate post Saturday on Twitter. "The GhostOfKyiv is alive, it embodies the collective spirit of the highly qualified pilots of the Tactical Aviation Brigade who are successfully defending Kyiv and the region."
That same day, Ukraines Security Service, the SBU, shared the same old photo on Telegram  but now claiming he had shot down 10 occupying planes.
