China calls for talks over Ukraine OKs Russian wheat import
20220224
https://japantoday.com/category/world/china-calls-for-talks-over-ukraine-criticizes-us
Nebenzya declined. I have already said all I know at this point, he said. Waking up minister Lavrov at this time is not something I plan to do.
If indeed an operation is being prepared, I have only one thing to say, from the bottom of my heart, Guterres said. President Putin: stop your troops from attacking Ukraine. Give peace a chance. Too many people have already died.
WTF this is nothing but lip service to stay relevant. Everyone knows that XI and Putin are bed fellows this is nothing but a staged statement "China calls for talks over Ukraine, OKs Russian wheat import"
The secretary general, Antonio Guterres, was the first to speak, and at that time Putins intentions were not entirely clear. But Guterres pointed to the reports of troops moving into position, and did something notable and rare for a UN secretary general: he publicly called out the head of a security council permanent member.
I didn't expect any help from China, but I would have preferred not to hear claptrap about how Putin is waging a 'counterattack' against something.
The Axis of Evil is now beginning to spin - I wonder when Iran will join in ?
China . . . What can you say? Economically its Americas rival, but diplomatically its North Koreas rival.
Vladimir Putin, with brutal timing, delivered a speech announcing that Russia would start a special military operation in Ukraine  while an emergency session of the UN security council was under way.
China has full knowledge of Putin's plan, that's why Putin showed up in Beijing winter Olympic opening ceremony. China will gains big from the US,E.U. sanctions on Russia, the Nordstream pipeline is paused due to the German sanction, those has will be sent to China. Putin and XI has discussed it during his visit in Beijing. The Ukraine war is good for China, at least a big trouble for BidenBlinken will stop their usual rhetoric manners against China!
Baby Ping Ping is worried what happens to their ability to buy oil, gas and wheat from Russia if the Russians are cut off from SWIFT and the US bans the use of the US dollar and US banks for the conduct of trade with Russia.   Russia doesn't want to be paid in Renminbi because it is useless for them to buy anything with, and nobody including China wants to be paid in Russian Rubles, which are maybe even less valuable for conducting foreign trade.
Putin had balls of steel. The West not so much. China is watching. Once they see just how weak the response of the west is, they will eventually also imitate a similar invasion on Taiwan. Seeking a quick victory. This is pretty much the future that is bound to happen.
Does China not realize that they were in the middle of the talks in the UN trying to create peace, when Putin made his declaration of war and invaded Ukraine?
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
It will go down as one of the most surreal sessions the United Nations chamber has ever witnessed, as the very war it was supposed to prevent broke out while it was sitting.
And China The government spent most of the last decade getting rid of it's holdings that would lose value if the American dollar fell to what it's worth based on the US economy from its present vastly inflated value because countries but it to give China, and Russia, and the Sauds...
Guaranteed the conversations between Xi and Putin during the Olympics went something along the lines of, "We'll hold off on invading the Ukraine while your Olympics are being held, and in return you will help soften the blow of economic sanctions by agreeing to buy our wheat."
Xi: Yes, by all means go hogwild. Were about to go hogwild ourselves in Taiwan. To hell with the UN!
The current warmongering by the US and Nato against Russia has the inevitable effect of driving Russia into a deeper allicnace with China. Precisely what we should not want. But clear thinking has been replaced in the current hysteria.
WTF this is nothing but lip service to stay relevant. Everyone knows that XI and Putin are bed fellows this is nothing but a staged statement "China calls for talks over Ukraine, OKs Russian wheat import". China is doing nothing but sitting on the fence observing the action of the world to see how and what will happen after this blows over we will see China do the same thing with the support of Russia providing the lip service in return. The reason being.  "The two leaders issued a joint statement backing Moscows opposition to a NATO expansion in former Soviet republics and buttressing Chinas claim to the self-governing island of Taiwan  key foreign policy issues for Beijing and Moscow.  The logic is the same China said "On the one hand, we respect territory integrity and the sovereignty of Ukraine, but on the other hand, we must consider the historical process of the of the situation where Russia has been pushed into a corner and forced to counterattack, Li said. So this means China will say they were pushed into a corner and had no choice to invade because of the US supplying arms to Taiwan etc... This is nothing but a ChinaRussian plot especially when China's Embassy in Kyiv issued a warning to its citizens to stay home and place a Chinese flag inside or on their vehicle if they needed to travel long distances. That means fly a Chinese flag and you will not be targeted you get a pass. This is the same thing that happens in war fly a white flag or a red cross flag and you will not be targeted. Next up China, I don't see the lasting long Putin will role through and get Ukraine and sooner or later you will see China repeating the same scenario.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
You have a smartphone, he said, taunting the Russian to check with his boss, the foreign minister, on what was really going on. You can call Lavrov right now. We can make a pause to let you go out and call him.
Some ambassadors demanded to speak for a second time to express their sense of betrayal.
At the exact time as we were gathered in the council seeking peace, Putin delivered a message of war in total disdain for the responsibility of this council, said the US permanent representative, Linda Thomas-Greenfield.
Maybe Putin's move was inspired by Dubya's invasion of IRAQ via the WMD false flag gambit and Biden's da-kine too  hasty retreat from Afghanistan.
There's a reason the US never seems to get around to fulfilling its promise to kick Russia off SWIFT, and that's because if Europe has to buy Renminbi to pay for its oil and gas and Chinese companies stop accepting greenbacks for their products the inflation rate that Americans are finding a challenge to cope with would be an inflation rate Americans would worship whatever President was in power if he could get it that low.
By the time it was the turn of the Russian representative, Vasily Nebenzya, to speak, Putin had given his address, and there was no more mystery. Peace was not to be given a chance after all. Nebenzya, who had spent weeks deriding western states for their hysterical warnings of impending invasion, pivoted to argue it was not actually a war that was getting under way, but a special military operation to protect the people of the Donbass.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
In the fullness of time Mr. Putin may end up looking like a fool.   This isn't 2014.  The Ukrainians are going to fight hard and a lot of young Russians will be returned to their families in coffins.  A long stalemate in Afghanistan led to the dissolution of the very USSR Mr. Putin is trying to re-establish.  This may end up being Mr. Putin's last provocation and he may not survive it as Russia's leader.
An hour or so into the meeting, the multiplying reports of bombardment of Ukrainian cities had reached the chamber, and if the futility of the councils calls for peace and dialogue had not been clear before, they were now agonisingly obvious.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
For those advocating that the US launch a financial war on China because it is using its financial clout to make America's financial war on Russia fizzle rather than go boom, America's economy is dependent on China, not the other way around.
The Ukrainian ambassador, Sergiy Kyslytsya, had been waiting for his turn to speak while receiving constant updates from Kyiv. When his time came, he had to dispense with his prepared speech because, he said, most of it is already useless.
It is not possible to do.  Central banks, private investors, bond funds, corporations etc. buy and sell those bonds to the tune of roughly half a trillion dollars per day or more.  It is impossible to know exactly which bond belongs to whom.  it is not tracked.   It is also impossible for the US to say "we will not honor that US bond because a Chinese investor holds it" without instantly making every bond the US has outstanding everywhere in the world worthless.  The US will never do this and rightly so.
