Explosions rock Ukrainian capital Kyiv
20220605
https://japantoday.com/category/world/explosions-rock-ukrainian-capital-kyiv-mayor-says
Russia now has control over more territory than ever, economist are pointing out that Sanctions are not affecting Russia as badly as their are affecting the west basically Russia is fairly self-sufficient.
And all we are getting in the western news is unverified Ukraine propaganda taken as fact, but how can you take things like "Azovstal didn't surender they completed their mission and evacuated " when we watched them taken as prisoners of war.
Now even Ukraine admits that Russia now controls 20 of the country and judging by the way Ukraine downplays losses and exaggerates gains it is more likely more than 20.
TatarZky says that Russian troops in fixed positions are also suffering from Ukrainian artillery. Maybe this is why Russians do not defend positions, but instead constantly move around. I have seen multiple cases, where some village is reported liberated by Russian forces, but next day on the maps it is again side to be under Ukrainian control. Unfortunately the Russian aim at this point seem not to be liberating territory, but to kill as many Ukrainians as possible. This is a direct result of the Ukrainian policy of holding on to every last inch of Donbass.
However, there is no need for the Russians to rush the inevitable end or risk unnecessary casualties, as time is clearly on their side. The Western economies are crumbling, the Ukrainians are running out of infantry, weapons, and supplies, China, India, Iran, Brazil, Venezuela, and the Arab nations have all made it clear they are aligned with Russia against NATO, and even the USUKIsraeli neocons are starting to have second thoughts about the wisdom of war with the planets largest nuclear power.
Maybe Macron would be happy to hand over an equal sized chunk of French land and people to Putin? No? Then why does he think Ukraine would?
Ukraine claims 28,000 to 30,000 Russians killed! : Fact even the USA and UK say at most 15,000.
Enough infantry can be thrown into battle, even with AK-12s, even with mosquitoes, but neither one nor the other will simply be able to reach the enemys positions if enemy artillery is not suppressed. Practicallyall the fighters of the assault groups, from different sectors of the front, note that the enemy, in 90 of cases, cannot withstand close combat, especially the newly formed units, and retreats. But due to the fact that the enemy artillery is not suppressed, it is not possible to hold the already occupied positions.
Does France have a German history? Does a chunk of France have a large number of ethnic Germans? Are there a sizable number of people living in what is France wanting to break away from France and join Germany?
Humiliation should be the least of his worries, and Macron needs to stop humiliating himself with his stupid, tone-deaf suggestions.
Glad Macron is not on my town's police force. His shouts through a bullhorn are only too imaginable: "Okay1 You've torched the bedrooms and stolen all the food from the kitchen! We'll allow you to take possession of the garage if you promise not to act humiliated!"
Does France have a Russian history? Does a chunk of France have a large number of ethnic Russians? Are there a sizable number of people living in what is France wanting to break away from France and join Russia?
In the western and central parts of Ukraine you'll hardly find any Russia supporters at all.
I am wondering how seemingly intelligent people will read all this and go "go Ukraine" " Russia is being pushed back" or something along those lines.
You can assemble as much infantry and equipment as you like, but the lack of an effective counter-battery fight will simply turn any, the bravest army, into cannon fodder and interfere with the solution of GEOPOLITICAL OBJECTIVES.
For over 100 days now we have be5 hearing all this and what is the actual results?
Macron is out of it.  No one is humiliating Russia.  And humiliation is the least of Putin's problems.  Besides the his stupid war, he has shortages to worry about.  Food, clothing, shelter, transportation,  You don't know Russian shortages if you have not been to the Soviet Union.  You name it and it will be gone.  Meat, cheese, bread automobile parts, TV repair.  And the sad fact is that before the moment Putin declared war the kids were hanging out at Starbucks and MacDonald's.
Ukraine "recaptures territory near Kiyv! Fact, Russia left and announced it was, so no "recaptures " just walked in.
3. the absence or scanty number of strike UAVs or kamikaze drones to destroy enemy artillery, immediately after detection.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
Ossan,and where will trial be held in Kiev,and Russia have never been great for anyone with good sense
We know better than to believe Russian news or the Russian government but here are some Ukrainian claims that just don't make sense.
5. after the discovery of an enemy mortar or artillery position, a lot of time passed when our artillery could begin to suppress it. Two factors influenced this: communication and, in fact, the qualifications of the servants of the guns.
One of the reasons the media finds it so difficult to make heads or tails of which military is winning in Ukraine is the fact that the Russians are not attempting to hold any territory that is not strategic. Instead, theyre engaged in something that could be described as 'artillery maneuver' warfare that is focused on eliminating the enemys infantry while minimizing the risks to their own infantry:
Indeed, it appears that the globalists are now hoping that an early settlement in Russias favor will be enough to preserve their disintegrating Clown World empire.
As for eliminating nationalists, do they honestly think they can simply kill 40 million Ukrainians because they are free and do not want to be Russian? Seriously? Who is still in doubt that Putin is not completely insane? Hitler wanted to end Jews as his final solution and Putin is telling the world he wants to eliminate all Ukrainians. Time for international hit squads to be employed against Putin.
They have no chance of disarming the Ukraine military without a complete takeover of Ukraine.
The problem about knowing what is really going on is that we cannot trust Russian news or government sources.
The real independent military experts  not NATO or western governments with a stake in this war said from days one, Kyiv attack was a distraction and only to hold down reinforcements going to the southern regions.
If you are not Ukrainian, then you don't get to tell them to either keep fighting or surrender.  It's their decision and others need to accept that.
Putin made a mistake. In addition to the Ukranian lives lost, he is losing a great many Russian troops. Took 10 years for the USSR to lose as many troops in Afghanistan as they have in a little over 3 months. Instead of regaining Russian greatness he is well on the way to destroying his own country.
Maybe Macron would be happy to hand over an equal sized chunk of French land and people to Putin?  No?  Then why does he think Ukraine would?
It is noteworthy that the dialogue between the Elysees and the Kremlin has not stopped since the launch of the Russian military operation on Ukrainian territory on February 24.
Clap him in irons, drag him to The Hague and see him answer for all the death and destruction he has caused and will continue to cause until he is forcibly stopped.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Moscow has said the Western weapons will pour "fuel on the fire" but will not change the course of what it calls a "special military operation" to disarm Ukraine and rid it of nationalists.
According to refugees from the Donbass region, 7 to 10 of the population in DonbassLuhansk support Russia but not necessarily Putin.  Their numbers are dwindling, as many Russian speaking Ukrainians feel disgusted by the Russian forces so they prefer to become fully Ukrainian now, teaching their kids Ukrainian language and culture - even though that's rather difficult while being pressured to use Russian money and language in public.
Now he can no longer end this war by simply calling his troops back home. The economic actions that the West have taken are hitting home and will only get worse, and there will be decades of war crimes investogations and trials. Not to mention that Ukranians will now hate Russia for generations to come. No way to back out of this, he's made too big a mess.
Macron seems to be admitting the obvious. The end will be Ukraine giving up the east and at least some of the south. How much of the south may be up for negotiation..... Time for the USNATO to save lives and call an end to its proxy war.
6. the lack of a sufficient number of reconnaissance UAVs for round-the-clock hunting for enemy artillery.
What a shame how uninterested and without real effort it is handled by the global community. Something like, Police, there are three men with rifles in my house , help. Ok, we send you an officer who gives you a knife for defense. That wont help and I have of course knives in my kitchen, do something better and more effective. Dont complain, we at the police are all with you and supporting you with our thoughts and wishes and of course send you any additional knives you want by the end of the month. lol
Its interesting to learn that despite the Russian air superiority, they have not been able to suppress the enemy artillery. There are several possible reasons for this perhaps the Ukrainian ground-to-air defenses make it too expensive to provide air cover, perhaps it is too easy to hide and move the artillery see: Serbia, 1999, or perhaps the Russians are unwilling to reveal the full extent of their air capabilities to NATO forces given the probability that they will be fighting them soon.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
The main difficulty in carrying out offensive operations in Ukraine is that in fact our troops have to go on the attack when the enemys artillery is not suppressed. The reasons why we were not able to suppress the artillery:
It is not a Masonic conspiracy that will stop our troops, but specific shortcomings in the combat work of each commander.
The entire war has been and is about taking the southern regions and joining Crimea to Russia.
