Japanese institution worried after Russia seizes Chernobyl nuclear plant
20220227
https://japantoday.com/category/national/japanese-institution-frets-as-russia-captures-chernobyl-nuclear-plant
Ive only taken the third and forth radiation doses, 1986 and 2011. Luckily I was born after the first two ones of 1945. So I am personally not interested in additional ones, although I understand that we will further need that kind of energy for civilian purposes, because that transformation from fossil to renewable energy highest probably cannot and wont work. Make it all more secure and really take it out of profit or military considerations, that would be my recommendation.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
I hope they are elucidating the pathways that the release of radioactive waste take in the Fukushima marine environments as well as Chernobyl.
The Institute of Environmental Radioactivity in Fukushima Prefecture, which was hit by its own nuclear plant crisis in 2011, has been engaged in the joint project since 2017 to elucidate pathways that radioactive particles released by the Chernobyl accident move over time through the environment.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
I believe the Russians captured the nuclear power station at Chernobyl to prevent any of the P239 stored there from being diverted into a notional Ukrainian nuclear weapons program.   Seeing as how the Russians expected to take Kyiv in three days and put their own people in power there I am not sure why they were so worried as it takes a lot more development and time to make a workable nuclear weapon than three days even if you have P239 on hand.   I am not sure the fallout risk is as high as some suppose simply because the plant is so close to Belarus and to Russian forces.  The last thing the Russians want to do is subject their own to radioactive fallout.  I expect they will take great care to protect that plant.  Then again Russian forces have performed surprisingly poorly so far so maybe anything really is possible?
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
One of our "what ifs" has come true.  A madman--Putin--may well cause a nuclear accident because the Chernobyl nuclear wreck cannot be attended.  The sooner we a rid of Putin and nuclear power the better.
