Japan to double Ukraine aid to 600 million
20220519
https://japantoday.com/category/politics/japan-to-double-ukraine-aid-to-600-million
Oh Yeah?, enlighten us with good examples if you can. possibly with what the empathy actually means with
The last conflict of this size in Europe was 77 years ago. There are not too many wars of this size and brutality anywhere, although what happened in Syria once Russia got involved was equally brutal. Much harder to provide financial assistance of this nature to rebel opposition in Syria.
They hope to get a share of the contracts to rebuild Ukraine's infrastructure that has been flattened by Russia when the conflict is over.They'll be in for a surprise..
keep in mind this abound is just to proxy fight Russia. Reconstruction? Another 200 billion?
is there any place to find the total free money from the world after all the zoom calls? 70 billion? 100 billion soon?
There are not too many wars of this size and brutality anywhere, although what happened in Syria once Russia got involved was equally brutal. Much harder to provide financial assistance of this nature to rebel opposition in Syria."
You would think after COVID and all, Japan should be concentrating more on their own recovery and economic situation.
Perhaps ridiculous and cynical, but it makes more sense than Japan suddenly becoming this kind, generous country.
Thats because most countries are like you except NATO members plus so-called permanent neutral countries.
But with Ukraine, it seems there's this sudden outpouring of empathy along with all this money and aid being sent.
not even get noticed,   would save much more bloody tax. Damn if you do, Damn if you don't . That is the response Japan would get anyway. Look at these posters up there.
An April 19 JT article reported that Japan would aid the Volodymyr Zelenskyy government by sending material goods such as gas masks, hazmat suits and drones. This article says , money-wise, that amounts to $300 million.It further days Japan will double the aid money to $600 million. In other words, more masks, hazmat suits and drones.
Japanese government and prefectural schools turn off their heating in the winter as their budgets dont stretch far enough, yet..
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
What is wrong with that? How do you expect any country to upset any other country without any good reasons. Especially against that kind of monster who wouldn't give the heck to Int'l law or humanity
The main symptom of this affliction is the systematic high taxing of its citizens and residents, while placing them at the bottom of the list for relief or consideration.
Disband UN and all those useless commissions like UNHCR. Stop contribution for nothing, never appreciated,
Earlier this week, Japan signed a $300 million loan agreement with Ukraine. With the latest decision, Japan is extending a total of $600 million in loans to the country.
Why does Japan keep giving money away to Ukraine? What are they trying to prove and is there something in it for them?
Russia wouldn't let an unfiendly country to take part in rebuilding. Besides much of the damage has been in the Russian Donbass regions.
Japan should make use of this aid by asking zelensky to be deadly serious about the bloody mess he got Ukrainians into.
the motive is simple, we'll help you stay there because we don't want you to come to Japan
Yes, of course none of the conflicts America was involved in qualify...from Vietnam to Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan....of course those wars were to " bring freedom" to the masses. The West,s hypocrisy is sky high.
WHYthe citizens of Japan need money! The US under Biden is giving 40 billion dollars in addition to 18 billion already sent! Its insane to spend money needed here funding Zelenskys retirement plan. This money as well as all the money sent by every other nation is gone never to be returned!
Or probably because Ukraine has world's biggest deposits of natural resources needed by Japan and they want first dibs after the war
Japan's "Three Principles of Controlling Arms Exports" prohibits it from selling arsenal to a third country.So, it's assumed that Japan will buy killer drones from the U.S. and have them sent to Ukraine directly.
The others you mentioned were in no way as brutal or deadly as what Russia has unleashed in Ukraine.
It's strange how I never remember Japan taking an interest in other serious, tragic world conflicts.
The way i see it, Japan holds a massive grudge against Russia, and before didn't dosay anything to upset Russia out of fear.
If Putin hadn't invaded in the first place, aid would not be needed. But if he simply pulls out today, the amount of damage done will take years and billions to put right.
A Russian wife turned to her husband and asked, "What's this special military operation our glorious leader keeps talking about?"
Anything done by other nations in no way excuses or entitles Russian brutality in Ukraine.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
The guy doesn't seem quite aware of the actual situation, let alone of tomorrows. A new leader, with all it takes to be in control of the country's destiny, seems the only way out of this mess.
Japan has got the same affliction as the USA, it suffers from globalists in charge.
Not even close. That conflict which had a similar casualty total happened over years while the invasion of Ukraine has reached or even exceeded that total in three months.
Tragic yeah, for those all conflicts mean the same to .....as long as 70 years
Now that most countries are condemning Russia, Japan is hiding behind them and feels safe.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Pro Russian much? A country is invaded, ransacked and getting grain and equipment stolen and sent back to Russia but you think aid is going to the pockets of Ukraine leadership. Just because that happens in Russia does not make it so in Ukraine. And it would not be needed if Russia didnt invade and would simply leave. Blaming a victim is a low act indeed.
I rather wonder how come Japan , the only Asian, Non-NATO country speaking up like this has to be  blamed like that.
Why drones?Is Ukraine in need of drones for the delivery of mails and commercial goods, which is at a development stage in Japan?The drones must be killer drones made by the U.S. to destroy Russian tanks and convoys deployed to Ukraine.
I suspect a chunk of this money will indirectly circle back to Kishida and his cronies...
You guys simply don't get it. Those countries who are the big donors expect to be the countries who will come in and rebuild the infrastructure of the war torn country after it the rabid dog is gone. Cry now, drink the best wines and line your pockets later.
If Japan is so concerned about Chinas growing military assertiveness, the money should be used to improve the countrys defense capabilities. Now Biden is coming. I suspect some kind of US pressure behind this additional loan or handout.
Make it a loan, that way when the exchange rate hits 150yen to 1 USD , we can ask for it back, and make bank!
"Well," he replied, "so far we've lost 24,000 soldiers, 2,000 tanks, 200 aircraft, numerous helicopters, and loads of armoured vehicles and artillery pieces. and our flag ship along with other naval pieces"
Nothing excuses or entitles Russia to invade in the first place. The brutality they have inflictedare inflicting is totally beyond the pale.
Vietnam was indeed brutal and that still did not get America a win in that war. The others you mentioned were in no way as brutal or deadly as what Russia has unleashed in Ukraine. Anything done by other nations in no way excuses or entitles Russian brutality in Ukraine.
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Thursday his country will double its financial aid for Ukraine to $600 million in support of the country badly damaged by Russias aggression.
These are not normal circumstances. A major conflict in Europe killing many tens of thousands in a few short months and cities being leveled.
There must be something to the theories of MMT and fiat currency if there is always this bottomless well of lucre for such aid yet shortfalls that have to be made up by taxes for daycare, education, the domestic unemployed and disadvantaged and working poor are a hard sell and "difficult".
