Kishida tells Putin diplomatic solution needed over Ukraine crisis
20220217
https://japantoday.com/category/politics/update2-kishida-tells-putin-diplomatic-solution-needed-over-ukraine-crisis
It's like the small dog barking behind the fence, then you open the gate and it runs away
But given how wealthy Putin is reputed to be and if PM Kishida is not as wealthy, maybe in that case PM Kishida would be the featherweight.
Either way, Japan as a nation has lots of reasons to want a diplomatic solution, which I hope will be resolved soon.
Russia has said some military units were returning to their bases from exercises near Ukraine, but the United States and European nations are skeptical about such a claim.Who to believe when both sides have such lengthy reputations as liars.
I dont think that small dog is not barking at all but persuading.  I don't think Japan is dog either.
I believe only the US keep telling that Russia will invade Ukraine in order to server their own interests and keeping the oil and gas prices at record highs
Wow! That was fastlol! The Russia invading Ukraine saga has been going on for more than a month and finally the honorable PM has his say!
I will not believe either Biden or Putin, until NATO and Russian Federation military personnel are back in their respective family homes.
oh well, that's that sorted then.....    so relieved!   Kishida should get the Nobel Peace Prize...   
Putin has made it crystal clear that this time he will not relent until NATO give him written promise of no more expansion.
Either NATO concede or Russia takes Ukraine, which in the history was never a real nation anyway. Ball is on NATO's court
It's like the old riddle, if two liars are talking to each other, which one might be telling the truth.
Russians like Japanese products , they love to have Japanese companies investing in Russia .
Does Kishida know there are American bases in Japan? Does he know that Japan and Russia are just about 15 minutes jet or missile flight away? Does he know Japan is not a member of NATO?
In a follow the money world Putin knows Japan currently has the world's third largest economy.
Kishida vowed that Japan, which initiated the phone talks, "will continue tenacious diplomatic efforts toward easing tensions."
If Japan is too small to talk to Russia, what is the suggestion from the one infesting that dog guarded by the fence to get bigger Huh?
This kind of talks show that it's all just, well, talk. The J government will make itself look good by pretending to "ease tensions" in other parts of the world while doing the opposite at home, which also makes them popular with a part of their electorate.
mr empty suit said something to Putin and in whitehouse can bookmark it as homework is done.
Putin has always been waiting for a diplomatic solution, and that being a guarantee that the Ukraine wouldn't be able to join NATO. However, the US has been trying to avoid this type of guarantee or promise because it not only wants the Ukraine to join NATO, but completely surround Russia with nukes aimed at Moscow.
In a follow the money world Putin knows Japan currently has the world's third largest economy. Russia's is way down, even with its huge reserves of oil and gas. I think Putin will listen to PM Kishida.
Then by that reasoningAlyRustom 11:36am,Putin doesnt really care about those living in Tokyo either? They are just small fish in a larger sea ?
If the weight divisions are determined by  a nation's economic size, Russia indeed would be the feather weight. Where did all Russia's oilgas wealth go?
I think its good that there are talks, and Japans size is not an issue.  Putin has a connection to Japanese culture through judo, and is treated respectfully when he visits, so there is already an established basis for working some things out though the Kuril question has not been settled as yet.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Ukrainian citizens should be allowed to make  decisions based on Ukraine's own political processes. Time to move farther away from the Cold War Era and the Fossil era.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
Then by that reasoning AlyRustom 11:36am, Putin doesnt really care about those living in Tokyo either? They are just small fish in a larger sea ?
And until Ukrainian individuals are allowed to choose for themselves what they want, perhaps remain independent and free of any empire, or perhaps to be part of the EU andor NATO, or perhaps go back toin the USSR,
japan is a poor country with its debts and a fake economy based on QE
Yes it is. Japan is part of the G7 who will likely apply sanctions collectively against Russia if they invade Ukraine. Your input is not needed.
