Kishida unveils plan to set up pandemic crisis control unit similar to CDC
20220615
https://japantoday.com/category/politics/kishida-unveils-plan-to-set-up-pandemic-crisis-control-unit
I'd also bet that the name has the letter "J" in it somewhere, because Japan.
It will be interesting to see how this is going to develop, The two obvious candidates to make the new unit are the NIID and the NCGHM that are already doing most of the functions of the US CDC, maybe incorporating other centers that are already collaborating closely with the CDC and WHO.
Now, whos got the petty cash? Lets hurry up and go meet those teenage girls at the club.  And  watch out for the paparazzi.  Its almost election time.
Present Japanese government still tries to justify their misstep of Covid measures during 2.5 years by comparing Japan with only US or western EU countries.
Is it necessary now? All Japanese need to know why combining is a priority over other issues. The politicians have to make more effort for current Covit-patients who can't take care from hospitals.
Let's just hope they are more serious about this one than the "Digital Agency" or the "Children and Families Agency"...
Yes man 2: do we really need one? I mean Japan is a safety country! We had lower Covid numbers than the rest of the world.  Japanese are superior!
This is when you have an old and outdated political class at the helm,out of ideas and need to copy the others,and when they do even not the best models to copy.
Truth. The reason America did so poorly during covid was because of Americans. Dumb Americans elected a dumb president who politicized the virus because he didn't want it to kill the economy he was planning on using for his campaign talking points.
So he did nothing, and it killed the economy, killed his campaign talking point, and killed over a million Americans.
Japan's ruling party LDP uses Putin's invasion, instigates social unrest as if China or North Korea attack Japan soon, and thrust expansion of militarization of the nation.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
They repeat excuse as same as 2020 when the then PM used it to justify himself.
Question to the commenters above who think this is stupid. Would it be better to not have this at all?
One such case was the Diamond Princess that became a hotbed of infection-allowed to spread without control.
Govt: hmm, Then we dont have to pay creative to come up with something new? Just imitate what other people are doing! I love it! Its been decided.
Japan needs more professional advice medical and to act on it as well as upgrading the ability to interpret news from outside the country in foreign languages which is obviously sorely lacking.
Why does he want to copy the system of a country that did so poorly?
Yet another vehicle to siphon money from hardworking Japanese people and into the pockets of LDP politicians and bureaucrats.
We could need an effective agency with a clear mission statement, experts put in charge and funded with adequate resources.
This is great because Japan can decide on its own as regards health situations without depending on the WHO whose head is not even a doctor.
The second of many was the lack of action to stop the group tours from China even as Taiwan was speedily locking down.
From the photo! Put your hands in the air if you just dont care! By the time a Japanese government organisation gives the OK for drugs after consulting with Japanese Pharmaceutical companies and forming panels, then disbanding them, only to form another one that conforms to the pharmaceutical companies view.
If done properly this can become a magnet for foreign talent and can help remediate the very low position Japan has in the research and vigilance of infectious diseases, but there is always the chance this will only mean a few name plates will be changed and the original institutions keep working as usual.
First off, Biden has more cases and deaths under his tenure than Trump for same time frame with the vaccines available. Cases and deaths have not gone down. Look at the charts.  Secondly, health, Japanese are much healthier as a population than the US. Americans do not eat well or exercise. Thirdly, culturally, Japanese culture and living conditions are totally different that US. More Japanese live very separated in different households with many single person households or much less people per household. The populations that hit the most were the populations that live in dense populated households. Japanese are much more introverted socially than than Americans. Japanese are fastidiously clean which does make a difference. Finally, Biden is the one torching the US economy. I live in the US. Under Trump the economy was in much better shape and much more stable, inflation was low, lowest unemployment in history for minorities, gas was 236 less under Trump, and the US had an excess of gas and was exporting. When Trump left office Dec 2020 national gas average was $2.12gallon and now the national gas average is $5.00gallon.
That sounds great, but it would require  new businesses to be allowed to get actively involved in the development and implementation of renewables, and for the dinosaur corporations to slide away from their involvements in energy related fields. And also require government agencies to ensure the transition to renewables is smooth, and is actually permitted to happen. Unfortunate but not surprising that the country has not followed through on increasing the use of solar energy.and provided more incentives for individuals and corporations to do so. Hoe about small scale wind energy, where are the Japanese  businesses involved in developing and providing equipment for them and other devices for individuals to use. Conservation should be the starting point, start by encouraging more local businesses, and relying less on importing things from all around the globe, instead incentives should be offered to encourage  locavore lifestyles.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
There is no inherent problem with how the CDC handled the pandemic, the number of cases and deaths have more to do with people refusing to follow the recommendations and measures and the poor state of the health care system than with the functions of the CDC.
Russia, China and India even as not good as Pfizer and Moderna, at least they can produce their own vaccines. Japan just wait US to produce good vaccines.
Japan just copy things from abroad lately, even for critical part like vaccines Japan can not produce their own.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
There is no inherent problem with how the CDC handled the pandemic, the number of cases and deaths have more to do with people refusing to follow the recommendations and measures and the poor state of the health care system than with the functions of the CDC. Which in some ways can be somewhat the opposite of what happened in Japan, that managed to avoid disasters like happened in India or Brazil mostly thanks to voluntary cooperation from the public while the government put forward late, incomplete, baseless or even counterproductive measures frequently.
America is comprised of Americans, and Japan is comprised of Japanese. Every difference in covid result in these two countries can followed back to this single point.
Truth. The reason America did so poorly during covid was because of Americans. Dumb Americans elected a dumb president who politicized the virus because he didn't want it to kill the economy he was planning on using for his campaign talking points. So he did nothing, and it killed the economy, killed his campaign talking point, and killed over a million Americans. Then he tried to steal the election, and his idiots still love him.  What was that he said about shooting someone on 6th ave?
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida announced plans Wednesday to establish an infectious disease crisis management agency to better prepare for future pandemics.
Ok I guess he is adequate probably the best you could say about a Japanese politician  err they are adequate
There is absolutely no need for any irrational conspiracy for pandemics to happen, with the interconected state of the world and the increase of risk coming from climate change and expansion of human activity towards reservoir animals territories it is bound to happen, and soon. This has been predicted continously by epidemiologists and other experts for decades.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Such they will be able to improve nothing even if they make how new organization.
Loooooooool!! They're going to set up a CDC 2 years into the pandemic? For future pandemics? Gods, this is the dictionary definition of closing the stable door after the horse has bolted. Omg, I needed a laugh today. Thanks!
Japan allowed the virus to spread on number of occasions and failed to act on the news out of China that was all over social media that infected Chinese were leaving the country- it was all ignored then it was too late.
Kishida, so so bland as a human,  a politician, a leader he is not really relative to Japanese people let alone globally. Its like having a leader who actually has no leadership skills, In his favour he is not so obviously corrupt as his predecessor.
Actually Japan did very well during this pandemic when compared to most developed nations except for the thousands of vaccines trashed for expiration dates!!?.  An extra layer of protection and a centralized response will even be better.
Only the CCP knows that. The rest of us only know the numbers the CCP lets out. No one in the planet outside of China trusts CCP numbers.
Govt: Well boys, its been well over two years now.  What plan have we got to handle a disease crisis in the future?
Yes man 3: cmon, why dont we just COPY what the CDC is doing. But tweak it a little, like the name only and call it our own!!!
What do Japan expect to do with copying the shape of the CDC, the thing works in America because it get power to do things, that is not what happens in Japan. Even if some form of J-CDC is put in place it will be told what to do and how to do it by the usual people in power, so nothing extra will come from this
On the other hand, they thrust to restart nuclear plants at seacoast of Japan Sea or East China Sea where military attack is easy for China or North Korea with ignoring Putin 's attack against nuclear plants of Ukraine.
$10 bucks says they call it the CDC, too, or something that sounds similar CBC, CGC.
Anyway, I hope he'll put in place a robust system to prevent it from being captured by pharma.
