Latest developments in Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220320
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Zelenskyy-suspends-parties-with-Russian-links
But for the benefit our whataboutists, thats still leaps and bounds better than the situation in Russia.
The west encouraged the poking just to see how far they could get but lost the false control they thought they had,
All of the 'neutral' posters sure are mad about the Ukrainians taking emergency measures to protect themselves
Ukraine poked the bear, now it is doubling down poking even more as they desperately hope someone will be stupid enough to come to their aid.
Because, to paraphrase a poster above good people dont accept things that they know are wrong or immoral to be done at the time to survive a moment.
Seems like the conspiracy theorists who all became expert epidemiologists over the last two years have all now become professors of geopolitics and masters of military strategy.
You think it's a good idea to allow foreign involvement in political parties at a time that nation - fascist Russia - is illegally invading and killing innocent Ukrainians?
isnt this odd that Zelensky is now using this whole thing to eliminate political rivals? by restricting their political activities for the duration of the martial law he set?
It's a pretty simple one if you leave your car parked in the driveway chances are you're not going to get into a car accident if you drive your car normally following the rules chances are you'll stay safe if you borrow your car down the road zigzagging everywhere not making your stop signs ignoring the traffic signs ignoring traffic lights speeding well when you crash don't blame the car.
This entire war was a miscalculation since 2014 no there's no excuse for Putin's actions there's also no excuse for how the West and the Ukraine poorly handled this.
Fizzbit - so your suggestion to Ukraine in the past would have just been to continue to appease Russia? That hasn't seemed to work out for them.
They aren't going to allow political parties with close ties to the invader to cause trouble.
What has Ukraine been thinking for 8 years, how can we best push the breakaway regions more towards Putin? How can we pass more laws against ethnic Russians to upset them more? Etc...
Inviting NATO, a military force, into your country and for the last 8 years youve been attacking your own citizens on your border who happen to be your neighbors kin. Meanwhile your neighbor is trying to use diplomacy, but promises of consequences.
Those that took power at Maydan are the same people that tried making Stepan Bandera and UPA leader Roman Shukhevych national heroes previously and would do it again and partially succeed in doing so in 2015.
usnATO sanctions start to impact every country in the world. Violence against overseas innocent Russians reported in many western countries.
While simultaneously making it a crime to call the facist OUN UPA war criminals,  which to counter this Poland in 2018 made it a crime to call these groups anything other than war criminals and ethnic cleansing after failed negotiation with Ukraine
It is laughably easy for Zelensky to tie anyone in the country to Russia that he so chooses. Given how close Ukraine and Russia are both geographically and historically, I would be amazed if you could find anyone who didn't have "russian links".
Finally banning these opposition parties is exactly what they would have done had they been able to get away with it in 2014 and 2015 this is always been Ukraine's goal long before this war long before world war II Ukraine has wanted an ethnically clean country.
But werent the members of these banned parties elected by the people in free and fair elections?
As far as I know the press release mentions nothing of trials and executions in Ukraine, only that pro-Russian politicians are being banned.
You people act like Russia is the only place that's ever invaded anyone come on Iraq Afghanistan, even Grenada,, etc..
This is totally justified and restrained. They are not being imprisoned or executed like in Russia.
If you have issue with Zelensky or Ukraine, thats fine. Making any argument that this Invasion is in any way justified, or excusable means your not the neutral open minded poster you make yourself out to be.
Zelensky ran on a platform of ending the war and repairing relations with Russia. Shortly after he was elected, he went to the front line and "asked" the Azov Battalion to stop shelling Donetsk. They laughed at him, gave him a kick up the backside and sent him on his way. So Zelensky had a choice to make, combat the Azov Battalion and by extension, NATO or combat the Russians.
Are you suggesting Stalin was a fascist. Makes sense in these Orwellian times. The man who made by far the greatest contribution to the defeat of fascism was a fascist and the guy in Ukraine who bans TV stations, social media platforms and political parties critical of his regime is a model democrat. Really frightening times. Fascism has returned. Just as Trotsky said the inexorable tendency made inevitable.
You mean the overthrow after an agreement for new elections had already been reached? You mean that "popular uprising" that was only supported in the western regions, that one?
And Maidan was a popular uprising against a corrupt regime. There is no genocide ethnic cleansing... There was a Russian aggression on Ukraine- Crimea, Eastern regions
Why allow pro Russians access to critical security information they would not hesitate to pass on to Russia to exploit?  This is an Invasion and Ukrainians are being exterminated by Russian soldiers.
So using that logic the Dictator goes out and has shoots his opposition executed without a trial.
It is interesting all pro Ukraine Anti Putin can only say nothing justifies Putin's actions.
Russian bends political parties you are up in arms, Ukraine bans political parties yes fine no problem.
does each member of each party have these ties and what are they? no one ever said close ties, just ties
Georgia a place that still nearly worship Stalin their native son that made sure it didn't suffer during his little starve the population plans.
You do realize they've already done that and it hasn't done anything except plunged the entire world into an economic crisis and now plunging the world into a food crisis.
Ukraine and it's supporters bring up the 1930s famine all the time as a reason they want to distance itself from Russia, they bring up events from 100, 200 years ago, but if anyone mentions Ukraine ethnic cleansing by UPA.
Did Ukraine think " hey if I make them more unwelcome, maybe they will just leave and go away" is that what they thought?
His original claims of Neo Nazis in Ukraine where never taking very seriously but now he will point to this and more people will believe and follow!
Ukraine isn't going to win, it isn't going to come out whole but at this point the alternative is far worse.
And centuries later natures decides what something crawls out the pool of irradiated life that is left
Ukraine pushed their luck not realizing they had a nuclear powered mad man as their opponent.
It is a convenient way to remove all of his political rivals. Note how nobody banned is related to his party or their allies at all.
Well we didn't ask you because all the war mongers and so-called Freedom fighters here seem so gung ho on Ukraine's rights when it comes to the US, but when it's Yemen for the past several years you guys are awfully quiet, oh I forgot that is a USA Ally bombing the crap out of the place and no blonde haired blue-eyed Europeans there.
these banned parliament members were elected by the people and are now being restricted based on the weakest of connections to Russia.
During wartime, especially during an extreme crisis when unity is demanded if Ukraine is to resist further Russian control,  the above is to be expected.
I know I watched it in the western news and that was the first time I saw those flags not the blue yellow Ukraine but red and black UPA.
I mean seriously folks Ukraine says "we don't want war with Russia we would like those Russian areas to come back to our country join us live with us but remember you're not one of us!" This long before the war started.
Ukraine has, ask Poland it protested to the point in 2018 passing it's own law declaring it illegal to claims these groups are not criminal and stipulates that these organizations were specifically ethnic cleansing groups!
It is laughably easy for Zelensky to tie anyone in the country to Russia that he so chooses.  Given how close Ukraine and Russia are both geographically and historically, I would be amazed if you could find anyone who didn't have "russian links".
I noticed like all the rest you avoid any conversation surrounding the actions of the Ukrainian government since 2014 you avoid the fact that they elevated the genocidal UPA to Heroes of the nation.
Ukraine is in a war with Russia. That Russia imposed on it . Is suspending the Russia-linked parties during period of martial law a wise choice? Its difficult to say from our vantage point. Just recently we saw Russians abduct the mayor of Melitopol install Galina Danilchenko from the Opposition Bloc party. Maybe under duress.  If shes accepted  willingly thats treason. If these Russia aligned parties are actively working to undermine their own country in time of war, then I can see why theyd take the action to suspend. Again, difficult to say from our comfortable vantage point.
I went to my local Christian Church. I must admit to being a lapsed Christian and Catholic.
can you explain why the US feels obligated to send Ukraine 13.6 billion dollars but no jets and no support of a no fly zone?
Yeah, so is Putin's invading Ukraine, but you don't think the US should assist them.
As weve seen in the United States, Moscow can be very effective at influencing the corruptible and weak minded, at penetrating and subverting democracies. Our own Republican Party has Russian links, Pro-Putinists. In the media we have comrade Carlson and his ilk. In Congress, we have useful idiots MTG and Madison Cawthorn and many more. And we had the twice impeached Russia stooge in the presidency only just recently.
Yes, really. We had these discussions back then and the CIA coup and other fables still Russian fiction. Sorry
You avoid the fact that they deliberately last July made it a point to disenfranchise and to declare that the Russians were not wanted and not ethnics native to the country like the ukrainians and others which by the way just for your information they've been there just as long. No your typical reply is to avoid any of the controversial acts by the ukrainians and just focus on the results of those Acts and that is getting the Russians upset and giving a mad man like Putin everything he needed to justify at least in his mind this invasion.
"The largest of them is the Opposition Platform for Life, which has 44 out of 450 seats in the countrys parliament. The party is led by Viktor Medvedchuk, who has friendly ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who is the godfather of Medvedchuks daughter."
Absolutely insane.  I know they banned communist parties back in 2015, which was bad enough.
Sure as soon as the supporters of Ukraine explain why the USA backed attacks on Yemen are okay but not this.
One 1 second for the knockout blow, the remaining 4 seconds with "Valiant Zelinsky" running for dear life, screaming for his momma!
An MP in the UK wanted to ban swastikas without caveting which ones. Always best to have ideas discussed before enacting them. In reality that is what democracy is.
This has already been explained ad infinitum. If the US were to declare a no fly zone over Ukraine, they would have to defend it. Which would mean sending up US, or NATO jets to intercept Russian planes in the no fly zone. If a US plane fired on a Russian plane, or vis versa, that'd mean war between NATO and Russia.
It is a convenient way to remove all of his political rivals.  Note how nobody banned is related to his party or their allies at all.
Russia discriminates against the minority oh how terrible bad Russia we should punish them. Ukraine does the same oh that's their internal rights they have the right to run their country that way they want.
You are Ukrainian that is obvious no Poles, Js, Latvians, Romani or other undesirable lower ethnic groups long live UPA OUN, Right!?
I guess it is easier to make people believe Russia was responsible than 2 Georgians.
They actually start to negotiate with them oh yes they're evil but at this point got to know when to compromise and when you cannot win something.
Look at all the excuses look at all the exceptions the West is making for Ukraine, racist laws "they have their reasons" we looked the other way, every time they pass the new law disenfranchising a minority group, Western countries came up with an excuse not to intervene, to look the other way, etc.. Are we sure they wouldn't have come up with an excuse to let them into NATO?
So using that logic  the Dictator goes out and has shoots his opposition executed without a trial.
The so-called good guy can do the same as low as he does a few political maneuvering and possibly a show trial or two.
You all act like nothing anyone did could possibly ever justify this war but all the other ones well we had our reasons they were justifiable because we won them!
All of the 'neutral' posters sure are mad about the Ukrainians taking emergency measures to protect themselves during one of the largest land wars in decades that has so far been fought entirely on their own soil. Strange response from 'neutral' posters if you ask me
We aren't far off.  Yuri Gagarin being removed from mention in the Space Foundation fundaraiser, schools trying to ban Dostoevsky, orchestras cancelling Tchaikovsky performances.  None of which were even alive during the current Russian government.  Heck, even Russian cats were getting banned.  I am surprised Isaac Asimov books aren't being pulled off the shelf yet.
Not if causes Ukraine to lose multiple regions of the country Not if it means they're not allowed to join NATO and or the EU.
before the war he had already had the leaders of various parties arrested and banned at least 2 along with ordering the closure of 6 TV stations and the blocking of the most popular social media platform in the country. This is the regime western leaders call "democratic". And the scary thing is, the general public in the west largely go along with it.
Russia had 64 deaths in five days of fighting during its 2008 war with Georgia
You act like nothing the Ukrainian government did over the past eight years contributed to the problems.
I have clearly admitted that Putin is wrong he's a dictator we all know that but at least I don't stick my head in the sand and pretend that Ukraine is some innocent little child. How do you hypocrites look yourself in the mirror?
This is music to Putin's ears, the Russians that weren't on his side now will be.
We all EUUSUK have to make a decision and cut of the monetary means for President Putin to continue this horror show.
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
Russia started a full blown War. It thought Ukrainians would roll over. It shows they really believed their propaganda about Maidan. The Ukrainians are showing them that, yeah, theyll fight for their freedom to be free from Russia
Ive lived in quite a few countries including the US where ethnic minorities had grievances, many of them legitimate, as to their status and treatment. None of these were akin to 1930s Germany, or the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. To portray Ukraine either as perfect or like one of the aforementioned would be a lie.
Unless the global community accept that there are going to sacrifices, to UN policy of humanity, and the right to exist.
To portray Ukraine either as perfect or like one of the aforementioned would be a lie.
Murder and destruction is not the answer. If it is then the world needs to be at war totally because most nations have serious problems that need solutions. If the solution is War then just say so and let it be everyone in the world at war to get it over with.
Fizzbit - so your suggestion to Ukraine in the past would have just been to continue to appease Russia?  That hasn't seemed to work out for them.
Look at Afghanistan as soon as the Western countries left the Taliban walked right back in and at this point what have the Western country done in response?
If this was true, if I was Zelensky, I would be ready to run and run fast.
Anything longer than 5 seconds, "Valiant Zelinsky" to be declared a winner Russians go home.
Notice how gently both the USA tread with north Korea? They don't give in but they don't poke poke poke the crazy guy with nukes.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
Their banning of opposition parties and the present war is all happening in a vacuum.
Has the UK government in the past 50 years made a racist, ethnic cleansing paramilitary organization national heroes at the same time?
Its not they who decided this- its one person-  Zelensky. And these are his political rivals who were elected by the people.
Its far better for them to take the deal thats offered. Then no more innocent people die.
even  this article was edited and headline changed since It was posted to downplay the restrictions on political parties. Dont think that part was supposed to be released.
But then it is "Russia and Russians" Ukraine blames for the famine not Stalin and Beria both Georgian.
The simple fact is there is no justification, no shared responsibility for the atrocities perpetrated by Putin in this war of agression on Ukraine.
What you mention is despicable, thats true, but it in no way justifies a foreign invasion by a nation that has highly questionable political activities of their own. So to answer the question. Yes.
just based on Russian links? Both parties in the US have Russian links too, can we have our 13.6 billion dollars back then?
Then after the moment passes no way to return back to how it was and you have one man will all the money and all the power.
It shows how in it's move to alienate Russia and especially the ethnic Russian minority in Ukraine.
Before the Russian invasion. the British authorities had warned that Russia wanted to install Murayev as the leader of Ukraine.
From day one ilof it's recent history the vote for the leader was nearly 5050 right down the East West divide and each time the West side was never happy when the scale tipped towards the east.
You mean like not getting involved in a war where an authoritarian state , a dictatorship seeks to brutally subdue and weaker neighbor country to impose on it a vassal status? Not supporting a people that is actually fighting for their freedom? That would indeed be immoral.
I did a quick search about Mosley and the blackshirts were banned in 1940 so historically during wars this kind of stuff has happened before
Russia releases proof of US funded illegal bio-weapon labs in ukraine which is not reported in western media.
and the kind of thing that led to Japanese people in camps in the USA because of Japan links.  Are we going back to that be ok now cause its war time?
Well at present time that is exactly what the Western reaction is as much as it wants to get it Putin it's actually causing more damage to itself and the rest of the world you have to know when to cut your losses.
Being ethnic Russian which since July 2021 are no longer considered as native to the regioncountry no I am not making that up last summer Ukraine decided their ethnic Russian population was not part of the indigenous people which of course does include ethinc ukrainians.
It has been one stupid blundering action after another as the poked the Crazy Putin Russian Bear for 8 years and then cat all surprised when the crazy man with a million man Army and nuclear weapons decides to invade.
This MSM slip is evidence that the west knew what was about to unfold and IMO, wanted the invasion to go ahead. No emergency diplomatic solutions, just a stone wall of psychopathic obstinance. There is no need for NATO in Ukraine.
You mean there was no Maydan, no war with the breakaway regions, no on going war with those regions, no laws recognizing OUN UPA as freedom fighters and not the ethnic cleansing group the rest of the world call them, no law in 2021 declaring all the recognized native ethnic groups in Ukraine that said Russians weren't, you mean non of that has anything to do with what is going on today.
2014, far right nationalists overthrown the democratic elected government with extreme violence including burning many Russian speakers alive the the trade union center.
Now if we want to talk about how Russia treats its ethnic minorities wed have a lot of meat.
king emergency measures to protect themselves during one of the largest land wars in decades
US led NATO gives 6000 stinger and also javelin weapons, about $150000 each to a mixture of military, neo-nazis and local civilians with just three days military training. If transferred to radical international terroirist they can take down passenger jets.
Other parties not mentioned included the Progressive Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Left Opposition Bloc, the Union of Left Forces, and even the Volodymyr Saldo Bloc.  Now any party with any slightly left leanings is banned, leaving only extreme right parties.  Which is doubly strange because Russia isn't left leaning whatsoever.   Any opposition to the conservative government can just get labeled as a Russian sympathizer and banned.
dictatorships are born from good people accepting things that they know are wrong or immoral to be done at the time to survive a moment.
All of the 'neutral' posters sure are mad about the Ukrainians taking emergency measures to protect themselves during one of the largest land wars in decades that has so far been fought entirely on their own soil.  Strange response from 'neutral' posters if you ask me.
I don't see either as ok but only one is getting news and western condemnation the other the people are just dying under USA made bombs in international silence.
Read up on UPA ethnic cleansing before during and after WW2 then come back to me on that.
Super convenient. Just say someones kid has a Russian godfather and he and his entire party of more than 10 of the parliament, poof! Gone.
In addition, the US, while realizing Ukraine had a nuclear powered mad man as their opponent, still goaded him into invading.
Now give use your best Macho " fight all the way to Moscow" rhetoric , etc.. or the pathetic " we don't reward bullies" as we do it everyday, month, years, decade, century, etc... How else did the USA Russia, China, etc.. become so powerful.
A much restrained reply to Putin calling those opposed to him in Russia as traitors to be rooted out.
You've already said you don't think the US needs to even send aid to Ukraine. Are you now saying you support the US creating a no fly zone over Ukraine?
Where are those who claimed Australia, Canada and New Zealand were fascist states led by tyrants. Mighty quiet when your Putin shows his inner-Stalin
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
People keep saying there was no chance of Ukraine becoming part of NATO because of the rules and the conflict in the east!
Would it be ok to invade Russia for it's treatment and massacres of the Chechen people? No, not really. Your attempts to paint Ukraine as having "brought this on itself" is despicable. No nation is perfect. No government is perfect. But interference in a sovereign nations domestic issues via invasion, murder and destruction is not the answer. Otherwise China would be invaded, probably India, Russia and others for crimes committed domestically. A hundred years ago people would have been preparing to invade the US. Nobody is without fault.
Against a foreign invasion by a regime that has highly questionable activities of their own. Yes
Anyway, Ukraine is and has been a BIG mafia mess for many years. The US has been playing games with them and Biden and son Hunter are well connected as well as past Trump folks, Obama folks, and so on. Those poor poor Ukrainians who just wanna live a nice life are pawns in a bigger game. Im talking about the big picture, not just whats happened in the last 3 weeks.
A celebrity put the Ukraine flag on their Twitter so they dutifully support the current thing blindly.
Ukraine and it's supporters bring up the 1930s famine all the time as a reason they want to distance itself from Russia,
Blacklabel - I don't know what to tell you if you haven't seen the invasion map.  Ukraine's larger, less democratic neighbor has invaded their country on three sides.  This is not a minor "emergency".  Their country is under existential thread.  They aren't going to allow political parties with close ties to the invader to cause trouble.  For the US, this would be like China invading us and you lot on here decrying that the Chinese Communist Party was banned in the States as a response.
Absolutely insane. I know they banned communist parties back in 2015, which was bad enough.
Then unprepared they plugged the world into economic disaster before thinking thinks through and now we are heading for a worldwide food crisis.
Where are those who claimed Australia, Canada and New Zealand were fascist states led by tyrants. Mighty quiet when your Putin shows his inner-Stalin.
