Microsoft Russian cyber spying targets 42 Ukraine allies
20220622
https://japantoday.com/category/world/microsoft-russian-cyber-spying-targets-42-ukraine-allies
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
But, after saying that I must agree the Putnin regime certainly has become a cancer trying to attack the world!
Well we know one media outlet the Russians targeted - and succeeded beyond their wildest dreams...
Cyber espionage was never the sole province of the west.  In fact China has pushed the frontiers of cyber espionage far beyond anything the west has managed.  Russian cyber espionage efforts are small potatoes by comparison and technically not that advanced.  The Chinese hack literally  thousands of companies world wide using dozens of different PLA units to do so and their tools are the most advanced.  It is a highly organized and lavishly funded government effort conducted primarily by the PLA with the Chinese government handing the stolen IP over to their own companies to use, and their cyber warriors are permitted to use any information gained to moonlight stealing identities and buying what they can before the victims bank shuts them down.
I mean, having one whole US cable channel broadcasting nothing but Russian disinformation and propaganda 247 is a real coup....no pun intended....
Rodney, Im sure you knew what Speed meant but Ill give you credit for twisting things the way you like! lol
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
No wonder the Kremlin has instructed its media outlets to run as much of Tucker "Comrade" Carlson as they can...
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
Microsoft is not a country, it is a company, with very strong links to the WEF.
Cyber espionage was once the monopoly of western power, it is now available to many countries.
Coinciding with unrelenting cyberattacks against Ukraine, state-backed Russian hackers have engaged in strategic espionage against governments, think tanks, businesses and aid groups in 42 countries supporting Kyiv, Microsoft said in a report Wednesday.
