More flee as Ukraine warns of steppedup Russian attacks
20220409
https://japantoday.com/category/world/More-flee-as-Ukraine-warns-of-stepped-up-Russian-attacks
Foreign civilians trying to leave besieged cities is well known and documented. Did Russia call the indian civilians, Indian troops? No but any US or EU citizens it will call foreign fighters to try to gain some sort of sympathyjustification? Pathetic attempts perhaps to justify Russia attacking NATO?
Another very different and malicious message was sent painted on that rocket fired by Russian "Nazis" of the same ilk that shot down Malaysia Airlines Flight 17. The perpetrators of the latter atrocity allowed by the world to go unpunished emboldened Putin's ambition to invade the Ukraine, a dream which has been a long time in preparation and yet which caught the West napping. We are all now paying the price for appeasement, but Putin's IOU to the world community will one day come due, perhaps sooner than he thinks.
We cannot allow the execution of innocents in the streets of Bucha, nor the denials that it happened by Pro-putin Russian trolls, to continue without retribution.
But it's utterly "deranged" if Putin states the fact...... Talk about derangement. It's reached frightening levels in the west.
The missile will be traceable by its serial and parts numbers, just like a car. An independent investigation would easily show whose missile it was. And do you not think that every US military satellite available isn't over Ukraine monitoring every missile and its effectiveness?
Is Zelenskyy fighting a proxy war for NATO, proudly taking Johnson to a tour around town with demolished buildings and debris-strewn streets?
Every government official or citizen who has thought in romantic and courageous terms of what they would have done when faced with the atrocities of World War II, this is the moment when reality tests our good intentions. There is much more that we can do to aid Ukraine in this conflict short of direct military contact with Russia. It needs to be done now. There is risk in any action, but the greater risk may be in shrinking from the obvious task before us.
Ask yourself why. Hint: look at Russias activities in Ukraine and before that in Chechnya, Georgia etc.
For not being an imperial power, they have sure acted like it.  Were you aware of the various actions that Russia has had with it neighbors and client states in the last 100 years.  There have been quite a few.
Open question to the forum - would anyone here support a Russian military action in Latvia?
This Ukraine war is getting more of a hi-tech lethal weapons competitionchallenge between Russia  US.
Paul, it's just a thread consolidating the various actions that imperial Russia has taken to expand the empire over the last 100 years.  It is, of course, linked and cited.  I am happy to discuss further with you if you have not been aware of these actions.  Do you think Russia has always been so large?
Russian military power is now badly degraded in Ukrainecompared to what they started with. Russia is losing badly. They need help. Thats why Putin is making Belarus send troops. Russian troops are freaking out. No food, sporadic ammo resupply Ukrainians have been hitting supply convoys hard lately to resupply themselves. dysentery, cold exposure, no medical care, constant drone attacks and sniper fire. Mechanical issues with shoddy equipment. And the feared Chechen fighters sent in are all dead. Plus, Syrian mercenariesare not lining up to fight for Mad Vlad in the Ukraine theater. And with US satellites giving Ukrainians real time Intel, most Russian units are sitting ducks. Now Vlad is going to send them back into the kill box again.
It is not always scheming cabals with well laid out plans. Like with the Gulf of Tonkin incident, missteps in the fog of war can be made out to be pre-meditated aggression.
And do you not think that every US military satellite available isn't over Ukraine monitoring every missile and its effectiveness?
Firstly Russian State Duma member Adam Delimkhanov in an interview with RT has openly stated he estimates around 100 such foreigners there, and that they are in communication with them and the rumors are true that they are trying to negotiate a release and escape corridor. It seems to imply all those Macron rumors were accurate.
He helped Assad retain power, by using chemical weaponsand indiscriminate air strikes, resulting in thousands of civilian casualties.
"an equidistant voting position abstention or non-participation will serve the goal of the United States and be considered accordingly by the Russian Federation."
I'm not an expert, but the US would love Russia to be forced into a wider war with EU
In a letter published the day before the UN vote Russia threatened unspecified diplomatic retaliation against nations who either vote in favor of the measure to expel Russia from the Human Rights Commission or those who abstain from voting.
No. He is fighting off an invader intent on taking his nation and destroying its cities. G7, NATO and other nations are giving real time intel from satellites, humanitarian aid and military equipment and munitions to help Ukraine in it's "great patriotic war" against Russia.
Too, if Ukraine do  not do commando raid inside Russia,they will not only lose the war in the east,and Russia will snatch a victory from the  Ukrainian,they watsed 8 years fighting a bunch of loser, traitors in Donbass,and did not gain any significant victory,but  lying in trench  for 8, years,no gain,
Russia is the ruthless invader, so let's remember that fact. What Putin is doing is remarkably similar to how Hitler got his start. Remember that guy? If you've forgotten about him, you may want to pick up a history book about WWII.
Russia was expelled from the UN Human Rights Commission on a 93-24 vote with 58 nations abstaining.
We now know that Western troops are trapped in Mariupol. The persistent rumors of US and other Western troops surrounded in the besieged remnants of Mariupol have been officially confirmed by the Russians:
I'm not an expert, but the US would love Russia to be forced into a wider war with EU, so than they can monopolize on extremely expensive weapon and energy sales, while tying up Russias hands in a protracted war. No bombs falling on US soil.
PT,the US got a GPS   coordinates dedicated on every Russian military installation programed 55.75,37.617 is the first target,
you must go deeper into the core of the problem.Why has U.S.-led NATO been expanding its sphere of influence to the erstwhile Warsaw Pact nations, formerly and derogatorily called the satellites of Soviet Russia by the West but now called peripheral countries.
And yes, I understand that Russia has been large for a while, it is not new.  But they get upset when the other cultures within their borders or their sphere of influence try to become more independent.
For not being an imperial power, they have sure acted like it. Were you aware of the various actions that Russia has had with it neighbors and client states in the last 100 years. There have been quite a few.
This is proof of an act of war by whatever governments troops, which presumably include both the USA and France, are trapped there. The only question is if they have sufficient PR and intel value to the Russians to prevent the Russians from simply flattening the buildings in which they are holed up with artillery.
4: The US called a vote at the UN to condemn Russia and eject them from the Human Rights Council and about 100 countries  a majority refused to vote in favor of expelling Russia. Of course China and India stood shoulder to shoulder with Russia but so did countries like Mexico, Brazil, UAE, Singapore, Nigeria and countless more.
NATO has not been expanding its sphere of influence so much as the former Warsaw Pact countries have been eager to free themselves from russian influence aka domination.
There isn't one. To disrupt the rail system, destroying the line 25km to the west would make sense. Killing civilians just give the Ukrainians more propaganda to get support from the west.
'Putin's deranged regime has branded Latvia a 'neo-Nazi' stateKremlin rants against 'neo-Nazis' in the Baltic state in chilling echo of Moscow's threats to Ukraine
We finally have high level confirmation from Russian officials that NATO instructors and foreign fighters are in fact trapped in Mariupol.
The Prime Minister of the UK. A reasonably common mistake made by people outside the UK.
The Ukrainian Army was attacking Russian forces coming in from the north from the very beginning.  You are apparently not seeing how Ukrainian forces operate.  They do not fight like the Russians. The Russians fight like it's 1943 with big tank columns in set piece battles.  The Ukrainians fight more like the Viet Cong, but with better weapons.  They don't mass their forces in big formations like that 60-something kilometer long convoy that can be targeted by the Russians.  They rely on small units led by junior officers and senior enlisted soldiers who have great autonomy.  Unlike Russian officers, they don't operate from a fifty page op order and they don't call the General to tell them what to do when something that isn't in the op order presents itself.  Those small units have leaders who can make decisions on the fly without having to consult with higher echelons. They are tech savvy and innovative.  They use simple things like quadcopters with a Go-Pro to find Russian forces and direct attacks on them.
This is proof of an act of war by whatever governments troops, which presumably include both the USA and France, are trapped there.
Putin calls in the Butcher of Syria: Captain General Aleksandr Dvornikov to rescue the so far disastrous Ukraine invasion.
Does all of this hen-pecking about who did what where when with what to whom change the fact that the Russians are the ones who've invaded a peaceful country along its border resulting in the death, rape and torture of too many innocent Ukrainian men, women and children?
No, not really. But if they had data showing it was the Russians, you would be seeing it. You are not.
And flamers using any form of  media should not make  accusations they cannot verify, while trying to suggest the media are biased.
An Italian journalist in Ukraine has linked the train missile serial numbers to two of the same type of missiles used by the Ukrainian military against Russians in the Donbass..
I am positing that Russia is also an imperialist nation.  Instead of the European powers who went abroad to conquer - the Americas, Africa, ME, Asia, Oceania, Russia has merely colonized those closer to them, as China has done as well.  Do you disagree?
Igor Konashenkov on the other hand, also confirms that significant numbers of foreign fighters are known to be there because Russia can hear them crying in over 6 different languages in intercepted radio calls. Not to mention theres now a report that they tried to break through the blockade with a ship to rescue them ran out of helicopters I guess?
The rumors about Russia invading Hokkaido are far fetched, but something we should all be keeping an eye on. Roll on regime change in Russia..
But everyday when I hear more and more that the Russian army get their ass kicked, I am getting more happy.
Kremlin rants against 'neo-Nazis' in the Baltic state in chilling echo of Moscow's threats to Ukraine
letting Russian come unchallenged from the north,if their was a challenge,it would of not probably,been all that carnage in the Kiev area
Russias Defense Ministry tried to counter the dominant international narrative by again raising the specter of Ukraine planting false flags and misinformation.
What you didn't see because of their hit and run small unit tactics was that convoy was under assault all the way into Ukraine.  That is part of why it bogged down.  All kinds of vehicles were hit and disabled, vehicles behind these could not turn around and their Captains and Majors didn't know what to do.  This wasn't in the op order.  Wonder why so many Russian Generals are dead?  Because Russian JOs Junior Officers have no independence to make decisions on the fly and are not trained to think through unexpected scenarios.  They follow the op order and if something goes wrong the General has to make a decision how to move forward. So the General comes to the front line and because their new megaruble encrypted phone system doesn't work the Ukrainians know the guy with stars on his shoulderboards is on his way. When he arrives they kill him.  Ukrainian forces have been extremely busy but they don't show up on satellite imagery.  They know better.  Small units, hit and run tactics using the best Western anti-armor weapons, MANPADS and commercially available quadcopter drones with cameras for ISR.
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
You are right. If someone on twitter says it, it must be true......... God have mercy over these poor idiots
I believe the whole Ukraine crisis and conflict is senseless by both Ukraine and Russia and with NATO stirring the pot.
Aside from Russia's nukes, the West has very little to fear from Russia's military. The Russian army would be no match for NATO and would not want to even attempt to take them on. They have shown themselves to be largely incompetent. I think Nato have the justification to start supplying heavy arms and aircraft to Ukraine. Hopefully that will be the outcome of Boris's trip. Sooner the better. Enough of Russia murdering the people of Ukraine.
Johnson's visit came a day after the UK pledged an additional 100 million pounds $130 million in high-grade military equipment to Ukraine.
the fact that Russia has invaded their country, unprovoked,  are systematically destroying their cities  murdering their citizens, has given Ukraine more than enough world sympathy  support
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
Ukraine better repurpose it anti ship missile ,and launch on a rich military target,that base thousands of Russia at a base near the Ukrainian,letting Russian come unchallenged from the north,if their was a challenge,it would of not probably,been all that carnage in the Kiev area
He is fighting off an invader intent on taking his nation and destroying its cities.
Russia must be quarantined from humanity until they deal with their Putin problem. As long as they not only continue to let Putin remain in power, but also as long as they let their trolls out on the internet to spread pro-putin propaganda, we cannot allow Russia to be part of humanity. We must quarantine them. A bifurcation of the internet, whereby Russia internally is not connected to the world externally, is just as important as disallowing Russians in any country outside Russia.
And nobody in the world, except the Russian mass murdering Mob, do not hesitate just a second to do such a criminal unhuman thing.
Every tool in the toolbox must be applied in driving the Russian invaders out of Ukraine. To ignore Ukraine in its hour of need is both cowardly and helpful to Putin.
It would be a mistake for the Russians to take out Boris Johnson, as satisfying as it may feel. The doddering reactionary is far more valuable to the Russians doing his job in London.
Russia denied it was responsible and accused Ukraines military of firing on the station to turn blame for civilian casualties on Moscow. A Russian Defense Ministry spokesman detailed the missiles trajectory and Ukrainian troop positions to bolster the argument.
Maybe, he is fighting off invaders on the surface.But you must go deeper into the core of the problem.Why has U.S.-led NATO been expanding its sphere of influence to the erstwhile Warsaw Pact nations, formerly and derogatorily called the satellites of Soviet Russia by the West but now called peripheral countries.They account for 13 in total, some planted with U.S. missile bases, thus making the Russians represented by Vladimir Putin feel threatened and insecure.
The Ukraine has a large Russian population, not all, but some are supporting Russia. There were pro Russian political parties banned by Zelinskyy's government. Do you not think that Ukrainian nationalist might be seeking some revenge on these "traitors"? How many of these bodies turning up after the Russian move out are revenge killings? An independent investigation would help but who is blocking that? Its not the Russians.
All investigations and proofs which are so far are done and conducted shows clearly, it was the Russians.
They need to have an impartial investigation, in Syria a team from Finland did a great job of showing the fake reports from the "white helmets" and who really did the gas attacks. Why aren't western countries calling for an investigation but are actually blocking one? Simple, their media is happy to be partial to the Ukrainian narrative and their own governments. They need their people to support sanctions that are hurting them more then the Russians.
But anyway, Putin and his mass murdering mob will pay the highest price for all the pain and suffer they brought and are still bringing to the Ukraine.
This is also a population war as Russia has currently taken over 120,000 Ukrainian children to Russia and is putting them up for adoption to Russian coupleshttps:interfax.com.uanewsgeneral822381.html
its Russias go-to terror tactic that theyve constantly used in other conflicts - Chechnya, Georgia, Syria - to scare the citizens into submission.
If I was going to do something as diabolical as launch a rocket at a civilian train station you can bet I'd be buying a rocket from someone else and writing silly things on it, rather than using one of my own official rockets. I believe this rocket was intentionally launched by Russia, and was done to make foolish people start to think that Ukraine launched it at themselves.
I'm no expert but from where I'm sitting, NATO and the west had better wake up.  Putin wants to end this by May 9, so the gloves are coming off.  We'll probably see a barrage of the likes we've never seen before.  He'll launch attacks from inside the Russian border into the Donbas so NATO or anyone wanting to get involved can't make any incursions into Russia without the risk of seriously escalating.  Send in "advisors" and heavy anti-aircraft, and anti-missile weapons systems.  The other option is to sit and watch the Ukrainians get mercilessly pummeled.  "They make a wasteland, and call it peace."  Tacitus.
Ok so we can take from any Russian reports that it is fake, and there are NO NATO instructors in Mariupol. But there may be a few foreign volunteers who made it to that city before it was surrounded early in the conflict, which Russia now categorizes as official NATO troops to try and gain some advantage in the misinformation war.
It must be out this fear and outrage that Putin decided to invade Ukraine blatantly to prevent it from becoming another NATO ally.
Ooh, an RT interview! 'Government troops' are not mentioned. That's your own fantasy. Foreign fighters do not equal government troops.
It appears the missile was launched by Ukrainian forces and shot down by the Russian forces.
Never one to miss a photo op, the consummate master of costume-changes, PM. BJ, putting "Partygate" behind, has popped over to Ukraine to put his "inner Churchill" out on display as he strolls around Kyiv with a real war leader.
Why? Reasoning that they are evil is just childish nonsense. What would be the military goal?
More logical to assume the missile was aimed at Russian forces in retaliation for Ukrainian children that have perished.
Except hypersonic missiles which the fascist powers openly admit they have no defense against. And of course the hackers. A few bored Russian hackers shut down critical US infrastructure a few months ago and wouldn't allow it to be restarted without a very large ransom paid. It boggles the mind what the state could do and no doubt will do if NATO decides its pet neo-Nazis are facing total doom.
They only build monuments to Nazis where state leaders yearly pay homage, celebrate them in national holidays, name streets after senior Nazi figures and etc.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
What do you mean "forced into a wider war"?  Nobody can "force" anyone into a wider war unless they invade them.  Nobody is going to invade Russia.
As for an 'act of war', you may be disturbed to know that a rather clearer one was committed 46 days ago.
Igor Konashenkov on the other hand, also confirms that significant numbers of foreign fighters are known to be there because Russia can hear them crying in over 6 different languages in intercepted radio calls.
