NATO monitoring Russian troops near Ukraine
20211119
https://japantoday.com/category/world/nato-chief-alliance-watching-russian-troops-near-ukraine
Sadly, Merkel and her groupies will always put German commercial interests first.  Recently torpedoing a EU initiative on Taiwan for fear of upsetting the Chinese and affecting Germanys exports and sod everyone else.
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
As a man of a certain age, I remember when NATO held firm in the face of an overwhelming soviet threat. Seriously. They would have won. We would have lost. Flexible Response e.g. we will blow you all to hell saved our asses
Dessert, I take your point and I think at that time you are absolutely correct.
The Soviet Army had all the advantages granted, we were the power at sea and we held our ground. Thats my point. We should do so now.
If you want to see how a NATO war might have looked study the Bekaa Valley campaign.  The new Soviet supplied ground based missiles moved into Lebanon the move that provoked that clash were Soviet manned. The aircraft, while notionally "Syrian" were flown by Soviet Frontal Aviation and the intercept controllers were likewise Soviets.  In two days of combat the Israelis destroyed all of their newly installed ground based missiles and shot down over 80 SovietSyrian fighters with no losses.  I had the privilege of sitting in on a brief of that action that described every sortie flown by the Israelis including weapons used and the engagement parameters.  Gun camera video too.  The Soviets weren't even using encrypted radios, which is how we knew they were Russians and not Syrians manning the missile batteries and aircraft.  They used first line Soviet equipment, not the so-called export "monkey models" and lost everything.  The engagement that I remember best was an Israeli F-16 pilot who nailed a SAM-6 battery with something and as he climbed out a MiG appeared right off his nose.  He hosed it with a missile, shooting it down.  Then one of our smart aleck pilots asked the briefer if the Israeli pilot also had, um, intimate relations that night. We roared with laughter.
Trump's BFF and favorite tyrant continuing to foment trouble for the West...while Russians pile up at the morgue from COVID...
Seriously. They would have won. We would have lost. Flexible Response e.g. we will blow you all to hell saved our asses
only in your dreams. The Poles just proved that. Sorry Vlad. We are not intimidated.
NATO already demonstrated what it is very explicitly with inavsions of Yogoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. A gang of marauders and killers. Actually it's Russia who should be concerned with NATO military activity, with regard to its track record. And why NATO do not "show it is a thing" and not prevent the Ukrainian regime from daily shelling with heavy artillery of Donetsk and Lugansk regions? Why not stop the Ukrainian neonazis from killing people there?
Eh, I was a Navy pilot during the Cold War and I don't think they would have prevailed.  In fact their Navy would have been pretty much gone in two weeks of intense combat. None of their missiles could be replenished at sea and they wouldn't have had an bases to return to.  Every one of their boomers was tracked and would have been the first thing the Navy attacked.  The US Navy had and still has seriously good ASW.   Success or failure in that war depended on the US Army being able to reinforce Europe in five days.  That is why we practiced REFORGER every year.  Five days to stop the Red Army was considered make or break.  Later on the F-117 and B-2 would have made it possible to attrite the USSRs nuclear arsenal using conventional weapons imagine stealth aircraft with precision guided weapons flying around the USSR knocking out mobile missiles and blowing missile silos with big hard target penetrator bombs, but no nukes but the USSR came apart before those systems were fully operational.  The thought was if you could stop the Red Army in five days and destroy enough of their nuclear arsenal over those five days without going nuclear you could defeat them.  S
Merkel has been playing footsie with Putin with the pipeline. She is putting her country at the mercies of Russia and is not in any position to oppose Putins revanchist activities.
... of the past. What real use and purpose does this organization have these days other than wasting taxpayers money? Europe can't agree on more trivial issues, let alone a joint military action.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
I remember a time before that when the main tank was the M-60 and the stealth fighters were not operational. Thats the time referring to.
This despite the fact that Ukraine denied a media report of a Russian military buildup near its border, saying it had not observed an increase in forces or weaponry.. https:www.reuters.comworldeuropeukraine-denies-report-russian-troop-buildup-near-its-borders-2021-11-01
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Its time to show the Russians that NATO is a thing, we mean business and no, you don't get to  behave like this without a cost.
A good article on how Russia and Belarus worked together to use disinformation to lure refugees to Belarus with the promise fake that they could immigrate to Europe...creating the current crisis.  They may have learned that trick from Roger Stone...
