Over 900 civilians found dead around Kyiv Russia threatens new attacks
20220416
https://japantoday.com/category/world/over-900-civilians-dead-around-kyiv-russia-vows-new-attacks
Russia is truly looking like the worse, most barbaric country on earth right now... their actions against Ukrainian civilians are on par with what the Nazis did.
Are the pathetic, fascist Russians and their sad supporters still claiming that the warship sank due to "accidental combustion" and "choppy seas"? What a brilliant act by the Ukrainians that was!
if Russia has the balls they dont to fire a missile into Europe, they should expect a dozen or more back at them.
Not a battleship. Just an old Soviet era missile cruiser designed for assault and a big punch but with inadequate decades old defense technology and very poor damage control systems. Would have been long retired in the US navy.
It has reached a point where NATO needs to impose a No-Fly zone over Ukraine. Then give Putin an ultimatum- Remove every Russian military asset in Ukraine within 7 days. After which NATO will destroy them on sight including any assets outside of Ukraine that is being used.
Im sure you wouldnt be so cold if your family was amongst those dead bodies
Japan in WW2 attacked US simply because US imposed an embargo on oil going to Japan.
The West should come in with jets and close off the airspace from the Russians, while they're back in Russia licking their wounds and getting ready to come back. They're murderers of civilians.
There should be no sympathy for the Russians... and no excuse for the Russian masses to not question why their government is blocking all access to outside news... or arresting people trying to tell the truth. Turning a blind eye is no better excuse than what the Germans did when they chose to ignore what the Nazis did.
We're all already involved in this. Time for NATO to declare a now fly zone and just start shooting Russian jets down when seen, and time to fully arm Ukraine and stop worrying about what Russia will do about it -- whatever it is, they are going to do it eventually anyway may as well save some civilians if we can in the process.
Maybe that who the Russians learned it from. After all, it was a very fine line between Hitler and Stalin. Whenever, theyre caught with blood on their hands they always shout out, Fake news!
NATO must make Putin afraid. Until then, we are playing by his rules. How long can the world watch civilians being targeted?
At this stage, if you are Russian and cutting up handbags instead of demanding an immediate ousting of the Putin administration and Military leadership, you are part of the problem.
Putin is smarting after the sinking of one of his pride and joy battleships. Threatening WW3. Massive numbers of war crimes.
Fascist Russia can not and will not win this war. If they don't wish thousands more of their brutal invaders being sent home in body bags, then get out of sovereign Ukraine NOW.
Ukraine will survive and carry on fighting for as long as it takes. Putin and his generals miscalculated this war every step of the way.
Russian forces left the Kiev area 3 weeks ago! Why did it take so long to find these bodies?
The fact that they are now digging up people who have been buried... likely because as elsewhere in Ukraine... they want to hide the evidence they were shot by Russian troops.
A flagship russian warship is a worthy diving site. We have one more diving spot in the Black Sea now. Will definitely visit the wreck after our victory in the war, Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov tweeted Friday."
Nice fantasy. But the reality is, the Russian armed forces are intimately more formidable than that of Serbia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Libya and etc.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Europe from now on must think very carefully, because they are this close to be targeted by Russian missiles
Didn't Putin say Russian forces would not invade Ukraine, and that what is going on now in Ukraine now is not a war. How many Russian military troops have been killed so far in Ukraine? Will Putin admit to those Russian deaths, and will he tell their families and friends they died in a training exercise? If so, that would just make the Russian military and its leadership look even more pathetic, like what they  do best is bomb residential buildings, and slaughter civilian women and children. Putin supporters and those still backing the Kremlin? Are you proud of what your side has done in Ukraine? Are you ready for more of Putin's warmongering? Ready for Putin War 2, ready to go enlist in his military, maybe get some Nazi tattoos and join his Wagner Group, or another of his personal thug militias?
The only reason other countries aren't joining is because Russia hasn't done anything to other countries aside from Ukraine. Land a missile by mistake towards Turkey or the Baltics, or attack equipment delivery still in Poland, then it's all out WW3.
Putin is playing on the West's fear that he will resort to using nuclearchemicalbiological weapons. Seeing this fear, his confidence and the probability of such use has simply increased.
When the choice is believe Mr. Zelensky who remains in his country with his fellow citizens, or believe a murdering thug, lying politician like Putin who has spent a career creating malicious propaganda and spreading it through his global media and through  the Useful idiot extreme right-wingers including Nazi supporters he's attracted. Putin's a politician  who sits at a big table in one of his fortified palaces financed by taking money from his fellow countrymen directing his military to murder civilian women and children and destroy their homes. When the choice is believe President Zelensky or believe proven liar Putin, then most reasonable people will believe President Zelensky.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
If sanctions remain indefinitely... and the Russian people suffer... it will be nothing compared to the current devastating suffering of the Ukrainian people...
Start with a no fly zone, then send in some troops to kick all the russkies out of Ukraine.
Russian authorities accused Ukraine of wounding seven people and damaging about 100 residential buildings with airstrikes in Bryansk, .Ukrainian officials have not confirmed striking targets in Russia, and the reports could not be independently verified."
Actually this is very Russian behavior. In WWII the Russians "eliminated" thousands of captured polish officers and then tried to blame the Nazi's for it. As it faced so much horrific treatment at the hands of the Nazi's, as Russia fought its way inside Germany, it committed exactly the same crimes seen today in Ukraine. Murder execution style, rapes and mutilations, all are very much standard Russian army practice across decades. It should really not surprise anyone with knowledge of past conflicts involving Russian forces.
If 100 buildings are damaged surely the Western satellites are easily able to verify it, aren't they?
Russia: We will level any city and kill as many innocent people as we want to in order to break Ukraine.
