Putin says Ukraine is heading for tragedy Kramatorsk city prepares its defense
20220708
https://japantoday.com/category/world/putin-says-russia-just-starting-in-ukraine-peace-talks-will-get-harder-with-time1
Google could said a lots of Ukrainain the heartache,Putin has changed their lives in a negative way
Nemo, Ukraine will be back into the stone age, by Christmas, Russian know the cold is coming, Ukrainain will be deprived of heating and hot water,these mythical weapon are only mentioned by Zelensky,too make an excuse for his fail leadership
There is a reason he is all-in about now. It's because time is not on his side.
Wonder just how tough Vlad will be when his army is out of ammo, he has no more volunteers and the full weight of Western weapon comes on-line?
About Putins photo above, he looks like the cat that swallowed the canary. We can never believe him or trust him again.
Vlad should hope to God that Ukraine never gest the means to target Mother Russia from Ukraine as Russia routinely does. That would be hard to cover up on state news.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday accused the West of decades of aggression towards Moscow ...
So yeah, the laws of economics and logistics affect the mighty Red army as well.
This is not to defend the atrocities of Russia but this is a pre determined fact as prophesied in the Bible.
Its not a fair fight, Ukraine cannot and will not win. NATO isn't coming to help. Putin isn't going to give up so the smart move would be to save lives, bargain for peace and maybe get to keep Odessa.
Putin thought he could win in a week....it's now Day 130....and he's had to retreat from Kyiv to Snake Island...
There are 4 possible reasons for this. They don't need to as they can get the job done without risking expensive toys. They know the Ukrainian air defense system S300 and know some of it is still operational. Or they don't want to tip off NATO to their capabilities. Possibly they don't want to tip off NATO to their lack of capabilities or most likely they are just holding off until they need to use it.
I am suprememly confident that vlad will get a bullet soon ,end of situation !
Makes an amusing story but is complete nonsense but a good internet meme for the fan boys.
One side is using its arms at an alarming rate, its using mainly Russian made arms but it isn't Russia!
Besides, it would be impossible to take Kiev withou bombing the hell out of it like the west does, and Russia would not do this. The fall of Kiev will come within.
Several nations promised to give Russian made arms on the grounds that Germany would replace.. However, they are still haggling as the Germans are now not so keen. Does the NATO combine with the old Ukrainian military? Are they trained how to use it? The US wonder weapons were delivered and used.... Didn't stop the advance.... so not the game changers we were promised.
During that time he's lost over 4K troops, his turret-less tanks litter Ukraine, his helos flame up like fireworks, and his proud flagship named after his Capitol is rusting at the Bottom of the Black Sea....
It seems people hate Putin and Russia because of Stalin and the fact that Putin was analyst with the KGB. Unfortunately he is portrayed as some super KGB hit man.
actually means that everyone NOT reading those three papers Fun Fact: 234 total Pulitzer Prizes or journalism. How many for RT, Faux news, and their ilk? - basically you - would come to the conclusion that Ukraine is going to win.
But their progress has been far slower than many analysts predicted, and they were beaten back in initial attempts to take the capital, Kyiv, and second city, Kharkiv.
Mr K,these Himars are game changer, Ukrainain do have a strategy of using ,but posting them on Instagram
Someone thinks that murdering Putin would stop the fight against Zelensky, the NSIE fighters, and the expansionism of the Imperium.
Alex, Ukraine is like sinking stone , Ukraine has no benefits to the US interest,but some American need a bogeyman like Russian
Putin has Russia a nation of despicable evil and it can never be allowed to go unpunished for the outrageous invasion and attempted subjugation of an entire nation.
Those "game changer" HIMARS rocket launchers, all four of them didn't make the slightest difference to the battlefield. Now two of them at least, have been destroyed. What is the next "magic bullet" being sold by the western media to save Ukraine and USNATO embarrassment?
Yet the Q  Z herds, and others in the BRICS uber alles crowds refuse to call Putin a warmonger. I get it that the USUKNatoWest have done hideous things, and  are still involved in hideous things,, but refusing to call out Putin shows how brainwashed the Putin stans are, or else they just love wars their idol starts and continues. Wars to warmongers are like sports matcheds, where the warmongers only care about their side winning, even if the war makes nuclear warfare an even greater reality. Zero-sum.
Did you know that it was Russia who came to the aid of the Americans and saved them from the British years ago with their amada of ships coming to the rescue ?
Where do those incapable of punctuation or grammar seriously, the space bar is RIGHT THERE go for their Russian-sponsored drivel?
The only way that Vlads poorly trained and equipped draftees can advance is under the cover of overwhelming arty. That takes a lot of ammo and they are going to run out at this rate. Their economy isnt ramped up for war-time production. Their stocks are being depleted and they have to save some for their NATO facing units.
Anyone know what "aggression" towards Moscow has been shown by the West since 1989? McDonalds? Renault? Starbucks? HM?
Which rickety old units will be assigned to punish the Baltic states for their impudence?
You should stop listening to all the news from the West. Perhaps you should look at a map of Ukraine showing the territory liberated from the Nazis and unfortunately many from the ukraine army forced to fight to the last man by Elensky. Can't use a Z because he banned the use of it.
But thanks for playing! We have some tin foil for you as a parting gift.
Perhaps youd be more comfortable posting on RT where lap up your thoughts and in your native language too!
So, fan bois can continue to fan. Its likely that the Russians are headed for another trip to the barrel.
Nemo, Ukrainain are not gonna get these mythical weapon,the West has gave Ukrainain everything,but the kitchen sink,they had regress since battling near Kiev,this is a Artillery duel, Ukrainain are losing
Like shells, bombs and semi-functional "smart" munitions, eventually Putie is going to run out of volunteers and dead-enders to serve as his cannon fodder. He is already running low on even incompetent officers.
You can always tell Putin and his cronies are losing when they amp up the crazy talk...
Tell that to the Germans in WWII. My grandfather remembers how after the Germans were broken at the battle of the buldge,  he could count on one hand with fingers remaining how many incoming rounds per day they received at the end of the war. All the while, US artillery would receive 2 boxcars of ammo per day PER GUN.
Nemo,only an illiterate reading the NYTimes,Washpost,WSJ, would not come to a conclusion Ukraine is gonna win
Putin stans, and others supporting Putin's brand of national socialism: how many individual Russian citizens have been killed or seriously wounded in the Ukraine invasion so far? And do you have to check foreign media to find that out? I thought Russians were proud of their martyrs for Putin, so I would think there would be memorials for those killed, and that information would be easy to find.
USA just want the Ukraine to be indebt to them for all the weapons supplied, the USA don't do anything without an ulterior motive.
You are talking about the Soviet Union under the Bolshevik Stalin. Putin kicked the Bolsheviks out long ago. It is called Russia now and is not a communist country anymore.
Both sides are dysfunctional,one country finance their war with money from people that help killing Russian,while the other has to resort to begging others,just so they have enough just fight on a daily basis
only an illiterate reading the NYTimes,Washpost,WSJ, would not come to a conclusion Ukraine is gonna win
This monstrous smirking nonentity would do better to focus on his own personal fate that he is now destined to bring down on himself, a wretched specimen of humanity that will receive his just deserts sooner I hope than later. Ukraine will remain long after Putin is just a bad memory.
In the last day or so, Rissia destroyed 2 of those fancy super duper Howitzers sent by the USA.
The way out of this is of course negotiation.... but NatoUS is dead set on continuing their proxy war.
In the Dombas, tanks are used for fire support. Basically dug in a hole and used as a cannon. A few old T62s were gifted to the DPR for this purpose. The response to effective anti tank fire is to obliterate the area where it is coming from with artillery and rockets then clean up with infantry. Exactly what is happening in the east. Rinse and repeat.
Are you aware of how many Russians lost their lives in the previous world wars ?
A note on Ukranian material losses: At one point they actually had MORE tanks than they began the war with due to capture and repair of abandoned Russian tanks.
Their industrial base is not geared up for production levels of that kind and will not be for some time.
Attrition through loss is inevitable in high intensity warfare. Ukranian losses can be back-filled either from former Soviet stores in newly NATO countries or newer, better NATO stocks.
Where are the Russians going to get their replacements other than the mothballed obsolete T-62 and older BMPs? Where will they get more shells, ships and functional missiles WHILE maintaining a base level of stock for their NATO-facing units? Heaven forbid they need to start replacing their warships that seem to lack the most rudimentary of damage control systems?
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
But do you think that murdering Churchill would have stopped the fighting? Note that HE was considered the aggressive warmongering bad guys by people who were absolutely sure they were on the good side.
When the situation stabilizes when and at what demarcation line is unknown, Russia will face 2 more NATO members on its N flank and a Ukraine thoroughly integrated with the West on its S Flank. A member of NATO in all but name with equipment and hopefully an air force and a navy to match. The F-35B would be ideal for a country in need of mobile air and while the LCS might not have worked for the USN, one can imagine it might make a difference in the Black pond, ersea
Here is a map you can take a look at.  Aside from the salient in Luhansk turning red, it looks remarkably similar to the map of a month ago.
You certainly cannot mean the Javelin which have been delivered in the thousands and which are responsible for the death of so many Russian draftees, er Heros,  right?
Yes, that that is what the Western media tell you. Not a word about the Baker agreement, the Budapest declaration, the Maidan coup, the Minsk agreements, the OUN, the Azovs, the Odessa massacre, etc etc etc. According to our "news" media, bad man Putin one fine day just woke up and decided to invade a peaceful, united, unrelated, neighbouring country without any reason. Mind-boggling.
And his economy is even below that of Nigeria - with Russia defaulting on its bonds and debt...
Comparing Putin to Churchill is like comparing Trump to Stephen Hawking. Past they were both white men with 4 limbs the analogy breaks down.
One of the great mysteries of this conflict is Russia has hardly used its air power, which is puzzling.
attempt to beat Russia on the battlefield it was welcome to try, but this would bring tragedy for Ukraine
  This takes time. First the Turkish parliament in Ankara has to vote in favor of the 2 new members acceptance in NATO and knowing a bit about the time line this can take months or more if ever.
No, Russia uses up its combat capabilities for very limited gain and no strategic advantage.
You seem to forget the most prolific Ammo producer in the world is actively doing military maneuvers with Russia is China , and by the way ww2 was a while ago
So you have the Russian military stock and supply chain info? really? You could sell that to NATO and retire.
Russia has repeatedly imposed herself on Ukraine for more than a century, causing the deaths of millions.
Russia never attempted to take Kiev in the first place. The show of force around the city was simply a diversion tactic.  Never heard of Kyiv ?
Indeed, they still have several thousand exploding tanks to pull out of mothballs. They have ships yet to take part in special submersible operations. The mighty Russian air-farce seems to have gone um, "somewhere"....
The Russian military has been a professional force since 1991, Though 30 are draftees they are actually forbidden to take part in conflict by law.  That said, if a commander needed some trucks moved, I doubt the conscripts would be pointing out his error.
Obviously Putin doesn't want to destroy Kiev because its the old viking capital of his ancestors.
So what I get from most of the comments is that Ukraine is a nation of evil Nazis that need to be stopped and Putin is a freedom fighter. Maybe if you guys keep to that script you can convince the rest of us it is true... maybe... However words and actions in Russia lately, rarely seem to match up, so I doubt it.
It won't happen! Russia will be isolated for a very long time, and NO, they won't win this war!
The allies didn't bump off Hitler in 1939 - look how long WWII lasted, and how many people died. You should always target the leader. The West are soft and Putin knows it.
VicM, Western media has come to a conclusion,that Ukrainain are losing and will never get their land back,our press operate seperate from the government,not like in Ukraine
And he would know, as he has caused and continues the whole sad disaster. His hands are dripping with the blood of the dead, and he continues to covet even more of Ukraine territory. He will not stop until it is all forced to be Russian. It may be generations before Ukraine is once again free and independent if Putin gets his evil way.
Next time you head to the word-salad bar, might I suggest a side order of grammar, or perhaps a dash of punctuation?
Putin is correct. I would advise to read his speeches directly, instead of just consuming the biased Western media with their context-less simplistic reporting, where the Ukrain kerfufle started this year, without any reason or context.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
Well what do you expect from a bunch of former vikings turned catholic and living together with nazi and jews.
When an army uses artillery shells, bombs and missiles faster than they can be replaced as the Russians clearly are at the moment, that army is heading for a shortage.
Nemo,these GPS round cost 120 thousands a round,and they had issue,with cracks in  casing
