Russians down Ukrainian drones in Crimea as war broadens
20220821
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Russians-down-Ukrainian-drones-in-Crimea-as-war-broadens
But displaying Russian tanks that Ukraine also uses, and displaying USA weapons that Russia doesn't use, is a big difference.
 Just to be clear, Russian soldiers have posted videos of themselves castrating Ukrainian POWs as a form of torture before murdering them, so yeah, Russia is doing the same kind of thing.
Wick's Pencil - thanks for the Russian disinfo.  I hadn't heard that one in nearly two weeks.
only acceptable peace deal first involves Russia removing its agents from ALL of Ukraine and removing Putin from power in Russia. No deal can be made while Putin is leader.
Actually it was Ukraine who breached the Minsk peace agreements that could have stopped the civil war there.
Smart move by the Ukrainians - letting Russia  the world know that Crimea is still Ukrainian territory
If the U.S. wants a weaker Russia, itsa no brainer really. Sending weapons and not people. Anybody who wants the U.S. to have the advantage should be saying yes to this.
When have you seen the US not willing to pay for a foreign war? They paid for 20 years in Afghanistan. And many were willing to keep troops there. They spent trillions in Iraq. Money is not a problem for the US when it comes to foreign wars.
It is more tactically astute to copy the US Ayman al-Zawahiri and Israel Khaled Mansour and target the Russian leadership.
The best response for Ukraine right now, if possible, is to damage the Kerch Bridge badly enough the Russians cannot use it to move between Crimea and Russia.
The West has become spineless and weak ....... Putin knows that or he wouldn't have started this.
Because certain people stuff their pockets along the way. Only about a third of the weapons given to Ukraine reach their official destination.
Just to be clear, Russian soldiers have posted videos of themselves castrating Ukrainian POWs as a form of torture before murdering them, so yeah, Russia is doing the same kind of thing.
When have you seen the US not willing to pay for a foreign war? They paid for 20 years in Afghanistan. And many were willing to keep troops there. They spent trillions in Iraq
it seem like Ukrainian are more interested in propoganda than an acceptable outcome,that will not be coming,when they have accept the stalemate and lost of more lives and land
One the reason the war has stalled,their are lots of Rivers in Ukraine that act as natural barrier, Ukrainain to hold an independence day celebration on the 24 the of August,it seem like Ukrainian are more interested in propoganda than   an acceptable outcome,that will not be coming,when they have accept the stalemate and lost of more lives and land
But they don't and everyone who has their eyes open can see this.  Russia is so desperate for bodies they are press ganging prisoners serving time for murder or other violent crimes.  Their tank and armored vehicle factories in a good year could produce 35-40 new tanks and those are now closed for lack of materials and certain technologies.  They are not building new tanks and are losing them far faster than they could build them if the plants were still open.  They have lots of older tanks but these need to be rebuilt and the parts are not available.  They will have to cannibalize, cutting into what they can field, and these are older tanks that are going to be much easier to kill.
the only acceptable outcome is a total withdraw of Russian forces from Ukraine,  the return of all territories taken by Russia.
The Syrian rebels don't have the US and the rest of NATO funneling vast quantities of their latest weapons and providing training.  Apples and oranges.  The Russians also do not risk their bombers over Ukraine because Ukrainian air defenses have proven to be effective and getting moreso as modern Western systems come on line.  Russian bombers fire missiles at Ukrainian targets from well inside Russia and far from the fighting.  Sending a formation of bombers over Ukraine to bomb with gravity bombs carpet bombing would be a suicide missile for most of them.
Their larger weapons carrying drones are Bayraktar TB-2s made in Turkey.   Bayraktar Technologies is owned by a son in law of the Turkish President.    Early on they adapted whatever they had on hand so yes they used, and lost, a lot of off the shelf commercial quadcopter and octocopter drones.  Now there are also smaller drones being supplied by the US like Switchblade and small octocopters being produced in Ukraine by volunteers with crowdfunding.
2020,the Ukrainlan arm bill expire in September,the 2021 defense bill had not really been marked up these are just proposal
Pedestrians in downtown Kyiv took pictures of a large column of burned-out and captured Russian tanks and infantry carriers that was put on display on a central boulevard in the Ukrainian capital. The display comes just days ahead of Ukraines independence day on Aug., which also coincides with six months since the Russian invasion.
So for the past week the western press made big deals about small attacks in the Crimean.
They need to stop making the mistakes that the Syrian rebels made, trying to take territory, which the Russians would just carpet bomb.
It is funny that this is reported but not that Moscow had the same type of even just this week, the difference is Ukraine has the same tanks and weapons at the start and no one can prove these are Russian or Ukrainian, the Russians in Moscow were displaying USA made weapons mostly destroyed ones they claim captured from Ukraine all of which are on the list of types sent to Ukraine, worse are the new not destroyed weapons Russia claims to have bought on the Ukrainian black market.
Burning ammo storage areas, airports, soon that illegally built bridge in Crimea will be gone, too!
Ukrainian news regularly shows the faces of dead Russians another violation that if Russia did the same it would be top news in the west.
Shooting down a couple of those drones, but missing many others, Russians once again so efficient.
The reality is that Zelensky's efforts at making the US backed regime seem the legitimate government of all Ukrainians has effectively guaranteed that Ukraine is going to become the next Yugoslavia.
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
It is nothing new for Ukraine, Ukraine broke the rules previously on the treatment and use of POW for propaganda in violation of the Geneva convention and the west said nothing.
Enough is enough. Ukraine is now attacking Russian mainland. UN has to stop this madness. Sanction Ukraine unless they sign a peace deal.
Storm,what world do you live in,you only get what you entitled in life, nobody owes Ukrainain anything
When it comes to defense spending, yes they do. Weapons for Ukraine for the next couple of years have already been budgeted for.
Ukraine are finally getting the idea. Russia has an unlimited number of conscripts and a heck of a lot of tanks. They need to stop making the mistakes that the Syrian rebels made, trying to take territory, which the Russians would just carpet bomb. Pick specific targets. Command and control, supply chains, fuel and ammo dumps. Better to use missiles rather than drones though, combined with guerrilla attacks. It is more tactically astute to copy the US Ayman al-Zawahiri and Israel Khaled Mansour and target the Russian leadership. The Kremlin is difficult to miss and too big to defend. The conscripts are just obeying orders. If a nation invades you, go for their leader. Maybe the West are tying their hands. The West has become spineless and weak and in the case of the energy sanctions, dumb as a brick. Putin knows that or he wouldn't have started this.
Give the Ukrainians the weapons and tools they need to drive the barbarians out of THEIR country.
Yrral - the US has more than enough for both and the political will to continue assisting.
Ukraine are finally getting the idea. Russia has an unlimited number of conscripts and a heck of a lot of tanks.
Wow. Imagine what Ukraine would do to Russia if they had the rest of it. Anyway, whatever happens on Ukraine soil, Putin has created Ukrainian enemies who are likely to launch strikes deep within Russia for years to come, even if Russia wins.
After the coup against the last democratically elected government of Ukraine, the US and EU could have simply ordered their new client to accept the terms of the Minsk Treaty that gave it the formal title of the government of Ukraine, with the Donbass having its own seperate government, but without the revenues from the Donbass, it would need continued infusions of money from them, so they allowed it to continue to try and force the population of the Donbass into submission.
Just to be clear, what an individual does and what a government controlled media and a government does are two different things.
I'd say the difference is that the west cares about Ukrainians, and doesn't care about Russians right now. Which is entirely the result of Kremlin and Russian soldier's actions. It's not like we're going to feel bad about it or anything. If you enter another country to murder its citizens, you should expect there's a good chance you'll only leave dead.
Yrral - For right or wrong, one area the US will never run out of money is defense spending. This is not new.
Yrral - For right or wrong, one area the US will never run out of money is defense spending.  This is not new.
What the article author couldn't include the date of August 24th as the Ukrainian independence day ?
Admittedly smaller armaments do go missing but all the big stuff is fully accounted for.
If you look at the front now and from a month ago, you will see very little movement at all. The Russians have stalled. And the longer it goes on, the more troops and equipment they lose. Putin dearly wants Odessa, but a push to Odessa is too much for this current Russian army.
When all Russian attempts to diplomatically persuade the US to stop its client from creating a humanitarian catastrophe literally on the border of Russia culminating in a very public demonstration that Russia could and would intervene to stop that the formal breakup of Ukraine was inevitable.
According to Russian media outlet 112, the pair were due to travel back from an event on Saturday evening in the same car before Mr Dugin made the decision to travel separately from his daughter at the last minute.
As for the drones that were shot down, they are cheap Chinese drones that cost around $10,000, so not so expensive.
If this the best Russian can do,wait too the  US get hold too them,this should make the US taxpayers think about slashing our military spending by a third,we spent more money in Ukraine,than we are doing protecting our self from  an invasion by Russian or Chinese are highly unlikely,
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
And you know 99 of that is fake propaganda by Ukraine an is why even most western media won't take is seriously.
Perhaps under current leadership, but recall a possible current candidate for the White House once sided with Putin in restricting assistance to Zelensky because Zelensky would not fabricate information , tell lies and get dirt on said candidate's opponent at the time.
Antique,do you think it childish for Ukrainain to display tanks ,where people have died in, even soldiers have honor for their falling adversaries,that a war crimes
Russia has now taken Sievierodonetsk, Sieverodonetsk, or Severodonetsk  no idea which name to use anymore along with a few other smaller towns.
Yrral, if Ukraine gives in to Russian aggression and cedes some territory for the sake of peace, do you think Russia will honor the peace? It's difficult to believe that Russia won't find an excuse for another invasion whenever it suits them.
America spent around $5.5 trillion to bring down the Soviet Union. So what they are spending now to bring down Putin is peanuts.
I know many anti-west people here are hoping for Ukrainian support to subside, but the west know this is their best chance to be rid of Putin
It appears that the reported information previously of the successful Ukrainian attacks behind enemy lines may not be a show of strength after all.
Risible.  Mr. Putin both greatly underestimated Ukraine's ability and will to fight and what probably seals his fate is he and the Chinese greatly underestimated the resolve of the democratic nations to pull together and help Ukraine.  It took less than two weeks for the NATO allies and the EU to institute economic sanctions and put together the means to funnel weapons into Ukraine and train them on their use.  I seriously doubt Mr. Putin expected to see UK, France, US and Spain sending modern field artillery, HIMARS, MLRS, Javelins, Stingers and more recently HARM and some longer ranged and more advanced air defense systems like IRIS T.   Mr. Putin didn't know the west would react like that or that Ukraine would resist so effectively.  Now he has a problem in that he has started a war he has no prospect of ever winning.
Fall,the US do not have no unlimited fund ,too fund this war,the US got it own problem,like the problem Ukraine have not death with since it existence
All Zelensky is doing is killing more and more people in a lost cause, hoping to become another Shah rather than another Baptista.
So we make a big deal about a few drone strikes in Crimea and pretend nothing has happened in the rest of the war as Ukraine loses more territory.
Wick's Pencil - thanks for the Russian disinfo. I hadn't heard that one in nearly two weeks.
Russian forces pressed ahead with efforts to seize one of the few cities in eastern Ukraine not already under their control.
It seems that the U.S. never learn from its mistakes. Billions to South Vietnam - a complete failure in results. Trillions to Iraq - a complete failure. Trillions to Afghanistan - a complete failure. Chimpanzees learn better.
As to the nuclear power plants, an accident at one of those is as dangerous to the Russians as it is to anyone else. So, like use of nuclear weapons, treat it as the empty threat it is.
Yrral - the US has more than enough for both and the political will to continue assisting.  Thankfully, we are not alone in our support as many allies are assisting Ukraine as well.
