Russia steps up missile strikes on Ukraine as G7 leaders meet
20220626
https://japantoday.com/category/world/russia-steps-up-missile-strikes-on-ukraine-as-g7-leaders-gather2
The 'neo-liberal rules-based world' order will not survive either a a peace settlement with Russia or b a war with the Sino-Russian alliance. Therefore, gambling on c defeating Russia while avoiding war with China is the globalists preferred option.
ITEM 4: Vladimir Putin is running out of military resources. Putin running out of puff'
This is the most unjust war I have witnessed in my life time. No I'm not downplaying other world wars, I wasn't around then, and I'm sure they are as terrifying. The point is what's the point of all the post war sacrifices for peace, eg nations of Europe loosing rights so as to have an EU, all the money poured into the Marshall Plan, all the sufferings of indebted euro countries because they can't have QE money printing, instead paying exorbitant penalty rates etc. to richer EU countries. It all came to nothing because Germany decided it was going to rely on Russian gas despite objections from allies.
Serb Iraqi, Afghan, Libyan kid was sleeping peacefully in Belgrad Baghdad, Kabul, Tripoli until a U.S. cruise missile blasted her home. Oh wait, that were good missiles, right?
In all of Ukraine, the water is running, toilets are flushing and the power is on.
Without running water and power, a modern country like Ukraine would collapse into chaos after just a few days.
However, the Russian military isn't doing that. In fact, they have control over Ukraine's main nuclear power plant and are keeping it operational, supplying power to millions of Ukrainians.
The country is surrounded and under invasion by a foreign military but life had been returning to normal ???
"..... on 22 February 2022, Russian presidentVladimir Putindeclared that the Minsk agreements "no longer existed"....".
Johnson took a similar stance at a meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Sunday. Ukraine is on a knife-edge and we need to tip the balance of the war in their favor. That means providing Ukraine with the defensive capabilities, training and intelligence they need to repel the Russian advance, a statement from Downing Street read.
On Sunday, Johnson tweeted that Ukraines security is our security, and their freedom is our freedom.
Ukrainians deliberately place their soldiers and weapons in residential areas and civilian buildings. If the Russians do not hit them  good, they are safe. If the Russians hit  good, excellent opportunity for propaganda. The same tactic ISIS used in Iraq.
Ukraine  government lack the ability too do anything for themselves,they are at the mercy of others,they have abdicated all personal responsibility,too fend for themselves,their doomed, Google Ukrinform
How many of you ,that support Ukraine,would send your child to get beat up by the bully , without giving your child a strategy to win,that what Ukraine supporters are doing with Ukraine,the US have not given Ukraine a strategy,but has one,is Ukraine been set up to fail
Unless your actually there in Ukraine right now it's ridiculous to preach as too what's happening.
Let me ask one simple question-what reason had Zelensky and his government to not fullfill Minsk agreements and never-once again-never discussed unfinished matters with people of Lugansk and Donetsk regions?
Russia's MO is more residential areas, theatres, hospitals and other non-military targets for their war crimes.
Ukrainian kid was sleeping peacefully in Kyiv until a Russian cruise missile blasted her home
Time will tell whether mendaspicy is any more accurate than the ancient pagan world's fondness for haruspicy, but at least it gives us a predictive model against which we can compare future events and actions.
I, however, can agree that all sides, Ukraine, Donetsk, Luhansk and Russia can be blamed for not complying with the agreements made.
Bronco, I guess you haven't seen the pictures from Mariupol ya know, that "liberated place" and other areas, where people have to get their water from puddles, somewhere on the road. Just because those Russian decided and still decide to destroy as much infrastructure and "others" as possible.
ITEM 5: Vladimir Putin cannot divide the G7 nations. Vladimir Putin will not divide G7 leaders
To achieve peace lasting? would require Russia to withdraw from the occupied areas, return the abductees as well as POWs, pay reparations for all the damage they caused, and accept Ukraine as a sovereign state.
why no one talking about how to reach peace and instead just openly supporting war and violence?
Boris Johnson revealed the downside of settling the Ukraine conflict. Any effort to resolve the conflict between Moscow and Kiev peacefully will cause more harm than good, the UK PM has said.
It seems that you have started to notice news about Ukraine after Feb24 this year.
ITEM 1: Vladimir Putin is panicking. Panicking Putin calls up OBESE 20st retired general, 67, to lead forces in Ukraine'
Putin setting his site on Kiev ,this only a dress rehearsal of thing to come
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
ITEM 2: Vladimir Putin is desperate. Desperate Putin plans to send nuclear-capable arsenal to Belarus
Sorry but there's alot of disinformation and some of which is obviously cant be correct.
ITEM 3: Vladimir Putin is running out of financial resources. Financial noose around Vladimir Putin.
Now, note that these are all headlines featured in The Daily Mail for 26 June 2022. There are 26 direct references to Vladimir Putin on the home page, compared to 20 for Boris Johnson, 7 for Joe Biden, and a big fat 0 for Xi Xinping. Applying the mendaspicic principle of narratival inversion, what can we potentially discern about the present conflict between Russia and the globalist forces from these six headlines?
Ukrainian kid was sleeping peacefully in Kyiv until a Russian cruise missile blasted her home. Many more around Ukraine are under strikes. G7 summit must respond with more sanctions on Russia and more heavy arms for Ukraine. Russias sick imperialism must be defeated.
Here's how to read the Western MSM news. I offer you all a brief lesson in 'mendaspicy', a form of divination based upon the inspection of lies exposed through the dissection of a media article. As the Western medias relentless anti-Putin and anti-Russian propaganda increases in intensity, its useful to examine it closely in order to see if it can help us better understand what is really happening beneath the media cover of its inverted narrative.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
There is an incipient split in the G7, most likely between those who want to negotiate a peace settlement Japan and Italy and those who dont USA, UK, Canada. France is leaning toward the former and Germany is leaning toward the latter.
The Russian military could easily fire missiles at key civilian infrastructure like water treatment plants, power plants, sewage facilities and so forth.
The Prime Minister also cautioned the French leader against seeking alternatives to resolving the conflict. The Prime Minister stressed any attempt to settle the conflict now will only cause enduring instability and give Putin licence to manipulate both sovereign countries and international markets in perpetuity.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
They probably are targeting these infrastructure targets but with a 40 success rate, it might take a lot more misses before one by accident actually hits its intended target. But who cares it will hit something anyway.
The West needs to keep arming Ukraine instead of seeking a peaceful resolution to the conflict between Kiev and Moscow, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson told French President Emmanuel Macron, according to Downing Street. Any attempt to resolve the conflict peacefully will lead to global instability, he said at a meeting on the sidelines of the G7 Summit on Sunday
More dead Russians.   Worth the price?  Who knows.  They like to keep their lemmings in the dark and the lemmings support Russian deaths as long as they don't know them.
"In all of Ukraine, the water is running, toilets are flushing and the power is on."
Ukraine was set up from inside by Ukrainain Collaborators , Putin know the psychological make up of Ukrainain ,all their fears and insecurities ,he works decades to set Ukraine up for the fall,by staffing  his agents inside Ukraine government ,just like a trojan horse
Oh myThe author of these claims, Lyudmila Denisova, was fired for her wild stories. Even the Ukrainian propaganda apparatus considered her claims too ludicrous.
