Russians push toward Ukraines capital residents take cover
20220227
https://japantoday.com/category/world/street-fighting-begins-in-kyiv-people-urged-to-seek-shelter
Moscow is getting nervous and understands now that all the sanctions will destroy Russia's economy completely and that Russia can fall apart.
His recent threats to Finland and Sweden may be indicitive of how dangerous this situation is becoming.
while wannabe tough guy Putin is hiding away in one of his luxury bunkers, his Ukrainian rival leaders are on the streets with its citizens, helping defend their country.
Its true. Never in my lifetime have I seen a democratic head of state literally leading his army in actual battle against a truly despotic madman attacking his country.
Seems like Putin is just becoming more volatile and angrier, this is how tyrants like this guy start screwing up with each and every step. He threatens NATO with nukes, but he forgets that NATO is Nuclear power as well. So at this point I dont think Putin is really deeply thinking this through on a micro level, hes gotten more emotional and less calculating. Dont see this ending well for this guy.
Putin, in contrast, looks isolated and alone. He literally never has anyone near him when he appears on camera, and he actually looks scared of other human beings. He is starting to look his age too. People arent flocking to his cause, they are repelled by him.
I am hoping the anti war protesters within Russia continue to gain traction it is really a growing movement. Some Russians acknowledge Putin is a strong arm leader at best and at worst governs Russia in a near dictatorial manner. The Russians I have spoken to outside of Russia seem to have a different viewpoint to the Russians I spoke to when I was in Russia more nationalistic so it will see where the internal protests go.
A senior Russian official on Saturday shrugged off the sanctions as a reflection of Western political impotence.
Tje Ukrainians are defending themselves valiantly Zelensky's quote "I need ammunition not a ride" is similar to one of those things you read about in history books and the Estonian defense chief stating Russia may run out of money and munitions in 10 days is interesting.
advocating extreme sanctions, including the SWIFT option, even if there is collateral damage among Western nations. If you dont want all-out world war - and only a lunatic would want that - then you have to be prepared to take a little pain in order to defeat this kind of totally unjustified aggression.
He expected to take Ukraine easily, without resistance. If this is a country he wants to absorb into Russia, you don't do it by slaughtering them. It doesn't look good back in Russia, the rest of the world, and it breeds hatred in Ukraine.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
Zelenskiy is on the streets of a city under seige, defying an invading army that is trying to kill him while his people and the world rally to his support. He already looks like a hero who will be remembered fondly by history.
Putin was the head of the KGB and he is highly intelligent and having listed to Putin's speech a few days ago it seems he is trying to reconstruct a facsimile of the Soviet Union. Based on his speech it is also obvious that the expansion of NATO is not the only reason for his actions which are driven by his perception of history and the world.
After listening to his speech a few days ago I honestly and sincerely worry about what Putin may do if he is backed into a corner. This is a much more dangerous time than the Cold War.
The real fighting for Kyiv is ongoing, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video message in which he accused Russia of hitting infrastructure and civilian targets.
Also the russian population will feel the impact of the sanctions in a very tough way, and they will also understand that they have to suffer because of their insane murderer government and all his supporters.
A lot of people are going to die within the next 24 hours all because of the delusions of one clearly sick man, putin.
Long live Ukraine! These people are remarkably brave. They might not win, but theyre going to go down swinging. And then theyll still keep fighting and resisting. Its like the Alamo all over again. Such spirit! Hopefully theyll stop these barbarians and chase them out of their country. In the meantime, NATO should send more arms to brave Ukraine. Such bravery must not be ignored.
I wish the Russian army stands up to putin and puts an end to this bloodshed.
Putin is where all dictators end up - alone, isolated and irrational. And most make a big strategic error driven by hubris arising from earlier victories that they believe their own propaganda.
My belief is that sanctions will likely not have the desired effect I hope they do. The reasons are this is now an ideological struggle in Putin's eyes, Germany has indicated they will continue to import gas from Russia, and at the beginning of all of this China indicated they would buy all the gas Russia could produce and sell.  India's most recent vote at the UN abstaining on the resolution is interesting as well.
The contrast between Zelenskiy and Putin that is emerging must be getting embarrassing for Putin.
So hopefully the Russians will stand up and finish this insane government in their country.
The war will make him unpopular at home. Sanctions will cripple the economy. And like all tyrants, he's screwed up in the end.
How can Russian military attack their friends in little Russia?  Ukraine and Russia have a very long history, not always peaceful, but there is much commonality too.
Ukraine knows this, but asymmetric warfare will be the key. It will be long and hard, so the west needs to keep supplying truck and smaller weapons that are effective against Russian targets.
If Putin was any man at all, he should challenge the mayor of Kiev to a fight - winner take all
Moscow could react to the sanctions by opting out of the last remaining nuclear arms pact
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
More sanctions. Isolation. Ramped up defense spending. Fast track NATO membership offer to Sweden and Finland. Bring up US force levels in Europe back to 1990 levels.
When the blood begins to run, so will the young press-ganged Russian soldiers who have no dog in this race to Kyiv and beyond. It's now up to the Russian people to step in and come to the aid of their Ukrainian brothers by rising up for a free, democratic Russia and hunting down and trapping the fascist rat and his criminal entourage in their Kremlin bunkers and luxury dachas.
Human rights organizations and some media organizations are worried about military equipment placed in civilian areas.
I remember Crimea in 2014 and this situation is very different. It is interesting the original coup d'tat in the Ukraine was February 18 to February 22, 2014 and then Crimea was annexed by Russia a bit of a different situation.
I am very much against what Putin is doing and think it is criminal. I have also tried to look at this from Putin's point of view. In the 90's he was told NATO would not expand eastward - but it has. This does not excuse Putin's actions as these countries did this by choice so I can understand his argument but it is invalid.
