Russia Ukraine to hold talks Moscow reportedly asks China for military and economic aid
20220314
https://japantoday.com/category/world/russia-and-ukraine-to-hold-talks-as-troops-edge-closer-to-kyiv
With, I suggest secondary sanctions aimed, without fear or favor that the Government of China.
not unless they want tariffs  and economic sanctions  from every major democratic  country.
china may do what its been doing in Africa and SA, and purposely loan money it knows cant be repaid, and demand special property and resource rights instead.
If Russia is victorious, it will be a story of misguided stubbornness, and failure of diplomacy. Much like WW2 Japan
Russia has had the world fooled since the fall of the wall. The military it commands is a pale reflection of the power it had, and the power though gone, still puts fear into Europe.
I think Mike Tyson said something similar: "Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the mouth."
America needs massive "Made in China" cheap products to calm down the life of rising high inflation, high interest rate in America .  Sanctioning China is throwing a rock on your own foot, a political blunder if Biden is foolish enough if he wants to be re-elected.
Yes I do think Vlad is the type that if he is going down he will take as many as possible with him.
Not unless the EU commit to a up front five trillion euro cross boarder nuclear power thermal energy generationprogram,
Civilians are included in that number as well as troops. As usual Russia has killed lots of lots of non-combatants and kids.
The Russian tactic of using local resources to supplement logistic lines has failed, resulting in a 40 mile long traffic jam of out of fuel vehicles and starving soldiers.
The Russian government has request that the Government of China rearm and prop up the Russian economy.
maybe  you should blame Viktor Yanukovych  Putins puppet  leader for not allowing  Ukraine to join
Ukraine says it want peace with Russia and ethnic Russian separatist but does everything to alienate them more including raise ww2 Ukrainian Nazi to hero status.
In addition to the drain on its military forces and the financial effects of the sanctions, Russia is experiencing a brain drain as thousands of Russians with access to accurate news of what is happening in Ukraine, many of them IT specialists, are getting out as fast as they can. Russia is haemorrhaging both money and people.
Many here keep saying he won't but then say he is another HitlerStalin which is it Khrushchev, or HitlerStalin?
Time to put fear into Putin. Stop this war or NATO attacks Russia and effects regime change.
Nothing makes any sense from either side propaganda after propaganda Russian news is all propaganda and now so is most western news.
Putin's delusions may have already hit a roadblock in Kyiv and he may soon be forced to return to his senses, "cry uncle" and retreat with his tail between his legs. The Chinese are unlikely to get too involved in Putin's Ukraine folly since they don't suffer fools gladly and are only too well aware that their covid-challenged economy can't risk sanctions from its major customers at this juncture.
Fascist Russia is desperate, going cap in hand to their only friend. The ruble is now worthless, economy in ruins, and they have burnt their bridges with most trading partners.
Our goal is that in this struggle, in this difficult negotiating work, Ukraine will get the necessary result... for peace and for security," President Volodymyr Zelensky said early Monday, adding that both sides speak every day.
America is enduring the highest inflation since CarterRegan administrations, the highest in 40 years. When oil price surge,inflation surge and that means social frustration over Joe Biden is high!
The US estimated 3 days to take Iwojima and Peleliu. Both took over a month.
Not sure what you are really trying to say but as far as my memory goes Japan didn't do that once possible total annihilation was a possible outcome of continuing!
China will be calling all the shots for fascist Russia going forward. What a horrible and pathetic position to be in. And fully deserved.
Indeed. And yet there is Japan Tobacco. still operating in Russia, paying taxes so that Putin can fund his war crimes. Disgusting.
Which we no is clearly false unless NATO allows Ukraine to use their territory to as a staging ground.
lets see if China will risk  sanctions  from all major democratic nations and even higher sanctions.  dont think Russia  will make up the difference  in export losses
And despite all it power and military supplies Saudi Arabia has pounded Yemen literature into the stone age and still hasn't won but I forget this is a secret the western news doesn't want pointed out!
Its all smoke and mirrors. Time to get rid of Putin for good. Match his threats with more powerful threats. He understands only that language.
Of all the photos of the war a baby stroller? If it was Russian news we would call it propaganda.
in hindsight we can see that both cases pretty much failed, and only serve to give dictators more money and power to syphon off to their buddies, while the masses - the intended target of liberalizing such economies - remain powerless and for all intents and purposes, muzzled, albeit with better cars and iphones.
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
America has betrayed the Ukrainians, the America gave false hope to Ukraine for membership of NATO in the name of protection but actually it was a tool to poke the Russians. Now the Ukrainians asking for "NO Fly Zone" has been rejected ! Don't trust  the talk soups from the POTUS, they are swindlers!
Im afraid its too early to call this one. Just as size is factor in fights, thats why they have weight classes in fighting sports, sheer manpower can sometimes win a war.
When a Serbian student murdered the Duke of Austria Hungary empire in Sarajevo and a sequence of domino effects, the world was in a total war known as WW1. Now we are very close to that domino effects:
Mighty Russia, supposedly the 2nd strongest military in the world, is resorting to asking Syria, Africa  now China for help !?
hello anybody home!?.  Chinese tarriffs are still in place  from Trump, Biden hasnt removed them.
No battle plan survives first contact with the enemy. Von Clausewitz if I remember correctly said that, and its still true today.
They have missiles and nukes and a poorly trained and motivated military with a couple of good units of special forces that can not do everything. Russia could be easily defeated but for its WMD.
my comment was more to do with your "This war is now becoming embroiled into two distinct shared ideological factions." comment, and that until now the west has tried to open up countries through market liberalization. this seemed to be working in china to around 2007, but then a hardman put an end to all that as he potentially saw the party's grip on power slipping away to the people and market forces. same with russia. im assuming your "two distinct shared ideological factions" is about "fighting for what you believe in or fighting to defend your homeland." now compare that with the "fighting because the big man forced me to" and you can see why morale is so low on the russian side, and sky high on the ukrainian side.
My J Grand Mother was right, you fight for what you believe in to the last no matter what the cost.
Jon Snow said it best: "Will your men want to fight for you, when they hear you wouldn't fight for them?" and now think about Zelenskyy on the streets on his home turf, compared with Putin sitting over there at the head of the table in his marble palace.
Putin replied to a question about foreign volunteer going to help on the UkraineNato side. He replied that he would welcome anyone who wanted to join Russia. The Russian military is reaching its goals, it has taken the south and has the capital surrounded within two weeks. Compare this to the US folly against a far weaker opposition in Iraq.
let see how China and Russia go selling to each other and all those wealthy African countries!?
Sanctioning China is throwing a rock on your own foot, a political blunder if Biden is foolish enough if he wants to be re-elected.
Although the PR videos Russia and its fanbois like to propagate on social media make Russia look uber-tacticool, the reality is uneducated, unmotivated teenagers with aging and failing equipment, still using WW2 tactics.
You launch nukes and you die after NATO replies in kind. The only move where you dont die is in pulling all troops and weapons out of Ukraine. Putin is a street beggar with no courage and people like him run for the hills when things get tough. Try it and see. Putin is a coward.
Maybe China could give them back their first aircraft carrier that they bought off Ukraine, the Liaoning.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
well...is this what you call "winning?" LOL!! coupled with the mass media blackouts and threats of prison time for 'mentioning the war' it is clear that russia does not want the truth out. sure, all the news we get here is from the Ukrainian side and they no doubt inflate numbers to their own advantage, but if russia were winning, we'd be getting realistic news from the russian side too. no, russia excels at hiding the truth, that's the only realistic thing there is.
Its a test for China. Will they provide military and economic aid as requested? My guess is no. The Chinese dont back losers.
I think the global community have reached a point of no return. Take a side,
This Idea that EuropeNATO could repel a full on Russian incursion is just fairy stories.
much like Kissinger and the opening up of china in the early 70s, my guess is that by providing a reliable market and source of income for russia, it was hoped by germanyEU that russia wouldn't go on about waging any more wars. plus, the gas was cheap compared to ship imports.
If Ukraine emerges victorious, it will be a heroes story of victory against all odds.
If not then lets hope that is true and if all out war between Russia and NATO happens he is more Khrushchev than Stalin or Hitler.
True. No one can force them. But if we want to we can give them a stark choice, you can do business with the Italy-sized economy or business as usual with rest of the world. We have that right.
"If you do not close our sky, it is only a matter of time before Russian missiles fall on your territory, on NATO territory, on the homes of NATO citizens," Zelensky said in a video address.
the ukraine situation? i have no idea, but as there is no easy offramp for putin, i think he will keep it up in ukraine until his economy tanks and something happens internally, either the populace or a coup by one of his generals. i dont think he will head into NATO territory, because it is clear he will get totally pwned without resorting to nukes. not sure why you think it is just fairy stories - EU and US forces can easily repel a russian incursion into nato territory, the level of tech and materiel quantities are jsut overwhelming.
Reality check, the west wouldn't last a week without Chinese products China would out last use by decades because of the state control plain and simple.
Accordint to reports Ukrainian Ministry of Defense sent to Zelensky, the Red Cross and the data of the funeral homes of eight regions of Ukraine the losses of the Armed Forces of Ukraine at 10:00 030922 amounted to 34,672 people killed, 23,490 seriously wounded and 13,300 missing.
If its a run and hide situation, do you seriously think-its not my country?If you attack my country, going to be angry. Blow up my house my appartments really Im not happy. You are destroying my life Im going to kill you. As you would if I came to your village, town. Ukrainians didnt attack Russia.
The EU cannot, may I suggest will not be able to ween themselves off Russian fossil fuels until 2030 if at all.
Mad Vlad planned to have the whole thing over in a couple of days. If things are going as planned, why is he reaching out to China for help and to Syria for mercenaries?
The Chinese supreme leader does not need to be re-elected. "The stark choice" is for America not China!
With the benefit  of hindsight, with the loss of life, the threat of the use of chemical weapons and possible tactical nuclearengagement, is capitulation surrender such a humiliation.
Good..keep talking to reach a diplomatic solution and end the killing as soon as possible.
