Russia replaces Black Sea fleet chief after Crimea setbacks
20220817
https://japantoday.com/category/world/russia-replaces-black-sea-fleet-chief-after-crimea-setbacks1
Blacklabel - Russia will probably bomb Ukraine some more.  What do you think will happen?
Of course, the West and others are going to help with the rebuilding effort.  Sad that this has to happen, but the future will be even brighter for Ukraine after we kick the invaders out.
Russia has replaced the commander of its Crimea-based Black Sea Fleet, a state news agency reported on Wednesday, after a series of explosions rocked the peninsula it annexed in 2014 and had previously seen as a secure rear base for its war in Ukraine.
Crimea has a 2 million population, of which about 60 percent speak Russian and consider themselves Russian. This is the only region in Ukraine where Russians are in the majority and has the highest number of Russian speakers.
Crimea had been part of Russia for 200 years until 1954, when it was gifted to the Soviet Republic of the Ukraine by the then Russian Premier, Nikita Khrushchev. This was to commemorate the 300th anniversary of the historic decision by Ukraine to unify with tsarist Russia. At that time, it would have been impossible to foresee that the Soviet Union would collapse and split into separate republics, that the borders would have to be renegotiated and that Ukraine would again be an independent country.
So that when Ukraine kills Crimeancivilianswith US weapons, liberals dont have to hold them accountable.
Or he made the smart move and retired early so he wouldn't become one more GeneralAdmiral added to Ukraine's list...
Sorry, what was your question?  What do I think Russia will do in the event that civilians are killed by US hardware?  I thought I answered it, but I will repeat - the Russians will bomb Ukraine some more, they will bluster a lot, and they will continue to do underhanded things to try and undermine unity in the Allied coalition.
The West will run out of moneyweapons they are willing to give for free, the US political environment will change after elections and Ukraine will be forgotten as an old topic that is no longer a priority.
If Russia doesn't want to be hit with Ukrainian missiles, they're free to live the occupied territories at any time. This includes Crimea.
lol Your question was answered, though you might not like the answer. The Russian army is free to go back to Russia any time it wishes.
Ukraine attacked Russian territory, difficult as a pacifist,  but leveling Kiev would be a good start. The regime is bombing Europes biggest NPP to flush out Russian soldiers. Sociopaths. Nuclear experts predict serious consequences on at least 6 neighboring countries if Ukraine directly destroys the cooling buildings at the NPP.
Well, we are very fortunate not to have a much larger aggressive neighbor who also has a lot of guns.  Ukraine is not as lucky.  Just like Americans would come together to defend against an invader, so should we come together to assist the Ukrainians, as I mentioned we have.
So that when Ukraine kills Crimean civilians with US weapons, liberals dont have to hold them accountable.
Maybe so, because that is the convenient 2022 narrative.  Russia has a historical claim, for sure.
not gonna end well for any invaders, and we dont need to demand the world to give us all their weapons and trillions of dollars. We would all come together as Americans and handle that business.
Are any of these countries asking for help from the US or Europe? There is a difference between these countries and Ukraine.
Blacklabel - Russia will probably bomb Ukraine some more. What do you think will happen?
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
Black - The "West" is going to continue to send money and weapons as long as they are being used effectively, which they are currently.  Plus, it's the right thing to do when a country has been invaded as Ukraine has by Russia.  This is actually quite bi-partisan as shown by the overwhelming support in Congress.
hitting Crimea will make Russians very angry and increase pressure on Putin to do something more radical.
so what happens when Ukraine missile attacks Crimea with US weapons and Crimean civilians are killed?
TS - don't hate just because I can figure things out.  It's what I do.
Ukraine's position is that they will drive the invaders out of their territory and it takes however long it takes.  How long would it take for you to surrender some part of the US if we found ourselves invaded?  Do you see how ridiculous this question sounds?
Crimea is Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory, and yes, Russians shouldn't be there unless invited.  I would hope Ukraine doesn't target civilians.  So far, they are attacking military and logistical infrastructure.
Odd. Previously you've claimed you don't actually care what happens to Ukrainians but you now you're concerned about civilians in Crimea. Hey here's an idea: Don't go to occupied lands for vacation.
What's interesting is these attacks do not appear to have come from missiles or drones but rather from ground operations by either local resistance groups or Ukraine military operating covertly.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
I wish every country a bright future free from violence and oppression.  Have I said otherwise?
Russian mothers need to call their sons home, or they'll return home in boxes. It will only get worse for them as Western arms flow in and US intelligence aids in targeting.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
How long would it take for you to surrender some part of the US if we found ourselves invaded?
would never happen and if it somehow did, we have 330 million guns in private ownership.
Rodney - are you really in favor of "leveling" Kyiv which would imply massive civilian casualties as a proportionate response to Ukraine's attacks on the Russian military infrastructure that is devastating their country?  That would be a war crime, no?   Do you think Russia would commit a war crime?
