Russian missiles kill at least 23 in central Ukraine city injure over 100
20220714
https://japantoday.com/category/world/ukraine-russian-missile-strike-kills-12-south-of-kyiv
But you know, even if it was true that Ukraine was storing munitions in a cultural centre amidst civilians which it wasnt, its their country. They can put what they like wherever they like within their own borders. If russia doesnt want its neighbor bristling with weapons, then it should stop being so damn aggressive go home and stay there, sit on the naughty step until it can bring itself to be nice.
The attack was probably aimed to hit targets 100km away from where they impacted, but being Russian precision weapons.they have no idea where they will go! Sometimes they actually boomerang back to their point of originS-400.  In Russia executive members of the production companies have been arrested on fraud and corruption charges. Including an ex Defence minister. Its a mess.
There will be a reckoning. Oh yes, there will be a reckoning. But I bet by that time there will be as many Russian fans here as there were Vichy French in 1949.  "Vlad? Vlad who? Never met him, didn't like him. Who???"
These are the same tactics employed against the Chechens and in Syria.  No different.
the UN confirmed Ukraine troops were hiding in the nursing home and using it as a base for their attacks on Russian forces. So it wasnt really a "nursing home" anymore that was attacked in response.
In another room where experts said there was evidence of torture and waterboarding, five dead men were found. They were covered with burns, bruises, and lacerations, the report said.
All those responsible for war crimes and those responsible for setting it in motion must be brought to book and face justice for their crimes.
Do try to keep up. Vinnytsia is hundreds of kilometres from the fighting. No one there was attacking anyone.
The Ukrainians have indeed attacked Russian fuel and ammunition depots inside Russia.  There was one deep raid carried out apparently by some of those Bayraktar UAVs Ukraine has been buying from the Turks that Russia's mighty S-400s didn't detect.
if its not true, why was the arms and barracks depot destroyed, housed in a civilian concert hall
russia is a terrorist state, its method is to terrorise and murder the citizenry and so they target ordinary people.
The experts noted that photographic and video evidence showed Russian forces carried out targeted, organized killings of civilians in Bucha who were found shot dead with their hands tied behind their backs.
Poo tins stated objective in his long justification for the war and his recent speeches is the total eradication of Ukraine and its people both as a state and as a culture, which is why they are targeting cultural, educational, scientific and economic targets and indiscriminately killing civilians.  He wants a Ukraine without Ukrainians.  Because in his world view they have no legitimacy of existence he has sanctioned the murder, rape and looting carried out by his apology of an army throughout this unjustified war of aggression.
The report documented a series of torture chambers separated by concrete walls discovered at a summer camp in Bucha, including a room that the report said appeared to be used for executions with bullet holes in the walls.
The Russians are using torture as a terror tactic on both the macro and micro levels. Whether it is blowing up an apartment in the early morning hours or disappearing an old man on a bike who shows up dead with GSW to his knees and head and his hands tied behind his back, the "mighty" red army is trying to terrorize Ukraine into giving it what it is unable to take by force so far.
DT,I am talking about that forward base in Belgorod and that Belarus airbase near Gomel
Not mentioned is the target was the House of Military Officers, which housed weapons, and the barracks of volunteer nationalists and Ukrainian Military, in the concert hall in the town center.
if its not true, why was the arms and barracks depot destroyed, housed in a civilian concert hall, as well as the surrounding area by a preccion weapon? The surrounding damage had to the result of Ukraine hiding weapons in civilian buildings, like they do in hospitals and schools. The Ukrainian munitions would of caused secondary explosions.
In a village in the Bucha district, the bodies of 18 men, women and children were discovered in a basement.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday signed into law a bill banning the dissemination of information on Russian companies and individuals who could face international sanctions. The law explicitly bans from internet or media publication  without written permission  any information about transactions made or planned by Russian individuals or legal entities participating in foreign economic activity. It also suspends for three years the obligatory publication of key financial and governance information by major Russian state corporations.
No, it was the result of cowardly moskovite orcs shooting massive missiles at a residential center from a submarine hiding in the Black Sea.
I was surprised to read today that the US is sending M-270 MLRS systems to Ukraine.  Also it seems the Russians are going to buy UAVs from Iran, who has had some success with their own small UAVs in Iraq and Yemen.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
This all on NATO and US expansion. Actions has consequences. Its seems only a few recognize the massive propaganda campaign going on.
"but they were invaded!" yes, but there are still things you dont do, and mingling in with civilians to hide and attack is one of those.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
There iswas no arms and barracks depot. The House of Officers is a leftover from the Soviet era, a cultural institution offering cultural leisure facilities for vets, serving personnel and their families. There are no arms stored there.
I think these strikes only to terrorize and kill civilians must make it so much easier for Ukrainian military to push the button, pull the trigger and yank the lanyard that causes so much Russian solider death.
The report said that some had their ears cut off, while others had their teeth pulled out.
