Russia presses Donbas offensive as Polish leader visits Kyiv
20220523
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Russia-presses-Donbas-offensive-as-Polish-leader-visits-Kyiv
he have promised solve issue at east Ukraine with its own citizens,will respect results of Minsk agreement,will investigate crimes against russina minority in Odessa etc...will discuss about status of Lugansk and Donetsk regions with it its rsepresentatives.he had a lot of time from 2019 but he did nothing for achieving of peace in his own country and solve problems of his own citizens.
The usual chorus of 'Russia is losing in one way or another', but an admission that when it comes to the goals Russia set for ITSELF not the goals assigned them by Washington they're crossing them of the list on a fairly regular basis.
They are so successful on the battlefield at present, in restoring liberated areas to normal life
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
Ukraine's military had told the fighters their mission was complete and they could come out. It described their extraction as an evacuation, not a mass surrender.
1 Russia started this whole thing. They funded the separatists, and they did the invading.
And even when NATO rearms, the Russians won't hesitate in sending their weapons to the small, resource rich countries threatened by NATO.
Russia took over 2500 prisoners at Azovstal but Ukraine claims not a surrender it's an "evacuation"!!!!!
Ukraines Unian news agency said a bomb planted by local partisans wounded 48-year-old Andrei Shevchuk,
Yes, Russia is steadily taking all the Dombas. There are several pockets with large numbers of Ukrainian troops about to be taken prisoner, retreat or killed. A senseless waste of life and property. The US needs to call a stop to its proxy war. Maybe if Zelenskyy went to the negotiating table he could keep Odessa on a lease. The Dombas, south and Crimea are gone.
This might actually be true. It could be why they're practically giving them away to farmers in Ukraine :
The usual accusations of atrocities against 'Russian forces' like shooting a single civilian who is classified as a combatant when killed by American forces but an admission that the Kiev regime's loyalists are killing civilian politicians who don't support the Kiev regime.
2 There is a very real possibility Ukraine will lose territory by the time this is all done, but no one believes Russia will lose territory. This war that Russia chose is an existential threat to Ukraine-not Russia.
The surrendering is for Russian troops. Leaving the area is used for Ukrainian troops. Why would you think media is unbiased?
I'm sure it'll include shoulder fired AA missiles, anti tank and anti ship missiles. And advisors possibly up to the rank of general.
Putins special military operation will have created a whole lot of anti Russian terrorists. He never really thought about that. Just like the rest of this whole debacle.
It is called war, or at least that is what I keep being told when I point out the similarities between these two. 1 and2 most corrupt countries in Europe going at eachother.
Tanks are picked off easily by people hiding in cities. I know NATO is likely to level a whole building in order to take out a single anti tank weapon.
Russia's military might be more successful in the field if it would use fewer artillery shells, bombs and missiles to flatten civilian apartments, schools, rail stations and medical facilities and instead aim at Ukrainian troops. This strikes me as a strange way to fight a war. Of course it makes sense if you consider that Ukrainian troops shoot back.
You forgot to mention arresting anyone who wears yellow and blue, food shortages and sharply using prices, lack of medical supplies, random street stops to check phones. How come?
 I'm sure it'll include shoulder fired AA missiles, anti tank and anti ship missiles. And advisors possibly up to the rank of general
The only thing that is certain is that the formerly second largest army in Europe, armed to the teeth with the latest NATO weaponry, has been decimated. So much so that the EU is saying it urgently needs to rearm due to so much being sent to Ukraine.
I'm sure Uncle Xi and the CCP are more than willing to send in Chinese companies, materials and armies of construction workers to help Ukraine "build back better".
 Tanks are picked off easily by people hiding in cities. I know NATO is likely to level a whole building in order to take out a single anti tank weapon.
Well, at least the truth is being allowed to bleed around the edges of the propaganda a bit on some news articles.
That will of course add to inflation. And now NATO powers can't invade other countries on a whim in order to steal resources.
Yep and if I remember correctly Ukraine is doing the exact same thing for Z and opposition parties and ethnic Russians.
Haaa,the US is not gonna ,what they need to go on the offensive , Russian are carving Ukraine up like Turkey,then Kiev will be the main feast
Zelesky is sacrificing all his citizens and infrastructure to join EU and NATO. And the EU and NATO said repeatedly it aint going to happen. Time to declare neutrality.
3 People wearing blue and yellow in Ukraine aren't pro-Ukraine, and they're not the aggressors. People wearing Zs and pro-Russian parties in Ukraine are actively supporting Russia in it's invasion of Ukraine.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
For all Putin's BS about "liberating Ukraine from Nazis" etc. etc., he can only fool Russians glued to their TVs. Meanwhile the rest of the world knows one when it sees one: Nazi is as Nazi does, innit?
No. One side is calling it war, the other side is calling it a special liberation and claiming that life goes on as normal in Kherson.
He isn't a Ukrainian politician. He's a Russian appointed puppet. No one, save for Russia, recognizes him as a leader.
Reality and Karma will not let go but dog Putrid to his miserable end for the Ukrainians will keep fighting to defend their homeland whatever the cost. And Russians will pay dearly in blood for the wanton destruction of their neighbors'  land.
Mariupol, where normal life goes on. The nostalgic sight of flattened buildings, and corpses littering the streets. The citizens lining the streets with tears of joy for their liberators s
 This might actually be true. It could be why they're practically giving them away to farmers in Ukraine :
It's been often said China is the main winner from this war but small, resource rich countries may be the main winner because NATO has been disarmed to such an extent. And even when NATO rearms, the Russians won't hesitate in sending their weapons to the small, resource rich countries threatened by NATO.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
he shouldnt trust Poland either. Polish ultranationalists believe parts of west Ukraine belong to Poland.
Unfortunately, in Europe there have also been disturbing voices in recent times demanding that Ukraine yield to Putins demands,
