Russian airstrike escalates offensive in western Ukraine near Poland border
20220313
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Russian-airstrike-escalates-offensive-in-western-Ukraine-near-Poland-border
Until this wishful thinking becomes true, there is no logical reason to single out Russia. Your "argument" is a red herring and does not answer the question.
Makes it even more certain that what she is saying is truthful. Its not treason to lie, its treason to tell the truth that people in charge dont want anyone to know about.
later someone will say its not every other member and not the same crimes. Then they run away.
The according to the president of Ukraine, they were "engaged in ordinary science  not military technology. Makes sense. Why worry about the Russians gaining control of a few Bunsen Burners?
If one Russian bullet will fly over the border into Poland, the NATO will jump in immediately, and wipe out Putin and all his mass murderer Mob within 24 hours from this planet for all and for good,  and will send them to hell where they belong to.
you're getting your way. And you actually believed NATO was evil, just wait and stop believing the Putin far right wack media. Today's Nazis are Putin's Russian stormtroopers and their online cheerleaders.
The US has released data that shows it has 26 biolabs and other related facilities in Ukraine. Dangerous pathogens are stored in these labs. They are military operations or as the US claims labs for "scientific research" and for "peaceful use." The Japanese hunt minke whales for "scientific research" as well.
geography isnt the redeeming factory, its that he was a facist dictator, see the similarity with Putin?
Fascist Russia is struggling to overcome the brave, much smaller nation they are brutally invading. Attacking NATO would finish them.
Then they were to destroy Soviet bio weapons. Okay, that makes sense. How long does it take to destroy bio weapons??? And why were they worried about the Russians gaining control of the labs?
But the alpha males and online keyboard warriors backing the First Putin War will continue to say, Russians are just killing Nazis, so no problem. And that probably some of the children were also Nazis. National socialism as practice by the Germans and Italians was horrible, but if what's being practiced by Putin's forces today continues it might rival what the their fellow fascists dd in the 1930's and 1940's. Putin is sick, it could be his addiction to steroids has finally caught up with him, like syphilis did to mad kings of old. Anyone who defends Putin's madness is sick, too. Putin earlier helped create a refugee crisis in Europe in order to try to harm European countries, and now he's trying to create another. Putin and his oligarchs have  poorly managed their country, thanks in part to money got from western asset management companies and China plus the online "muh Russia" herds now the madman wants to drag Europe and the rest of the world down to Russian level. Which is  subbasement level low.
It is my hope and prayer that Putin is stopped in his tracks and meets his maker. The Devil.
huh  since  when was fascism  or dictatorship  limited to a certain nationality or race!?
Mitt Romney accuses Tulsi Gabbard of treasonous lies that may cost lives over Russias Ukraine invasion
Each and every member of the UN Security Council committed horrible crimes. What should Russia be singled out? Can you give a rational answer to this simple question?
Always with the finger pointing and low-brow miggihidari attacks that really serve no purpose other than to make you feel like youre winning something.
in my opinion, the UN should force Ukraine to become a neutral state and recognize Donbass. Collect all the weapons. Send peacekeepers to the Donbass border.
As long as this admin refuses to get tough and NATO as well show weakness, this conflict will only widen and worsen and no amount of deflection or name-calling or blaming will change that real-time fact.
I'm going to point something out to you.   There is a huge difference between a country that ACKNOWLEDGES it's evils and strives to become better than their past and strive for a better future, and countries who don't learn from it's past evils and repeat the same situation all over again.  "Those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it." Figure it out.
Putin is answering in the only way he has - air superiority. But the ground war is failing and the supplies will keep on flowing into Ukraine. Putin can destroy the country if he wants, but as he considers it part of Russian territory, he's only bombing what he thinks is his own country. This shows his ruthlessness and psychopathy to everyone, especially those resisting.
Once again the "muh Russia" extreme rightists are unable to criticize their fellow extreme right  idol Putin remains the extreme right's champion. Curious how they'll react if Xi Jinping and his hordes supplant Putin as the leader of the anti-west empire, will the far right once again say, that he's 'strong',  smart, and knows how to make money, because he has nukes, and is not afraid to kill off his own and other people, while further polluting the planet.
Then they existed but only to store Soviet bio weapons. Why they wanted to store them which is against international law and why they were worried about the Russians gaining control of the labs is anyone's guess.
Why previously deny that they are not under US control, then admit Victoria Nuland that the US had established these biolabs in Ukraine?
It is very audacious of some countries to have the nerves to point fingers at other countries and accuse them of "war crimes", when their history is drenched in the blood of civilians.
If it's not because of a pandemic or Russian disinformation, they'll find another excuse which the media and Big Tech will bombard the general public with until the general public not only accepts but demands such measures.
But that doesn't mean that "putin is right to invade ukraine lolol" is a reasonable view.
But the reality is that Russia fired on a MILITARY BASE, killing SOLDIERS, and sending a pretty clear warning to Biden and the Party Of War that the NATO emblem wasn't going to be a magical shield, and if NATO continues to act as a belligerent in the conflict in Ukraine, it risks being treated as a belligerent party in the conflict.
that idiot congressman kinzinger just said that NATO should attack Belarus. as its not a member of the Warsaw pact huh? and thats a way to indirectly attack Russia.
The new RussiaIran maybe China empire is setting itself up to look like the worst ever, extreme rightists everywhere pushing for authoritarianism,
After Putin is forced from office, Russia will denuclearize similar to the way that Ukraine and Belarus did in 1993.  Slowly, Russia will reduce the state secret service and military size, and eventually, a tank with cement in every cannon will be placed into the park of each city in the country for children to play on and around.
So you want NATO forces to attack Russian forces to show NATO is tough?  Is that it?
Putin may be winning some battles through brute forces but he has lost the political war. He has made Russia an outcast and plunged it back into the cold war.
As that happens, NATO will be disbanded, since the threat of aggression is removed and all that wasted money can be used for other stuff across all of Europe.
Its true that if Russia had wanted to sweep in and destroy Ukraine and massacre everyone then they  would have .
We all know Lviv is the most important place where any new recruits entered and where massive supplies of military supplies will be gathered in military bases. So is only naturally they had to completely secure their air space with anti-missiles interceptors. EU and US should have given them missiles defense instead of other weapons.
China is already teetering on a financial collapse themselves. Xi wants to get re-elected. He is using this distraction with war to cover-up his issues with the pandemic. The Chinese population only tolerate the CCP because they were bribed by creating a middle class.
Again, I can't find the answer to my simple question. Why should Russia lose its UN SC seat for its crimes, if every other member has committed the same or worse crimes?
Russia is begging China for help while hopes to exploit Russia and play innocent, so they won't feel those sanctions.
Croatia has been a NATO member since 2009. If the bomb exploded then NATO would get involved and Russia would definitely get spanked.
And he's not even winning the physical war - the Russian army is taking heavy casualties.
Well a lot of fine, loyal citizens posting or someone with access to a lot of government certified internet IDs the official lines.
There is not mechanism, route, or methodology to remove Russia UN security council permeant seat.
So Putin is telling his people he must do this because there are Nazi's in Ukraine and they must be stopped. What other party calls their opposition Nazi's and wants them gone? Brown shirts?
If one Russian bullet will fly over the border into Poland, the NATO will jump in immediately, and wipe out Putin and all his mass murderer Mob within 24 hours from this planet for all and for good, and will send them to hell where they belong to.
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
I don't know what all that meant, but to Putin, China, North Korea, and Iran to these countries, the US and NATO at this moment do indeed think that they are weak, that is just the harsh reality, all the BS and emotion put aside. As long as this admin refuses to get tough and NATO as well show weakness, this conflict will only widen and worsen and no amount of deflection or name-calling or blaming will change that real-time fact. Turn on the TV and you will see that time is running out for the Ukrainians, so either they get the help that they want or we will witness a slaughter unfolding very soon. No one wants a war, but this conflict will spread. So it's up to the US and NATO to determine how they want to see this, there are many ways they can handle this, but they continue to drag this out and these people really can't wait anymore.
596 civilian deaths, though it believes the true toll is much higher, and Ukraines Prosecutor Generals office said that at least 85 children are among them.
Monty makes a good point on what happens if a stray bulletbomb goes into Poland.
Im pretty sure he wasnt talking about Russia or Putin. The part where he says aiding and abetting the aggressor kind of gives it away no?
Those video clips of the war in Ukraine look a lot like the old films of the Nazis invading Russia, but now its the Russians who are doing the invading.
Russia hasnt YET, cut off oil and gas supplies. They havent used very high tech weapons. Russia has the best weapons in the world. They also havent used extra covert methods like using war with NK and China to complicate issues.
Do you realize China, India, Brazil, Indonesia, Pakistan, Nigeria, Argentina among many other countries have refused to make any statement against Russia? Does "the world" merely consist of USA lackey states?
Cute. But you realize Minsk isnt in Russia, dont you? And that Mussolini was Italian?
The last explanation I'm aware of is that they were "diagnostic and biodefense laboratories", not bioweapons. That is more gaslighting of the general public. A defensive and offensive bioweapon is merely according to one's arbitrary definition.
Yes, we are all behind Ukraine in this. The world is unified in standing behind Ukraine. What the mothers with children trying to flee the violence needs is for a few of us to step up and stand with the Ukrainians.
Russia is just protecting its right as a superpower, same as China. Both countries are tired of bullying.
Then it was to do research into vaccines. Okay, makes sense and perfectly innocent. Why set up such research labs in Ukraine and why 26 of them? Why worry about the Russians getting the research?
Sending Ukraine as your proxy to fight your war against Russia is cowardly. Watching Ukraine struggle and just sitting must be hard for some but may be according to plan for others. Zelensky was led to believe that NATO and the US had his back and embolden him against Russia even banning the Russian language from being spoken.
Frightening stuff. The ruling class has the masses exactly where they want. Next they are going to cancel elections. Next the measures taken in Canada freezing bank accounts and throwing peaceful protestors in jail without bail are going to become international and permanent.
Its true that if Russia had wanted to sweep in and destroy Ukraine and massacre everyone then they would have .
At least 180 foreigners were killed. The only statement the Russians made was, "The destruction of foreign mercenaries who arrived on the territory of Ukraine will continue". Lets be honest, at least 90 of those foreigners are neo-Nazis. Western governments want them dead just as much as the Russians do.
A Russian drone with a bomb attached flew over several Nato countries and landed in an urban area of Croatia. Putin's military is either incompetent, or he desperately trying to threaten other countries to get his way. This dude is looking more a more pathetic.
Only mutual destruction would save face for the las Czar of Russia in that situation.
As this happens, China and the Quad come to economic agreements for fair competition and equal access outside EEC areas fishing, but full access and rule of law inside each other's countries with all civil rights recognized.  Slowly, the idea that any country would use military against any other country would disappear and people would be able to choose their method of govt without thugs providing .. er 'encouragement.'
Stop Putin's wars. Stop Putin and his armies online and anywhere outside the Russian borders.
Then they existed to "prevent the production of biological weapons". Say what? That is just someone in the CIA poking fun at the intelligence of the general public.
I think Putin pulling the nuclear card scared NATO and the US into not getting directly involved. I fee most of Europe would have put troops  air support into play for this but now it's nuclear holocaust they are afraid of.
Stop Putin's wars. Stop Putin and his armies online and anywhere  outside the Russian borders. The new RussiaIran maybe China empire is setting itself up to look like the worst ever, extreme rightists everywhere pushing for authoritarianism, you're getting your way. And you actually believed NATO was evil, just wait and stop believing the Putin far right wack media. Today's Nazis are Putin's Russian stormtroopers and their online cheerleaders.
one thing history has shown us extreme rightist  ideology  always fails over the long term ,  denialism  isnt an  alternate fact
What ever the outcome, Russia will be cut off from the world and become the new Nth Korea. I wonder if the Russian population are aware of where Putin is taking them.
Yep, Putin is a fascist while the Azov Battalion, Right Sektor, C14 and etc and the state that mandates the army, conscripts and volunteers, take the official Nazi-era pledge of allegiance are democracy loving liberals.....
And why do they keep changing the story? At first they didn't exist and the idea they did was nothing but Russian disinformation. The mainstream media
now with his invasion of a sovereign nation,  the fascism is clearly starting to show.
Russia has been very cool. Just save the people of Donbass and stop American nukes and missiles and soldiers on its border.
How come only Sad Sack Putin gets to set "red lines"? It's time NATO put the Mussolini of Minsk on notice to cease aiding and abetting the aggressor, or else, and give Zelenskiy's forces more fire-power and punishing capability to drone Putin's minions out of Ukraine.
Try telling that to Putin and you'll be disappeared and off-ramped to a Gulag or worse. Seriously though, Biden better not take his eyes off the Belarus ball because the Minsk menace is all too real and may very soon attack its neighbor if Moscow so orders. NATO must be ready to take 'em out pronto if Belorussian troops take that fatal step of crossing the redline Rubicon of the Ukrainian border.
These are not important questions but are only intended to deflect from the truth that Putin invaded Ukraine, which apparently few people know.  There are some 336 biolabs set up in over 30 countries, but the US owes no explanation to the world. What it needs to do is to keep emphasizing is that Putin invaded Ukraine ad nauseum to avoid scrutiny.
A nation can be removed from the UN, theoretically if the UN General Assembly would make a  recommendation of the Security Council. However Russia has a veto. so back to square one.
US military bases can be drastically reduced in Europe, only to provide support for missions outside the region - like the middle east and Africa.
There should be no security council, and if there must be, no nation should have a veto.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Putin  is most certainly a dictator  as youve seen over the past  20yrs,  hes changed the constitution so he can serve for life, Russian elections  are far from free,
geography  isnt the redeeming factory,  its that he was a facist dictator,  see the similarity with Putin?
Putin and his Russian army are cowards. Instead of entering buildings to arrest insurgents, they just blow the whole think up from the safety of their tanks, regardless of civilian casualties and damage.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
This is where NATO is sending weapons for it's proxy war. Putin answered, and sent a message that Russia can hit anywhere in Ukraine at will.
Desperate people  like Putin are like  a drowning  man, they grab everything and eventually take others down with them
