Russia pushes into Ukraine West hits back with sanctions
20220222
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Russia-pushes-into-Ukraine-West-hits-back-with-sanctions
So unless a US president has solved all the domestic problems of the United States first, they shouldnt do any foreign policy stuff?
You can point out whatever you want. No whining, thats like me saying youre a Trump supporter.
Neighbouring ex-soviet countries are simply invaded forced back into line and the dissenters lined up and shot.
MAGA-world is now fully owned by the Russians...and the proof is in the words above from the MAGA-King himself...
Putin witnesses the EU brand of peoples democracy ever shifting east, up to the Russian boarder.
Reading GOP tweets tonight, Republicans need to stop their trump-was-tough-on-Putin nonsense . The world is on the brink of war and youre busy pushing out Putins propaganda? Put down that hammer  sickle and stand with US, not Russia. Youre an embarrassment to Reagans legacy.
Which is exactly what putin wants, thanks for showing your support for putin, yet again!!!
Putin won't stop he is a frightened man, lashing out at his own advisers and government.
Biden and his team was right from the get go. They laid out Putin's entire playbook. Putin is being shown to be the dangerous fraud.
You also said Biden would not become president and his predecessor was doing a great job to get re-elected into office. You been wrong MANY times before.
Uranium One was turned over to the Russians by a former Democrat Secretary of State.
Trump on Putins aggression into eastern Ukraine: "I said, 'This is genius.' Putin declares a big portion of the Ukraine  of Ukraine. Putin declares it as independent. Oh, thats wonderful.  I said, 'How smart is that?"
Kremlin says a dramatic Security Council meeting on Ukraine was recorded in advance, after people realized a minister's watch showed the wrong time
Thank God Biden has enough sense when he correctly said essentially... we can't put American troops in Ukraine and create a situation where American and Russians are shooting each other, because that's a WORLD WAR.
Sanctions - full cutoff of all trade - are what needs to happen to Russia over this action.  Ukraine is a stable democracy that Russia has been trying to destabilize the last decade. Russia is trying to take the mind off internal failures - like the pitiful COVID response - and get eyes looking elsewhere.  Russia Putin couldn't wait for all the Russians moving into Ukraine to take over political offices, then get parts cut off later. Impatient people suck.
Unfortunately for them, all this tyranny hasn't stemmed the precipitous decline in the economic power of those tyrannical regimes but in fact has hastened it. Playing with numbers aside, in terms of the real economy, China is already the 1 economic power by some distance and Russian weapons are far superior.
Then explain this "Former President Donald Trump praised Vladimir Putin in a podcast interview on Tuesday, describing the Russian president's justification for invading Ukraine as "savvy" and "genius."  "I went in yesterday, and there was a television screen, and I said, 'This is genius.' Putin declares a big portion of the Ukraine  of Ukraine  Putin declares it as independent. Oh, that's wonderful," Trump said when asked about the news. "I said, 'How smart is that?'
Russia's state TV is proudly showing off Mike Pompeo's recent commentary, where he said about Putin: Very shrewd. Very capable. I have enormous respect for him.
As Russian tanks roll into Ukraine, Trump says it wouldnt have happened if he were president and criticizes Biden but has no words of criticism for Putin or his actions, instead calling them genius, smart and pretty savvy.
Putin military force, land, sea, and air, the most significate build of armour, armed forces since the second world war.
The Republican Party - can it even call itself that anymore?  When it comes to Russia, It's gone from "barking dog" to "lapdog"...
Ukraine was somewhat prosperous 8 years ago. Not compared to Norway but compared to Romania, Bulgaria, especially Albania and etc. Now it's by far the poorest country in Europe. Even compared to Albania.
You just gave a suggestion and said that it was pointless in the same sentence. Well done, I suppose.
I never did, but if I did, I would gladly say it. What I do support is America and American isolationism. Quote that one for the archives
The manner President Macron was cynically and callously publicly humiliated, a  President Macron devoted to finding a process for de-escalation, a peaceful solution.
Ok on one hand sanctions, blockade, isolation, penalties, etc... This in not Iran, Iraq, or some other small country without power, it is Russia, well armed with nukes and a border right up on western Europe and a stone's throw from the USA.
I think the far right claim that the WEF is the head of the New World Order.
No, Biden is not fixing the mess he made in the US and if hes trying to fix anything then he needs to leave it alone especially when you look at Afghanistan and now the Ukraine.
Thank you Russia. For years the minority people of Donbass have suffered genocide, while the West supplied lethal weapons for Ukrainian militas and military forces to bomb their own citizens.
Good idea. And have Germany and etc hire enough armored guards and trucks to occupy Paris, deliver the cash money to the Russian central bank in Moscow for the oil, gas and etc.
Say what? Is this some alternate reality? There is a very famous siege often referred to, "The 900 days". The fascists fought and failed to enter the city for 900 days.
What he should have done was never get involved in a dispute between Russia, Ukraine and NATO and if Ukraine needed assistance then Biden should have helped to arm them over a year ago
It's definitely quaint watching Americans criticize the other team's media in America, clearly victims of their bubble to not realize that there isn't such a thing as good media anywhere in America!
Wait until people find out how much fertilizer we import from Russia. Food prices, sky high too.
The European Countries and the US know already since many years that he is a high threat to the world piece.
USNATO supports neo-Nazis in Ukraine. Al Qaida in Syria. ISIS in Iraq. Fascist murder squads in Central America. Fascist junta's in South America.
So your example is one that shows the aggression actually paid off for the USSR as it gained even more than it had been demanding.
Putin is an old, senile and full of lies grandfather, whose brain is filled with warmongering madness.
What Nixon realized is that you do not want Russia and China on the same side. The amount of incompetence it took for the US to get Russia and China on the same side is hallucinating.
Biden couldn't protect his front lawn from weeds, he is a senile, fragile old man voted in by reactionary leftists.
I have no doubt in my mind that if Tulsi Gabbard became President none of this would be happening. It was the corporate MSM choice to go with the old fart Biden, now you have to live with it. Childish to bring Trump into this.
So unless a US president has solved all the domestic problems of the United States first, they shouldnt do any foreign policy stuff? That doesnt make much sense.
Russia and China know the game. The US should be reading Romance of the Three Kingdoms  instead of The Art of War.
Not whining, tune in to CNN, theyre whining about one topic and one topic only.
Of course they do, they are leaders of what the far right called, 'the new world order', they are the global masters that rightists used to claim they were opposed to. Both China aka CCP, and the Russian Federation aka Putinistan, know that for them to maintain control over the globe they have to sell their products to friendly states, and it could be with the Eurasian Economic Union and Belt and Road they have their networks in place. Russia and China's state predatory capitalism has outpaced western forms of predatory capitalism. Their approaches have left the Milton Friedman Ayn Ran believers  breathing their exhaust fumes
Ukraine is "prosperous and democratic"........ God have mercy. What has the corporate media done to the brains of these people........
world leaders hit back with non-military actions Tuesday in hopes of averting a full-blown war in Europe.
Putin has calculated that Russia will be able to withstand any sanctions with Chinese help, and that any sanctions will hurt the Western economies more than Russia.
So the main single country with the strength to stand up and get Russia to back down is too divided even on this issue, let alone all the others it's been fed over recent years with the aim of destabilising national national unity.
Once again cheerleading for war, from a safe spot far away. Syria apparently didn't satisfy his need for others to fight wars for them. Those cheerleading for wars have must investments in Russian defense industries, or does their Lord Putin allow them to hold shares in his corporations. War and oil go together, 'til death do we part.
That does take priority particularly when you factor in that the Ukraine is not even a part of NATO.
And remember, if he does it youll then have to say it was a terrible idea and deny you ever supported it, so think carefully.
Youve said continuously that this was a fake war and that The US should stay out of it. Just pretend it isnt happening, seemed to work for you so far.
Sorry I cant resist pointing out that now you are whining about CNN in the same sentence you insist you arent whining.
So the foreign policy decisions of a President DO have an impact on gas prices and Biden DOES have the ability and tools at his disposal!!?? to impact gas prices?  interesting.
You just gave a suggestion and said that it was pointless in the same sentence.
Poor, poor Ukraine. It hasn't done anything to anybody but try to live and exist peacefully and happily, and now this amplified barbaric assault.
And this postermoderator can get away with this language but anyone else will get deleted!
What? Ok, leave the emotion, proof please. Recognizing and supporting an all out invasion are two entirely different things and have different meanings, so where did he say he supported a full on invasion?
So, anyone ask themselves what happens if Russia responds by simply refusing to do business with any country that joins in with the effort to bankrupt it?
I follow a certain persons Twitter account. Someone who claims not to use Twitter but has tweeted literally over 300 times in the past few hours. New app not working?
But let's hope that someone or somehow can convince this old insane man to stop his crazy actions, which can lead the world in a big war.
Ok military intervention, great just what we need a 3rd major war that starts in Europe, especially with Russia, somehow things never end well for those that decide to pick a fight with Russia.
Now the problem is appeasement as in the per WW2 Sudetenland is also a problem as this is again a very well armed nuclear power.
I am not saying it was right, I am not saying what is going on now is right but I am saying if you are going to point out something in History, do it correctly and with the full details.
Or if I'm not right, what exactly are you saying? What course of action do you suggest?
Does anyone here going on about sending troops, over sanctions or others going on about harsher sanctions, etc .. criticising western leaders as if they know something the western leaders don't Actually have a plan, do you people actually know what is best or what will work?
The American right, guided by its chief philosopher, Tucker Carlson of Fox News and the Kremlin's Internet Research Agency, are now fully behind Russia and it's fascist expansionism.
Anyone wants to bet that bass will have the last post before he closes this thread!!!
I guess you didn't open the link - these were Trump's exact words quoted from "Clay Travis and Buck Sexton Show" where he was being interviewed....
Both for Joe Biden and Donald Trump. No reason shy away from the fact, no ignominy in accepting the facts if life.
President Joe Bidenon Tuesday pledged that his administration is using "every tool at our disposal" to limit the effect on gas prices in the US ofsanctions he announced against Russia, acknowledging that Americans will likely see rising prices at the pump in the coming months.
But it is something a lot of people talk about. Why didn't Stalin punish Finland severely? Rumor is that he had a pro-Finnish bias because at one point he escaped the Tsarist secret police hiding out if Finland at which time he first met Lenin.
Oh you mean give them some money to buy arms etc.? Yeah, the US did that, but some Orange Man made it contingent on getting dirt on Biden...
trumps boys cannot stop praising this murderous dictator and yet the right wing bigots whine that President Biden needs to do more!!!
Finland lost the winter war, not only did Finland loose the war, it lost even more territory than Stalin and the Soviet Union was demanding prior to the war, in total Finland lost over 9 of it's territory.
Trump shared Intelligence with Russia, and it was so worrying that even the Israelis stopped sharing secrets with US.
I also have to wonder how much of a chess player he is.  He complains bitterly about NATO moving closer to the Russian border. Does he not realize that both Sweden and Finland have for the past several years been debating whether or not to join NATO.  This could very likely push both nations to do so, and the result would be US and other NATO forces right on the Russian border in Finland.
Biden should have helped to arm them over a year ago and hit Russia with sanctions then, not that it would have done anything significant to the point where the Chinese cant compensate for any losses they incur.
Sanctions sound like a great idea until the other side decides it has had enough and if it is big enough decides to fight back in a more direct way  think pre WW2 Japan and Germany with WW1 war reparations and sanctions.
Better switch back to faux, you might miss out on directions on what to whine about!!!
Putin's rambling speech, his constant twisting and rewriting of past events as far back as the 17th century, combined with the sheer size and strength of the Putin assembled armed services indicates Putin will move against and grab back former soviet states.
So both the "more sanctions" and the "military intervention" sides need to think long and hard, let the people with far greater and more details handle things because one wrong move and you or your children may find yourselves on the front line staring down the barrel of a gun or hiding in a bomb shelter.
Russia has already beaten the West in a game that most didn't even realise they were playing.
In any conflict against any regime even learning left in accordance with the democratic wishes of the population, USNATO sends the attack dogs in.
Expect Russian government to wage a huge social media propaganda war, mis-information, fake news, mass cyber attacks.
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
No, I want to know why Biden would even think he could talk Putin out of taking Ukraine? Especially after Afghanistan that wasnt even up for discussion.
Western corporations and governments have helped create  Russia and China as the globe's ruling empires, and many of the global wealthy have become richer helping them do so. Xi and Putin have also had lots of help from rightist social media trolls aka useful idiots constantly throwing fuel on long burning fires and fanning flames in their attempts to further divide and thereby weaken western democracies. The latest batch of useful I..s have been the "it's my body", freedom moaning herds.
"Trump says it wouldn't have happened if he were president and criticizes Biden but has no words of criticism for Putin or his actions . . . "
No, he absolutely does not, I can show you every transcript from his show where he didnt say that. He specifically asked and legitimately what is in it for the US to stick its neck out for a country that is not even a member of NATO? How will that close the porous border? How will that reduce food prices or gas prices especially? Why did Biden wait so long to implement sanctions? Why is it that this President is so weak in his response to this guy and didnt take a preemptive steps to begin sanctioning Russia a year ago?
In exchange, the U.S., the U.K. and Russia would guarantee Ukraine's security in a 1994 agreement known as the Budapest Memorandum.
Of course they do, they are leaders of what the far right called, 'the new world order',
trump is busy praising his master putin and the loony right wing wants to blame President Biden!!!
I think the main deterrent for Mr. Putin is the possibility the Ukrainians might bleed his forces white.  Back in 1939 Joe Stalin made false claims about the nature of Finland and it's government to justify an invasion, and even staged a fake attack, blowing up a Russian border post and blaming it on the Finns as a pretext to invade Finland. The resulting war didn't work out too well for the Russians.  They got a few tens of kilometers of Finland at the expense of well over 100,000 dead Soviet troops and hundreds of thousands more injured or suffering from frostbite.  The Finns were later able to turn the tables and march into Leningrad.  I'm not sure how much of  a student of history Mr. Putin is but I think his own greatest fear is not so much western sanctions as he fears a steady stream of Russian soldiers coming home in body bags.  His hold on power is too brittle to withstand that.  He has to know that casualties from Afghanistan is a big part of what led to the collapse of the USSR.  A high body count in Ukraine could very well be the end of Mr. Putin.
And still zero evidence of a full-hearted and endorsement support for a full invasion of Ukraine.
The kindergarten playground talk will not stop Putin from making sure that Ukraine never becomes part of NATO
Biden and the Democrats control all the US government what that gonna do about this?
Putin desperation will lead to more recklessness irrational behaviour, a nuclear arsenal at his finger tips
West supplied lethal weapons for Ukrainian militas and military forces to bomb their own citizens.
Not unless they specifically say the words. You would make a bad case as a lawyer if you tried to tie someone to a belief based on a few adjectives. Again, show a quote where any Republican said that they outright support a full on invasion of Ukraine. Try it. You know you absolutely cant.
The fact this post is still on and yet the moderators will suspend you for calling Donald trump donald shows who is moderating today.
You know China won't be joining the US etc, so it's not as if that would cut it off from the global economy, and there are other countries that the hypocrisy of the fine sounding phrases that the US etc are spouting will offend.
This is why Putin hates social media because he can not control the news that comes out like trying to control the tides or crashing waves.
So how is Biden going to get these people out? Them being there if a war breaks out is going to possibly get Americans killed.
Countries that attempt to undermine Russian sanction must be held accountable with additional punitive sanctions.
So the American people need to suffer more so that Biden can appear to have "done something" to support Ukraine.
Perhaps some of our Trump supporters here can explain to us how from the US and the West's perspective, Russia's invasion of their neighbor is "wonderful"?
We dont thats why we are so befuddled that Biden wouldnt even allow himself to be drawn in like this.
No, its just this administration got us now bogged down in a mess that their trying to clear up on aisle 9.
But you put an interesting twist but forgot to put in some very important facts.
Ok, quotes! If its hogwash as you claim, who verbatim said they support an invasion?
But now we get a former Republican President who calls the Russian leader "a genius" and "savvy", and says that a Russian invasion of another sovereign country is "wonderful"....
Western powers have long made clear the fate of Ukraine wasn't worth a direct military confrontation
Not whining, thats for the left, many of us are just asking a legitimate question and Biden is just not answering them, he will not deal with growing and continued problems in America, but hes feverishly rushing to fix the un-fixable in the Ukraine.
Biden issued sanctions and now what? We are taking the defensive approach and now what?
Only one former secretary of state is praising Putin and criticizing Biden in Ukraine crisis
So Biden and Boris Johnson impose sanctions on Russia. Good lord, you cant even convince people to wear masks to save the lives of your own countrymen. What chance do you have of getting people to support any economic pain to help people in a country most have never heard about?  Per NBC news survey 84 of Americans dont know where Ukraine is. Gas prices hurt.
Donald Trump left the build some time back. I doubt he will return age catches up.
What if we dont care about Ukraine and want Biden to focus on defending the stolen freedom in Canada instead? What if we dont care about the Ukraine border and want Biden to focus on the Mexican one?
Is also misleading as it was nazi Germany with the Finland joining it and never actually marched in to be exact the seige was lost by the Nazi and their Finland allies and after the war Finland lost even more and had to pay the USSR reparations.
Again, show a quote where any Republican said that they outright support a full on invasion of Ukraine. Try it. You know you absolutely cant.
Putin already told Europe last week the Russians are one of the top nuclear countries on earth, and if Europe gets drawn into a conflict, it would be all over "in the blink of an eye".
As only makes sense. Biden is destroying their country. Putin is thousands of miles away destroying another country that most Americans couldn't find on a map. The question is: Why would anyone in the US focus hate on someone so far away? Do distract from real problems at home perhaps?
Not one person is supporting Russia. The kindergarten playground talk will not stop Putin from making sure that Ukraine never becomes part of NATO
Also, and I just note this because I like irony, even in the same paragraph that you claim to not be whining, you cant help but start whining again.
Can't?  I already did - so once again - explain how its "wonderful" for Russia to invade Ukraine...
Also, and I just note this because I like irony, even in the same paragraph that you claim to not be whining, you cant help but start whining again
Thousands of nuclear arms had been left on Ukrainian soil by Moscow after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. But in the years that followed, Ukraine made the decision to completely denuclearize.
Responding swiftly to Russian President Vladimir Putin's order sending troops to separatist regions of Ukraine, world leaders hit back with non-military actions Tuesday in hopes of averting a full-blown war in Europe.
If you live in a prosperous  democratic country near one of these powerful dictatorships, be careful!
What else can you call this but naked aggression? Will it be appeasement or will it be war? It's 1938 all over again, and the clock is ticking...
Trump is not the President. As you guys kept telling us. Biden is trying to fix something he is botching up again.
Putin has so poisoned US politics that the Republicans hate Biden more than Putin. Fox News is already attacking Biden for the sanctions.
You've advocated doing nothing because . . . Tucker. Now you're advocating . . . What are you advocating anyway?
Eisenhower stood up to the Russians in Europe, Nixon faced down the Russians in the Middle East, Reagan stood tall and told Gorbachev to "tear down this wall"....
No, Biden is not fixing the mess he made in the US and if hes trying to fix anything then he needs to leave it alone
What he should have done was never get involved in a dispute between Russia, Ukraine and NATO and if Ukraine needed assistance then Biden should have helped to arm them over a year ago and hit Russia with sanctions then, not that it would have done anything significant to the point where the Chinese cant compensate for any losses they incur.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Tucker Carlson also supports Putin's plans. He is fawning over a great interview with Putin.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
"Defending freedom will have costs for us as well, and here at home. We need to be honest about that."
Hogwash. Plenty of the GOP and its supporters are, especially Trump, and if you support them in doing so, you also support Russia.
Sounds exactly like what Trump says at his rallies when he's "backing" a candidate...which in this case, he certainly is...
