Sean Penn visits Ukraine to make documentary on Russian invasion
20220226
https://japantoday.com/category/entertainment/sean-penn-visits-ukraine-to-make-documentary-on-russian-invasion
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Sean Penn is an interesting character. In Val Kilmers book, Kilmer said that he worked with Penn in NYC on stage and he said that Penn was always hanging around Hells Kitchen drinking, fighting and coming to work all bruised up. Kilmer said that Penn, basically, sought out confrontation.
The post added that "Penn demonstrates the kind of courage that many others, including Western politicians, lack."
Kudos to Penn for putting his courage where his big mouth is. This true grit untypical of a Hollywood personality is to be admired. Those on the right who love to carp and criticize Penn's stance vis-a-vis  the bogeymen created by the US government should remember the stinging words of the sage of Mag-a-Lardo: You think our country is so innocent? Thus there are, admittedly, occasions when that Pinocchio of presidents speaks unvarnished truths that have endeared him to millions of disaffected Americans sick and tired of decades of being lied to by bad-faith establishment pols.
Penn's admiration for despots Fidel Castro, Che Gueverra, and Hugo Chavez seems contradictory, doesn't it.
Penn learned a lot from his days hanging out with Bukowski that courage of soul and living your words is a rare thing.
Penn has come a long way since 'Fast Times' and the Madonna days. He went on a documentary trip to Iraq before that stupid war erupted in 2003 and he got sassed about it in the USA. He later volunteered in Haiti, spending over a year there to assist in quake relief and aid. And now this. We need actions from people like him. Stay safe, Sean, and please ensure you return alive.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
Document the atrocities that the fascist government of Ukraine has done to the people of the republics of Donbass for 8 years..
