Ukraine ignores Sievierodonetsk ultimatum urges faster arms deliveries
20220615
https://japantoday.com/category/world/ukraine-ignores-sievierodonetsk-ultimatum-urges-faster-arms-deliveries
The separatists defeated and surrounded the Azov fighters, then the Azov fighters ended up "sheltering with civilians" in a factory claiming that they all need safe passage for humanitarian reasons.
The battle for Sievierodonetsk is over, the separatists have won, just like in Maruipol, a rescue operation for the Azov guys is simply not in the cards.
I see plenty of far leftists also against supporting Ukraine, but these are mostly not Americans, but rather Europeans or others.
Sievierodonetsk, now largely in ruins, has become the focal point of the war. Russia had told Ukrainian forces holed up in a chemical plant there to lay down their arms from Wednesday morning as it fights for control of eastern Ukraine.
Glad to hear that you are intellectually curious enough to seek out a more in-depth assessment than the AP or the Armchair Commissars here:
They prefer to side with Putin, who they have shown outright adoration of for over five years...
Ukraine isn't attacking anyone. They're defending themselves and their families, their lives, their land. If the Moskovites don't like being shot at then they can just go back to russia.
The pattern of Russian interference and destruction is clear as anything, Ukraine is just another target.
Blacklabel - if it didn't have any impact, then the Russians wouldn't be complaining about it.  Why don't you ask a Ukrainian if the aid is helping?
Their endgame as should all of ours be is also to make it as painful for Russia as possible, so that they and others don't see grabbing land, resources, and people as a cakewalk.  IOW, you can try and expand your empire, but it is not going to be cheap, easy, or painless.
Is it any wonder they plotted to stage a coup in the US, overthrow the Constitution, and turn the country into a version of autocratic Russia?
please google Ukraine Right Sector, Azov Batallion, and Ukrainian corruption. And the history of Donbass and Crimerya .
Russia has committed 10,000 war crimes in Ukraine and the number continues to rise. Kremlin has previously gotten away with war crimes in Chechnya, Georgia, Donbas, and Syria and doesn't therefore fear it will now brought to account in Ukraine.
Expect to hear more Kiev nonsense of "brave fighters" holding out in the next week ... They may have courage, but they will be just hiding in a hole waiting for the inevitable surrender.
If they don't put the weapons to good use now, they will be in no position to sell anything when it's all done.
Im sure the USA would be totally cool if it was Russia sending weapons to another country to attack us with, right?
Civilians at Mariupol have a lot to tell how thy were treated as human shields by the regime forces
and yes many left aligned commentators are openly suggesting that this would have never happened under DT.
Their endgame as should all of ours be is also to make it as painful for Russia as possible, so that they and others don't see grabbing land, resources, and people as a cakewalk
And as for "winning", not many would say that includes the deaths of most of their top Generals, their troops mutinying, their tanks death traps, and their vaunted flagship Moskva collecting rust at the Bottom of the Black Sea....
Funny, I tried googling 'Mariupol civilians human shields' and the only hits I got were TASS and less biased news outlets reporting 'Russia claims...' . Not a single word from actual real civilians from Mariupol. Like to share your unbiased sources?
Almost every time US soldiers are sent to basket-case hellholes, they confront an enemy equipped with Ak-47s and RPGs.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
If violent separatist groups occupied government buildings in your country, what would you do? Shrug your shoulders and let them get on with it? Or do all you can to remove the traitors and invaders? By the end of 2017 the OSCE had counted some 30,000 russian individuals in military gear crossing at the checkpoints it was allowed to monitor, in addition to many instances of military convoys crossing into Ukraine on dirt roads away from the official border crossings.
Make no mistake, the suffering in the Donbas was caused by russia and pro-russian traitors, not by ordinary russian-speaking Ukrainians who just want to get on with their lives.
He knew he couldnt defeat the US, but he figured that if he caused enough pain, the US army would leave the Middle East.
Tell this funny story to the population of Donbass, to the thousands of killed, maimed, tortured and disappeared locals, who had to endure 8 horrible years since 2014 of brutal occupation by the Ukroregime forces.
Oh yes, the usual Ukrainian official line, "all was fine before the nasty Russians came".
That would be the far left...have no clue what's so ever on how to deal directly...and yes many left aligned commentators are openly suggesting that this would have never happened under DT.
they want more of our money and more untracked weapons to sell when its all done
And yet the basket-case hellholes using AK-47s keep defeating the US army equipped with "advanced" weapons.
Blacklabel - you don't think that the Ukrainians are using the military aid to fight the Russians?
Blacklabel - if Russia doesn't like the US and others sending aid to Ukraine, they can always call off their war and go tf back home.
U,what is Ukraine endgame,6 month from now Kiev will probably look like Marioupol, Ukraine has shown no interest of attacking inside Russia,Putin is just incompetent of his execution of this war,Kiev is his ultimate goal , Ukraine is just like an elephant to Putin,his goal is to eat  Ukraine,one bite at a time
But the Russians say up to 1,200 civilians may be inside. So, in your assessment, why did those other 1,150 hide there?
Why...its better than being blown up to bits, isnt it?...eventually they will be evacuated , just like the ones in Mariupol were, but everyday this drags on more casualties are piling  is that preferable? .
Ukraine says more than 500 civilians, including 40 children, remain alongside soldiers inside the Azot chemical factory, sheltering from weeks of Russian bombardment. Russian-backed separatists in the area say up to 1,200 civilians may be inside.
Like if when the USA invaded Iraq or Afghanistan and Russia publicly announced 54 billion dollars and advanced weapons would be given to the country the US invaded.
What freedom? They're being taken to moskovite-held areas. If they're treated the same as civilians in Mariupol were treated, they'll be interrogated, beaten and tortured for the entertainment of the moskovite military.
USA would just say oh ok, no problem? I think there would have been more than "complaining"
Ukraine is using the weapons, but what about the remaining unused and untracked weapons when this is over? going straight to the international arms market.
That couldn't happen. Russia doesn't make "advanced weapons." LOL. Also, Russia spent decades arming Iraq and other basket-case countries to the teeth with its weapons as well as teaching its officers Soviet battlefield doctrine.
yeah Im sure the USA would be totally cool if it was Russia sending weapons to another country to attack us with, right?
Why doesnt our western media call the  "disruption " what it is,  the Ukranian side shelled the proposed evacuation route , so obviously no civilians could leave. Little more balanced reporting by "free media " would not go astray.
mrtinjp - oddly enough, most of those who seem against supporting Ukraine or in favor of PutinRussia are on the far right in the US though thankfully not many.
Ending up in some "filtration camp", being interrogated, maybe tortures, definitely humiliated and then sent to some Gulag far away? How sick can one be to even suggest this escape-route?
Yrral - Ukraine's endgame is for as much of its territory and for as many of its people to be free from Russian domination as possible.  Kyiv may end up looking like Mariupol and that would be a shame.  My city is beautiful and I love it, but given a choice between having it be controlled by Russians or Chinese or having it remain free as a pile of rubble, well, that's not a choice at all.  Live free or die.
Thanks for the suggestion, Rodney.  Curious - are your politics more on the left or on the right, would you say?
No they don't. US forces win their battles nearly every time, in Vietnam, Iraq, etc., usually overwhelmingly. Their problem is losing the wars.
The Russians, by contrast, are in the habit of losing battles, especially when the other side is equipped with Western weapons.
Ukrainain are in denial, Ukrainain were partly involve with downing if MH17,will seperatist in Donbas be part of the EU,legally they will because they still part of Ukraine
The far rightists in the US think a Putin victory makes Biden look bad.  The far leftists elsewhere think a Putin victory sticks it to the USNATOthe Westthe Imperium.  Horseshoe politics makes for strange bedfellows!
Moscow said it had opened a humanitarian corridor from Azot on Wednesday to allow civilians to escape to Russian-controlled territory. It accused Ukraine's forces of disrupting that plan and using civilians as human shields, which Kyiv denies."
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
But look at the results, hows it going? Russia controls 20 of Ukraine and the only thing a guy can argue with me about it that they already controlled some unknown part of that 20 before the war started.
Of course it wouldn't have happened under "DT" - he would have sided with his banker Putin, threatened to send US troops to fight alongside the Russians, and Zelensky would have surrendered...
Moscow said it had opened a humanitarian corridor from Azot on Wednesday to allow civilians to escape to Russian-controlled territory.
So that probably means that 50 civilians and 4 children didn't know that hiding in the basement of an industrial plant was a bad idea compared with just moving to relative safety a few miles to the west.
It would also be worth googling about Russian wars and interference in Chechnya, Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Georgia, Artsakh and Transnistria to see the pattern of what they are trying to do. What Rodney mentions is purely what Russia uses as an excuse and pretext to continue their land grab to recreate puppet states. Even Putin and his military have finally started to be more publicly 'honest' about what their true intentions are.
we,re talking about civilians being able to evacuate from the plant. You prefer them being blown to bits for "freedom"?
The locals were subjected to the horrors of war due to the actions of russia. If russia had stayed out, there would have been no military action, no bombings and the pro-russian traitors who didn't want to be Ukrainian could have just gone and lived in russia. Maybe tried taking over some government buildings there, see what joy it would bring them.
U, should Ukrainain respect Ukraine Russian speaking citizen,too speak in the language,they learnth while being part of the Soviet empire,Even Zelensky has a Russia birth certificate,like 75 percent of Ukrainain in Ukraine, denial of this is, denying your existence and welcome Russian speakers as part of the Ukrainian family, Russian are allowed to speak and practice their culture in America
The Donbass people were not separatists and definitely they were not violent before April 2014, when the Kiev illegal coup d'etat plotters like Turchinov started a brutal Ukrainization campaign. And who burned people in Odessa on May 2, 2014, bawling "Heil to Ukraine"? Who filled all media with jokes about "grilled colorados"? Who was violent then? People of Donbass just wanted to defend themselves from these gorillas.
And yet the basketcase hellholes using AK-47s keep defeating the US army equipped with "advanced" weapons.
because they want more of our money and more untracked weapons to sell when its all done.
All people who do not want to live under Banderist yoke are traitors? All hundreds of thousand, even millions of them?
Civilians at Mariupol have a lot to tell how thy were treated as human shields by the regime forces. Enough data for a war crimes trial that hopefully will take place.
NATO must give Ukraine the weapons asked for asap mustand not be remotely willing to discuss any appeasement with Russia. France and Germany need to remember that they are western democracies and show some strength in dealing with Putin.
The most important weapon is determination, that's why the Vietnamese won, the Afghanis won and the East Ukrainian separatists will also win.
