Ukraine opens first war crimes trial of captured Russian
20220514
https://japantoday.com/category/world/ukraine-opens-first-war-crimes-trial-of-captured-russian
The river may or may not have been crossed in any great numbers, after 3 attempts!, but the loss of so many troops, equipment makes it a hollow victory. Then if they did cross the river they have to get their logistics vehicles over it in a continuous flow. A challenge on its own as they dont own the airspace and their logistics are woeful using paved roads.
Shouldn't every single POW in every single war be charged with trespassing, carrying a firearm without a proper license and even attempted murder if they ever fired their weapon.
I feel sorry very sorry for this young man, I was in the military at his age and if was told to shoot by my elders 22 or 23n seasoned soldiers I too ashamedly would probably have done the same. Luckily my elders 2324 had training and a concept of morals. Peer pressure can be overwhelming as a young person. Seems the Russian army is similar to the Lord's Revolutionary Army, use children!
It's all gone very quiet about the supposed capture by the DPR forces of high-ranking foreign military in Azovstal, foreign mercenaries in other areas and two Russian-speaking British SAS chaps, who were busted somewhere they shouldn't have been. The rumours were that they were being taken to Moscow for trial, but seem to have faded recently....
The battle for the Donbas has turned into a village-by-village, back-and-forth slog with no major breakthroughs on either side and little ground gained.
Only way Putin will see justice is by the laws of nature,when he is dead
He said Ukraine was ready to hand the bodies over to Russia, but so far there has been no agreement to do so.
Sorry, Ukraine fans... Watch the full video with analysis and see that this news has been debunked. The river has been crossed and the Russian advance continues.
Is the Geneva convention even in force here, or is it not because Zelensky has not formally declared war against Russia.
The crossing of a single river and destruction of a handful of tanks are both meaningless in the grand scale of things. Look at the map. One team is going forward to its objectives. The other has to result to posting dubiously edited videos of a few destroyed enemy tanks.
Can I google a massacre 80 years before that one to give it some context, so about 160 years ago? How far back are you willing to go?
A show trial. Im curious of the reasoning behind the guard covering his face. Doesnt exactly shout justice does it?
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
The river may or may not have been crossed in any great numbers, after 3 attempts!, but the loss of so many troops, equipment makes it a hollow victory.
It is the hope of myself and 99.9 of people around the world that Putin and his tribe be tried for war crimes against humanity  to place them all in the trash so that we can rid this plant of cancer we call Russia.
Ukraines airborne command released photos and video of what it said was a damaged Russian pontoon bridge over the Siversky Donets River in Bilohorivka and at least 73 destroyed or damaged Russian military vehicles nearby.
I stopped watching Ukraine news for one day, after using TOR, I found videos of what happens to captured Russian soldiers. There is a special place in hell for Azov, Right Sector, Aiden, and the others. And their western backers.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Of course Russia doesnt want the bodies of their own soldiers back. Theyre only so much worthless cannon fodder to them and a liability in their internal propaganda campaign.
cant wait to read about all the corruption from this US proxy war in about 15 years.
Gods he looks like a child. What a damn waste. His life is basically over.
Really? I think you will find that the Russian forces in the Donbas have been slowly moving in one direction... That is forward towards the borders of Donetsk and Luhansk.
The two captured in Mariupol? In Ukraine, defending Ukraine, at Ukraines invitation, and they were busted somewhere they shouldnt have been? The only people who shouldnt be there are the Russian invaders.
