Ukraine says Russia stepping up shelling of residential areas
20220306
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Russian-attacks-halt-plans-to-evacuate-Ukrainian-civilians
This is nowhere similar to the situation to WW2 where Germany was undoubtedly the largest military power in Europe, and there was no alliance in place that would have drawn the US into the war immediately. The US took 2 years to get pulled into the war and that was the doing of the Japanese, and not the Germans.
to avoid dragging the entire world into World War 3, yes it should be considered as a short term solution to end the conflict and deaths.
That's not happening as long as there is inequality in the world. Otherwise all people will just go to the most well off place, and that place would collapse socially.
I can appreciate your principled pacifist stance, even if I don't agree with it.  It sounds like the Ukrainians aren't going to take their chances that an occupying force will allow them to vote their way back to freedom.  Maybe they are more familiar with Putin that you or I are?
Here you can see how evil the Russians are, and what is the real intention of the insane Putin and his mass murderer Mob.
The Little Fuhrer is paying blood money for Russian corpses. In his televised speech, the evil  told Russians that he would pay families of the dead $62,668 for each dead family member. At this rate, Putin will bankrupt Russia paying blood money for the bodies of the dead.
I think the entire world now understands that the "Peace through strength" policy was very effective.
That event is a primary reason we see anti Russian language, anti ethnic Russian actions giving the breakaway regions a form of justification for their breaking away.
His only way to respond is through heavy bombardments, destroying the towns and cities of Ukraine, guaranteeing hatred and resolve from the population, and a certainty that Putin will never peacefully integrate Ukraine.
Putin needs removal or this will happen again and again. Once he knows he can get away with it once it will lead to a second and third until he is opposed. Putin is using Hitlers playbook. Negotiations did not work. Force worked. Not happy about it but I learned from history. Has anyone else?
The classic 'other-guy' line from a thug caught doing a crime. Someone else did it, Russia has long done the same thing in Syria, and Putin's media pushed the other-guy defense there, too. At this point Putin claiming his invasion can be stopped with some form of i'f', might be believed by those as insane as he has shown to be.
This level of propaganda is like the old days of the Soviet Union, where black can be white.
Antiquesaving, don't pay much attention to the headertitle below, the piece presents a step by step series of events that could be at least partially responsible for this devastating war.
How can one compromise with someone who denies their right to exist?   How would one even open up those negotiations?
Call his bluff. Set up a no fly region and let him make the next move. Putin is a coward and will not want missiles fired at him or his family. He will bluster and then allow it. If he doesnt then the war widens. There is a good chance of that happening when Poland sends MiG 29's to Ukraine.
And why aren't they attacking the "stalled" sitting duck convoy of Russians on Kiev's doorstep?
Yeah, not today. It is more likely they are deeply ashamed of their nation killing their close neighbors and removing their freedom based on nothing but lies and Russia being condemned by almost the entire planet. Also they will be sad for their lost sons wasted on one mans hubris.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says eight rockets hit a civilian airport in Vinnytsia, central Ukraine.
Except it worked in hundreds of other all over Europe in WW2 especially as the allied advanced!
Biden hates the U.S. it's obvious by his actions toward energy independence, Afghanistan, Ukraine, border controls, inflation, taxes.............goes on and on and on.
Ok enough is enough Mr. Putin. It was a long stretch just to take the eastern regions you declared as independent. I could somewhat get that you were trying to get NATO out of your backyard or that you were trying to defend ethnic Russians from the oppression of the Ukrainian government not innocent in this matter. A farce as that was, there is absolutely positively no valid or imaginary justification going beyond the point of the eastern regions. Even that was rather ridiculous, but I tried to see both sides. However, I just cant chalk this continued military advance up to Russian security defense interests any longer. Youre getting greedy, and as with most aggressors in history, I feel this is the fatal mistake of your reign.
Putin, NATO, AND the Ukrainian government all had a hand in bringing this to where it is. Its a bloody travesty, and the common folk are paying the price for a few that refuse to compromise for the sake of the masses. Its pathetic really. In this day and age, leaders that are too bloody stubborn or greedy to do the right thing for their nation.
No. If someone is invading your home, they are threatening your family and your future's existence. Either you die, or they do. No in between.
British military officials compared Russias tactics to those Moscow used in Chechnya and Syria, where surrounded cities were pulverized by airstrikes and artillery.
But what I think you mean is the Army prefers dead civilians over losing land.
This is exactly what Russia did in Chechnya and Syria. They will scare off the population eventually with indiscriminate shelling, then send in their military to more or less demolish the cities. We are paying the price for letting them get away with it time after time.
"airplanes...give us...money where is the money? No-fly zone pls ...we need to recruit terrorists from abroad please come and die for us"
Putin does not want a nuclear conflict any more than NATO. His words are a bluff. Any Nuclear war means an end to Russia and most of Europe and North America.
Hey geniuses, nearly everyone has agreed that Putin is off his rocker so why is anyone surprised?
It looks like the endgame is to carve out a Russian side in the east and a Ukrainian side in the west.
Putin is now fully insane. A paranoid madman who is scared of his own shadow in the Kremlin as he knows there's more and more of his people ready to topple him. Someone needs to put a bullet in his brain. I hope they do it soon.
Tanks and troops are still widely deployed to flatten the city and kill the citizens.  So..
All they could do so far is protest and sanction. What a joke NATO is.They always need the US to come to their aid and want them to send the weapons and military gear too. US is also their biggest contributor of funds a damn waste of money if you ask me.
About 20-30 of the Ukraine population are pro Russia.... you wouldn't believe that watching TV news. Draw a line across the south and east... actually, a line that will be the new Russian border when all is finished. Odessa will be a Russian port.
Around the world, people will celebrate the death of Putin the way they celebrated the death of Hitler.
Which or what is it Ukraine is beating Russia? civilians are armed? Unarmed civilians are being killed? Russia has cities under seige? Etc...
It is bad journalism to just accept something comming out of the mouth of one side and not make at least some attempt to clarify if it is true. Zelensky and his war-escalating talk on a daily bases it getting realy tired. There are plenty of journalist all over ukraine and they have a duty to be impartial and truthful.
I am very surprised they did this, and probably the one place the world could rely on to hold talks and mediate between parties cannot be relied on any more.
The Ukrainian government is making propaganda points by showing how they are arming civilians the hold up in major cities and go " how can the Russians fire in civilians".
You should take to the streets! You should fight! he said Saturday on Ukrainian television. It is necessary to go out and drive this evil out of our cities, from our land.
Nothing justifies war, but you still need to avoid giving crazy people like Putin the fuel he needs.
I think you watch too many Hollywood shows. How about sending the team of Jason Bourne AND Jack Bauer to Moscow?
By pandering to this hard line nationalist section of its population and by passing more and more regulations and laws that affect ethnic Russians, it was only time before things blew up.
That photo of two dead bodies , Ukrainians lying at the foot of a WW2 memorial to soldiers of the Russian Red Army who liberated their country from the barbaric occupation of the Nazis is so sadly ironic, symbolizing how history repeats itself as bloody farce. And what we have seen so far is just the "First Act" in this latest tragedy of war: the worst is surely yet to come. That one cruel man and a small cabal of henchmen can inflict such shocking violence on a civilian population, destroying families and their lives and causing so much suffering for so many should be a wake -up call for a new international order that will outlaw war for good and punish ALL leaders responsible for wars of aggression with imprisonment in perpetuity.
It could be civilians as they say, but it's also very possible that this is a soldier with a suitcase in seemingly very good condition placed next to it for propaganda reasons.
US and NATO should just invade Eastern Ukraine and call it military operations so Russia cant move forward anymore.
Wow you are so desperate to get back into the military and into a fight that you are ready to gamble with the lives of everyone else.
In WW2 some devastation of certain cities was avoided by the military evacuating the city proper and declaring them "open cities" in this way the 2 armies fight elsewhere in a less populated area.
One day, a world without borders and passports. Internation citizens are free to travel and live where they want. No more wars. No nukes
There's a much bigger picture unfolding of a hidden agenda by the west and it has absolutely nothing to do with Ukrainian sovereignty.
Maybe because the occupying German forces weren't as interested in dying in a foreign city?  Someone whose homeland is being invaded will usually fight harder than an invading occupier.  You would fight harder for your own city than for someone else's, wouldn't you?
Putin could and very likely would launch a tactical nuclear weapon on Kyiv and not on the US or Western Europe. Even 1 would be enough.
What an absolute senseless waste of life. Captured Russian soldiers repeatedly keep revealing their horror that they were seemingly tricked. Let's hope the Russian Military STOPS. Then finds Putin.
 ethnic Russians, Poles, and Jews that are hostile to us are to be destroyed in struggle, particularly those opposing the regime, by means of: deporting them to their own lands, eradicating their intelligentsia, which is not to be admitted to any governmental positions, and overall preventing any creation of this intelligentsia e.g. access to education etc... Jews are to be isolated, removed from governmental positions in order to prevent sabotage... Those who are deemed necessary may only work under strict supervision and removed from their positions for slightest misconduct... Jewish assimilation is not possible.
I don't know their thinking but especially since the 2014 the Ukrainians have done everything to make it harder for the breakaway regions to return.
I have said there is no justification for this invasion. Let me be very clear on that.
The inevitable is coming, Time for the U.S. to start embarrassing the Russian military, Couple of dog fights in the sky should do it. The U.S. can finish this mess we call Putin's Russia in a few short days.
What's going to happen if they don't pay default?. The West will stop buying US oil? I highly doubt it. Apple will stop selling overpriced iPhones? They already did.
I disagree that we shouldn't be showing the casualties of war.  The world needs to see what happens when one country invades another.
I don't think, at this moment of an entity, without a overriding domestic political strategic self-interest.
Putin is not smart. He is a KGB-trained thug. Stalin killed millions of his own people. Was he smart too?
In more important news that is coming from both sides the US has offered Poland and Romania to replace any planes they give to Ukraine. The russians have said that this implicates these countries in the war. Therefore if Poland and Romania were to hand over planes for Ukranians to fly they would be entering the war. Thank you US for the gesture and lets hope that Putin does not over-react!
Ukraine doctor telling journalists to continue filming their efforts in vain to save a grieving mothers dying girl: Keep filming and show this to Putin.
So the reason none of the European nations willing to send war planes is because they fear they won't have enough for themselves and want US to promise to compensate them with f16. Waw, so much much for unity. The fact that they aren't even willing give up a few  of the air force is just sad. How about the ones who are further away from the conflict, i doubt they would miss their planes if they give 10-20 of them up.
May work for a few decades then the normal European "we want revenge" thing will pop back up and back to war.
The russians do tend to have massive military and civilian casualties though. I wonder if Putin has factored that in.
Bass - I don't often upvote your posts, but your position on Ukraine shows that when it really comes down to the big issues, most rational and humane people thing alike.
A better compromise would be supplying Ukraine with more Turkish Bayraktar TB2 drones, which they already have and use.
I no longer know what to believe, I know not to trust Russian news but it seems clear western media doesn't seem any better.
Putin is pretty much done. He can never recover from this. Even if he stopped the invasion, apologized, gave billions in restitution, went to the UN on his knees and begged for forgiveness, it wouldnt matter. He did what no leader of any country should ever do. Hes a pariah, a lone wolf and exiled from the world community. Without China, he has nothing, absolutely nothing. Hope he thinks all the world condemnation was worth it. I wouldnt want to be in his shoes.
I think the poorer Russia becomes through sanctions the more Putin will push, and the more countries he will demolish in his redrawing of the map.
A taste of the the HELL Syrian's Chechens, Georgian's, Crimean's endured in the past 15 years , while the world  so called super powers made business deals and had dinners with Putin.
This is the most passive the U.S. has ever been in my lifetime. Do you honestly think Putin is building Hypersonic missiles to conquer Ukraine? Taiwan is not a part of NATO, will NATO defend Taiwan if China tries to take it? What about South Korea? Wake up, there is something much bigger going on here.
As he has often done, Putin blamed Ukraine for the war, telling Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday that Kyiv needed to stop all hostilities and fulfill the well-known demands of Russia."
Also remember the guardian is not a member of IPSO as it is charity run some say it has a billion pounds hidden away and has had the cat-lady telling lies that is what a judge has said for years.
It's going to take a large group of courageous people inside the Kremlin to remove Putin and all his enablers.
To end this war, will require a complete review of the current east west security infrastructure, that would need an onsite inspection programme, and include nuclear capabilities.
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
Not much to go on. The risk to Russia right now is nil cities attacked. Nil civilians killed and the war confined to another nation. Expand that at all and Russia gets bombed and cities destroyed and civilians killed.
Handing out Ak-47s to grannies and school kids and teaching them how to make molotovs?
I respect their bravery but they are not trained soldiers and iam concerned too many civilians will perish .
The longer Zelensky refuses to negotiate and sticks with his strategy of handing out AK-47s to civilians willy nilly the smaller and weaker the western side will be.
That's what the Russians did in Syria and before that Chechnya. Unlike the Americans, the Russian war doctrine does not favor street fighting by their army or marines equivalent where they will probably meet with fierce resistance. Instead they will flatten cities by massive air strikes and bombing to flush out opposition and demoralize citizens.
President Putin promisedpledged to anyone prepared to listen the so called invasion was a concocted fairy story.
Honestly they are both off there rocker at this point Suri Putin more than the rest but common, if I put my troops in the middle of a city is the opposition just going to go " oh let's just go around" ? Leaving a fully armed group behind them?
But I have pointed out things done and said that have been wrong and that gave Putin the fuel he needed.
This war in Ukraine seems to be more of the face-to-face old-style combat type, rather than a brand-new hi-tech war in space.
Mad Vlad has a history of agreeing to a ceasefire and then firing on the poor folks who were hoping to reach safety.
Well, what has Vlad the Bad killed or destroyed needlessly today. Just the same ol thing, raining death down upon mothers, children and elderly people. Oh, and for dessert, level a number of childrens hospitals, schools, houses and apartment buildings. Russia must be so proud of itself. Hey, China! Are you watching your friend and ally?
Putin launched his invasion with a string of false accusations against Kyiv, including that it is led by neo-Nazis intent on undermining Russia with the development of nuclear weapons.
Russia wants war with Ukraine who they can defeat militarily.  Taking on 30 plus nations is a war they cant win. The best they can hope for is mutual destruction or an assassination attempt on Putin to end this madness.
I can not believe that there are still people out there who support and defend this madman Putin and what he is doing.
If so that makes them "legitimate" targets. But what I think you mean is the Army prefers dead civilians over losing land.
Direct conflict is inevitable, Shut down Russia now or pay a much bigger price later.
Bronco, I don't think Ukraine is interested in accepting this offer any more than your country would accept a similar "offer" from Putin.
The inevitable is coming, Time for the U.S. to start embarrassing the Russian military, Couple of dog fights in the sky should do it. The U.S. can finish this mess we call Putin's Russia in a few short days. It will be a horror story, but it's already a horror story. all the pundits are saying WWIII could start at any time. Hate to break it to those folks, but WWIII started with the pandemic, the war is just an extension of that.
Yes, now that Switzerland, which was neutral for probably 1000 years and avoided all wars decided this is the war they will take a side on.
Notice how the only two groups of people pushing for Ukraine to give up are Russia, and right-wing Americans?
This was what cause WW1 and WW2. And may end up causing ww3 because the Europeans cannot let the past go with revenge.
So are you saying the civilians are part of the opposition to Russian military and combatants?
We sit peacefully in our corner of the world, then the Europeans digging up some long simmering hatred of another country or another ethnic group that once maligned them decides it's time to go to war and boom somehow my country gets dragged into it again.
No! Its because Ukraine has asked for Russian warplanes as that is what the Ukrainian pilots are used to flying, and have trained for war in. But, many of the NATO former USSR countries that still have them, have them serviced by a Russian service team in an old agreement. Maintaining a bunch of old Mig 29s without replacement parts, or a proper service team during a war wont last long.
Russians must die. When Ukraine has kicked them out, they shouldn't stop, they should go in and burn down the Kremlin. After you've murdered the home invaders, you find out where their posse is, and take out the leader.
No I do not believe the majority of ukrainians follow this but the fact that they allow these people and have since 2014 to have a prominent place in their government and their society without any pushback is a sad situation.
Well if "full blown negotiation" was ever going to work it was before the invasion. There is now zero chance of that in the real world. Putin wants Ukraine's surrender, disarming and never a NATO member. Ukraine wants Russia gone and eventual NATO membership to stop any future occurrence of this.
Its just a matter of time before justice reaches Putin. It may not be now and we dont know when, but Putin is on a time clock and Karma has a way of getting back at those that cased harm and suffering to others.
Ukraine: We will not be asking to join NATO. We will not allow NATO troops or weapons to be based in our country. We will eliminate the Neo-Nazi elements in our military. We will provide documents to the world about foreign money launderinginfluence buying and corruption. If areas of our country are pro-Russia, they can join Russia if they choose. any pro-Russians can move there and live under Russian rule and any Ukranians can leave and come to Ukraine.
The West, for some inexplicable reasoning thought that Russian under the stewardship of Boris Yeltsin would magically democratise.
- : I disagree that we shouldn't be showing the casualties of war. The world needs to see what happens when one country invades another.
Neither of us is there, but does this not depend on which media you listen to? It seems to be the shelling of Dombas is done by the Ukrainian side, especially the Azov battallion. Did they not kill 14,000 Dombas civiliians until now, count running?
We will continue to support Ukraine in other ways because they are not the aggressor.  If the roles were reversed and Ukraine had invaded Russia unprovoked, then I would be rooting for Russia.
Putin's military commanders are a disgrace, as are his troops. But reasonable people around the world might believe the madman when he brings his killing machines back into Russian territory, and Ukraine is a sovereign nation so nowhere in Ukraine is there any Russian territory.  The blood is on your hands, Putin and your murderous military troops, and And yes, I am well aware the US has done hideous things, too. Sick that so many anti-west, anti-democracy Putin followers cannot recognize the Ukraine invasion is a horror, can only continue their 'it's the media that's the problem'. Talk about being brainwashed.
That is true, and Russia pov is entirely reasonable. Remember how Kennedy reacted to SU missiles in Cuba? This is the Cuba crisis all over, only the paradigm has changed. Suddenly it is supposed to be OK to roll up right to the other supoerpowers nose with nuclear weapons.
Its true. You can hate Putin and the world does, but you have to be smart to get to where he is at regardless of how you obtain if, you cant be a dumb person to achieve what he has and what he has become. So it is savvy, crude and ruthless nonetheless. Thats just a fact.
As he has often done, Putin blamed Ukraine for the war, telling Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday that Kyiv needed to stop all hostilities and fulfill the well-known demands of Russia
This is happening because we are ignoring fact over profits. Fact Putin has chosen a scorched earth policy because Ukraine is not surrendering, and the west continues sanctions, that do little but say a lot, which inflicts a backlash for his constituents and creates a negative image for him. So in order to save face he's truly taken the tyrannical road. We will all pay in some way, be it for inaction, indecisiveness, miscalculation, or just flat fear, and cowardliness. God help us all.
I wonder if they thought " well if we make it uncomfortable and unwelcoming the Russians will just leave and move to Russia".
As long Putin has access to his Nuclear Arsenal, there is nothing we can do about him from the outside.
I don't understand the thinking, why evacuate tenhundreds of thousands of civilians? Live them there get the military to leave elsewhere outside the city.
Are you saying we should have access to all information and most importantly, lessons are best learned from looking at history UChosePoorly 9:52am ?:
The Ukraine president asking the civilians to take to the streets and fight the Russia army is not wise advice.
Probably not if he destroys his own country and economy doing it. Smart men do not invade kill and destroy.
You give Putin too much credit. Even if he wanted to, he could not invade NATO countries. He has a not enough resources, b he knows Russia would be destroyed if not by nuclear weapons, but by conventional NATO forces.
Sorry but this is nonsense...you,re arguing to end the bloodshed in Ukraine by creating a worldwide conflict and exponentially increase the casualties. This needs to be solved by mutual negotiation as soon as possible, not by dragging other countries into a full blown war risking millions of dead injured.
So in theory that's true they may have verbally told Russia this but it's not in writing.
Well if "full blown negotiation" was ever going to work it was before the invasion. There is now zero chance of that in the real world. Putin wants Ukraine's surrender, disarming and never a NATO member. Ukraine wants Russia gone and eventual NATO membership
Says the mad dictator who is the one invading.  If someone invades or attacks me in my home, I have every right to defend myself, just as the Ukrainians have every right to defend their homeland.
On the overhead shot there is what appears to be plastic bag on the bottom right under the hand of the body
Putin cannot win this. He has about three weeks of fighting at most in terms of his military power and the Russian economy is going to implode. Putin is isolated around the world and I for one am happy to know that Putin will not get what he wants.
But at this point anyone surprised by the cruelty, devastating and stupidity of war has not lived in reality long.
So, no, you can talk about it all your want in your "international" ultra-liberal academic settings, but it's simply not happening.
The lives of Ukraine are already being gambled with and the West has its fingers crossed it wont expand.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
That's very unlikely to happen without concessions on all sides Russia, Ukraine, NATO, so it's a red herring.
Can you imagine the outrage if people showed up the world war II German swastika flags? But the UPA red and black flag is the exact same thing. But not only is it not condemned but legitimate news organizations like BBC and CBC have even tried to whitewash it to justify it being there how why read that platform again and tell me these are people we should trust.
So the reason none of the European nations willing to send war planes is because they fear they won't have enough for themselves and want US to promise to compensate them with f16.
I can certainly understand why Russia would want Ukraine to give up, but why would right-wing Americans be pushing for this?
This needs to be solved by mutual negotiation as soon as possible, not by dragging other countries into a full blown war risking millions of dead injured.
One of the most interesting sections is scroll down Not one inch eastward  and what it really meant
There can be no green corridors because only the sick brain of the Russians decides when to start shooting and at whom
Let me remind you that part of the problem is that percentage of  present day Ukrainians still wanting revenge on Russians, who they blame for the famine of the 1930s.
The saving grace is Russia has proven logistically they can't more than 90 miles away from their existing bases because Molotov cocktails are extremely effective against fuel trucks. They will eventually resolve it and things will get much worse.
Or encourage the posse to take out their own leader, in return for their own lives
Send in the fighter jets to make it a no fly zone. if Putin shots at them you shoot at Russian forces in Ukraine.
The invasion of Ukraine by Russia is fake news. The Ukrainian forces a Russian movie production. The bodies are props. The humanitarian convoy is only responding to Ukrainian aggression. It is all Zelensky filming a sequel to the movie that got him into office...
Cognac - you are conveniently blurring lines here. The Russians were attacking te Free Syrian Army that came out if the Arab Spring and which was a threat to Assad's fascist dictatorship and Russia's influence. The Russians indiscriminately bombed Syrian towns which were not ISIS held or supported, but just wanted to be done with Assad.
And we all have to stand together to protect our world and bring down the evil that are trying to destroy it!
If it means my family doesn't die, yes, absolutely. I'd concede, than try to change the situation via diplomatic and non-violent means.
Russia wants war with Ukraine who they can defeat militarily. Taking on 30 plus nations is a war they cant win. The best they can hope for is mutual destruction or an assassination attempt on Putin to end this madness".
First we have reports of Russia invading and taking over large parts of Ukraine, next Ukraine parades Russian prisoners claiming killing thousands of them claiming that they're demoralized and running away, then following that call for no fly zone and NATO help because Ukraine is being pushed back, then Ukraine claims it is arming its civilians volunteers to defendant cities, then Ukraine says it needs a ceasefire to evacuate those cities, then Ukraine says Russia violated the ceasefire, and now Ukraine claims it is again decimating Russian forces that are fully demoralized.
Russian President Vladimir Putin turned the blame for the war back on Ukraine and said Moscow's invasion could be halted only if Kyiv ceases hostilities.
So one could say Putin never put what he said down in writing or made any promises in writing so therefore it's just as valid.
It also shows more clearly that those members of this forum who are still supporting Putin for what they are and what has been long suspected - Russian troll farm agents or genuine paid up fascists.
Sure, civilians shooting at Russia are part of the opposition and would be considered legitimate military targets.  Civilian families fleeing from a city with suitcases in tow are not.
I will acknowledge and agree with everything you just pointed out and you are right nothing Putin says can be trusted.
The above must be what the anti-democracy key board warriors call 'fake news', because according to them it's the UKUSNATO and the west, that are war criminals, not their favorite authoritarian state. And of course Biden is bad, because he's a warmonger, not their Putin, Putin is just a savvy businessman according to one flailing and failing American politician.
In context the UK has left the EU so the increase may be connected to that. It maybe that the UK and France have changed who they umbrella and it takes time to move subs around the world so stock-rotation becomes an issue. First increase is 70 years makes it similar to cheescake in Osaka.
There's only one person keeping this war going, and that's Putin. And the only way he is going to stop is when one of his own takes him out of power.
reading finally an intelligent comment gives me positive feelings, this article is the typical western propaganda : title, Putin is bombing everywhere, picture, two dead bodies with a suite case near to them, result for people not using their brain : damn Putin is the new AH bombing and killing everyone without merci !!!!!!1111
And yet, he doesn't and can't provide any evidence of his claims.  He is using well-known propaganda to cover up his real agenda of expanding Russia's territory by forcefully taking Ukraine away from its people.  He wants to use that land as a buffer against NATO.
You are getting emotional. Leave it, it wont help you in a debate. We all hate the man! In order to become a dictator and to control millions or even a country you need to understand and read people, be shrewd and ruthless, but also kind and cunning. You can never reach the level that these people reached if youre an imbecile or idiot. Acknowledging that these people were smart doesnt mean that you like or praise them, but most of these people started at the very bottom and now they control an entire country and want to swallow more. Putin outsmarted the US and NATO, thats not a praise at all, quite the opposite and they all fell for it and here we are. Hes calling the shots and the rest of the world is pretty much at the crossroads. So yeah, hes smart.
For that to happen people  often Europeans need to be willing to leave the past behind.
The devil is smart? Putin destroyed the new democracy of Russia which had a bright future with better living standards and turned himself into a dictator killing off all of his opposition. Is that smart?
Yes in theory the enemy goes in but the enemy army is not interested in dealing with caring for civilians so like in WW2 they chase after the opposing army leaving the civilians alone for the most part.
Russia leave Ukraine! and leave other nearby nations alone. The USSR died long ago, Putin's attempting to make it a zombie state, and take his Russian people, modern day serfs, obeying their master down with him, but I doubt he will allow any of them to even enter one of his palaces.
Possibly, but the human brain of  will have each one of us believe only what we want to believe, a fact that makes possible lies, selfdeception and disinformation ultimately helping to create a technology-based propaganda paradise for the powerful to control the minds of multitudes. Only an individual's intelligence, knowledge and ability to discriminate between the wheat and the chaff, the fake and the real, can provide the intellectual self-defense to protect us from those malignant folk who would gaslight us into obedience and submission. This is the dilemma facing the Russian people whose freedoms are being threatened as never before by Putin's propaganda machine.
Then we have Ukraine it plays the victim and for the most part it is but at the same time in all their rallies we forgive the fact that there are always those carrying the red and black UPAOUN flag and it seems that the Ukrainian leaders as well as leaders all around the world seem quite fine and ignoring them.
In WW2 the US civilian casualties amounted to 5,000. The Russians 1 million. I think both sides will be happy to leave Ukraine and subequently Poland and Romania to take the hit.
This in No way justifies Putin's invasion but sadly it did provide him with a bit of his craziness so-called justifications.
As for my homeland, each time we end up in war it has always been by being dragged in by mostly Europe that can't seem to stop fighting.
My country, your country, their country....doesn't exist in times with nuclear weapons and a threat that one insane madman are ready to use them.
Maybe the word force is a bit strong but as it stands products from the UK can not enter N.Ireland without being processed as imports to the EU. The EU has added lots of caveats and is not acting in the manner the agreement was expected. Yes it could be considered a mild border issue to outsiders but considering the history of the troubles and how it was resolved it is a heavy nudge in the wrong direction and the EU are playing with the conflict peoples lives to gain economic advantage.
Actually the anti Ukraine lobby is what is amazing. No mention of the Donbas terrorists bombing ukraine, causeing internal refugees who had to leave and live in temporary housing elsewhere in the Ukraine. No mention of the death they have caused at all.
On the wide shot the same plastic bag appears to be partially under a suitcase
Putin, NATO, AND the Ukrainian government all had a hand in bringing this to where it is. Its a bloody travesty, and the common folk are paying the price for a few that refuse to compromise for the sake of the masses.
Did the photographer who took the overhead shot move the suitcase away, or was the suitcase placed there later for the wide shot, e.g. is this body really a person civilian with a suitcase or is it perhaps a soldier?
Maybe, but that's for the Ukrainians to decide, not us.  Right now, they don't seem to be in a very conceding mood.  Would you concede any part of your homeland to an invader?
Maybe, but that's for the Ukrainians to decide, not us. Right now, they don't seem to be in a very conceding mood. Would you concede any part of your homeland to an invader?
But he had enough time to insulate himself from the world and had enough time to amass his fortunes and now that he had China as an ally as well as in Iran he has put himself in many ways into a safe position. So that is on his part a very smart move.
Putin has crossed a line - he's murdering civilians trying to escape from a hell he created. Clearly, the sanctions imposed on Russia are not enough of a motive to get him to cease and desist. NATO and the rest of the international community needs to take harsher action at this point.
Ukraine: We will not be asking to join NATO. We will not allow NATO troops or weapons to be based in our country. We will eliminate the Neo-Nazi elements in our military. We will provide documents to the world about foreign money launderinginfluence buying and corruption. If areas of our country are pro-Russia, they can join Russia if they choose.  any pro-Russians can move there and live under Russian rule and any Ukranians can leave and come to Ukraine.
He wants to destroy the Ukraine, and to reach his insane Goal, he is killing innocent men, women and children and draw the Ukrainians and also probably the rest of the world in a never seen sorrow and pain.
True, but the "enemy within" is the one most feared by all government rulers. The great Russian government scam called "the Soviet Union" simply imploded and most people in the world now fervently hope that Putin's hubris may vouchsafe him a similar fate.
it has been a very rare thing that any invading army has "taken down Russia".
Or encourage the posse to take out their own leader, in return for their own lives.
We must stop these criminals murderers now!! China must pay massive consequences too for supporting this genocide! Unfortunately things are gonna get much worse as the man is now completely insane and out of control! We must be prepared for an horrific escalation where anything could be happening! Stay strong everyone!
I have attended several international conferences over the years on the topic of a borderless world.
The West argues that NATO never actually promised in writing it would not expand Eastward.
Putin will pay dearly for what he forced his army to do. WAR CRIMINAL! You can be assured he will pay Russia will pay.
The EU has freedom of movement for its citizens. Why haven't Germany or France collapsed?
Its very innapropriate, gruesome and not necessary to post photos of dead bloodied civilians on the public news.
The Jews in the USSR constitute the most faithful support of the ruling Bolshevik regime, and the vanguard of Muscovite imperialism in Ukraine. The Muscovite-Bolshevik government exploits the anti-Jewish sentiments of the Ukrainian masses to divert their attention from the true cause of their misfortune and to channel them in a time of frustration into pogroms on Jews. The OUN combats the Jews as the prop of the Muscovite-Bolshevik regime and simultaneously it renders the masses conscious of the fact that the principal foe is Moscow.
However this is massively off-topic and I did not want to go into detail but to make a comparison regarding long-term-triggers that made putin invade.
Maybe because the occupying German forces weren't as interested in dying in a foreign city? Someone whose homeland is being invaded will usually fight harder than an invading occupier. You would fight harder for your own city than for someone else's, wouldn't you?
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
I don't know what conclusions to draw, but why would you alter the scene one way or the other?
Super correct! Also don't forget the BRICKs which still want to be neutral especially India. Their population exceeded China and need to take more responsibility. And other Asian countries except for SK, Japan, Singapore cannot keep silence. Latin America is as well. The whole world is condemning Russia. We need to sanction them who didn't follow our value. Boycott Shell!  They purchased a lot of oil from Russia! God bless Ukraine people!
No but avalanche of accounts spamming propaganda wont divert from it. The only people supporting this war are supporters of putin and bored contrarians. All a decreasing minority.
Would the US and the UK launch nuclear weapons in response on Russia? Possibly, but it's absolutely not a given. It may be a gamble Putin would take. Do we want to find out?
There are plenty to people in the Eastern side who consider the current government to be illegitimate and are happy to see Russian forces coming in.
As concerning, as military analysts are reviewing threats made by President Putin in 2016 to Rumania and Poland over a missile defence shield necessary to counter threats from Iran ballistic missile programme
Send in the fighter jets to make it a no fly zone. if Putin shots at them you shoot at Russian forces in Ukraine
Ukraine since independence from the USSR has regularly tried to make heros out of war criminals, it permits the UPA flag, it made Stepan Bandera a national hero, revoking it when certain countries objected especially on in the middle East.
There is a news item about Syria today on this very same website, about IS in Syria. Go there and comment.
No not perfect not 100 guaranteed but holding up in a city full of civilians is 100 guaranteed to results in far more deaths.
You might be hearing this on your TV in Moscow, but in the real world we have access to a wide range of news sources and have a much better picture of what's going on, so posts like this are just laughable.
I understand there is a propaganda-war and I understand most news-media outside of russia is for Ukraine.....but.....
