Ukrainian forces retake areas near Kyiv amid fear of traps
20220402
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Ukrainian-forces-retake-areas-near-Kyiv-amid-fear-of-traps
In total, 4.5 million children have been displaced from their homes, which have been destroyed.
On Feb 20th:Russian Ambassador to the United States Anatoly Antonovsaid "There is no invasion, and there are no such plans,"
it has reached most of its goals on taking the south east joining Crimea to Russia proper.
The Ukranians are kicking the Russian's ass almost every day, which is very nice to see.
Fact Ukraine pass a law in July 2021 noting the recognized indigenous ethnic groups specifically excluding ethnic Russians.
The July 2021 law on ethnic minorities sealed the fate of Ukraine after that there was no way the breakaway regions would ever accept rejoining Ukraine and war was inevitable unless Ukraine reversed that law and the 2015 law on OUN UPA.
You can look them up, I have posted links many times so you can find those or your own.
Ask Poland about the OUNUPA heroes law passed in Ukraine in 2015. Seems Poland was so upset they pass their own declaring these same groups ethnic cleansing groups and war criminals. Now tell me Poland is a friend of Russia.
No, not true. Russian paratroops with unit and nationality markings removed from their uniforms led the invasion of Donbass in 2014.
Nothing in your argument stands up to any scrutiny, get back to the books and try to cook up a more convincing argument for why Putin is a genius or better yet, perhaps entertain the possibility that your fundamental hypothesis of Putanic infallibility is mistaken.
Retake suggest they fought the Russians over the areas and won battles to "retake" these places, they did no such thing, they walked into abandoned areas.
Strange how the only reply to facts are to call people names and make accusations.
Again this is an ethnic war and has been going on since 2014 like that fact or not.
After destroying the area as planned the Russian forces will focus on destroying a different area.
Strange but the only "advancing" Ukraine has done is after Russia pulled back after it has reached most of its goals on taking the south east joining Crimea to Russia proper.
Ukraine armed and integrated the Azov battalion into their military, this would be the equivalent of the USA arming and integrating white supremacy militia into It's military. When like most other western countries they are actually trying to remove such people and groups.
The only hope is the unfinished second AN-225.  There is another one in a hanger at the Antonov plant that was never finished.  I hope it wasn't damaged in the war.
Well they are saying it wasn't them because they are worried, Russia will turn around and head right back in towards Kyiv.
I think there is a lot of noise and maybe no small amount of exaggeration going on.  A surprising fact is the primary source of funding for the Azov Battalion prior to its incorporation into the Ukrainian Army was Jewish Cypriot billionaire Igor Kolomoyskyi and it was co-founded by Nathan Khazin, who led the "Jewish Hundreds" during the Euromaiden protests against the Ukrainian governments decision to reject pursuing EU membership in favor of closer association with Russia.  Quite a bit of the battalions automatic weaponry is sourced in Israel though not without some controversy.   If you are in a war of survival and you have a group willing to fight for you and they are effective in combat, you can forgive a lot of sins.  The US, Canada and UK sided with the USSR, gave them huge material support and lost a lot of sailors to German U-Boats and surface raiders, and to the weather, in those convoys from the US and Canada to Murmansk.  Did anyone paint the US as somehow communist for supporting the USSR in WWII?
Ukraine made Nazi war criminals National heroes in 2015 fact, Ukraine has passed several laws reducing the rights of ethnic Russians.
Prior to that the Crimean Parliament declared independence from Ukraine and requested Russian troops, which arrived promptly thereafter despite the protests of the native Tartar population that such a declaration violated the Ukrainian Constitution.  It turns out Mr. Putin had been filmed saying he gave the order to begin planning the operation to annex Crimea several weeks before the people who live there were given the chance to vote on it, albeit in a referendum marshalled by men with Kalashnikovs.
No matter how many Kremlin fantasy talking points and far-fetched historical revisionisms posted by the pro-Putin crowd here, they offer no explanation for the following
Ukraine recently got armed with portable hand launchable Starstreak anti aircraft missiles from Britain. They have a range of 7 miles, go mach 3.5 and spin in a tight 1.5 meter circle to give them a better chance of hitting. To top it off, they are point and shoot. Crude pointing is all they need.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
I suspect that Putin is taking the army away from Kyiv area so he can use nukes there without harming own troops...
The inconsistencies are strange, Ukraine on one hand boasts it can win, boasts it is beating the Russians, etc...
Let's hope that these mass murderer Putin and all his murderer followers and murderer supporters do understand that they will loose this war, and that they soon will leave Ukraine and stay in their country Russia, which will fall back to the 1950s within the next weeks.
On Feb 15th President Putin said "We intend and will strive to negotiate with our partners on the issues that we have raised in order toresolve them diplomatically,"
Avenger - this site attempts to catalog documentation of the various equipment lost by both sides:
No I don't approve of what Putin is doing but boy did I see it coming as did anyone not ignoring facts.
Look at Sun Tzu or Zhukov, or any major military deception in history. They all involve fooling your opponent into thinking your main force is going to point A, when in fact it is going to point B.
But when an attack on a Russian oil depo in Russia happens Ukrainian government goes in to panic mode saying it was not responsible, why? Wouldn't that be the real "proof" Ukraine can win? Well they are saying it wasn't them because they are worried, Russia will turn around and head right back in towards Kyiv.
And this mass murderer Putin and all his followers destroyed their own population's life and also their own population's image.
Everything I pointed out is verifiable through Western media, and in government reports from the USA, UK, France etc...
Seems that either the news or the western leaders are using incorrect words, and have never read "the art of war by Sun Tzu or any of Marshall Gregory Zuhkov's writings on war and war strategy.
I bet I could write up a whole slew and a load of fools on the internet would believe them are repost them.
Its still a war whether Ukraine defends its nation or even if its not the the aggressor.
If you were a regular on JT you would know I have zero connection to Russia or Ukraine.
Ukraine using POWs as propaganda on TV in violation of the Geneva convention and rules of war fact as we can see it on every western news outlet as they show it and then say it violates the laws.
Initially Mr. Putin denied the "little green men", soldiers in obviously Russian uniforms and carrying Russian automatic weapons and grenade launchers were Russian, saying anyone could buy this equipment in any army surplus store.  Automatic weapons and grenade launchers in an army surplus store?  In an interview about a month after the invasion when asked if the soldiers were Russians Mr. Putin answered "of course"
Putin's health, rumour, the supposed high number of Russian dead, the number of officers killed, the supposed Russian troops killing their officers all unproven all rumours from unreliable third party sources.
Ukraine under the influence of certain ethnic motivation after 2014 did everything to alienate the Russian minority lip service is what you call "we want our ethnic Russian citizens to know they are welcome" then pass every law possible to make them as uncomfortable as possible and make the breakaway regions less likely to want to return.
When the western media says "Russian forces", they mean the East Ukrainian Separatists that speak Russian and want to breakaway from West Ukraine.
It is heartbreaking to see the one and only AN-225 so badly damaged.  I saw the very same aircraft at the Paris Airshow in 1989 with the Buran space shuttle mounted on top of it.  For aviation enthusiasts it is a special airplane.  Now it appears possibly beyond salvage.
Other than sincere condolences for the needless loss of lives and disharmony for all involved in a senseless conflict.
Also..Russia still hasnt captured its purported real objective - the Donbass region - despite what you are idiotically claiming was a brilliant deception operation by Putin to trick everyone into thinking he was going for Kyiv, so even on your own terms it hasnt succeeded.
Lots of Ukrainian official ,are suffering from battle fatigue, nobody have a legal  obligation to defend a country,but the country that been attack ,their leaders are in charge of defending their country,the European are helping Ukrainian just too degrade Russian ,and bring too their knees,if they will not come to their senses
If the Ukrainians really did it, they should say it to give a proof to the Russians that they can get them wherever they want.
I must have missed the part in The Art of War where he says it is a good idea to concentrate your invasion of a country in a completely different part from the one you wanted to capture,  lose thousands of troops and huge masses of equipment in the process, then clumsily withdraw the survivors five weeks later and send them over to the part that you had been intending to capture all along, but you hadnt yet managed to do so in the meantime because most of your army had been fighting over the part that you didnt want anyway.
I will not say your facts are wrong because the chances are they are not only true but very low, I would guess the numbers are higher.
Everyday we hear news that the Russians damage and destroy their own equipments out of frustration and refused orders and even overrun their own military leaders with tanks.
Kyo - who is saying that the Ukrainians have retaken Kyiv?  The article states that it is areas near Kyiv that were retaken.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Perhaps some people prefer to use verifiable facts instead of rumours from one side that cannot be verified.
This is sounding more and more like the how the Finnish claim they won the Winter war despite losing 10 of their territory.
Ukraine armed and integrated the Azov battalion into their military, this would be the equivalent of the USA arming and integrating white supremacy militia into It's military.
It was fairly clear and I said it from the start the Attack on Kyiv was not intended to take it, the purpose was to tie down the main Ukrainian forces while Moscow took the parts it really wants in the south east, avoiding the Ukrainian militia and military from getting more reinforcements.
One poster here before said something very nice Russia is just a Gas-Station with Nukes.
Fact in 2015 Ukraine made OUN UPA heroes, fact Poland and the rest declared them war criminals and ethnic cleansing.
There is only one Ukraine. Which has been invaded by Russian forces. Because Putin wants a bigger Russia.
About 40 Russian FSB and GRU members were killed in fighting in Donbass in 2014.  They were leading the rebellion, organizing it and arranging their arms and supplies.
But with all the information being reported on this site compared to other sites makes it very difficult to have an opinion as to what is actually happening in Ukraine.
An estimated 15,000 Russian soldiers have been killed so far in this war against Ukraine, but not to be outdone the Russian military has murdered a nearly equal number of Ukrainian women and children.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
he dead  the AP counted at least six  were civilians who were killed by departing Russian soldiers without provocation.
It sounds like Putin's Zazis are carrying on a tradition set by Stalin's forces in Berlin and throughout East Germany where Soviet troops engaged in what is known as "the Rape of Berlin". Stalin and the Kremlin later defended his military, and I think because the Soviets were on the winning side. Russian historians probably do, too. I wonder if Putin and his Kremlin will admit that innocent civilians were slaughtered by their military. Putin worked for East Germany's Stasi so he must have been able to access some Nazi records, and while working so closely with ex-Nazis picked up some methods to deal with those he deemed 'others'. Putin claimed Russians are a 'race', and like the Nazis with their defense of the Aryan race, some Russian Zazis must also believe they're fighting to defend the Russian race. Putin has appealed to like minded sorts around the globe, helping push the notion of 'western chauvinism' and white supremacy.
Many were posted earlier in  posts regarding Corona.. A lengthy pattern of flame throwing, typical of those in anti-democracypro-authoritarian movements.
It doesnt work when you actually send your main force to A, which is what Russia did here, this makes zero sense as a military deception.
You can down vote and call me names but it does not change the facts
It has been on both side the the Ukrainian government, especially some ministers, have made a lot of claims never verified .
When the world expected them to fall in a few days, they prove them wrong by fighting for weeks and push back a world superpower. Mad respect to them.
People are so upset about the numbers and details of what's happened or happening in Ukraine.
