Ukraine retakes key Kyiv suburb battle for Mariupol rages
20220322
https://japantoday.com/category/world/civilians-fleeing-mariupol-describe-street-to-street-battles
Ukrainian soldiers are brave and have high morale. They are willing to die for their wives and children.
Ukraine's stubborn defense is have an effect. And it is not good for Russian families. Time for Russia to surrender.
Russian propaganda slipped up, in refuting the Ukrainian figures for Russian casualties of about 15000, they let slip their own realistic figure of 9,861 and over 18,000 injured thanks peter14 I had lost the reference though surprise, surprise it got taken down afterwards.  What ever the actual figure what cant be refuted is thar the Russian military is hemorrhaging manpower and equipment at an unsustainable rate for little or no gain save the everlasting hatred of the Ukrainian people and the isolation of their pariah state.
There is no secret code involved. The woman commenting is Ukrainian. They is the enemy.
I cannot, will not accept the global Community collectively refuse to support the people of Ukraine.
Biden using the words, 'our unity' is the most egregious insult to Ukrainians. He's doing nothing compared to them, just trying to take credit for some small help with munitions.
Putin miscalculated thats a fact. Now what? Putin is blowing up everything he wanted to take. The citizens of Ukraine will hate him and Russia for generations. Putin has or is destroying his economy. Putin exposed the weakness of the Russian army. Putin has isolated Russia. Putin and his generals will be up on war crimes. NATO is now stronger and Putin has United Europe. Numerous NATO countries have increased military spending. Putin is sending body bags back to Russia. Finally Putin's army can not advance nor retreat. Putin has backed himself into a corner.
But this is 2022, surely things like this can no longer happen now, we are much smarter and more advanced now. Apparently it does not matter how advanced humanity gets, at irregular intervals humanity will always face its worst self in battle and cost the lives of innocent citizens just wanting to go about their daily lives. Power is deadly. Deadly power is all too often placed in the hands of a single individual. Perhaps it is time to change the way nations are led and have multiple leaders none of whom can start a war alone. Or just outlaw war.
Early Tuesday, Ukrainian troops forced Russian forces out of the Kyiv suburb of Makariv after a fierce battle, Ukraine's Defense Ministry said.
The Russian Military that wants to kill as many Ukraine people as it can get away with.
Have seen a report that 300 Russian troops refused orders to carry out offensive operations"
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
My idea is this is the end of Putin. He governs Like this is the 19th century. He thinks he is like a czar. Even young men from Belorussia are going to Warsaw then heading for Ukraine to fight the Russian forces. The Russian army is a joke since Plan A did not work. They thought oh they will just give up in Kiev. Nope, those Turkish drones are doing wonders and Ukrainian soldiers are doing the night shift, hunting for Russians, blowing up tanks, stealing Russian tanks. Looking for the Z sign.
Putin is an example of what can happen when one person is allowed to take control with limited abilities to check his actions. You would have thought reasonable people would not want to see another Hitler or Stalin. And also what can happen when one natural resource becomes so essential that  global economies are forced to depend on it, and also depend on the authoritarians that control the resource.
It can end with them retaining their freedom or with them losing their freedom. regardless of that Ukraine has already been devastated.
Have seen a report that 300 Russian troops refused orders to carry out offensive operations and pulled their tanks and armour out of the line.
The free and democratic world fund the United Nations  -   in their hour of need,  the Ukrainians must be despairing that these Peace-keepers are not coming to carry out their duties.....
Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces are increasingly concentrating their air power and artillery on Ukraine's cities and the civilians living there
The Russian Military that wants civilians to leave so it can clear out the city of Azov Battalion fighters or
The Russian army is not paid well and is not well fed. Why should they die for Russia? Putin pretends to be a strong man but he is weak. The other issue is logistics. Russian tanks ran out of gas. WTF? This is war they thought they would win. Putin can fire the generals but at some point he has to quit, kill himself, or get killed, go into exile since he is a failure.
When you listen to Russian Defence Ministry - you got a chane to know a lot of Russian propaganda
Poland can transfer the MiG's to Ukraine, and non nuclear nations can get involved in a "no fly zone" without any actual threat of a nuclear conflict but as Russia is already using long range missiles launched from planes that do not leave Russian air space, the no fly zone would have limited effect against Russia, but would stop the few planes Ukraine still has active from supporting besieged cities and troops.
A month ago all those people were alive and planning futures. Now they are just numbers to the world on casualty lists. A waste of life for one mans Putin's delusions. How does one man get to take actions that end so many lives and still walk around free, and be supported by the mindless, ill informed Russians, and not condemned by nations like China and India. It beggars belief.
Thanks theAvenger for sharing that powerful information.  Continue to share it when you have the opportunity:
"Facts of disobedience of Russian soldiers were recorded in the Okhtyrka district of the Sumy region. About 300 occupiers refused to carry out the order to conduct hostilities, and left the area of the operation with 70 units of equipment."
The Azov Battalion that wants people to stay to use them as human shields against the advancing Russian army.
What do I suggest Biden do, Peter14? Let those MIGs loose from Poland, and pressure Russia's closest NATO neighbours to establish no-fly zones over Mariupol, Lviv and Kyiv, and while they're at it sink Russian ships in the Azov Sea that are shelling civilians. And get my ambassador out of Moscow. For starters.
Ukraine must be already planning for a prolonged insurgency type of war by now, this is not going to end anytime soon and I hope the civilians are spared, Ukraine will WIN no doubt about it for as long as NATO and the west keeps it's life line .
I think Russian soldiers dont want to fight Ukraine and feel guilty. Before Moscow existed Kiev was the capital and I think Ukrainians were Christian before the Russians.
If you have seen 300 Russian troops you have no chance to put here this message.
Have seen a report that 300 Russian troops refused orders to carry out offensive operations and pulled their tanks and armour out of the line.  There have also been reports of Russian troops simply going home.  If this is true and indicative of their level of morale, then it is possible Ukraine may yet begin rolling back the invasion or even relieve the siege.  All speculative I know but it doesnt matter what or how much equipment you have if your troops lose the will to fight and just go home.
As someone who has been a little confused about the unanimous support for Ukraine here, there are quite a few things that Ukraine could do to ease the situation, including proposing that the disputed areas hold referendums on independence and that Ukraine need to join NATO.
Those fighting in defense of Mariupol will go down as true peoples hero's defending against Russian hoards. The Russian cowards on the other hand will be remembered as the murderers they are.
When you listen to Russian Defence Ministry - you got a chane to know a lot of interesting.
Just have Poland send the MiG's and let Russia know that any attack on a NATO member will still be an attack on all and require a combine response against Russia. Remember this is not a US conflict. This is a Russian conflict.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Aerial and artillery attacks on civilians, this is what Putin's vaunted Russian military is resorting to.   Im aware he could still go nuke, and given reports of his declining mental and physical health he may just do so and want to take as many forms of life with him as he can. But Putin's the leader Russian people  wanted, and a male who has been acknowledged as 'strong' and 'smart' by many pro-authoritarian right wing politicians and other extremists.
Thats neither helpful for shortening the war nor anyhow decisive for the obvious outcome. Its like if you happily find a yen coin in the parking lot, doesnt make you rich and you also cant buy anything with it.
Week-after-week this barbaric war is raging,  and still no sign of the desperately need UN Peace-keeping Forces  -    where are they ??
Russia biggest blunder in all of this is not to target the Ukraine president before they invaded. Who would have though a former comedian would become such a huge obstacle in front of their mighty army and manage to drag the war for this long.
There is nothing good for Russia can come out of this insane adventure, even if they finally overcome the Ukrainian resistance they are and by then most certainly wont be in a state to hold their conquest against a hostile and determined population.  Poo tin has brilliantly achieved the very thing he didnt want, the uniting of western countries, the strengthening of NATO, their considerable increase of defence spending and possibly the expansion of NATO membership to the now worried and previously neutral countries on his borders.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
It seems some still working in the Russian media want the truth to be shown. Fighting in Mariupol from building to building is taking a toll on the invaders as well as the defenders. Over 16,000 reported injured. Russia needs to replace those 25,000 soldier already taken out of the invasion or it will end up cut off from the motherland and prisoners of war. Not even Russia can cope with sustaining such casualties on a less than monthly basis.
Oh, I agree, Oleg, listening to the Russian Defence Ministry is a great way to get the latest Russian Propaganda. Fortunately, serious adults know this and pay no attention to the lies and propaganda they spread.
it is almost like a nasty civil war. Lots of Ukrainians live in Russia, Lviv used to be a Polish city. The Poles make fun of the Russians and think they are the best Slavic nation. Now they are. Two million refugees in Poland. Krakow cannot do more. The generosity of Poland fills me with awe. I lived in Warsaw before and Siberia.
I also suggest that Ukraine takes are harder line on actual human rights violations by Ukrainians such as beating Indian students fleeing the country or the "genocidal" campaign by some Ukrainian extremists groups.
How many Ukrainians would they send if it was the US being invaded? They too would send aid and maybe munitions and say they stand in unity with the US. Without escalating this limited regional conflict to drag in other nations, what specifically do you expect Biden to do? Suggesting a Ukraine surrender is off the table.
They already have fully invaded. They have run into a Ukrainian brick wall and stalled.
