Ukraine Russia sign grain export deal
20220722
https://japantoday.com/category/world/deal-for-ukraine-grain-exports-due-to-be-sealed-in-istanbul
You are right Europe is low on the corruption scale, neither Ukraine or Russia have anything in common with any western European country.
Poland, Lithuania and Israel protested, Poland in 2018 enacted a law to counter the Ukrainian law
Right after the plane crash in Greece, the USA government decided to require accountability for the weapons sent to Ukraine, the HIMARS system sent to Ukraine are kept under lock and key in the hand of out of service NATO personnel only they have access and operations because the USA doesn't trust Ukraine, the Pentagon openly said it was worried the Russians would pay someone to hand one over.
You're absolutely correct, but that isn't how our pro-invasion friends see it here. They look at corruption in Ukraine as proof of Ukraine's inferiority, and use that justify or look the other way as Russia rapes and plunders the country.
which countries would be agreeable to both Russia and Ukraine having enough sweepers to remove the mines around the Ukraine ports?
Ukrainain do not export more than 60 billion dollars in good,that cannot feed 100 of millions of people
It seems the corruption and cronyism is alive and well in Ukraine remember second most corrupt in Europe right behind Russia internationally below the Philippines and above Sierra Leone.
US Congress are pouring billions in Ukraine,when poor American are in need,not even questions the corruption in Ukraine,while honest American suffering needless
So, it would be silly to dismiss a very high possibility of the Russian deception in the end.
Antique, Ukrainain lack the ability to help themselves,they are psychological dependence on others for too make them feel good about themselves, nobody with any self esteem, would let others,say you are corrupt
The FSB said around 420 mines had broken loose, claiming that the mines were set by Ukrainian forces. The Turkish sweepers are busy removing drifting mines along its coast.
There is no way anyone that Ethnic Russians can now live in a united Ukraine regardless who started what, 2015 law making OUN UPA National heroes foresaw these events.
Or were they using African and other poor country's lives, creating near famine conditions in order to force Russia to make a deal on ukrainian grain?
AS - plenty of ethically Russian Ukrainians are against Putins invasion of Ukraine.  You seem to think that ethnicities are a monolith.  They are not.  Those that want to live in Russia are free to head to the nearest filtration camp and get a Russian passport as some are doing.  Then they can join their filtered countrymen in the Far East.  The vast majority will likely stay once the Russians have been kicked out and help Ukraine rebuild.
Good opportunity for the British Royal Navy to try out their new robotic minesweepers designed to keep sailors safe and sea lanes open.
Simple question, do you really believe if Ukrane wins it will be the end of it, or if Russia wind the same?
Hey, I got a state department release that says Russia are being bad. Why won't anyone take that seriously?
"All of the current methods we have are very slow very, very dangerous cumbersome and quite expensive," Wade Knudson, a former naval aviator and now senior director of Undersea Warfare Systems at Raytheon, told Military.com. "Areas that state actors might choose to mine are vitally important and considerable in size. Somebody can easily disrupt commerce and the world's economy could suffer from that, depending on where that were to occur."
lol And? They're at war now. Good grief, you expect everything to function like normal in the midst of a war? What a ridiculous notion.
Olive - I think Ukraine would prefer to negotiate once Russia goes home.  Otherwise, they would be negotiating from a position of weakness.
Ukraine is the one who did not want to sign deal with Russia.Pls check expressions of guys from Kiev.There are tons of them online and are easy to be verified!
There is the problem of insurance for the grain ships. Lloyds of London declared the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov to be a war risk. Shipping from Russian ports has had difficulties with insurance.
If Europe does what it always does then in a decade or so the two parties will be at it again with the losing side wanting revenge on the winning side.
The removal of all mines by a sweeper is a slow and dangerous process for the crew.
The Turkish Navy is dealing with numerous drifting mines along its coast. Some have landed on beaches.
Yes, so clearly the only solution is doing nothing, so that corrupt Russia can continue to be corrupt, but with Ukrainian land and natural resources now. I got it.
They will be ate it again a few years or a few decades down the road.
If demining is required to make the shipping lanes safe, a minesweeper from another country could clear the approaches to Ukrainian ports.
I for once agree Ukraine has no plans to invade Russia if by miracle it ever succeeds in expelling Russia.
One substantive agreement. Now they need to sit down at a table and try to negotiate some kind of peace. Although Im not hopeful of a quick agreement, they at least need a start to the process.
Eastman - perhaps they just mean within the borders of Ukraine?  I dont see anything official stating that Ukraines aims are to destroy Russia as a country.  Are you able to share the sourcelinkcontext?
Looks like Turkey will end up being a key mediator after a ceasefire is declared between the separatists and Kiev.
Interesting how you avoided commenting on the 2015 law making OUN UPA war criminals involved in ethnic cleansing National heroes a move they tried a few times before only to be blocked by the opposition and international condemnations.
Less than 24 hours after Ukraine and Russia signed the grain agreement Russia launched a long-range missile attack on the port of Odesa. One missile hit the grain area of the port. 4-6 missiles fired.
On this site Germans have said NATO should go in and return the East Prussia parts Russia holds!
Yes, because it's the same garbage justification being regurgitated on a daily basis to justify Russia invading Ukraine. It doesn't and never will.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell. response was to say the problem was the blocking of Ukrainian grain to which it African Union replied, " we are trying to buy Russian grain not blocked Ukraine"
Of course nobody likes corruption, but I would hope that we all agree that aligning Ukraine more with Europe probably the least corrupt continent instead of with Russia one of the most corrupt countries would probably be a good move, right? Like having an at-risk teenager join the drama club instead of sending him to Yakuza school.
There are over 80 ships stuck in Ukraine, many with cargoes onboard including grain, which need to get out before new ships can go in.
The Ukraine's know where they placed their mines and know the safe way around them, that is why the article yesterday said Ukraine would guide the ships through the mines.
Lets look at Europe they have done nothing but have revenge wars, Ukraine still complains about Polish Lithuania Commonwealth which ended in 1795, they still hold a grudge.
Simple question? I have no idea what this even means. Define "it" in "end of it," and the same with "if Russia wind the same?"
How many people have starve do too Ukrainian grain, Ukrainain are desperate for income,that the war has deprived them,and corruption
Don't ever trust Putin and his associates! They only understand the language of military superiority!
One thing to know-for this negotiation you need two.If UA side thorugh words of its president saying that they will negotiate about peace once they will crush Russia and will win over them-its crystal clear that any peace negotiations will not happen anytime soon as Kiev gov will prefer to continue in meaningless war and will not mind fight until last UA soldier in war they have no chance to winand yes everyone knows that.
Of course nobody likes corruption, but I would hope that we all agree that aligning Ukraine more with Europe probably the least corrupt continent instead of with Russia one of the most corrupt countries would probably be a good move, right?  Like having an at-risk teenager join the drama club instead of sending him to Yakuza school.
AS - do you have a source for this?  Its customary when providing new details to the conversation that either arent in the article or arent common knowledge to provide sources.
Russia decided not to fuel a new crisis in Africa and provoke a hunger and government changes there, Sidenko said. The African Union had asked Putin to quickly ease the crisis with grain supplies."
This is why the leaders of North African said they are not interested in and European vendetta war and this time the colonial powers cannot force them into their Europe conflicts like in the past.
Of course nobody likes corruption, but I would hope that we all agree that aligning Ukraine more with Europe probably the least corrupt continent
So do you really expect these two to now live in the same country, Ukrainian Nationalists wanted a pure Ukraine long before 2014 that included no ethnic Russians, ethnic Lithuanias, ethnic Poles, etc .all based on perceived passed wrongs.
that banning of Russian books literature music, the firing of Prosecutors and security heads because they refused to make political and ethnic based arrests and prosecutions.
Get your car loan by completing your application process online with Suruga Bank's auto loan service.
Eastman - I dont think Ukraines plans are to crush Russia, but rather to just get them to leave Ukraine. When one has enemy soldiers on their nations soil, then that is by very definition not a meaningless war. This war has a whole lot of meaning for Ukraine.
"The Ukrainian military is trained in Scotland, where they master the operation of Sandown Class minesweepers. This is a continuation of last years procurement contract on two vessels from the UK."
Ok seeing you keep pointing out the mines and don't read the articles  yesterday's and today's both had the information
US say no to long range Himars rocket, Ukrainain have 90 days to cold days of winter are upon them,they have become a beggar state,feel they do not have to do anything for themselves,but feed off others
Long before 2014 the ethics Ukrainians tried several times to pass anti Russian laws and wanted nothing more than revenge for long passed grievances they did everything in their power not to just move on.
Yrral, I have homeless who live in my city and you probably do too.  Would you just stand by and do nothing if you saw someone attacking them?
Yesterday, you posted that demining would not be necessary. The demining will actually be determined by Lloyds of London and other underwriters on their conditions for providing cover.
Now only after an agreement is made on Ukrainian grain the EU and USA announced they are changing the Sanctions system to make sure food and fertilizer can be purchased without problems from Russia. This information was in yesterday's article here of JT .
You're right. This a very good and smart point. Clearly Ukraine is a bad country, because you allege corruption increased in the middle of the Russian invasion. Clearly Zelensky is a bad leader because he can't fight corruption and Russia at the same time. Clearly the only option is to do nothing, so that Russia, a country which you've already admitted is far more corrupt than Ukraine, can continue to plunder Ukrainian territory and natural resources. This is the only logical solution- well done.
I already informed you that I  served my country on a minesweeper so there's nothing about mines that you can tell me that I don't already know.
It's obvious from your comment that what you know about sea mines can be found in a comic book. There are many types of mines. Suggest you read up before you comment again.
Lol Again, they're in the middle of a war. If one wants Ukraine to be less corrupt, one should advocate for policies which further extricate Russia from Ukrainian affairs- not doing nothing.
Under the deal, all activities in Ukrainian territorial waters will be under authority and responsibility of Ukraine, and the parties agree not to carry out attacks against vessels and port facilities in the initiative. If demining is required to make the shipping lanes safe, a minesweeper from another country could clear the approaches to Ukrainian ports.
lol Yup. It's not like they share a continent, or religion. Ukraine has nothing to do with Europe, which is why they're applying for admission to the EU.
These two? Ukraine didn't do anything. It's on Russia to stop. Ukraine lacks the size, military and economic strength to invade or attack Russia.
"If demining is required to make the shipping lanes safe, a minesweeper from another country could clear the approaches to Ukrainian ports."
Russian leaders have lied so many times, Russia is rivaling the USA  for having the modern era's most dishonest leader.
No doubt about it, the banning and arrest of opposition elected officials, that banning of Russian books literature music, the firing of Prosecutors and security heads because they refused to make political and ethnic based arrests and prosecutions.
There are about 80 ships holed up in Ukraine ports that have been there since the outbreak of the Russian invasion. No info if the crews remained on board or left. But those ships will have to be moved to allow grain cargo ships to enter.
Some material- not all. Again, this is a result of Russia funding separatist movements, invading Ukraine, and then attempting to annex swaths of Ukraine.
 which countries would be agreeable to both Russia and Ukraine having enough sweepers to remove
You do understand the meaning of "if"? The only reason a mine would need to be removed is if it shifted location after it was laid.
right on schedule after the agreement was made, BBC is reporting a Russian missile strike on a port that hit the location where the grain is being stored.
Also interesting that you also avoid the fact the fired prosecutor and SBU Head both said the arrests and prosecutions ordered by Zelensky and co. were political not based on law. So he fired them putting in place a "schoolmate" to replace.
Which country can make the demining of the Ukraine seaports. Russia will not agree with any NATO country. Ukraine will not agree with Russia clearing the mines.
And do not forget: we have yet to see the implementation of the deal but at the same time Russia constantly steals Ukrainian grains and agri machinery, sets the crops on fire, fires at farmers on the fields, etc.
And as is normal the "Pure" ethnic Ukrainian Canadians are not happy any ethnic Russians are permitted to enter Canada.
Both Ukraine and Russia, are so corrupt two peas in a pod they deserve each other.
Turkey has 11 sweepers modern enough to do the job, they are already in operation in the Black sea cleaning up "stray" mines.
In the event that mines get shifted and moved, then they will need to be removed or reset in place.
lol Yes, Ukraine is terrible for banning pro-Russian parties in the middle of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Clearly the only proper thing to do is nothing, and allow pro-Russian parties to advocate for and enact policies which are ruinous to Ukraine's existence as a sovereign country.
You're right they protested, but they didn't go off and invade Ukraine, now did they?
Caught in the attempt at deflection,  EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell. Then tried claiming it was all a mistake.
Ditto with Xinhua news. That is to say, the media arm of the People's Republic of China.
Ok if you read the articles and if you read my comments correctly I wouldn't need to keep repeating.
Fair enough, nice clear information and I haven't a clue what they will do about insurance, I will take a guess that the international community will figure something out.
Suspend clearing in less vital area and head the the shipping lanes at the ports, or let a 3rd party in the both Ukraine and Russia agree to and is near enough to get there quickly.
Mines are generally not placed willy-nilly they are anchored and charted by the side placing them in order for themselves to navigate but not the enemy!
It has a near open door policy to Ukrainian refugees, but the delema is the number of "mixed" families arriving, saying they had to flee because of the threats against the ethinc Russian part.
I thought russian humanity and decency had hit rock bottom with the invasion, then this news taught me a whole new level of disgust. As a Ukrainian MP wrote on Telegram, "These scumbags sign contracts with one hand and direct missiles with the other,"
Strange all the past news was the African Union complaining that their members couldn't buy grain or fertilizer  not on the sanction list from Russia because of the EU and USA blocking SWIFT payments.
One substantive agreement. Now they need to sit down at a table and try to negotiate some kind of peace.  Although Im not hopeful of a quick agreement, they at least need a start to the process.
And the simple answer is the only other major power in the area with the equipment and close enough to get there quickly: Turkey seems trusted by both sides.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Ukraine  exports  about 28bilion in agriculture good  prior to the war, yes they are a major player in world exports
The demining will actually be determined by Lloyds of London and other underwriters on their conditions for providing cover.
I mean think about that the USA is worried the Ukrainians will sell a HIMARS on the black market to Russia.
Hunger needs to be fought on a war-footing. When I was hungry, you gave me to eat - declares Holy Scriptures.
So is it a coincidence that now an agreement is made for Ukrainian grain that the EU and USA suddenly admitted the system was blocking African countries from buying food from Russia and will now are "fixing" it?
But what is certain if Ukraine takes back the breakaway territory ethnic cleansing will be the order of the day.
Eastman - I dont think Ukraines plans are to crush Russia, but rather to just get them to leave Ukraine.  When one has enemy soldiers on their nations soil, then that is by very definition not a meaningless war.  This war has a whole lot of meaning for Ukraine.
And, right on schedule after the agreement was made, BBC is reporting a Russian missile strike on a port that hit the location where the grain is being stored.
