Ukraine battling to stem Russian advance in north of Donetsk region
20220706
https://japantoday.com/category/world/ukraine-battling-to-stem-russian-advance-in-north-of-donetsk-region
all that money isnt worth being used by the west as a proxy war location.  Once the west loses interest and runs out of money, Ukraine is done.
Shortening the front line, better defense positions, and at the same time counterattacks, guerilla warfare, more military hardware, sabotage ..... those Russians won't be safe anywhere.
The moment you give the Russian assets away, you immediately lose your status as a secure storage of wealth.
Who will continue to pay for all these actions to go on for years more?
The only outcome for the Russians after all their wanton destruction will be to inherit temporarily the dead wasteland they created in the Donbas. Their schadenfreude will be of short duration, however, and in a few years from now, their malicious gloating will be followed by bitter envy as they watch from their ramshackle Russian Federation a modern, thriving, Ukraine rising from the ashes of war.
Or in other words...surrender.  Some folks just believe you should roll over and appease an invader...
Ukrainain treat weapon like they are toys,posting up on social media, something a child would do,these Himars are supposed to be in seperate location, whether Russian destroyed them ,only Ukrainain know
They are nowhere close to their goals. Russias stated objectives in its invasion of Ukraine remain regime change in Kyiv and the truncation of the sovereignty of any Ukrainian state. So I don't see Putin at the negotiating table any time soon.
Biden and Johnson have their own problems and no one is supporting to send 750 billion MORE to Ukraine.
Yep. For rogue imperialist nations that start wars. Not a bad signal to send in my book.
Mr Kipling  "Ukraine needs to get serious in negotiating a stop to the pointless killing."
So who in the west is agreeing to pay the 750 billion dollar bill to rebuild Ukraine? It got really quiet after Zelensky demanded that.
Russia is now in good position to roll up any remaining resistance all the way to Kiev. Life isn't a movie, sometimes the bad guy wins.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
if that is such an effective way to fight, why didn't they start out doing that?
Russia slowly and deliberately advancing towards their goals. Ukraine needs to get serious in negotiating a stop to the pointless killing.
Ukraine is in a worse negotiating position every day that passes and they cant actually win this militarily.
from my point of view it seems that more "tactical retreats" are going to happen in near future again...
Kremlin faux talking points...as Russia's economy falls below third-world standards and it defaults on its bonds and debt...
Russia is now in good position to roll up any remaining resistance all the way to Kiev.
Will,I can say in one paragraph,that Ukrainain are deluding themselves,if the American will rebuild Ukraine,after Build Back Better fail in the US,
Well, we can start with more than $350 billion in frozen reserves from Russias Central Bank. And after that start selling seized assets of Russian oligarchs. The Russians caused the damage, it only seems fair that they pay part of the price of rebuilding it.
Ukraine should have negotiated months ago before they got in the poor position they are now.
So who in the west is agreeing to pay the 750 billion dollar bill to rebuild Ukraine?
Seriously?! As if Ukraine is responsible for the pointless slaughter. By the way, what would you do if a vicious wolf invaded your home?
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Considering a huge chunk of those Russian assets are in Swiss and the Swiss are not playing ball on that because it would ruin their status as a safe haven for money, I severely doubt thats going to happen.
But it ain't over until the f.. lady sings. And that can take quite some time.
Russia slowly and deliberately advancing towards their goals. Ukraine needs to get serious in negotiating a stop to the pointless killing. They cannot "win", every life lost now is just a waste. All very brave but still a waste.
None of the frozen reserves are in Switzerland. Europe, US, Canada and Japan account for $284 billion, which is a good start.
This was inevitable. So sad all the Biden US UK EU NATO cheerleading and warmongering, AGAIN, fooled so many.
all that money isnt worth being used by the west as a proxy war location. Once the west loses interest and runs out of money, Ukraine is done.
