US offers no concessions in response to Russia on Ukraine
20220126
https://japantoday.com/category/world/U.S.-offers-no-concessions-in-response-to-Russia-on-Ukraine
War in the Ukraine is just what the rogue state of the USA needs right now with it's weak economy. historically, when the arms industry flourishes, the US economy does the same.
Yrral, there will be no coup against Putin. He's too well protected by the hidden oligarchs he supported from his spy service days. Read "Putin's People" and you'll understand. The man is maniacal about being the new Tsar.
If Russia truly wanted to invade Ukraine they wouldn't publicly mass troops in advance for the world and the Ukrainians to see.
US creates this problem over decades and is 'offering no concessions'?  Gimme a break.  Perhaps if USA stop partying with neo-Nazis then maybe Russia might be willing to talk.
As Mexicans could tell us, "Poor Ukraine, so far from God, so close to Putin". The Russian Bear will never allow the West into its wintry lair.
guy from Kiev have to get clearly his position in this world and finally take seat around table with representatives of people from Donbass and Lugansk,solve internal problems,reduce pressure.
If war breaks out over this, I can't find it in my heart to blame the Russians...
Russia go pound sand, their weak response is bring up Cuba, Nicaragua, and Mauro, Putin will be humiliated, maybe a coup against him is in order
WHY is the USA involved in this and why have the American people not been told what we are doing in Ukraine?
Curious which media sources were used to come to the  conclusion war is inevitable, or whether it came from within the poster's own imagination and it was posted to spread more fear.
The USA is always involved in ALL major international disputes, as you well know, because it is still the leading power, and still has a few shreds of moral credibility, despite Trumps efforts at wrecking its standing in the world.
The modern Russian army is highly mobile and they don't need to "mass on the border"
Why is it so hard for NATO to stop pushing against Russia,s red line? They just have to have Ukraine join the pact and establish NATO bases on its territory instead of leaving it as a buffer zone between NATO and Russian troops. How would they react if the good ole Warsaw pact tried to establish military presence on US doorstep? ..oh wait, let me get a cuban cigar  mojito and think about that a bit.
Suruga bank provides a variety of services including onlinebank accounts and loans, speciallytailoredto foreign customers living in Japan.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
The above an example of using 'the media' to spread warmongering and fear mongering in the minds of the poorly educated.
In what way? Are you saying the general public should not be able to view the events that are unfolding before our eyes? People are looking more at the chess players involved in this as to how this unfolds.
US seems to be moving almost alone here, even nations like Germany are backing off supporting Ukraine in this.  Which makes sense, given that the nationalist side are literally Nazis.  Not the biggest fan of modern Russia normally, but when they are moving to reunite russian people vs fascists, you kind of have to be on their side.
War is in the making, and Putin wants to make war. Sadly, the Russian people don't want that, but they're sheep.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Those weapons do not give the user invulnerability from enemy weapons. If Russia use's them against the West, the West have more than enough weapons to strike back against Russia. Some people dont get warfare at all. It remains a two way street and no side is immune to their enemies weapons unless they develop Star Trek like shields. Nobody has them yet.
Is Ukraine a country with its own language and culture? If you agree that it is, then you must be against Russia invading it. Unless of course youre in favor of smaller countries being gobbled up by their bigger neighbors. Where will you be when say a country like China wants to invade Korea or Japan? Will you be against the UN defending your freedom then?
Ukraine is a mess. No need to invade. Protesters storming the parliament yesterday Kiev over taxes and cash register mandates. It seems the MSM really needs a war for ratings, NATO really needs a war to justify their existence, Biden really needs a war for a distraction to his low poll ratings. Meanwhile FEMAFederal Emergency Management Agency is dropping off dozens and dozens of illegals in Brownsville TX, who then jump into Taxis for the airport. I think NATO needs to look at FEMA.
warmongers from other side of world have to understand as well that today is 2022 and not 1993 with all-time-drunk Borka in Kremlin...
YES Sir, this is how you handle it. Russia needs to stop bullying it neighbors so the don't need to look for or seek NATO help all the time.
Russia is not worried about NATO and Putin knows Biden is incompetent. the invasion is inevitable.
What's anyone talking about anymore? The Russians have deployed hypersonic missiles the fascists admit they have no defence against. Time to use them.
Curious which media sources were used to come to the conclusion war is inevitable, or whether it came from within the poster's own imagination and it was posted to spread more fear.
