Zelenskyy speaking to UN Security Council accuses Russian military of war crimes
20220405
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Zelenskyy-speaking-to-U.N.-Security-Council-accuses-Russian-military-of-war-crimes
So go ahead, nobody believes it except other complete idiots and its good for the rest of us to identify you early.
Yelling and screaming and condeming Russia withoutwaiting for evidenceand despite loopholes in the Bucha story has people no longer believing the Bucha story. Americans are questioning the Ukranian Narratives.
Not coincidentally most of the things in the fictional world of 1984 which Orwell was implicitly criticizingwarning us about were based on the government in Moscow at the time.
"A question arises: What purpose does this blatantly untruthful provocation serve? We are led to believe it is to find a pretext to torpedo the ongoing negotiations."
I feel solace in the fact that i, and any rational thinker, treats the deniers as akin the the deniers of the Holocaust.
Yes, sanctions on bank accounts and confiscating yachts is nothing compared to the isolation felt knowing that a Russian tree will not win tree of the year.
Every army has its share of perverts, so discipline is important. In WWII General Patton hung U.S. soldiers guilty of rape in N. Africa from the tank gun barrels. As a result the number of rapes decreased. From the reports out of the war in Ukraine, the lack of leadership in the Russian military means less discipline and more chaos, so the Russian soldiers resemble a mob or horde more than that of a well disciplined army. Mercenaries with nobody to answer to would probably be just as bad or even worse. Invading armies are the worst, however, because of the mentality of soldiers in that situation.
The organizers of the European Tree of the Year Contest said they felt compelled to join the activities aimed at the international isolation of Russia.
The evidence shows war crimes are occurring in Ukraine, the leadership in Russia must be held accountable, but rather than a serious discussion about how our taxes support the war industries and war crimes, we hear daily the righteous hypocrisy of the same world leaders and their talking heads who benefit from the political donations from those industries and who could also be examined for their possible criminal actions.
Yeah, every word out of Putin or Lavrov or any of the voices on Russian state media these days reminds me of that book.
Each day the Putin-worshipers here try to defend their Messiah from the indefensible....using kooky Kremlin talking points and even more crazier wild conspiracy theories...
Just hours before the latest proposal was announced, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said that to prevent new Buchas, the West must impose the mother of all sanctions  on Russian oil and gas.
But their efforts get weaker and weaker each day - as the mountain of evidence of Putin's crimes grows....
The U.S., in coordination with the European Union and Group of Seven nations, will roll out more sanctions against Russia on Wednesday, including a ban on all new investment in the country, a senior administration official said, speaking on condition to discuss the upcoming announcement.
Germany, France, Italy, and The Netherlands have all stepped up efforts to wean themselves off Russian oil and are increasing clean energy output.
'Americans', mighty broad brush, there. It could also be said 'Americans' are still defending Putin, even leading opposition politicians  continuing to say he's 'smart', but that Putin "might have made a mistake. A sovereign nation invaded and brutalized and that pol calls it a 'mistake'. Then that same politician claims he'd also threaten to use nukes, just more red meat for his rabid American base.
Yeah, people say the same things about the Holocaust to pretend it didnt happen. What is it this time? The Ukrainians did this to themselves? They used crisis actors?  All to make Russia look bad?
Expect the usual suspects, the Poo tin propagandists to desperately try to distract and attempt to muddy the waters, anything but condemn the foul crimes the russian liberators are committing.
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
Very unfortunate is that the UNSC is almost paralyzed or hijacked by the rogue permanent members with veto power namely Russia and China.  Both are also trying to mislead that Bucha is another fake.
That the kleptocratic dwarf hiding in the kremlin and his circle of utterly corrupt, evil, cowardly and morally bankrupt yes men should vomit this rotting perversion if the truth is no surprise, but that anyone else subscribes to it shows a degree of moral degeneracy that is hard to believe and yet russians seem to accept it as well as the useful idiots in the west.
Evidence? You mean like eyewitness accounts, photos, videos, actual dead bodies, actual mass graves, satellite images, etc?
How come the UK blocked an official investigation into these killings to find out who exactly was responsible? That sounds very fishy.
I think you have it once again wrong. No one here is rooting for Putin, but our government and this governments lack of transparency and their geopolitical disasters as well as the growing problems domestically, add to that the lack of transparency with our own NSA, FBI agencies doesnt bring a lot of hope and trust into these organizations particularly given their tainted history over the last 5 years. Seems like more people can get real and more credible information abroad they have nothing to lose than from our own media and leaders sometimes.
As long as the war criminals have a veto over Security Council resolutions on their own war and war crimes it will remain impotent and fail the very purpose for which it was founded after the last fascist rampage.
I doubt Putin ordered the atrocity personally. I would think the officers on the ground either lost control of their troops or encouraged this behaviour. Remember the Russian army is a very brutal entity even on its own members. Extreme bullying is the norm so you can imagine,  see how that mind set is unleashed on those the group see as enemies, even if its a child in pyjamas. Brutal systems produce brutal people. Shouldnt be too hard to identify the unit responsible.
I feel solace in the fact that i, and any rational thinker, treats the deniers as akin the the deniers of the Holocaust. We must all remember that barbaric people walk amongst us, even here.
With the emergence of "total war" in WWI, war itself became a crime against humanity, as the target was no longer just enemy combatants. So what makes what is happening in Ukraine more of a war crime than what is happening in the many conflicts around the globe Yemen a good example some directly and many indirectly through arms sales involving the same Western government regimes now condemning Russia?
The deniers in Europe allowed the holocaust to take place interesting how an equally impotent Europe is consciously aware of the current events, but it still sits idly by.
It is a pointless, country club gathering of elite welcoming pay to play politics, that serves no actual purpose outside of self ingratiating gatherings to sip wine, and condemn global realities.
And now theyve sent other renowned war criminals into Ukraine - Wagner terrorist group whose leader is a nazi
The truth is on the side of the faithful. The rest of you are led by evil. America has the best in satellite technology and we are watching this Putin War in real time. Clearly, War Crimes brought to you by Russia.
If you think you're experiencing a human rights issue, talk to us  in your language.
Therefore, they have put the Russian Federation out of the running for the international European Tree of the Year contest.
Did anybody see the report about the Russian soldiers who murdered the Ukrainian father and then gang raped his wife repeatedly in front of their 6 year old son? The boy was so traumatized that it made his hair turn gray, and hes only 6 years old! Animals!
Satellite images from Maxar Technology reviewed by The Times and also sent to Insider, however, show that some of the bodies have been lying in the streets for more than three weeks, during a time when Russian troops occupied the town."
Trying Putin is next to impossible. He can simply sayfork off to the International Court of Justice. To get some manufactured ICJ Level evidence that Putin actually ordered the Bucha Massacre is near impossible. It can be done with some African Despot or maybe Saddam Hussein but not with a nuclear power.
Russian doctrine is to destroy soft targets, and force the other side to acquiesce due to the barbaric treatment of civilians. Their military training and equipment are at least 30 years old. Their command control systems fragile at best. The claim of freeing the Ukrainians has been proven demonstratively wrong. Its so sad. For both the Ukrainians especially, but also for the clueless Russians. They Russians might have won the second Chechen war 20 odd years ago but rebuilding is still going on, and the Russian backed leader has proven to be a nut case. This was never going to benefit anyone.
Lavrov said the situation in Bucha aims to "distract attention from the negotiation process, distract attention from the fact that the Ukrainian party, after Istanbul, has started to row back, tried to put forward new conditions".
They're will be those who seek to deny it, claiming it was all staged. They are no better.
Come on, are the films of civilian appartments being destroyed photo shopped? Hospitals, schools, all fake?
Unless there is a new Russian regime that tries Putin - Its near impossible that Putin will be tried.
Never mind that none of those conspiracy theories make any sense or have any evidence to back them up. In case you hadnt noticed, Russia already looks bad!
Also, high-resolution satellite imagery from Maxar Technologies showed that many of the bodies had been lying in the open for weeks, during the time that Russian forces were in the town.
Of course each American has the right to express an opinion, and can choose to side with whichever nation they want, and given so many believe the Kremlin before they believe US government,
So now there is clear evidence that the Russian narrative is based on a lie
Technically doesn't mean anything, bodies could have been moved at any point very easily.  All we really have are both sides pointing at each other and yelling accusations.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
And now theyve sent other renowned war criminals into Ukraine - Wagner terrorist group whose leaderisa nazi
Their excuses remind me of others recently used...."don't believe your eyes, it's a normal day in Bucha, all the bodies are just tourists taking a rest"....
So either the satellite company was digitally inserting dead bodies at random into the images three weeks ahead of the retreat by Russian troops, THEN the Ukrainian forces were recreating the images in exact positional detail using corpses with rigor mortis which were posed and clothed in the exact same manner, or the murders were carried out by the Russian forces.  Applying Occam's Razor to that leads to one conclusion.
Putin has cratered Russia's economy, made it a pariah in the world except for a few tyrants and dictators, tarnished its reputation for decades if not centuries, and murdered thousands of innocent women and children...
Hasn't been THAT cold.  Temperatures ranging from just above 0 to high teens during the day.  Not enough to necessarily prevent decay.
for an example see Russian meddling in US elections to help the Republican Party and further undermine US institutions.
Sadly true, the global Putin cult will continue to protect the little male that some have called 'Lord.' And Putin's media, especially the outlets he and his oligarchs directly control and those he and his propagandists have aided will continue to cry 'witch hunt' and 'fake news' and of course it's the 'media' that caused the problem. 'The media' in extreme right lexicon means any outlet that might question Putin or one of the globe's other far right authoritarians.
Weak!  Pathetic and weak!  A junior level consulate diplomat, fresh out of university, could have done better.  Of course, then again, in the face of mounting evidence of unbelievable war crimes . . .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Tuesday said the discovery of bodies in the Ukrainian town of Bucha was a "provocation" aimed at scuppering talks between Moscow and Kyiv.
"Russia's Ministry of Defense denied responsibility for the casualties in a SundayTelegram post, accusing Ukraine of staging the footage and calling the scene a "hoax." The Russian Ministry even suggested that Ukraine had placed the bodies in the street sometime after March 30, after "all Russian units withdrew completely from Bucha."
This is probably true, but just because a criminal cant be brought before a court due to practical reasons doesnt mean the case against them should be dropped.
This is my prediction. Putin will be murdered, there is no real leaders to take his place so there will be internal fighting Belarus will be left without Putin protection which means Ukrain will benefit and unify making Ukrain the dominant force in the region. The rest of Russia proper in descend into civil war with the satellite countries taken the opportunity at extend their borders. In other word it the Russia as we know it. China will not help out Russia because instead of just dealing with one country they will have deal with a federation of countries.
Those organizers say the exclusion of Russia from the competition is a step that must be understood in the context of international efforts to isolate Russia in order to stop the war.
This is yet another US intelligence victory for it shows conclusively and beyond any reasonable doubt the lies of Putin's Russia.
