Zelenskyy meets US secretaries of state and defense
20220424
https://japantoday.com/category/world/Zelenskyy-meets-U.S.-secretaries-of-state-and-defense-secretary
Not what I want, its actually Europe's problem but it would help if this admin wants to brag that they are doing something, then the most important thing that they can do is, listen to your ally? They seem more intent on telling this man what he needs.
And yet the NEOLIBERALS are so eager to dash into another war? Why? And why would they do it half-a.never mind, we just need to look back at Afghanistan to understand why.
So if its Europe's problem and you say the US should "stay out", why are you advocating the US provide "air support"?
Hopefully, we will give Ukrainians the numbers and types of weapons they so desperately need.
He's a hell of a lot more happy with this administration than the previous, "you can get the Javelin missiles if you get me dirt on Biden" previous administration.
the thousands of people surrounded in Mariupol, civilians, among them the wounded, the elderly, women and many children.
Interesting comment - after saying since the war began that you think the US should "stay out of it"....
The pro-Putin crowd those that follow and actually believe  the Kremlin's media while extolling the might of Russian military forces are left with 'the media are biased' as their sole defense of Russia's butchery. They must still be upset Putin's pal Le Pen lost the French election.
Well done - the US sending its two most senior cabinet members to show support to Ukraine and its people...
i dont get this sense that the Usa HAS to do this. A little appreciation would go nice with the demanding.
not wrong, Republicans do support arming the Ukraine, we just think that it should be Europe that does most of the lifting, we dont want boots on the ground and we dont want to engage in nuclear Russia not because the Republicans dont want to, they just dont trust this administration especially after what happened Afghanistan in who could blame them?
Auto Loans by Suruga Bank do not require permanent residency to apply. Let us support getting your first car loan here in Japan.
An admission of journalistic bias? Lots of reports of children being killed but never a mention of the armed forces being systematically driven back from their positions which any real journalist on the ground can witness.
Sounds about wrong.  You said the US should provide air support, just like the establishment NEOCON Repubs you criticize.  Another flip I guess - your views change each day...
Difficult to do, but it would've been great if Pres. Biden would go to Ukraine.
but never a mention of the armed forces being systematically driven back from their positions which any real journalist on the ground can witness.
You said the US should provide air support, just like the establishment NEOCON Repubs you criticize.
Ok, So hes not relevant in this situation, but when it comes to trying to prosecute the guy or rag on him, just to do so then its OK, is that about right?
With the amount of sanctions the USA has imposed on Russia and the medical aid ,financial aid , and weapons you'd think Zelenskyy's would be begging not demanding for more assistance and showing alot more appreciation.
If this would have happened two years ago, the then President would have sent them to Moscow.  Pompeo would be groveling to Putin, just like he did to the Taliban, and the "Switchblades" and "Phoenix Ghosts" would be given to the Russians...
"you can get the Javelin missiles if you get me dirt on Biden" previous administration.
TheUkrainian presidentalso accused the U.S. and NATO of beingafraid to prevent this tragedy. Afraid to simply make a decision.
Not what I want, its actually Europe's problem but it would help if this admin wants to brag that they are doing something, then the most important thing that they can do is, listen to your ally?
I do, all the more reason as to why the visit? Zelenskyy was clear about his needs.
Sounds about right given the fact that Zelenskyy is not happy with this administration, right think tone deaf would be the appropriate word.
Now you want to send MIGs and commit the US to air support...OK, John Bolton would be proud of you -  you've flipped and are now an establishment Repub NEOCON...
I guess you missed the link since you ignored it....looks like "all" Repubs don't support arming Ukraine...so you were wrong...
"You cant come to us empty-handed today, and we are expecting not just presents or some kind of cakes, we are expecting specific things and specific weapons,'' he said.
Must be hard since you failed - which is it?  Stay out?  Or send in US air support?
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Hardly, they would have had those MiGs by now or at the very least air support...
The claims could not be independently verified. But they were repeated by Ukrainian lawmaker Yevheniya Kravchuk on ABCs This Week.
Hardly, they would have had those MiGs by now or at the very least air support
They do support Zulenskyy, they just want to do it using every available in modern equipment that we possess to send them and not just blankets or words written on a Teleprompter.
Mr K - If you are hoping for a more granular understanding of the war, you should check out some of the OSINT sites.  I like Live UA Map, but there are others that will give a more up-to-the-minute, live, open-sourced reporting than you will find on traditional media outlets.
Take our survey and share your experience with Japanese banks in less than 10 minutes!
If this would have happened two years ago, the then President would have sent them to Moscow. Pompeo would be groveling to Putin, just like he did to the Taliban, and the "Switchblades" and "Phoenix Ghosts" would be given to the Russians...
Hardly, they would have had those MiGs by now or at the very least air support, but it probably wouldn't have come to that since Putin, Xi and all these other adversaries including the Saudis who won't even pick up Biden's calls don't fear weakness and both Obama and Biden show it and after Biden's botched Afghanistan withdrawal, Putin knew it's his time once and for all to take action and seize the moment.
Compared to bragging about what would have happened if 45 were still relevant? Hardly, they would have had those MiGs by now or at the very least air support
And especially a president who holds onto a grudge against Ukraine after the "perfect phone call"
Once again, you posted above Hardly, they would have had those MiGs by now or at the very least air support...
