Complete coverage Ukraine war escalates as Russia appears headed for capital
20220225
https://swvatoday.com/news/world/article_31909b28-9d2e-5c73-929a-8a299bfe37a4.html
Israeli medics say a Palestinian gunman has shot and killed an Israeli motorist with American citizenship on a West Bank highway as part of a 
In unleashing the largest ground war in Europe since World War II, Putin ignored global condemnation and cascading new sanctions. With a chilling reference to his countrys nuclear arsenal, he threatened any country trying to interfere with consequences you have never seen, as a once-hoped for diplomatic resolution now appeared impossible.
The path to the 2024 Paris Olympics for Ukrainian athletes is clouded by war, anger and pain. Russian bombardments have wrecked training venue
Ukrainian forces braced for more attacks after enduring for hours a Russian barrage of land- and sea-based missiles, an assault that one senior U.S. defense official described as the first salvo in a likely multi-phase invasion aimed at seizing key population centers and decapitating Ukraine's government.
Ukrainian leaders pleaded for help as civilians piled into trains and cars to flee, and hotels in Kyiv were being evacuated amid early indications of an assault.
In just a year, NATO has moved from cautiously providing non-lethal support to Ukraine to exhorting allies to send heavier and more high-tech weapons.
The Syrian so-called "miracle baby"  who was born under the rubble of a collapsed building following the huge earthquakes earlier this month 
Explosions were heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv Friday as Russian forces pressed on with a full-scale invasion that resulted in the deaths of more than 100 Ukrainians in the first full day of fighting and could eventually rewrite the global post-Cold War security order.
Researchers have found a new moai statue in a dry lake on the Chilean island of Rapa Nui, joining the approximately 1,000 other iconic monolit
After using airstrikes on cities and military bases, Russian military units moved swiftly to take on Ukraine's seat of government and its largest city in what U.S. officials suspect is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.
