The way forward for the RollsRoyce share price
20220513
https://www.fool.co.uk/2022/05/13/the-way-forward-for-the-rolls-royce-share-price/
Positive cash flow is clearly good. But potentially having to wait until the second half to see it suggests no quick improvements. It does not surprise me then that the Rolls-Royce share price has remained weak so far in 2022.
Analysts expect earnings to grow steadily over the next two years though. That would drop the EV PE to 19 in 2023, and 13 by 2024. Id rate the Rolls-Royce share price as probably around fair value right now. But I am cautious that forecasts at the moment are far from certain.
Should you invest, the value of your investment may rise or fall and your capital is at risk. Before investing, your individual circumstances should be assessed. Consider taking independent financial advice.
The Rolls-Royce LSE: RR share price has gone from bad to worse in 2022. Since the turn of the year, Rolls has lost a third of its value. Still, we have seen a small uptick over the past couple of days, as CEO Warren East delivered an AGM trading update on 12 May.
So will I buy for my portfolio? I like buying good companies at fair prices, and I do think the Rolls price is fair now. But with all the uncertainty, Im going to wait and watch a little longer.
There werent any new numbers on the outlook front. Rolls just said performance this year has been in line with expectations, and that financial guidance for 2022 is unchanged.
The content of this article was relevant at the time of publishing. Circumstances change continuously and caution should therefore be exercised when relying upon any content contained within this article.
What is the way forward for Rolls-Royce? To me, its looking increasingly like its going to be slow and steady. Hopes of a quick recovery that sent the shares up and down several times since the depths of the pandemic were clearly based on unfounded optimism.
The guidance offered at FY results time was conservative anyway. Rolls main aim was to generate modestly positive free cash flow in 2022, seasonally weighted towards the second half of the year.
The Rolls-Royce share price has been falling in 2022. After this weeks AGM, heres what I expect for the rest of the year, and beyond.
Alan Oscroft has no position in any of the shares mentioned. The Motley Fool UK has no position in any of the shares mentioned. Views expressed on the companies mentioned in this article are those of the writer and therefore may differ from the official recommendations we make in our subscription services such as Share Advisor, Hidden Winners and Pro. Here at The Motley Fool we believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors.
Its Benjamin Grahams voting machineweighing machine thing again. In the short term, shares are moved by sentiment the voting machine. But fundamental analysis the weighing machine comes to the fore in the long term.
Ive worked it out, using FY 2021 debt figures, but leaving off lease liabilities  I see those as more an operational thing than what wed usually think of as debt.
Youre reading a free article with opinions that may differ from The Motley Fools Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today toget instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources, and more. Learn More.
Since FY results on 24 February, plenty has changed though. For one thing, that fateful day coincided with Russian tanks rolling into Ukraine. Im thinking that development could be damaging for civil aviation, but provide a boost for defence business.
On the fundamental valuation front, I like to estimate an enterprise valuation EV for Rolls. The classic metric, the PE ratio, can be misleading when a company carries a lot of debt. The EV version of the measure takes into account a companys cash and debt situation too.
But a journey back to health has to start somewhere, and the latest update does sound reasonably encouraging.
On that basis, using forecast earnings, I put my EV estimate of the PE at around 29. I dont see that as especially cheap.
As we can see from the chart, were still nowhere near any kind of sustainable share price recovery:
I do expect a long-term recovery for Rolls-Royce, and it might even be the FTSE 100s best growth share prospect right now. But in the short term, I see uncertainty and volatility.
