UK cybersecurity stocks to buy for 2022 and beyond
20220415
https://www.fool.co.uk/2022/04/15/uk-cybersecurity-stocks-to-buy-for-2022-and-beyond/
Another way to play the cybersecurity theme is through IT infrastructure companies. These are companies that provide technology solutions for other businesses.
Edward Sheldon owns shares in Softcat. The Motley Fool UK has recommended Softcat. Views expressed on the companies mentioned in this article are those of the writer and therefore may differ from the official recommendations we make in our subscription services such as Share Advisor, Hidden Winners and Pro. Here at The Motley Fool we believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors.
To get around this, Id consider investing in a cybersecurity-focused exchange-traded fund ETF that provides exposure to many different stocks. One example of such an ETF is the Legal  General UCITS Cyber Security ETF. This would provide me with exposure to a wide range of cybersecurity stocks including stocks listed internationally, and therefore reduce stock-specific risk.
The cybersecurity industry is booming right now. Heres a look at some UK-listed companies that could benefit.
Some examples here are FTSE 250 firms Softcat and Computacenter. Both of these companies help public and private organisations with their IT services, including cybersecurity.
If I was looking for a pure-play UK cybersecurity stock, Id start with Avast LSE:AVST. Its one of the worlds largest associated companies with over 400m users globally. It has a track record of consistent growth, a solid balance sheet, and a high level of profitability.
These businesses are not as profitable as Avast however. Darktrace is not profitable at all. So Id be less inclined to buy them for my portfolio.
Ive been bullish on the cybersecurity sector for years now, and with cyberattacks currently a major threat worldwide, I think its a good time to revisit the theme. With that in mind, heres a look at how Id invest in UK cybersecurity stocks today.
These stocks have a lot of appeal, to my mind. Both look set for solid growth in the years ahead as businesses undergo digital transformation. If I had to pick one today though, Id probably go with Computacenter. It has a lower valuation than Softcat.
The content of this article was relevant at the time of publishing. Circumstances change continuously and caution should therefore be exercised when relying upon any content contained within this article.
Defence companies can also provide some exposure to cybersecurity. BAE Systems, for example, is a leading provider of cyber, intelligence, and security capabilities. This is another stock Id consider for my portfolio. However, it has had a good run recently, so I might wait for a pullback before buying.
Should you invest, the value of your investment may rise or fall and your capital is at risk. Before investing, your individual circumstances should be assessed. Consider taking independent financial advice.
Youre reading a free article with opinions that may differ from The Motley Fools Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today toget instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources, and more. Learn More.
Cybersecurity is a hot topic right now. With cyberattacks playing a large role in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, experts are concerned that these attacks could spill out to the rest of the world.
Its worth pointing out here that investing in cybersecurity can be a bit tricky. This is because cyber threats are continually evolving. Due to the dynamic nature of the industry, it can be hard for companies to build durable competitive advantages. As a result, individual stocks quite often underperform at times.
Last year, Avast received a takeover offer from rival giant NortonLifeLock which indicates its doing something right. However, UK regulators recently put the deal on ice, due to concerns it could reduce competition in the sector. As a result, Avasts share price has fallen.
Id snap up AVST shares while theyre down. After the pullback, the stocks price-to-earnings PE ratio is under 20. That valuation is attractive, to my mind.
Its worth pointing out that there are a number of other pure-play cybersecurity stocks on the London Stock Exchange including NCC Group, Kape Technologies, and Darktrace.
