Why Evraz shares are the biggest faller in the FTSE 100 today
20220223
https://www.fool.co.uk/2022/02/23/why-evraz-shares-are-the-biggest-faller-in-the-ftse-100-today/
Even without diving into any more detail, its clear to see why investors are worried at the moment. In the news this week, Russias President Putin has acknowledged two states in Eastern Ukraine as independent. Russian troops have been sent in to these locations, on peacekeeping orders. Ultimately, this has raised tensions between Russia and Ukraine.
One point that has always attracted me to Evraz shares has been the dividend yield. As I wrote about recently, the yield is too high to ignore, but doesnt come without risks. At the moment, the yield is 32, easily the highest in the FTSE 100. The reason for this is the fact that Evraz shares have been falling. The dividend per share has remained broadly the same, but the falling share price has artificially pushed the yield up.
As an ally of Ukraine, the UK has announced sanctions over the past day on Russian banks and some oligarchs. For Evraz, the company is stuck between a rock and a hard place. Even without any direct sanctions on the company, its going to be difficult to operate in coming months. Distribution and movement of resources in and out of Eastern Europe will be tricky. The business might also have pressure placed on it by respective governments.
Evraz LSE:EVR shares are down almost 10 today, making it the worst performing stock in the FTSE 100 index. By trading at 253p, the share price is now down just over 50 in a one-year period. Unfortunately, the crisis with Russia and Ukraine is the main reason pulling the price lower in the short term.
Its a really tough one to call right now as to whether I should invest or not. On the one hand, I do think that the market is undervaluing Evraz as a business based on its fundamental operations. Yet I do acknowledge that revenue could dry up very quickly if restrictions are imposed or the mines arent operational due to a conflict.
Given my personal take on things, Id be happy to allocate a small amount of money to Evraz shares at the moment, but hold on to the bulk of my free cash. I dont think its worth investing a large amount in something so unpredictable right now.
The content of this article was relevant at the time of publishing. Circumstances change continuously and caution should therefore be exercised when relying upon any content contained within this article.
Should you invest, the value of your investment may rise or fall and your capital is at risk. Before investing, your individual circumstances should be assessed. Consider taking independent financial advice.
Evraz is a manufacturing and mining company listed in the UK. However, most of its operations are in Eastern Europe. Notably, Russia and Ukraine are two countries where it has a presence. The main elements mined are coal and iron ore.
Youre reading a free article with opinions that may differ from The Motley Fools Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today toget instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources, and more. Learn More.
Jon Smith takes a look at the 10 fall in Evraz shares today, and shares his opinion on what hes thinking of doing at the moment.
Jon Smith and The Motley Fool UK have no position in any of the shares mentioned. Views expressed on the companies mentioned in this article are those of the writer and therefore may differ from the official recommendations we make in our subscription services such as Share Advisor, Hidden Winners and Pro. Here at The Motley Fool we believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors.
Aside from Evraz shares falling on potential operational issues, the ownership structure is worth noting. Roman Abramovich owns 28.64 of voting rights, with Alexander Abramov owning 19.32. Both are powerful Russians who could be placed on sanctions lists by other countries. Even though this wouldnt directly impact Evraz, it could cause reputational damage to the company.
