Donated clothes help in Ukraine But theres one thing aid experts like better
20220323
https://www.npr.org/transcripts/1088005415
BEAUBIEN: The program will start by distributing funds through the Ukrainian Postal Service. Families will be able to get roughly $75 per month per person at any branch of the post office for at least the next three months. Similar programs are being launched for refugees in Poland and Moldova that distribute the funds through ATM cards. Billing says logistically, it's much easier to transfer cash than to move truckloads of food, diapers and clothes around a war zone. Cash is also often more dignified and useful, she says, for the recipients.
BEAUBIEN: There's been some progress, but it's been limited. Ukrainian officials almost every day are going on TV, going on the internet and saying we're demanding the opening of humanitarian corridors for civilians. Sometimes they work, sometimes they don't. We've been talking to people who fled here to the western part of Ukraine, and many of them say that just getting out of these towns that have been occupied by the Russians has been harrowing and often unpredictable. Sometimes they say there's a corridor and then no buses arrive, or they aren't able to actually pass through some of these checkpoints. And then when they do have to deal with the Russian troops to get out, the Russians are searching their belongings, their phones. They're pulling people off buses who've got messages on their phones that the Russian soldiers find offensive.
NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPRs programming is the audio record.
KAROLINA LINDHOLM BILLING: UNHCR has planned to disburse unconditional cash grants to at least 360,000 internally displaced persons.
BEAUBIEN: Well, again, today we saw several residential buildings in Kyiv getting hit by shelling. Today, it was in the northern suburb of Obolon in the capital. Further north from there, the city of Chernihiv is cut off. It continues to get bombed. There's concern about a major humanitarian catastrophe there, as many parts of the city have been without electricity, food and water for a week now. And there's street fighting continuing in the besieged port city of Mariupol, even as residents are desperately trying to get out of there. The ferocious Russian air assault on Mariupol has been so devastating that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy today said that there's now nothing left of Mariupol.
SUMMERS: And what can you tell us then about humanitarian aid efforts? How are they going?
BEAUBIEN: But in Poland, there's plenty of food on the supermarket shelves. The banking system is functioning. The influx of cash also helps rather than undercuts local merchants. Wilk says the plan in Poland is to use the cash payments for a few months to get refugees settled, then to get them enrolled in the Polish Social Security system so they can work and get access to unemployment, housing and other benefits. The biggest challenge for the cash aid program, Wilk says, is going to be to get enough international donors to fund it, especially given that there are now millions and millions of Ukrainians who could potentially need this assistance. Jason Beaubien, NPR News, Lviv, Ukraine.
TETIANA KOSTORNA: Like, OK, I understand you want to help, but you have to respect us, to respect the people who lost everything.
Copyright  2022 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.
JUANA SUMMERS, HOST:  In Ukraine, the capital city, Kyiv, came under shelling again today by Russian forces. Heavy fighting is also being reported in the port city of Mariupol. Ukrainian officials continue to try to negotiate what they're calling green corridors to allow people to evacuate out of Mariupol and other besieged areas. NPR's Jason Beaubien joins us from Lviv. Hey, Jason.JASON BEAUBIEN, BYLINE: Hey, Juana.SUMMERS: So what's the latest? What can you tell us about the fighting in Ukraine now?BEAUBIEN: Well, again, today we saw several residential buildings in Kyiv getting hit by shelling. Today, it was in the northern suburb of Obolon in the capital. Further north from there, the city of Chernihiv is cut off. It continues to get bombed. There's concern about a major humanitarian catastrophe there, as many parts of the city have been without electricity, food and water for a week now. And there's street fighting continuing in the besieged port city of Mariupol, even as residents are desperately trying to get out of there. The ferocious Russian air assault on Mariupol has been so devastating that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy today said that there's now nothing left of Mariupol.SUMMERS: Wow. So as I understand, there have been some conversations about negotiating safe passage for civilians out of a number of these areas. Has there been much progress on that front?BEAUBIEN: There's been some progress, but it's been limited. Ukrainian officials almost every day are going on TV, going on the internet and saying we're demanding the opening of humanitarian corridors for civilians. Sometimes they work, sometimes they don't. We've been talking to people who fled here to the western part of Ukraine, and many of them say that just getting out of these towns that have been occupied by the Russians has been harrowing and often unpredictable. Sometimes they say there's a corridor and then no buses arrive, or they aren't able to actually pass through some of these checkpoints. And then when they do have to deal with the Russian troops to get out, the Russians are searching their belongings, their phones. They're pulling people off buses who've got messages on their phones that the Russian soldiers find offensive.SUMMERS: And what can you tell us then about humanitarian aid efforts? How are they going?BEAUBIEN: Well, for people who can get to places like Lviv or get across to Poland, there is a massive aid operation underway. You know, it may not be perfect, but it is functioning. However, Mercy Corps' Ukraine humanitarian response advisor Steve Gordon today said that the humanitarian system inside Ukraine is entirely broken down. And he's not the only one with that opinion. In the areas of intense fighting, you're basically not seeing a coordinated international aid effort. Oftentimes, you're not seeing any aid getting in there at all. Basic supply chains have broken down, so there's not food going in there. And, you know, most of the support is coming from small local groups like churches and volunteers. And I've been putting together a report on how some people are saying that rather than this big aid operation with trucks, a more targeted cash-based assistance would be better.In downtown Lviv, what until a few weeks ago was a massive arts complex is now a massive aid distribution hub. In the seats of a theater, women are sorting boxes of socks. In the basement, nursing students are divvying up medicines. There's an area where volunteers are taking pallets of dry food and making small bundles of groceries for displaced families. An art gallery on the second floor is packed with thousands of bags of donated clothes, mainly for children.This is a huge pile. It goes all the way to the ceiling.NASTIA STEFANOVICH: Yeah. For children, a lot.BEAUBIEN: Nastia Stefanovich, a volunteer at the distribution center, says they're getting tons of secondhand shirts and pants for kids, but not enough shoes and sneakers for adults. The coordinator of the center, Tetiana Kostorna, is even more blunt in saying that some people are just sending Ukrainians their worn-out clothes.TETIANA KOSTORNA: Like, OK, I understand you want to help, but you have to respect us, to respect the people who lost everything.BEAUBIEN: She says people are being incredibly generous and her center is able to provide assistance to roughly 500 families per day, but some of the donations are just junk and they have to throw them away. Some of the clothes they send to a dog shelter to be used as bedding. The head of UNHCR, the U.N. refugee agency in Ukraine, Karolina Lindholm Billing, says a coalition of aid groups is ramping up a program to instead give cash directly to displaced Ukrainians.KAROLINA LINDHOLM BILLING: UNHCR has planned to disburse unconditional cash grants to at least 360,000 internally displaced persons.BEAUBIEN: The program will start by distributing funds through the Ukrainian Postal Service. Families will be able to get roughly $75 per month per person at any branch of the post office for at least the next three months. Similar programs are being launched for refugees in Poland and Moldova that distribute the funds through ATM cards. Billing says logistically, it's much easier to transfer cash than to move truckloads of food, diapers and clothes around a war zone. Cash is also often more dignified and useful, she says, for the recipients.BILLING: It's better that people get the cash, and they can buy, you know, what kind of - if they want pasta or rice or, you know, canola oil or olive oil, you know? That gives them rather than getting a package with half of the things they want and need and a half that they would not have picked on the shelves if they could choose.BEAUBIEN: Currently, UNHCR and other aid groups are starting to enroll people in this cash distribution program, but disbursements haven't yet been made. In Poland, several pilot programs are already offering cash directly to refugees. There's been a growing recognition among humanitarian groups in recent years that cash aid makes a lot of sense in some disasters. Wojtek Wilk, the head of the Polish Center for International Aid, says this is one of them.WOJTEK WILK: For instance, using cash assistance in a drought-affected area in Africa where there is no food wouldn't probably make any sense.BEAUBIEN: But in Poland, there's plenty of food on the supermarket shelves. The banking system is functioning. The influx of cash also helps rather than undercuts local merchants. Wilk says the plan in Poland is to use the cash payments for a few months to get refugees settled, then to get them enrolled in the Polish Social Security system so they can work and get access to unemployment, housing and other benefits. The biggest challenge for the cash aid program, Wilk says, is going to be to get enough international donors to fund it, especially given that there are now millions and millions of Ukrainians who could potentially need this assistance. Jason Beaubien, NPR News, Lviv, Ukraine.SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC
In Ukraine, the capital city, Kyiv, came under shelling again today by Russian forces. Heavy fighting is also being reported in the port city of Mariupol. Ukrainian officials continue to try to negotiate what they're calling green corridors to allow people to evacuate out of Mariupol and other besieged areas. NPR's Jason Beaubien joins us from Lviv. Hey, Jason.
BEAUBIEN: Well, for people who can get to places like Lviv or get across to Poland, there is a massive aid operation underway. You know, it may not be perfect, but it is functioning. However, Mercy Corps' Ukraine humanitarian response advisor Steve Gordon today said that the humanitarian system inside Ukraine is entirely broken down. And he's not the only one with that opinion. In the areas of intense fighting, you're basically not seeing a coordinated international aid effort. Oftentimes, you're not seeing any aid getting in there at all. Basic supply chains have broken down, so there's not food going in there. And, you know, most of the support is coming from small local groups like churches and volunteers. And I've been putting together a report on how some people are saying that rather than this big aid operation with trucks, a more targeted cash-based assistance would be better.
WOJTEK WILK: For instance, using cash assistance in a drought-affected area in Africa where there is no food wouldn't probably make any sense.
BEAUBIEN: Nastia Stefanovich, a volunteer at the distribution center, says they're getting tons of secondhand shirts and pants for kids, but not enough shoes and sneakers for adults. The coordinator of the center, Tetiana Kostorna, is even more blunt in saying that some people are just sending Ukrainians their worn-out clothes.
SUMMERS: So what's the latest? What can you tell us about the fighting in Ukraine now?
BILLING: It's better that people get the cash, and they can buy, you know, what kind of - if they want pasta or rice or, you know, canola oil or olive oil, you know? That gives them rather than getting a package with half of the things they want and need and a half that they would not have picked on the shelves if they could choose.
BEAUBIEN: Currently, UNHCR and other aid groups are starting to enroll people in this cash distribution program, but disbursements haven't yet been made. In Poland, several pilot programs are already offering cash directly to refugees. There's been a growing recognition among humanitarian groups in recent years that cash aid makes a lot of sense in some disasters. Wojtek Wilk, the head of the Polish Center for International Aid, says this is one of them.
In downtown Lviv, what until a few weeks ago was a massive arts complex is now a massive aid distribution hub. In the seats of a theater, women are sorting boxes of socks. In the basement, nursing students are divvying up medicines. There's an area where volunteers are taking pallets of dry food and making small bundles of groceries for displaced families. An art gallery on the second floor is packed with thousands of bags of donated clothes, mainly for children.
BEAUBIEN: She says people are being incredibly generous and her center is able to provide assistance to roughly 500 families per day, but some of the donations are just junk and they have to throw them away. Some of the clothes they send to a dog shelter to be used as bedding. The head of UNHCR, the U.N. refugee agency in Ukraine, Karolina Lindholm Billing, says a coalition of aid groups is ramping up a program to instead give cash directly to displaced Ukrainians.
SUMMERS: Wow. So as I understand, there have been some conversations about negotiating safe passage for civilians out of a number of these areas. Has there been much progress on that front?
