Fighting to survive Ukraines cancer patients struggle to find care while fleeing
20220318
https://www.npr.org/sections/pictureshow/2022/03/18/1087462333/fighting-to-survive-ukraines-cancer-struggle-to-find-care-while-fleeing-war
A patient sits in a chair while being treated. Doctors say they're treating patients who are dealing with the double trauma of fighting to heal while trying to survive Russia's invading forces.
A nurse holds bottles of medications. The Lviv hospital had about three weeks of reserves on site.
The patient load has doubled in Lviv as the displaced search for treatment away from Russia's bombardments in the country's center, east and south.
Patients wait in a hospital hallway in Lviv. They receive treatment in the morning and don't stay overnight because it's too hard to get hundreds of patients into the shelter in the case of an air raid siren.
Lviv's regional cancer hospital has become a refuge for the nation's sick. The patient load has doubled as the displaced search for treatment away from Russia's bombardments in the country's center, east and south.
"Patients from the east and Kyiv region, they are exhausted emotionally from both war and from disease," said clinical oncologist Anna Honcharova. "It's much harder than in COVID times. And there are a lot of patients  much more than we usually have. They tell stories of bombings, how they were in shelters  lost homes. It's horrible."
At times, Dr. Orest Trill, the deputy director of Lviv's regional cancer hospital, has had to tell patients in besieged areas that they can come to the hospital but they don't have the medicine to treat them. He calls it "morally hard."
"You cannot just stop in the middle of the operation when the air raid siren goes off," he says, "so we decided to continue operating  despite the war."
"Patients from the east and Kyiv region, they are exhausted emotionally from both war and from disease," clinical oncologist Anna Honcharova said.
But even here, in the relative safety of this western city, supplies are running low. The hospital had about three weeks of reserves on site. Their stockpiles near and in the capital city of Kyiv are now inaccessible and the hospital is in urgent need of medical resupplies.
Every day, they choose the duty of care over their own personal safety. When the war first began over three weeks ago, Dr. Orest Trill, the hospital's deputy director, made a decision.
