Russian law bans journalists from calling Ukraine conflict a war or an invasion
20220305
https://www.npr.org/2022/03/05/1084729579/russian-law-bans-journalists-from-calling-ukraine-conflict-a-war-or-an-invasion
Tim Davie, director general of the BBC, said this legislation appears to criminalize the process of independent journalism. Many independent Russian voices have shut down, including the Echo of Moscow radio station, which had over a million daily listeners, TV Rain and the Znak news outlet. Novaya Gazeta, which has seen six of its journalists killed over the past two decades and whose editor, Dmitry Muratov, shared last year's Nobel Peace Prize, said it was deleting its war coverage from its website. And even The Village, a digital lifestyle site, says it is editing its old posts to change any mention of war to special operation.
NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPRs programming is the audio record.
Copyright  2022 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.
In order to control what the Russian public knows about invasion of Ukraine, President Vladimir Putin has signed a law that imposes stiff sentences on journalists who air "false information."
Free speech and reporting may be another casualty of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and President Putin signed a law making the airing of what the government calls false information about the armed forces illegal. Journalists could be jailed for up to 15 years. Russian officials assert it's false to call their military operations in Ukraine a war or an invasion. Several Western news outlets say they've suspended reporting from Russia while they assess the law and the safety of their employees.
SCOTT SIMON, HOST:  Free speech and reporting may be another casualty of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and President Putin signed a law making the airing of what the government calls false information about the armed forces illegal. Journalists could be jailed for up to 15 years. Russian officials assert it's false to call their military operations in Ukraine a war or an invasion. Several Western news outlets say they've suspended reporting from Russia while they assess the law and the safety of their employees.Tim Davie, director general of the BBC, said this legislation appears to criminalize the process of independent journalism. Many independent Russian voices have shut down, including the Echo of Moscow radio station, which had over a million daily listeners, TV Rain and the Znak news outlet. Novaya Gazeta, which has seen six of its journalists killed over the past two decades and whose editor, Dmitry Muratov, shared last year's Nobel Peace Prize, said it was deleting its war coverage from its website. And even The Village, a digital lifestyle site, says it is editing its old posts to change any mention of war to special operation.
