The war is speeding up Ukraines efforts to legalize medical cannabis
20220609
https://www.npr.org/2022/06/09/1103937143/ukraine-medical-cannabis-war
An activist holds a placard depicting cannabis leaves during a protest in Kyiv in May 2017. Ukraine is moving closer to legalizing medical cannabis, fueled in part by Russia's war.
Just months later, however, the cannabis legalization bill was sent back for revision after it failed to get enough votes in Parliament, with 184 lawmakers voting in favor, 33 voting against and 61 abstaining.
"We understand the negative consequences of war on the state of mental health," he wrote. "We understand the number of people who will need medical treatment as a result of this impact. And we understand that there is no time to wait."
Ukraine has a long and winding history with cannabis, having cultivated hemp for centuries. Soviet Ukraine was one of the world's biggest manufacturers of hemp, which was used for oil, cloth and food.
"Before the war, we had forecasts in the company regarding the legalization of first medical and then recreational cannabis in Ukraine," she explained. "The time frame varied from 5 to 10 years, depending on the change of power and the growing up of a new generation. Now, it is quite difficult to build a new forecast, because it is not at all clear when this war will end."
The draft bill will now head to Ukraine's parliament, where it will need to be approved by at least 226 votes, the Kyiv Post reports. It's a reworked version of a bill that lawmakers originally failed to pass last summer.
Kira Rudik, a member of Ukraine's parliament, noted on Twitter that the liberal Holos party initiated the original bill back in 2019, adding, "We strongly believe it is about mercy, not drugs."
He said the bill will ensure a "full cycle of cannabis-based drug production in Ukraine," stressing that the country will gradually develop its own industry rather than relying on imports.
Liashko stressed that cannabis drugs are not "competitors" to narcotics, and that completely different measures are taken to regulate their circulation. He alluded to communications campaigns against cannabis that have tried to discredit its medical value.
On the contrary, the Health Ministry notes, cannabis can prevent suffering and improve treatment of more than 50 conditions, including PTSD, neurological diseases and sleep disorders. Cannabis-based drugs also play a key role in palliative care, alleviating pain in patients with cancer and HIV, Liashko added.
Dozens of countries have legalized medical marijuana in some capacity in recent years, and some Ukrainian lawmakers and advocates had long been pushing Ukraine to do the same.
Ukraine's government is moving to legalize medical cannabis, in part due to the trauma wrought by Russia.
But the country began to stigmatize cannabis and the people using it over time, as Lana Braslavskaia told Forbes in late February. She manages marketing and public relations for Kyiv-based cannabis website AskGrowers, and says Ukraine's journey to legalizing cannabis is only just beginning  and very much impacted by the ongoing war.
Minister of Healthcare Viktor Liashko wrote on Facebook on Tuesday  more than 100 days into the war  that Ukraine's cabinet had approved a bill "on regulating the circulation of cannabis plants for medical, industrial purposes, scientific and scientific-technical activities to create the conditions for expanding the access of patients to the necessary treatment of cancer and post-traumatic stress disorder resulting from war."
Ukraine partly legalized the use of certain cannabis products  synthetic cannabis-like chemicals dronabinol and nabilone, as well as cannabis extract nabiximols  for medical purposes last April.
And a national poll conducted by then-presidential candidate Volodymyr Zelenskyy in 2020 found widespread support for medical cannabis, as the Kyiv Post reported. Nearly 65 of respondents said they supported the legalization of medical cannabis to relieve pain for people with terminal illnesses, while 29 were opposed.
It would give the government strict control of the cultivation, production and sale of drugs, the Health Ministry said in a statement.
Patients would be able to get those products through a doctor's prescription, according to Forbes.
