Commentary End the Ukraine War and reduce nukes
20220825
https://www.expressnews.com/opinion/commentary/article/End-Ukraine-War-reduce-nukes-17398495.php
William Lambers, a historian, is author of the Road to Peace and partnered with the U.N. World Food Program on the book Ending World Hunger.
Russia must end its brutal invasion of Ukraine. War cannot provide any gain or security for Russia. The war is claiming thousands of lives and forcing millions of Ukrainians to flee their homes. The war carries a heavy financial cost on everyone, including the Russian people.
The United States and Russia, which possess about 90 percent of the worlds 13,000 nukes, should reduce arsenals. A treaty reducing the number of both nations nukes from the thousands into the hundreds would be a major step for global peace.
A man cleans rubble in front of the house damaged from a Russian bombardment in Nikopol, Ukraine, across the river from Ukraine's main nuclear power plant. Without a peace plan for Ukraine, a nuclear threat looms.
Russias invasion of Ukraine has led to a massive humanitarian crisis with victims spread all around the globe. The war must end. We must prevent future conflicts and a potential nuclear holocaust.
Since that time there has only been limited progress on reducing nukes, far below what is needed. The New START Treaty is still in effect between Russia and the United States, but it needs a replacement that goes further with disarmament. Both nations security would be greatly improved with a new treaty.
Other nuclear states, including China, also should reduce their nukes, enhancing the security of all nations.
May the whole world be united to end the war in Ukraine and disarm nuclear weapons.
, on Aug, 22.  Author William Lambers calls for an end to the Ukraine War.
More on the Russia-Ukraine conflict: Editorial: Congress must move swiftly to enact oversight over Ukrainian war chest
U.N. Secretary-General Antnio Guterres warns of catastrophic consequences should Russias war in Ukraine damage nuclear facilities and cause deadly radioactive fallout. The war in Ukraine has raised fears that nuclear weapons could be used again.
After Russian withdrawal and a demilitarized zone is established, the next part of the peace plan would be to disarm nuclear weapons. A treaty reducing nuclear weapons would give every nation security against the gravest danger. That should be the focus after Russia withdraws from Ukraine.
A peace plan to end the war in Ukraine becomes even more urgent as nuclear dangers increase.
Back in 1996, retired U.S. Gens. Andrew Goodpaster and Lee Butler put forward such a nuke disarmament plan. Goodpaster, a former aide to President Dwight Eisenhower, and Butler said, Steady pursuit of a policy of cooperative, phased reductions with serious commitments to seek the elimination of all nuclear weapons is a path to a world free of nuclear dangers.
A cease-fire ending the fighting in Ukraine and a withdrawal of Russian troops would give peace a chance. A treaty negotiating a deep reduction in the worlds nuclear weapons would enhance international security. It would open the door to the possibility of eliminating all nuclear weapons.
Russias invasion also has dramatically escalated global hunger because of the interruption to Ukraines wheat supply. While some of this food is moving again thanks to a U.N.-brokered agreement, peace must be restored to let Ukraines food feed the world.
There is nothing to be gained from continued warfare in Ukraine. Russia should withdraw its troops from Ukraine. After the withdrawal, a demilitarized area could be set up along the border with Ukraine to bolster peace. Such a zone could be similar to the Rush-Bagot Pact that disarmed American and British warships on the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain after the War of 1812. The Rush-Bagot agreement was the foundation of the peaceful border that exists between the U.S. and Canada.
