Editorial As Ukraine suffers only Russia at fault
20220225
https://www.expressnews.com/opinion/editorial/article/Editorial-As-Ukraine-suffers-only-Russia-at-16945159.php
Chaos has been unleashed  not only in Ukraine but upon the world. Markets have fallen. Oil and natural gas prices have surged. Putin is not a man to praise.
There is no both sides are responsible argument to be made about whats happening. The only threat Ukraine and its 44 million people pose to Russia is in its democracy and corresponding freedom. This is all on Putin, the tyrannical billionaire kleptocrat, and his feverish dreams of empire-building.
Weve begun to see pictures of Ukrainians leaving their homes, people dragging their possessions in suitcases and bags, of women and children at railway stations anxiously awaiting passage to safer places. We expect to see pictures of the dead and of battle.
We know for sure that we dont need the war. Not a Cold War, not a hot war. Not a hybrid one. But if well be attacked by the  enemy  troops, if they try to take our country away from us, our freedom, our lives, the lives of our children, we will defend ourselves. Not attack, but defend ourselves. And when you will be attacking us, you will see our faces, not our backs, but our faces.
Neither the Ukrainian people nor their government leaders did anything to provoke this brazen violation of international law and disrespect for borders and humanity. Its an invasion that could bring the greatest instability to Europe since  World War II. It has the potential to spark a third world war.
But we have been impressed with a robust response from the United States and allied nations: a  renewed sense of urgency and commitment from NATO, tightening global sanctions led by the United States, a humanitarian outcry for what has come.
Zelenskyy spoke of  who will suffer: But our main goal is peace in Ukraine and the safety of our people, Ukrainians. For that we are ready to have talks with anybody, including you, in any format, on any platform. The war will deprive security guarantees from everybody  nobody will have guarantees of security anymore. Who will suffer the most from it? The people. Who doesnt want it the most? The people! Who can stop it? The people. But are there those people among you? I am sure.
As we think of Ukrainians and their needless suffering, those images should disturb our nights until the war stops, their suffering ends and Ukraines independence  is assured.
A man takes his belongings out of the house after artillery shelling in eastern Ukraine Wednesday. The Russian invasion could destabilize Europe and the world.
Early Thursday morning in Ukraine, poignant tweets emerged from the besieged nation as people wrote about not being able to sleep while waiting for Russian tanks, bombs and gunfire.
It wasnt Putin and the long, rambling, delusional and lying speech he gave before commencing war. It was Ukrainian President Volodymyr  Zelenskyy,  who made an appeal to the people of Russia in a final attempt to prevent war. His address was brief, eloquent and forthright.
The war is a big disaster, and this disaster has a high price. With every meaning of this word. People lose money, reputation, quality of life, they lose freedom. But the main thing is that people lose their loved ones, they lose themselves.
At 5 a.m., days after Russian President Vladimir Putin denied the existence of Ukraine as an independent country, he ordered special military operations. Soon after, the  missiles began to fall.
Whatever the fate of Ukraine and Zelenskyy, his words will be remembered for generations. Across Ukraine tonight and for nights to come, sleep will be hard to come by.
A Ukrainian serviceman stands at his position at the line of separation between Ukraine-held territory and rebel-held territory near Svitlodarsk, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday.
There will be days, weeks and months to analyze all that preceded the invasion and all that  should be done to end it. But before we are too far removed from this fateful early morning in Ukraine,  lets recognize the real figure of strength who emerged in this crisis.
