Ukrainians in San Antonio in despair over the invasion by Russian forces
20220225
https://www.expressnews.com/news/local/article/Ukrainians-in-San-Antonio-war-16944883.php
Igor Sydoruk poses with his daughter Anastasia on Orthodox Easter in 2014. Igor was called up to the army reserves on Thursday and is expected to be sent to the Kiev region of Ukraine to join the fighting against the Russian army.
Attendees gather for a group photo during a rally held in support of Ukraine following the Russian invasion.
I mean, what does this mean? When will it end? said Khrystyuk, who was born in Vinnytsia and has lived in the U.S. more than 25 years.
But now, he explained, Ukraine has been an independent country for more than 30 years, and the situation has changed.
Olena Khrystyuk holds a photo of her grandfather Vasyl Khrystyuk, a man who fought against Nazis in WWII, during a rally in support of Khrystyuks home country of Ukraine following the recent Russian invasion of the country held at San Fernando Cathedral in San Antonio, Texas, on Feb. 24, 2022.  Ukrainians want peace- thats all we want, Khrystyuk shares. Ukrainians have the right to decide what they want to do with their lives, to not be afraid. We believe in democracy, thats who we are.
Why would it? said Irene Van Winkle, who was born to Ukrainian parents and has lived in the U.S. since 1973. Putins not afraid of sanctions. Hes got billions of dollars in the bank. What does he care?
Many at the protest, such as Olenka Bravo, said they are concerned about relatives and friends living in the country. Bravos parents are divorced, but both live in Kyiv.
Sydoruk is one of an estimated 3,000 people of Ukrainian descent living in the San Antonio area, most watching with dread the reports of fierce fighting across the eastern European country. Many, like the stay-at-home mother who immigrated to the United States seven years ago, still have family there.
Anastasia Sydoruk called her father in Lutsk in northwest Ukraine on Thursday to say goodbye, perhaps, she fears, for the final time. As the Russian army invaded from the east, Igor Sydoruk was called up to the army reserves to join the fight.
Olena Khrystyuk speaks as she holds a photo of her grandfather Vasyl Khrystyuk, who fought against Nazis in WWII during a rally in support of Khrystyuks home country of Ukraine following the recent Russian invasion of the country held at San Fernando Cathedral in San Antonio, Texas, on Feb. 24, 2022.  Ukrainians want peace- thats all we want, Khrystyuk shares. Ukrainians have the right to decide what they want to do with their lives, to not be afraid. We believe in democracy, thats who we are.
There was little confidence that the Wests efforts to discourage Putin via diplomacy and threats of sanctions would have much effect.
Oleana Khrystyuk said she spoke with a cousin who has a newborn, but she said theres been a run on food, leaving store shelves empty. Another friend has a child with a fever but cant get any medicine because all the pharmacies are closed.
I spoke to my mother and she said she can hear the noise from the bombing, said Bravo, 35, who has lived in the U.S. for 14 years. My dad isnt in good health and hes trying to get out of the city and get to the west of the country, where they say its safer.
I called a cousin who lives in Russia and asked what he thought about what was happening, she said. He said, Are you crazy? What war?
Putins actions appear to have turned away at least some who previously supported him. Victor, a banker who asked that his last name not be published, said he was a high school student in Luhansk, near the Russian border, when Ukraine gained its independence.
For the past few months, my moms been telling me everyones concerned, what will happen, what will happen, Khrystyuk said. We were all hoping for a diplomatic solution, but everyone there was also stocking up on food just in case.
None of the protesters said they were surprised that Putin had launched the invasion, even after weeks of feints and hints that he was withdrawing troops from the border area.
Walters and others expressed concern that if Putins depredations in Ukraine are not met with a strong response by the rest of the world, it will embolden other bad actors.
Im terrified, said Anastasia, 26, her voice quavering. Im hearing that I most likely will never see him again.
There was a common belief in the crowd that Russian President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB agent who has often expressed the desire to rebuild the Soviet Union, would not be satisfied with annexing Ukraine.
I think I see a very evil plan being played out by Putin, he said. When youre dealing with evil, you have to realize that evil is not going to stop by itself.
Irene Hiranak Bukojemsky Van Winkle of Kerrville holds a photo of her grandfather Father Rev. Justin Hiriniak, of Ukraine, as she speaks about him during a rally held at San Fernando Cathedral in support of Ukraine following the Russian invasion of the country. About 3,000 people of Ukrainian descent live in the San Antonio area.
Bravo said shed like to see the U.S. increase oil and gas production so the European Union wouldnt be so dependent on Russia.
Whatever happens, Sydoruk holds out little hope that Putin will be dissuaded by his own people. She said she thinks state-controlled media in Russia are keeping much of the country in the dark.
On a wet and chilly day, about two dozen protesters, many born in Ukraine, gathered in Main Plaza to protest what President Joe Biden called Russias brutal assault on the country, which has been independent since shortly after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.
Viktoriya Lundblade of San Antonio gets emotional as she answers questions on camera during the rally at San Fernando Cathedral in San Antonio.
This is not the first country Putin has attacked, said Julia Walters, alluding to Russias seizure of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. She was born in the Zhytomyr region of Ukraine and has lived in the U.S. since 2004. And if he wins, its not going to be the last one.
I grew up speaking Russian in a pro-Russia area, he said. And I remember not liking that Ukraine was becoming independent of Russia.
