Biden issues new warning to Russia over invading Ukraine
20220121
https://jerseyeveningpost.com/morenews/worldnews/2022/01/20/biden-issues-new-warning-to-russia-over-invading-ukraine/
Later, he accused Russia of threatening the foundations of world order with its build-up of an estimated 100,000 troops near Ukraine. He said Russia must face a concerted and severe global response if it invades.
Read the Town Crier, Le Rocher and a whole host of other subjects like mortgage advice, business, cycling, travel and property.
Good to meet Germanys Foreign Minister ABaerbock in Berlin today. We are firm in our commitment to impose massive consequences and severe costs on Russia if it chooses conflict over diplomacy. pic.twitter.comnmYXNqRml3
We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones, he tweeted.
But he also prompted consternation among allies after saying the response to a Russian invasion depends on what it does.
To allow Russia to violate those principles with impunity would drag us all back to a much more dangerous and unstable time, when this continent, and this city, were split in two, separated by no-mans lands patrolled by soldiers, with the threat of all-out war hanging heavily over everyones lives, Mr Blinken told an audience at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences.
Russia wants binding security guarantees, including a permanent prohibition on Ukrainian membership in Nato, to which Kyiv aspires, and the removal of most of the US and allied military presence in eastern Europe.
Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova alleged Ukrainian and Western talk of an imminent Russian attack was a cover for staging large-scale provocations of their own, including those of military character.
Its one thing if its a minor incursion and then we end up having a fight about what to do and not do, et cetera, he said.
Mr Biden was heavily criticised on Wednesday for saying a minor incursion by Russia would elicit a lesser response.
On Wednesday, Mr Biden said he thought Moscow would invade and warned Mr Putin that his country would pay a dear price in lives lost and a possible cut-off from the global banking system if it did.
Russia on Thursday announced sweeping naval manoeuvres throughout February, some apparently in the Black Sea, involving more than 140 warships and more than 60 aircraft.
His stark warning to Russian president Vladimir Putin came in remarks from the White House and was another effort to clear up any confusion about the position of the US and its Nato allies.
We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones. I say this as the President of a great power ??
A Ukrainian soldier in the trench on the line of separation from pro-Russian rebels, Mariupol, Donetsk region, Ukraine Andriy DubchakAP
On Thursday Mr Biden said that Russia has a long history of using measures other than overt military action to carry out aggression  paramilitary tactics, so-called grey zone attacks and actions by Russian soldiers not wearing Russian uniforms.
Ive been absolutely clear with president Putin. He has no misunderstanding  any, any assembled Russian units move across the Ukrainian border, that is an invasion, Mr Biden said.
We will not treat the principles of sovereignty or territorial integrity as negotiable, he said, adding that the situation is bigger than a conflict between two countries, and its bigger than a clash between Russia and Nato.
Mr Blinken took pains on Thursday to stress the US and its partners were united, noting that American diplomats have held more than 100 meetings with allies in recent weeks to ensure that we are speaking and acting together with one voice when it comes to Russia.
US president Joe Biden has said that any Russian troop movements across Ukraines border would constitute an invasion, saying that Moscow would pay a heavy price for such an action.
He said Russias actions toward Ukraine are an attempt to subvert international norms and just the latest in a string of Moscows violations of numerous treaties, agreements and other commitments it has made to respect the sovereignty and territory of other countries.
Earlier, Mr Blinken warned in Berlin at a news conference with his German counterpart: If any Russian military forces move across the Ukrainian border and commit new acts of aggression against Ukraine, that will be met with a swift, severe, united response from the United States and our allies and partners.
It would also send a message to others around the world that these principles are expendable.
Let there be no doubt at all, if Putin makes this choice, Russia will pay a heavy price.
