Russian incursion into Ukraine would violate freedom and sovereignty  Wallace
20220115
https://jerseyeveningpost.com/morenews/uknews/2022/01/15/russian-incursion-into-ukraine-would-violate-freedom-and-sovereignty-wallace/
Amid the stand-off, Ms Truss colleague Defence Secretary Mr Wallace met Nordic partners this week, including Finland which shares a border with Russia.
Tensions on the Ukrainian border continue to be fraught, with the US suggesting Moscow is preparing for a false-flag operation in order to spark an incursion into neighbouring territory.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, appearing to back up the US intelligence, accused Russia of waging a disinformation campaign intended to destabilise and justify an invasion of Ukraine, and called on President Vladimir Putin to de-escalate the military presence.
The Defence Secretary said: The UK and our Nordic partners are united in our approach to upholding European security.
The third leg of his trip saw the Defence Secretary meet with his Norwegian counterpart Odd Roger Enoksen.
Issuing a second warning in a week to Moscow, Ben Wallace said there would be consequences of any Russian aggression towards Ukraine.
The Ministry of Defence MoD said he met with ministers in Sweden, Finland and Norway to discuss Russias continued aggression and military build-up on Ukraines border, with some 100,000 troops amassed at the divide.
Our discussions were clear that a Russian invasion of Ukraine would be a strategic mistake, violating the most basic freedoms and sovereignty.
An invasion by Russia into Ukraine would violate the most basic freedoms and sovereignty, the Defence Secretary has said following a visit to Scandinavia.
Russia is waging a disinformation campaign intended to destabilise and justify an invasion of its sovereign neighbour Ukraine
Labour said the threats facing Ukraine must be met with strength and solve by Nato and Europe, with shadow defence secretary John Healey having visited the country this week.
The Western allies must work hard to maintain their deterrent pressure on Russia and stand by Ukraine, said the senior opposition MP.
On Monday, he fired a shot across the bows, telling an event in London that Britain would stand up to bullies, no matter how far away the conflict.
A serviceman takes his position in a trench at the line of separation near Yasne village, controlled by Russia-backed separatists, eastern Ukraine Alexei AlexandrovAP
Giving details of the Defence Secretarys three-day visit, the MoD said that Mr Wallace met with his Swedish counterpart, defence minister Peter Hultqvist, before travelling to Finland to hold discussions with President Sauli Niinisto, foreign minister Pekka Haavisto and defence minister Antti Kaikkonen.
Read the Town Crier, Le Rocher and a whole host of other subjects like mortgage advice, business, cycling, travel and property.
Our European neighbours and allies remain vital partners as we work together to defend our common values, counter shared threats and build resilience in our neighbourhood, the UK will always stand with them.
