US warns of swift severe response if Russia invades Ukraine
20220120
https://jerseyeveningpost.com/morenews/worldnews/2022/01/20/us-warns-of-swift-severe-response-if-russia-invades-ukraine/
It would also send a message to others around the world that these principles are expendable.
The speech came after Blinken and top diplomats from Britain, France and Germany met in Berlin to project a united front to Russia over concerns that it may be planning to invade Ukraine. A day earlier, he met Ukraines president in Kiev to discuss the threat.
A convoy of Russian armoured vehicles on the move in the Crimea, close to the border with Ukraine AP Photo
But, Biden also prompted consternation among allies after saying that the response to a Russian invasion depends on what it does. Its one thing if its a minor incursion and then we end up having a fight about what to do and not do, et cetera, he said.
If any Russian military forces move across the Ukrainian border and commit new acts of aggression against Ukraine, that will be met with a swift, severe, united response from the United States and our allies and partners, Blinken told a news conference with his German counterpart.
That unity gives us strength, a strength I might add that Russia does not and cannot match, he said. Its why we build voluntary alliances and partnerships in the first place. Its also why Russia recklessly seeks to divide us.
Read the Town Crier, Le Rocher and a whole host of other subjects like mortgage advice, business, cycling, travel and property.
Later, Blinken accused Russia of threatening the foundations of world order with its build-up of an estimated 100,000 troops near Ukraines border. He said Russia must face a concerted and severe global response if it invades.
Blinkens comments in Berlin on Thursday appeared to be another effort to clear up any confusion about the position of the US and its Nato allies after President Joe Biden was heavily criticized for saying a minor incursion by Russia would elicit a lesser response.
We will not treat the principles of sovereignty or territorial integrity as negotiable, he said, adding that the situation is bigger than a conflict between two countries, and its bigger than a clash between Russia and Nato. Its a crisis with global consequences. And it requires global attention and action.
Blinken took pains on Thursday to stress that the US and its partners were united in the face of Moscows actions, noting that American diplomats have held more than 100 meetings with allies in recent weeks to ensure that we are speaking and acting together with one voice when it comes to Russia.
He said Russias actions toward Ukraine are an attempt to subvert international norms and just the latest in a string of Moscows violations of numerous treaties, agreements and other commitments it has made to respect the sovereignty and territory of other countries.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has warned that there would be a swift, severe response from the United States and its allies if Russia sends any military forces into Ukraine.
To allow Russia to violate those principles with impunity would drag us all back to a much more dangerous and unstable time, when this continent, and this city, were split in two, separated by no-mans-lands patrolled by soldiers, with the threat of all-out war hanging heavily over everyones lives, Blinken told an audience at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences.
These are difficult issues we are facing, and resolving them wont happen quickly, Blinken said. I certainly dont expect well solve them in Geneva tomorrow.
Annalena Baerbock, foreign minister of Germany, and Antony Blinken meet for bilateral talks in Berlin Kay Nietfeld Pool via AP
Russia has denied it is planning an invasion and, in turn, accused the West on Thursday of plotting provocations in Ukraine, citing the delivery of weapons to the country by British military transport planes in recent days.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was among those expressing concern. We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones, he said on Twitter.
