Eight years after Euromaidan Ukraine is better prepared for an information war with Russia
20220404
https://www.slobodenpecat.mk/en/osum-godini-po-evromajdan-ukraina-e-podobro-podgotvena-za-informativna-vojna-so-rusija/
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, now dubbed the "chief communicator," has been instrumental in garnering international support for Kyiv via daily video messages, often saying that Russia intends to destroy his country in an attack on a democracy that transcends Ukraine.
Both Fedchenko and Shandra, as well as many Ukrainian volunteers who now buy medical supplies for the army and help deliver food, gained some experience in the 2014 revolution, a month-long street riot that toppled Yanukovych.
He even tried to reach Crimean listeners with weekly radio podcasts, and those in the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk with the free monthly newspaper Your Right to Know, as well as radio and TV programs.
Fedchenko helped set up StopFake, a fact-finding service, in March 2014 with colleagues and students at the Kyiv-Mohila Journalism School to "remove piece by piece" Russian disinformation and fake news. Chandra helped set up EuroMaidan Press, an online English-language newspaper, to try to offer foreign audiences articles and analysis written by Ukrainians.
"In the last four or five years, especially since Zelensky came to power, you see this real emphasis on - hell with what the Russians are saying, and let's build our own aura of legitimacy."
It also showed them how to fight, at home and abroad, against allegations that Ukraine was a haven for neo-Nazis inclined to destroy its Russian-speaking population and to show the narrative that the country, a former Soviet republic, wanted to develop independently. .
Together with other media organizations in their "small club", which includes the Ukrainian magazine Krytyka and the research website InformNapalm, they help foreign media find Ukrainian contacts to make sure their voices are heard.
In 2014, one of Fedchenko's most memorable "discoveries" was the report that Ukrainians had crucified a young man in the eastern city of Slovyansk because his father was a member of Russian-backed separatists who had carved out two self-proclaimed statesmen.
Eight years of practice in the fight against disinformation, they say, prepared them for the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
In the ongoing war, on March 9, it was claimed that Ukraine was planning an offensive against the region, what Russia calls the "republics of Donbas." The prepared documents, according to StopFake, actually refer to the joint training of the Army and the National Guard in the Lviv region of western Ukraine.
"We did a lot of things in those eight years and we learned a lot about misinformation. "We were absolutely certain when that war would happen," Fedchenko told Reuters.
"At that time in 2014 I was almost 20 years old. "I began to realize that something was wrong in my country, so when Euromaidan the revolution came, I basically gave up everything I was doing," Shandra told Reuters.
Both became so angry at the refusal of their loved ones to enter Ukraine and what they read, heard or saw about the country in 2014, when mass protests in central Kyiv toppled an unpopular pro-Russian president, that they decided to find ways to challenge the narrative. which they rejected.
The newspaper collapsed three years ago, when television broadcasts stopped when the war broke out as frightened staff moved away from Kyiv, where production facilities were located. Fedchenko hopes they will reopen.
According Alja Shandra, that was when her then-boyfriend from Denmark decided to cancel his visit to Kyiv because he thought there were Nazis in Ukraine.
Describing how her boyfriend at the time refused to visit her in Ukraine because of the "Nazis", she said: "I was so shocked that I decided to do something about it, because it was incomprehensible how he could believe in propaganda, instead of believing in me. .
The only difference was that the pace accelerated after Russian President Vladimir Putin wrote in July last year that Soviet leaders had invented a Ukrainian republic in 1922 and that Ukraine had "surrendered to the neo-Nazis" since 2014.
"It's probably not the best part of your life when you're just exposing someone's lies, and you just have to read it all the time and get immersed in all this shit," he said.
"I think this is one of the key answers why even if we do not win the information war, we definitely do not lose it, because we worked on a daily basis all those eight years and it became part of our lives.
They joined in to fill the vacuum left by the government. Rather than state, they formed networks and used new technology to fight what they called a Russian propaganda machine.
On February 24, Putin launched what he called a "special military operation" to "advocate for the demilitarization and denationalization of Ukraine." Ukraine, a parliamentary democracy, says it was attacked without provocation.
Fedchenko said there were now few new claims in the narrative - a repetition of the lines that led him to form his own organization during the protests that became known as the Maidan Revolution, or the Revolution of Dignity, which ousted then-President Viktor Yanukovych after he broke his promise. for the development of closer ties with the European Union.
According Yevhen Fedchenko, the information war was the biggest blow when his aunt said she would not visit him because she believed she would be beaten and killed in Ukraine for speaking Russian.
After seeing Ukraine lose Crimea over Russian annexation in 2014, watching Russian-backed separatists declare two mini-republics in the east and then lose government when Yanukovych was ousted, they say they have little choice.
Both have become part of the vanguard of volunteers fighting "Russian propaganda" that has spread to Ukraine and beyond for years, keeping the country completely locked in a narrative that is largely rejected but still struggled to resist.
Fedchenko has not yet spoken to his aunt, who lives in Crimea and is annexed by Russia, but is somewhat grateful that her refusal to visit him prompted him to fight propaganda.
Colin Alexander, a senior lecturer in political communications at the University of Nottingham in England, said Ukrainians had begun sending messages in a way that strengthened their credibility.
"There was an absolutely huge increase in all those Russian narratives, all the fields were checked and everything was ready for war."
