Ukraines capital under threat as Russia presses invasion
20220226
https://www.dailyexcelsior.com/ukraines-capital-under-threat-as-russia-presses-invasion/
As air raids sirens sounded in the capital early Friday, guests of a hotel in the city center were directed to a makeshift basement shelter, lined with piles of mattresses and bottles of water.
The US and other global powers slapped ever-tougher sanctions on Russia as the invasion reverberated through the worlds economy and energy supplies, threatening to further squeeze ordinary households. UN Officials said they were preparing for millions to flee Ukraine. Sporting authorities sought to punish Russia on global playing fields. And NATO leaders called an urgent meeting to discuss how far they can go to challenge Putin without engaging Russian forces in direct war.
That came even as there were also increasing signs that Vladimir Putins Russia may be seeking to overthrow Ukraines government, in his boldest effort yet to redraw the world map and revive Moscows Cold War-era influence.
As Western leaders rushed to condemn and punish Russia, US President Joe Biden announced new sanctions that will target Russian banks, oligarchs, state-controlled companies and high-tech sectors, saying Putin chose this war and had exhibited a sinister view of the world in which nations take what they want by force. He added that the measures were designed not to disrupt global energy markets. Russian oil and natural gas exports are vital energy sources for Europe.
Kyiv, Feb 25: Russian troops bore down on Ukraines capital today, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the Government quarter, in an invasion of a democratic country that has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced sanctions, freezing the assets of all large Russian banks and planning to bar Russian companies and the Kremlin from raising money on British markets.
Zelenskyy, whose grasp on power was increasingly tenuous, appealed to global leaders for even more severe sanctions than the ones imposed by Western allies and for defense assistance.
The Ukrainian military on Friday reported significant fighting near Ivankiv, about 60 kilometers 40 miles northwest of Kyiv, as Russian forces apparently tried to advance on the capital from the north. Russian troops also entered the city of Sumy, near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east.
Zelenskyys whereabouts were kept secret, after he told European leaders that he was No. 1 on Russias list of targets.
The invasion began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes on cities and military bases, and then quickly followed with a multi-pronged ground assault that rolled troops in from several areas in the east from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014 and from Belarus to the north.
Day 2 of Russias invasion focused on the Ukrainian capital, where Associated Press reporters heard explosions starting before dawn and gunfire was reported in several areas. Ukrainian authorities used armoured vehicles and snowplows to defend Kyiv and limit movement, and said Russian spies were seeking to infiltrate the city.
He also offered to negotiate on one of Putins key demands: that Ukraine declare itself neutral and abandon its ambition of joining NATO. And the Kremlin responded that Russia was ready to send a delegation to Belarus to discuss that.
Ukrainian officials reported at least 137 deaths on the Ukrainian side and claimed hundreds on the Russian one. Russian authorities released no casualty figures, and it was not possible to verify the tolls.
What are you doing? What is this? resident of Yurii Zhyhanov asked a question directed at Russian forces. Like countless other Ukrainians, he grabbed what belongings he could, took his mother, and set out to flee, car alarms wailing behind him.
After Ukrainian officials said they lost control of the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant, scene of the worlds worst nuclear disaster, Russia said Friday it was working with the Ukrainians to secure the plant. There was no corroboration of such cooperation from the Ukrainian side.
After denying for weeks he planned to invade, Putin argued that the West left him no other choice by refusing to negotiate on Russias security demands.
UN officials reported 25 civilian deaths, mostly from shelling and airstrikes, and said that 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes and estimated up to 4 million could flee if the fighting escalates.
With social media amplifying a torrent of military claims and counter-claims, it was difficult to determine exactly what was happening on the ground.
We are committed to ensure full evacuation as soon as possible. A 247 helpline has been set up in Delhi to assist the evacuation process. The helpline numbers are 011-24611210 and 011-24611108, an official spokesman said.
Elsewhere in Kyiv, the body of a dead soldier lay on the ground near an underpass. Fragments of a downed aircraft smoked amid the brick homes of a residential area. Black plastic was draped over body parts found beside them. And people climbed out of bomb shelters, basements and subways to face another day of upheaval.
Now we see him for what he is a bloodstained aggressor who believes in imperial conquest, Johnson said of Putin. AP
JAMMU, Feb 25: Jammu and Kashmir administration is constantly in touch with MEA to assist the peoplestudents from UT who are stuck in Ukraine.
It claimed to have already cut the city off from the west the direction many of those escaping the invasion are heading in, with lines of cars snaking toward the Polish border.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pleaded with Russias Government to hold talks, and with Western powers to act faster to cut off Russias economy and provide Ukraine military help.
Intense fire broke out on a bridge across the Dneiper River dividing the eastern and western sides of Kyiv, with about 200 Ukrainian forces establishing defensive positions and taking shelter behind their armored vehicles and later under the bridge.
Were all scared and worried. We dont know what to do then, whats going to happen in a few days, said one of the workers, Lucy Vashaka, 20.
The assault, anticipated for weeks by the US And Western allies, amounts to the largest ground war in Europe since World War II. After repeatedly denying plans to invade, the autocratic Putin launched his attack on the country, which has increasingly tilted toward the democratic West and away from Moscows sway.
If you dont help us now, if you fail to offer a powerful assistance to Ukraine, tomorrow the war will knock on your door, said the leader, who cut diplomatic ties with Moscow, declared martial law and ordered a full military mobilization that would last 90 days.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kyiv could well be under siege in what U.S. Officials believe is a brazen attempt by Putin to install his own regime.
Russias military said it had seized a strategic airport outside Kyiv that allows it to quickly build up forces to take the capital.
Meanwhile, the Mayor of the city in the rebel-controlled east said Ukrainian shelling hit a school building.
When bombs fall on Kyiv, it happens in Europe, not just in Ukraine, he said. When missiles kill our people, they kill all Europeans.
In a Kyiv apartment building, residents woke to screaming, smoke and flying dust. What the mayor identified as Russian shelling tore off part of the building and ignited a fire.
The autocratic leader hasnt said what his ultimate plans for Ukraine are. Lavrov gave a hint, saying today: We want to allow the Ukrainian people to determine its own fate. His spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia recognizes Zelenskyy as Ukraines president, but wouldnt say how long the Russian military operation could last.
Ukrainians, meanwhile, had to abruptly adjust to life under fire, after Russian forces started moving in to their country from three sides in an invasion telegraphed for weeks, as they massed an estimated 150,000 troops nearby.
Amid growing casualties from the deadly warfare including shelling that sliced through the facade of a Kyiv apartment building, bridges and schools the Kremlin said Russia was ready to talk with Ukrainian officials.
