Battle for Kyiv intensifies defiant Zelenskyy urges resistance The fight is here  recap
20220226
https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/2022/02/25/russia-ukraine-kyiv-invasion-latest/6934351001/
Earlier Saturday morning, the State Service of Special Communications reported: Explosions in Kyiv. What is known? The enemy is trying to attack CHP-6 near Troieschyna. The Armed Forces give battle. Resistance continues in Vasylkiv, where enemy troops are trying to land.
The capital hasnt experienced an attack like that since 1941, when Nazi Germany invaded, he said.
Oksana Markarova, Ukraines ambassador to the U.S., voiced concern Friday that Russia took control of the Chernobyl power plant  site of the worst nuclear disaster in history  and took 92 staff members as hostages.
Amid a fast-moving and difficult-to-verify situation, Ukraine's Defense Ministry tweeted early Friday that some Russian troops had broken through to several northern districts on the outskirts of the capital. However, Ukraine's military also said it was resisting the advance on multiple fronts.
The cable network reported that operations by Ukrainian forces to repel the Russian advance were intensifying in the early morning hours of Saturday, Kyiv time, not long after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiyy warned that the battle could be over by morning.
Sen. Mark Warner is urging U.S. techcompanies on Friday not to let their platforms be misusedby Russian influence operations in the Kremlins war on Ukraine.
To some European leaders who are still hesitant: each year at commemorative events you say Never again, he wrote. The time to prove it is now. Russia is waging a horrific war of aggression in Europe. Here is your never again test: BAN RUSSIA FROM SWIFT and kick it out of everywhere.
Zelenskyy was urged to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer, according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation. The official quoted the president as saying that the fight is here" and that he needed anti-tank ammunition but not a ride.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is continuing to plead with western leaders to unveil harsher sanctions on the Kremlin, saying If you dont help us now, if you fail to offer a powerful assistance to Ukraine, tomorrow the war will knock on your door.
Ukraines foreign minister ramped up the pressure on European leaders on Friday to kick Russia out of the SWIFT financial system in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine.
In his letter to YouTube parent companyAlphabet, Warner said his staff observed YouTube ads on Thursday monetizing content regarding the conflict in Ukraine from RT, Sputnik and TASS, which he described as malign actors affiliated with the Russian government.
Congress may need to approve at least $10 billion in emergency spending to support Ukraine and for other needs, Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., said Friday.
The enemy has marked me as target No. 1, my family as target No. 2, Zelenskyy said in an address to Ukrainians. They want to destroy Ukraine politically by destroying the head of state.
"This night we have to stand ground, Zelenskyy said, surrounded by members of his national security team. The fate of Ukraine is being decided right now."
Trevor Reeds parents, Joey and Paula Reed, told the Dallas Morning News their son called his Moscow lawyers to tell them he was running a fever. He had prolonged exposure in December to another prisoner with tuberculosis and was coughing up blood, according to U.S. embassy spokesman Jason Rebholz. Trevor Reed had been diagnosed with COVID-19 last May.
The night will be harder than the day, Zelenskyy said on the video, which was widely circulated on Twitter.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted a short video just after midnight local time with other leaders of his country proclaiming their continued defense against the Russian invasion.
But the swift movement of the troops after less than three days of fighting further imperiled a country clinging to independence in the face of a broad Russian assault, which threatened to topple the democratic government and scramble the post-Cold War world order.
This night we have to stand firm, he said. "The fate of Ukraine is being decided right now.
Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one, Kuleba tweeted. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties.Kick Russia out" of everywhere.
The apparent development comes as thousands of civilians spent the night in bomb shelters, typically underground subway stations, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy urged his citizens to do all they can to resist Russia's assault. Zelenskyy has vowed to remain in Kyiv with his family and he appealed to Russia for a ceasefire.
Russia has failed to dominate Ukrainian air space, the official said. Ukraine continues to fly warplanes that are attacking Russian forces. Ukraine also retains missiles for air defense.
Russian troops appeared to be advancing on Kyiv at the start of the second day of the Kremlin's full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
More broadly, she said Ukraine armed forces destroyed 80 Russian tanks, 10 planes, seven helicopters and 516 armored vehicles. She blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin for casualties.
The U.S. official declined to say how many Russian troops were on the ground in Ukraine now, but estimated it was about one third of the combat force that Russia had massed before the attack.Russian President Vladimir Putin had deployed more than 150,000 troops on Ukraines border prior to the invasion.
Biden announced asecond round of U.S. sanctions announced Thursday, but it did not include the harsh step of cutting Russia from the SWIFT financial system, which connects banks worldwide.
As his country confronted explosions and gunfire, and as the fate of Kyiv hung in the balance, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appealed for a cease-fire and warned in a bleak statement that multiple cities were under attack.
Ukraines military reported shooting down an II-76 Russian transport plane carrying paratroopers near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles 40 kilometers south of Kyiv, an account confirmed by a senior American intelligence official. It was unclear how many were on board. Transport planes can carry up to 125 paratroopers.
Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of concernabout Moscows invasion of Ukraine.
The United States is slapping sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin and some of his deputies in retaliation for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
As a Marine, Reed served as a presidential guard and provided security at Camp David during the Obama administration.
The Virginia Democrat who chairs the Senate intelligence committee, sent letters Friday to Alphabet,Meta formerly known as Google and Facebook  as well asReddit,Telegram,TikTok, andTwitteralerting them to malicious information warfare activities by Russia and Russia-linked entities.
Ukraine Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov announced Friday thatthe countrys armed forces would receive a 30 salary increase, along with monthly bonuses, while Ukraine is battling a Russian invasion that threatens its survival as a free democracy.
As a result of Mr. Putins decision to send Russians to kill Ukrainians, 2,800 of Russian soldiers will not be going back to Russia, she said.
It would be a wild guess on my part, he said, but I would be supportive of an emergency supplemental of at least $10 billion, perhaps more, to meet these vital national security and humanitarian needs.
Russias civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British governments ban on Aeroflot flights.
The U.S., Europe and Japan have all unveiled sanctions on key Russian banks, airlines and associates of President Vladimir Putin. Later Friday, NATO leaders will convene an emergency meeting by video link to discuss the deteriorating security situation.
At night they will storm, he said in the message to Ukrainians. You can not give up the capital. We must survive this night.
Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and agreed they must respond to Russian invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming a wrong lesson because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.
U.S. President Joe Biden was slated to meet with his national security team on Saturday morning the U.S. and other nations have imposed sanctions on Russia and on its president, Vladimir Putin, in the hopes that the economic price will force Russia from its current path.
Together with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the relevant parliamentary committee, we managed to find the expected financial resources and raise the salaries of Ukrainian defenders to the national average, Reznikov said in a statement. This is only the first step. We continue to work. Glory to Ukraine and its defenders!
We are all here, said Zelenskyy, who was surrounded by a handful of leaders. Our military is here, citizens are here. We are all here defending our independence, our state and it will be so further. Glory to our defenders, glory to Ukraine!"
LONDON -Russia was stripped of hosting the Champions League final by UEFAon Friday with St. Petersburg replaced by Paris after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
President Joe Biden said Thursday diplomatic talks with Russia have been ruptured by Moscow's massive military attack on Ukraine.
Late Friday, the Russian military said it has taken over Melitopol, a city near the Azov Sea. The claim could not immediately be independently verified.
Russian forces closed in on Kyiv in the early hours of Saturday, but dawn brought limited clarity about how far the invading troops had penetrated into the Ukrainian capital, where President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had vowed defiance through the night.
Kuleba said he spoke Friday with Secretary of State Antony Blinken about the need for the U.S. to use its influence to persuade hesitant European leaders to ban Russia from SWIFT.
Hundreds of casualties were reported in the fighting, which included shelling that sliced through a Kyiv apartment building and pummeled bridges and schools. There also were growing signs that Russia may be seeking to overthrow Ukraines government, which U.S. officials have described as Russian President Vladimir Putins ultimate objective.
Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. He said Japan will closely stay in touch with other Group of Seven members and the international society while watching the development.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Friday the new sanctions will target Putin, Russian Foreign Minister Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and members of Russias national security team.
Ukrainian officials reported at least 137 deaths on their side and claimed hundreds on the Russian one. Russian authorities released no casualty figures.
As this conflict continues, we can expect to see an escalation in Russias use of both overt and covert means to sow confusion about the conflict and promote disinformation narratives that weaken the global response to these illegal acts, Warner wrote.
Ukraine claims that more than 1,000 Russian troops have already been killed, though British officials have put the Russian death toll at half that.
"We must survive this night, Zelenskyy  who told Ukrainians earlier that Russia has marked him as target No. 1  said in a video message before morning arrived in Kyiv.
"Neutralize the enemy," Ukraine's Defense Ministry tweeted as Kyiv continued to be hit by apparent Russian airstrikes that have damaged apartment buildings and forced thousands into bomb shelters. Air raid sirens rang out through the night and into the early morning.
Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba took to Twitter to urge those holdouts to reconsider, citing their past statements that a conflict like World War II should never be allowed to happen again.
But the danger remained far from over to the former Soviet republic. Photos from Ukraine detailed destruction by Russian troops and bombs, with Ukrainian citizens huddled in underground bomb shelters or trying to flee their country to safety, carrying family members and what possessions they could. Authorities in Kyiv described fighting in the streets and urged residents to seek shelter.
Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said in a tweet on Friday that the EU's foreign ministers adopted the 2nd sanctions package and added that the asset freeze includes President of Russia and its Foreign Minister.
But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.
Editor's note: This page recaps the news of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on Friday, Feb. 25. Follow here for the latest updates on the attack in Kyiv on Saturday, Feb. 26.
The assault represented Putin's boldest effort yet to redraw the world map and revive Moscows Cold War-era influence. It triggered new international efforts to end the invasion, including direct sanctions on Putin.
Strengthening sanctions, concrete defense assistance and an anti-war coalition have just been discussed with POTUS, Zelenskyy wrote on Twitter,thankingthe U.S. for itsstrong support of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy tweeted early Saturday morning that he and French President Emmanuel Macron had spoken by phone.
Asked about Zelenskyys safety, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the U.S. is in touch with him and are working to provide him support.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he spoke with President Joe Biden on Friday about strengthening sanctions against Russia and other steps to retaliate for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Russian troops stormed toward Ukraines capital early Saturday as explosions reverberated through the city and the president urged the country to stand firm against the siege that could determine its future. He refused American help to evacuate, saying: The fight is here.
According to social media sources, there have been calls for demonstrations throughout Russia, including in major cities such as Moscow and St. Petersburg, in opposition to the unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces against Ukraine, the State Department noted in an online alert.
The U.S. and its European allies moved to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin Friday as Russia's military pushed further into Ukraine in an invasion that threatened to topple itsdemocratic government.
Ukraine President VolodymyrZelenskyy said Friday Ukraine is fighting Russia alone, in an apparent criticism of the U.S. and other western allies, as he pushes for a stronger international response to Russia's invasion of his country.
"This night will be very difficult, and the enemy will use all available forces to break the resistance of Ukrainians," Zelenskyy said in a late-night video message Friday that was widely circulated on Twitter.
Biden administration spokeswoman Jen Psaki confirmed Friday afternoon that U.S. officials believe Putin intends to try to take the capital and oust the government.
WHERE ARE UKRAINIANS GOING?Polands Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the countrys land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russias invasion of Ukraine began.
The Kremlin said Friday it is ready to hold talks with Ukrainian officials, but only afterUkrainian forcesstand down. The conditional offer came asRussian forces bore down on Ukraine's capital, Kyiv.
Delta has withdrawn itscodeshare services operated in conjunction with Russian national airline, Aeroflot, effective immediately. Codeshare allows one airline tosell seats on flights operated by other airlines
Russian forces continue to invade Ukraine along three routes, including from the north toward Kyiv, although a senior U.S. Defense Department official saidRussian momentum toward Kyiv has slowed in the last 24 hours.
Some 137 Ukrainians, a mixture of soldiers and civilians, died in the fighting on Thursday, Zelenskyy said. Britain's Defense Secretary told his country's media Friday that Russia has lost about 450 military personnel.
The United States and Europe already have hit Russia with sanctions that will impact multiple sectors of the Russia economy. But some European leaders have been reluctant to boot Russia from SWIFT, a global messaging system connecting thousands of financial institutions around the world.
Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian forces have so far knocked out 211 Ukrainian military installations, including 17 command centers, 19 air defense missile systems, 39 radar units, 67 tanks and six warplanes. The Russian military also said it seized a strategic airport outside Kyiv, allowing it to quickly build up forces to take the capital.
The warning issued Saturday advised residents to remain in shelters, to avoid going near windows or on balconies, and to take precautions against being hit by debris or bullets.
Paula Reed told the Dallas Morning News the remarks were like the exclamation point to know its going to be that much more difficult to get Trevor home.
The vote was delayed for two hours as the United States and Albania, co-sponsor of the resolution, worked behind the scenes to shore up support for the resolution among wavering nations, including Brazil.
Biden has vowed that he wont send U.S. troops to Ukraine to fight Russia, though he has sent American forces to shore up NATO's eastern flank.
Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reassured their commitment to work closely with the rest of the international society. They agreed that it is necessary to respond to Russia properly and to absolutely reject the unilateral act to change the status quo and not leave a wrong lesson.
BRUSSELS  A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.
Elsewhere in the south, a battle is being fought for the Kakhovka hyrdo-electric plant that provides energyto Crimea and southern Ukraine. Russia has launched cyberattacks there, the official said.
It said the measure was taken in response to the unfriendly decisions by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Unfortunately, your platforms continue to be key vectors for malign actors  including, notably, those affiliated with the Russian government  to not only spread disinformation, but toprofitfrom it, Warner said.
The announcement follows a decision by the European Union earlier Friday to freeze the assets of Putin and Lavrov, along with other sanctions.
The men's final will still be held on May 28 but now at the 80,000-seat Stade de France after the decision by UEFA's executive committee.
On Friday, Ukraines military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.
A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles 85 kilometers south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.
This morning, we are defending our state alone, as we did yesterday, he said in an address to Ukrainians. The worlds most powerful forces are watching from afar. Did yesterdays sanctions convince Russia?
His defiance came as Russian troops pushed toward the capital Kyiv, and as questions swirled on social media about whether leaders had begun fleeing.
The move is intended to ratchetup financial pressure on Putin to back off Ukraine and would add to other sanctions levied against Moscow from governments including the United States.
Russian military forces invaded Ukraine at roughly 9:30p.m. ET on Wednesday 4:30 a.m. on Thursday in Ukraine,using missiles, troops, tanks and aircraft.
As Russian troops advanced on Ukraines capital of Kyiv Friday evening, President Volodomyr Zelenskyy appealed for a cease-fire and warned in a video statement that multiple cities were under attack and intent on seizing the capitol.
Coons, who also heads a subcommittee in charge of humanitarian aid, said hes confident billions of dollars will be needed to support the likely millions of refugees expected to flee Ukraine for nearby countries.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.
We are ready for peace talks, but we are not ready for capitulation or surrender, Markarova said.
The parents of a former Marine imprisoned in Moscow worry the global outrage over Russias attack on Ukraine could hurt their chances of getting their son released at a moment when he is suffering from serious health problems.
In southern Ukraine, the Russians have made an amphibious attack, landing thousands of troops, the official said.
Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.
Biden saidremovingRussia from the international SWIFT financial system is still on the table but that European allies had resisted that step.The SWIFT system shifts money between banks around the world. Removing Russia would block Moscow from most international financial transactions, including profits from oil and gas production that are the lifeblood of Russias economy.
Zelenskyy said in response: The fight is here I need ammunition, not a ride, according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.
Kyiv officials are warning residents that street fighting is underway against Russian forces, and they are urging people to seek shelter.
According to a statement from the militarys General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.
The explosions and gunfire in Kyiv fueled further fears of wider war in Europe and triggered new international efforts  including direct sanctions on President Vladimir Putin by the U.S., UK, European Union and Canada  to make Moscow stop.
The European Union agreed to freeze the assetsof Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions, according to Latvia's foreign minister.
Michel said Kyiv is under continued attack by Russian forces and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.
Coons, a close ally of President Joe Biden who sits on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told reporters his estimate may be on the low side because it doesnt include what may be a robust request from the Pentagon.
Konstantin Novikov is a yoga teacher living outside of Kyiv who is one of several residents who shared what life has been like the past few days. shared his Friday.
The vote was 11 in favor, with Russia voting no. China, along with India and the United Arab Emirates, abstained.
The street clashes followed fighting that pummeled bridges, schools and apartment buildings, and resulted in hundreds of casualties.
The U.S. Department of State early on Saturday warned Americans in Russia to avoid demonstrations and any demonstration-related activities because of the possibility of widespread arrests.
CNN teams in the capital reported hearing loud explosions to the west and south of the city. And Ukraine's State Service of Special Communications said clashes were underway in an eastern suburb as Russian forces appeared to be closing in on Kyiv from at least three sides.
The invasion hastargeted major cities and military sites, with the attacks coming from all different directions, according toUkraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.Russia has fired more than 100 missiles.
As Russian troops neared the capital, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed to stay and fight - and beckoned his fellow countrymen to do the same.
However,Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Ukraine must put down its arms before any talks happen,according to Russia's state controlled TASS News Agency.
Zelenskyy said Thursday he remains in the Ukraine capital of Kyiv, and intends to stay there, even as Russia has made him its top quarry.
Markarova said she wasnt able to say what it would take for Putin to abandon the attack, but that Ukraine sought territorial integrity not just of its eastern provinces, but also Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014.
We are very concerned that the Chernobyl shelter is under threat of any type of random attack by the Russian federation, Markarova told reporters in Washington.
U.N. officials reported 25 civilian deaths, mostly from shelling and airstrikes, and said that 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes, estimating up to 4 million could flee if the fighting escalates.
Ukraine's Defense Ministry urged Kyiv's residents Friday to stay inside and prepare Molotov cocktails to defend their capital as Russian troops and tanks were on the verge of entering the central part of the city for the first since President Vladimir Putin launched his assault on Ukraine.
Chinas decision to abstain was seen as a diplomatic victory for pro-Ukrainian forces, given its history of using its veto power alongside ally Russia.
The United States already has hit Russia with sanctions that will impact multiple sectors of the Russia economy. But Ukraine has argued that a tougher economic response is needed and has asked for additional defense assistance.
Bridges and schools have been damaged in the shelling, which alsosliced through a Kyiv apartment building.After 8 p.m. in Ukraine, a large boom was heard near Maidan Nezalezhnosti, the square in central Kyiv that was the heart of the protests which led to the 2014 ouster of a Kremlin-friendly president. The cause was not immediately known and smaller repeated blasts could be heard in the distance.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence findings, told reporters Friday the U.S. had information suggesting that Moscow had expected a faster advance on Ukraine's capital.The official declined to say how the Pentagon had made that assessment, but Russia has not yet captured any major population centers.
Ukrainian officials reported at least 137 deaths on their side and claimed hundreds on the Russian one. Russian authorities released no casualty figures. Bridges and schools have been damaged in the shelling, which alsosliced through a Kyiv apartment building.
You can not give up the capital," he said in a video message. "We must survive this night.
"I have my car downstairs full of gas. I put my documents, money and some stuff in a little bag. In any moment i can take my bags, my cats, and run away if it is too scary to stay. ... Maybe I will go to the center of Ukraine. Somewhere where it is more safe. Mostly people are going to western Ukraine like Lviv. But right now I can only go through Kyiv because it is blocked any other way. Either by Russian troops on one side, or on another road the bridge was blown up to keep Russian troops from going over the road to Kyiv. So, I have only one way out from my city."
He was joined by Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and adviser Mykhailo Podoliak among other officials.
Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraines capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.
There is strong enthusiasm to provide ongoing resupply and training and whatever other covert and overt support is necessary and appropriate for the Ukrainian resistance, he said.
10 min ago therewas a lot of shooting many rockets . It's silent now, and we are waiting. We will go down with a neighbor to the entrance to the first floor andwe will sit there. It seems safer."
WHY IS INVASION HAPPENING?:Why is Russia invading Ukraine? Could it be the start of WWIII? Here's what we know
South Korean Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong spoke with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Saturday to discuss the two allies cooperation over the Russia-Ukraine crisis, including Seouls participation in a U.S.-led economic pressure campaign against Moscow.
Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.
As dawn broke in Kyiv, it was not immediately clear how far the soldiers had advanced. Skirmishes reported on the edge of the city suggested that small Russian units were probing Ukrainian defenses to clear a path for the main forces.
As the fighting intensified in Ukraine Friday, government officials offered competing assessments of the death toll.
Seouls Foreign Ministry said Chung and Blinken reaffirmed the allies strong condemnation of Russias invasion of Ukraine, and they urged Russia to immediately cease its takeover attempt.
As Saturday began, Zelenskyy tweeted that he had started a new day on the diplomatic frontline with a conversation with French President Emmanuel Macron, with weapons and equipment from our partners on the way.
But, so far, those sanctions appear to have had little effect on Russia's attempt to take over the one-time Soviet Republic that has expressed a desire to someday join NATO.
Russian forces have reportedly moved in closer to Kyiv early Saturday morning, and explosions were seen and heard in parts of the capital suggesting an escalation of fighting with Ukrainian defenders, according to CNN.
The U.S. Embassy reminds U.S. citizens that the Department of States Travel Advisory level for Russia is at Level 4: Do Not Travel for reasons including harassment against U.S. citizens, harassment by Russian government security officials, and the arbitrary enforcement of local law, the statement added.
A line has been crossed, and this council cannot remain silent, said Brazils Ambassador Ronaldo Costa Filho. He said his government was gravely concerned about Russias military action.
But Reed was arrested in Moscow in August 2019 after allegedly being involvedin adrunken fight at a party. Hes serving a nine-year sentence on charges the U.S. ambassador called absurd. U.S. officials have said Reed and another former Marine, Paul Whelan, were imprisoned potentially to be used as bargaining chips for the release of Russian spies.
Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.
EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.
Blinken thanked South Korea for its support of Ukraine and its willingness to participate in international sanctions against Russia, the ministry said.
Meanwhile, a senior U.S. defense official said its estimated that Russia has now launched more than 200 missiles into Ukraine and some have hit residential areas, although it was unclear if they were deliberately targeted.
The crisis has roiled the globe since Putin, in the pre-dawn hours of Moscow on Thursday, announced in a televised address that he was launching a military operation against Ukraine.
In response, the European Union agreed Friday to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions.
Russia has launched a horrific rocket strike on Kyiv, Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraines foreign minister, tweeted Friday.
"We have removed our code from Aeroflot-operated services beyond Moscows Sheremetyevo Airport and removed Aeroflots code from Delta-operated services from Los Angeles and New York-JFK," Delta said in a statement.
The Russian military said Friday it had encircled the cities of Sumy and Konotop in northeastern Ukraine, but was taking steps to ensure civilians safety.
Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted clearly to express his concern about the war. Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.
The White House confirmed that Biden spoke with Zelenskky for 40 minutes but provided no other details.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send a delegation to Belarus to meet with Ukrainian officials.This came after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he is willing to discuss a non-aligned status for the country, which would essentially mean dropping the country's bid to join NATO.
International backlash followed swiftly, with sanctions by the United States and a host of other countries.Biden saidthe new economic measureswould "limit Russia's ability to do business in dollars, euros, pounds and yen to be part of the global economy."
WHERE IS THE FIGHTING?Explosions sounded before dawn in Kyiv and gunfire was reported in several areas, as Western leaders scheduled an emergency meeting and Ukraine's president pleaded for international help tofend off the attack.
As expected, Russia vetoed a UN resolution on Friday evening demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine immediately and withdraw all troops. U.S. officials said they knew Moscow would oppose the measure but that they wanted to highlight Russias isolation within the international community.
"A new day on the diplomatic frontline began with a conversation with EmmanuelMacron. Weapons and equipment from our partners are on the way to Ukraine. The anti-war coalition is working!" Zelenskyy tweeted.
"UEFA wishes to express its thanks and appreciation to French Republic President Emmanuel Macron for his personal support and commitment to have European club footballs most prestigious game moved to France at a time of unparalleled crisis, European football's governing body said in a statement. "Together with the French government, UEFA will fully support multi-stakeholder efforts to ensure the provision of rescue for football players and their families in Ukraine who face dire human suffering, destruction and displacement."
But U.S. defense officials believe the Russian offensive has encountered considerable resistance and is proceeding slower than Moscow had envisioned.
The United States and Europe have already hit Russia with sanctions that will impact multiple sectors of the Russia economy. Ukraine has argued that a tougher economic response is needed and has asked for additional defense assistance.
The White House announced the new sanctions after President Joe Biden met withfellow NATO heads of state to discuss the mounting crisis.
