Aldi manager who became a sniper taking down Russian forces is killed in Ukraine
20220308
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/aldi-manager-killed-ukraine-deployed-26660152
Tributes have poured in for Oleksandr Zavhorodniy who had lived more than 20 years in Ireland before heading to Ukraine to fight after Vladimir Putin's ill-fated invasion
One well wisher said: "It will hopefully be some small solace to his family that he can be remembered by so many even those of us who didnt have the pleasure of knowing him, but now know his story.
Oleksandrs youngest teenage daughter and his former wife were able to safely get out of Ukraine and his eldest child is living abroad.
An Aldi manager has been killed after returning to Ukraine to fight against he Russian invasion.
His friends believe he had been deployed as a sniper for the Ukrainian army when he died, reports Irish Mirror.
Anna Neilande, who organised the campaign with other friends, posted: When Alex arrived in Warsaw, he gave everything he had at the time to those in need women and children.
When he arrived at the military unit, he kept positive and did his best to calm his worrying family and friends by joking and sending funny pictures. We all will miss his kindness and cracking sense of humour, even in the most challenging situations.
The dad-of-two had been renting a home in Stillorgan before he decided to travel to Ukraine last month.
Known as Alex to his mates, he had lived in Ireland for over 20 years and was the deputy manager of Aldi in Sandyford, a suburb of the Irish capital.
For the latest breaking news stories and incredible tales from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
A GoFundMe page has been set up by pals to pay for his funeral and has raised more than 20,000 16,700.
However, the family will not be able to return for his funeral later this week. Relatives, friends and colleagues have been shocked and saddened by his tragic death.
Dublin-based Oleksandr Zavhorodniy, 45, is Ukrainian born and was killed on March 30 during the heavy shelling in Donbas.
