Aldi Asda and Sainsburys remove hundreds of Russian items from stores in crackdown
20220311
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/uk-supermarkets-remove-russian-products-26441754
Meanwhile the supermarket issued a statement that said: We are supporting humanitarian relief efforts through our partnerships with the Red Cross, food banks and other relief organisations to help those affected in Ukraine and neighbouring countries.
It is hoped the boycott of Russian goods, as well as the economic sanctions, could force Vladimir Putin to end the invasion.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
The UK government has imposed sanctions on Russian firms and oligarchs, while some companies have decided to stop trading with firms or selling their goods.
Asda, on the other hand, has confirmed it is removing all Russian from its stores and online - around 100 items in total - in a much more stark move than its counterpart Tesco.
Sainsbury's, who have also thrown their weight behind the cause, have removed products including the Russian Standard vodka and Karpayskiye black sunflower seeds - and even changed the name of its Chicken Kiev to Kyiv - the Ukrainian capital - to stand with Ukraine.
Asda, Aldi and Sainsbury's are among the chains to have taken a stand against Russia following Putin's invasion of the Eastern European nation.
A Tesco spokesperson reportedly said the company would no longer be buying products from businesses that are wholly Russian-owned.
UK supermarkets including Asda, Sainsbury's and Aldi have halted the sale of Russian-made products in a defiant show of support following Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine
In addition, Asda and its charity, the Asda Foundation, announced on March 4 they would provide a 1m package to support displaced Ukrainian families in Europe and the UK.
Most of the products disappearing from shelves are spirits, but the list also includes fish and some sweets.
The supermarket also confirmed they would be donating 5m to aid organisations to "ensure help reaches those that need it most".
A statement issued by the retailer said: "We stand together with Aldi colleagues across the world and will be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal."
Asda co-owner Mohsin Issa said: We stand with our customers and colleagues who are shocked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine  and our thoughts are with those people whose lives are affected by this crisis.
UK supermarket chains have had varying approaches to the invasion of Ukraine, with some taking more drastic measures than others.
Supermarket chains across the UK have removed hundreds of Russian products in a show of support for Ukraine.
Budget-friendly retailer Aldi has also made its position in the fight clear, saying it will no longer sell Russian vodka and announcing it would be making a donation to the Red Cross Ukraine Crisis Appeal.
Tesco said it will not remove any products from shelves - however the retail giant won't be placing further orders with Russian suppliers.
"We have reviewed our product range and have decided to remove from sale all products that are 100 sourced from Russia."
