BBC Breakfasts Dan Walker sends fans swooning as he poses in hunky throwback snap
20220224
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/showbiz/bbc-breakfasts-dan-walker-sends-26320352
Although Dan is mostly known for presenting BBC Breakfast alongside co-star Sally Nugent, it seems he has the looks for a career in modelling if he ever fancied opting for a career change.
BBC Breakfast star Dan Walker left fans swooning when he shared a hunky throwback snap taken early on in his BBC career.
Captioning the snap, he wrote: "This old BBC PR shot just popped up on my phone.
It wouldn't be the first time he took on a new challenge, either, because fans watched him learn to dance on Strictly Come Dancing last year - after being paired up with show pro Nadiya Bychkova.
For more of the latest showbiz news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Dan signed off by wishing his followers a decent Thursday, adding: "I hope youre ok and are having a decent Thursday."
Shooting the camera a brooding sideways glance, Dan looked every bit the part of a model as he stood for the BBC press snap.
Dan also sent a message of support to those in Ukraine - following the recent attacks from Russian military forces this week.
"No idea what I was thinking about at the time but it looks pretty serious", alongside a smiling-face to suggest he can see the funny side of the "serious" snap.
Dan's adoring fans were rather impressed by the presenter's modelling moves, and they rushed to compliment him in the comments.
Taking to Twitter, he wrote: "Thinking of Ukranian friends today. It must be a very scary time for anyone who lives there and those with family and friends in that beautiful country."
BBC Breakfast star Dan Walker confessed he looked "pretty serious" in the old BBC snap after finding it on his phone, but his fans thought he looked devilishly handsome
In the throwback snap, Dan can be seen sporting a smart white shirt with a buttoned collar.
The handsome BBC presenter, 44, found the archive snap on his phone, and he decided to share it with his 271k followers on Instagram.
A fourth cheekily wrote: "Was having a mediocre Thursday, but this pic just made it a whole lot better!" with a winking emoji alongside it.
