BBC Breakfasts Dan Walker makes tough confession about his kids over Ukraine war
20220228
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/tv/bbc-breakfasts-dan-walker-makes-26345065
The crisis has seen wide-spread fighting break out in major cities across Ukraine like its capital Kyiv, with Russia launching a number of attacks which includes airstrikes and missiles.
BBC Breakfast star Dan Walker issued an urgent appeal to worried parents watching with their kids at home - after his show discussed the Ukraine war and Putin's nuclear weapons
He then directed any parents who wanted to educate their kids on the crisis to check out BBC Newsround's coverage - which is aimed at younger viewers.
For more of the latest showbiz news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Dan Walker revealed he's already had "difficult" conversations with his kids about the Ukraine crisis.
Speaking directly to any concerned parents on Monday's show February 28, Dan opened up about how he has already had "difficult" chats with his young kids about the war.
Sally said: "It's scary isn't it? Because as soon as you say the words 'nuclear weapons', it makes everybody, grown-ups too, really scared."
He wanted to reassure viewers he was aware that young children might be witnessing the scary topics, such as nuclear missiles, covered on the show that morning,
He finished: If you've got children, or you're watching this morning and it's hard to listen to some of the things you hear, Newsround are doing a really good job..."
He said: "Kids of a certain age, it's really easy to worry about those things and I suppose go to bed at night and have horrible dreams as well."
It came when the BBC Breakfast star, who is also a dad-of-three, issued an urgent appeal to any worried parents watching at home with their children during Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
It comes after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his military leaders to put his country's nuclear arsenal on high alert after Russia invaded Ukraine last week.
Dan and his co-star Sally Nugent had just been speaking to the Defence Secretary Ben Wallace about the latest events in Ukraine as well as Putin's threat of nuclear attacks.
The presenter said: "Mr Wallace talking there about having conversations with his own children. I think he said his 12-year-old rang him when Vladimir Putin was talking about nuclear weapons.
Turning to mum-of-one Sally, Dan went on: "I've done it, I'm sure you have with yours as well...", to which she confirmed that she had.
"We are very much aware there's lots of people with young children watching this morning, getting ready for school, and it's difficult to have those conversations with your children."
