Bold Ukrainian farmers steal 18 million Russian surfacetoair missile with tractor
20220303
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/weird-news/bold-ukrainian-farmers-steal-18-26375795
The news comes after a Ukrainian farmer has gone viral on social media after appearing to steal a Russian tank using a tractor.
The three-second clip warranted paise online for the plot as one person tweeted: "Ukraine citizens are awesome IStandWithUkriane."
Two Ukrainian farmers were recorded as they used their tractors to steal a Russian surface-to-air missile with an estimated worth of $25million 18m as a man chases after it
The vessel was moored at Port Adriano by Alexander Mijeev, a former head of the Russian Helicopter Corporation but took over state-owned weapons supplier Rostec six years ago.
In another revenge plot, an irate Ukrainian sailor has been arrested after allegedly sabotaging a 5million yacht owned by a Russian weapons boss.
The video was posted by researcher Arslon Xudosi and re-tweeted by Ukrainian MP Lesia Vasylenko.
Another added: "My new favourite thing is brave Ukrainian farmers stealing military equipment with tractors."
Scrap metal is very valuable in Ukraine so people are very excited about all the money they can make by getting hold of enemy weapons LoveUkraine.
A pair of Ukrainian farmers have gone viral on Twitter after they reportedly used their big green tractors to steal a Russian surface-to-air missile.
For more shocking stories from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
The hilarious act was praised as one of the few funny moments during Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The footage, which has received over 19k likes and thousands of retweets on the social media site shows the farmers making their bold escape with the military equipment that is said to be worth 18million as a man runs after it.
The video was posted by StrictlyChristo as part of a thread of balmy goings-on during the Russia-Ukraine war.
The unnamed 55-year-old mechanic said he scuppered 156ft luxury yacht, named Lady Anastasia, in Mallorca after the war broke out at home because he claims his boss' weapons are being sold to Vladimir Putin and used to kill and maim his countrymen.
The tank is thought to be a Russian MT-LB, which is a Soviet-era multi-purpose fully amphibious auxiliary armoured tracked vehicle, which was introduced in the 1950s.
Mijeev's member of staff, who had worked for him for several years, allegedly opened three valves on the five-cabin yacht so it would take on water "in an act of revenge", according to Ultima Hora.
