Brave mumof12 slain in Ukraine by Putins Russian thugs on city front line
20220317
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/brave-mum-12-slain-ukraine-26488287
Even when she believed her regiment might not survive, she emphasised her desire to protect the country until the end. She is a national hero. She is a hero to me.
The footage shows a Russian tank positioned among what appear to be the remains of a destroyed civilian building.
A 48-year-old Ukrainian mum-of-12 has been killed by Russian forces after being hit in the stomach while fighting in the Donetsk region, leaving her family heartbroken
Across the street, the civilian can be seen calmly walking by without making any attempt to hide or show any aggression.
The footage was reportedly shot in the city of Mariupol, which is located on the north coast of the Sea of Azov, in the contested Donetsk Oblast region, in eastern Ukraine, and it was obtained by Newsflash on Tuesday March 15 after it was released by Ukraine's Azov Regiment.
The city of Mariupol has been devastated by the Russian onslaught over the last two weeks, with reports of trapped civilians suffering from ill-health and hunger.
Olga, who adopted six orphaned children had previously been awarded the title Mother Heroine, given to mums who have more than five children.
One of her daughters, Julia, said the entire family has been left heartbroken after Olga was fatally shot in the stomach.
Decrying the shocking act as a "murder", they called on the images to be passed on to the International Court of Justice ICJ in The Hague.
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the countrys Interior Ministry, said: She was slain in a confrontation with Russian thugs.
The Russian tank then suddenly opens fire on the civilian, reportedly a man, allegedly killing him instantly as the shell hits the building right behind him, in an explosion of flame and smoke.
It comes amid growing fears that Russia's planned takeover has slowed, leading to fears Putin could order increased civilian shelling.
Olga Semidyanova, 48, defended the Donetsk region from "Russian thugs" right until her last breath despite knowing her regiment would likely die doing so.
For more incredible stories from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters     here
Daughter Julia said: "She saved the soldiers to the last. We have photos from the place of death  but due to heavy fighting we still cant bury my mother."
The Azov Regiment, also known as the Azov Battalion, is a group of soldiers who were officially incorporated into the National Guard of Ukraine in 2014 after recapturing Mariupol from pro-Russian separatists in June that year.
Last week, Russian missiles hit the maternity ward, with the horrific images making headlines around the world.
In her final moments Olga was able to save others fighting alongside her, according to Julia who explained that the ongoing conflict has left the family unable to retrieve and bury her body.
Ukrainian forces shared footage from Mariupol of a Russian tank slaughtering an innocent elderly man as he walked down the war torn street alone.
