Brit soldier facing execution by Putin forced to sing the Russian national anthem
20220715
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/brit-soldier-facing-execution-putin-27494668
Meanwhile, British aid worker Paul Urey, 45, has died while being held hostage by pro-Russian separatists in the DPR, which has unilaterally declared independence from Ukraine but isnt recognised by the UK.
A Russian propaganda broadcast shows former care worker from Nottinghamshire Aiden Aslin being forced to sing Russia's national anthem as a burly jailer stands menacingly close to him
According to DPR spokesperson Daria Morozova, he died on July 10 as a result of illness and stress.
British soldier Aiden Aslin has been forced to sign the Russian national anthem in an apparent propaganda video
Paul had been arrested by Russian troops at a checkpoint in southern Ukraine with fellow Brit Dylan Healy.
In an emotional phone call with his family he said little was being done for him by the Foreign Office and time is running out.
READ MORE: Brit who left girlfriend for blonde Ukrainian refugee 'wants to pummel senile Putin'
DPR spokesman Denys Pushilin, an official for the pro-Russian Donetsk People's Republic DPR, said that preparation for the execution was well advanced: "Everything is ready, he said, adding it wont be public".
Despite that, Aidens been accused of being a mercenary by the Russian authorities and has been threatened with the death penalty alongside another Brit, Shaun Pinner, 48.
The UK government has demanded the safe treatment of the remaining British prisoners in accordance with the Geneva Convention and there are hopes a prisoner swap could be arranged.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The Brit, who was captured while fighting while fighting against the Russian invasion of Ukraine, has been shown seemingly being forced to sing the tune in another flagrant breach of the Geneva Conventions' rules on treatment of prisoners of war.
Former care worker Aiden was captured by Russian forces in the besieged city of Mariupol in April. He joined the Ukrainian army in 2018 after marrying a Ukrainian woman and moving to the country.
"I have to believe what Aiden has said to us, that if the DPR don't get some response then they will execute him. Obviously, I hope that isn't true."
"The bottom line is Aiden has said the DPR has told him nobody from the UK has made contact, and that he will be executed.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss summoned the Russian ambassador, Andrei Kelin, earlier today Friday, July 15 to express her deep concern over reports of Pauls death.
A burly Russian jailer stands next to the Nottinghamshire 28-year-old as he belts out the anthem.
Aiden's grandmother Pamela Hall told the BBC: "There are no words, just no words, it's got to be everyone's worst nightmare to have a member of your family threatened in this way.
In the disturbing clip which the Daily Star has chosen not to show, Aiden appears to be thin and pale but otherwise uninjured  despite the presence of a vicious-looking club on the table in front of him.
