Britain defy Putin to send antiaircraft Stormer armoured missiles to Ukraine forces
20220419
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/britain-send-stormer-armoured-missiles-26745868
Dr Mendoza added that Britain is warning Russia that its aggression "will no longer be tolerated".
Dr Alan Mendoza, of security think tank the Henry Jackson Society, told the Sun: These vehicles are the best kit yet sent to Ukraine and will leave Russian pilots quaking.
It is understood the 13-tonne vehicles can be flown to the war on C-17 transport planes in days.
Britain will soon send the Stormer High Velocity Missile HVM launchers, the Sun reports, with the Ministry of Defence demonstrating them for Ukrainians on Salisbury Plain, southern England, two weeks ago.
Britain is set to send Stormer armoured missiles to Ukraine to help blast Vladimir Putin's aircraft out of the sky, according to reports.
Mr Johnson spoke to Mr Zelensky on Saturday afternoon, with a Downing Street spokesperson saying: "The Prime Minister paid tribute to the bravery of Ukrainian forces who continue to valiantly defend their country's freedom."
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The news comes as Putin's war machine begins a new phase of its bloody invasion with a full-scale offensive to take control of the mostly-Russian speaking Donbas in the east.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had pleaded with the West for greater firepower, and now he has had his wish granted.
Earlier this month, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK was "stepping up" the supply of arms, as she joined Nato counterparts in Brussels to hear the demands from Ukraine for more equipment.
US President Joe Biden on Wednesday approved $800million 610m in military assistance for Ukraine, including artillery and helicopters, to bolster its defences against the expected Russian offensive in the country's east.
The Stormer is manufactured by BAE Systems, needs just three people to operate it and and uses Starstreak missiles, which can be used to take down low-flying aircraft and leave pilots terrified of attempting low-level attacks.
He said: "The UK should wear Putins inevitable angry and overblown reaction to this as a badge of pride.
Britain will soon send armoured Stormer High Velocity Missile HVM launchers, with the Ministry of Defence demonstrating them for Ukrainians on Salisbury Plain, southern England, two weeks ago
But Colonel Richard Kemp, former commander of British troops in Afghanistan, told the paper that UK's major boost to Ukraine's forces risks further angering Moscow, with the threat of retaliation coming in the form of "cyber attacks, sabotage, assassination or other covert attacks for which his intelligence services have proven capability, including in the UK.
