Brit armed forces veteran killed in Ukraine hailed one hell of a beautiful guy
20220428
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/breaking-british-national-killed-one-26824353
Last week captured British soldier Aiden Aslin spoke to his mum over a Facebook messenger video call for the first time since Russian soldiers took him as a prisoner of war.
Another touching tribute from former fellow soldier Richard Fleming read: "RIP Sibs. I had the privilege serving with him many years ago.
A British armed voices veteran has been killed in Ukraine and another British man has been reported missing by the Foreign Office.
An FCDO spokesperson said: "We can confirm that a British national has been killed in Ukraine and are supporting their family."
Bereaved friend, Alex Darwin wrote on Facebook: "Sib, Im in complete disbelief. What a pleasure to have served along side you, to know you  to of experienced your kind nature. You was there for me,  I will forever be grateful.
Facebook user Your MajestyK wrote: "I only got the opportunity to play a couple of games with Sibs, I knew him mostly from the stream chat, but I do know how much he is loved.
Whether the pair were involved in conflict has not been confirmed by The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office FCDO but a photo of Mr Sibley shows him in uniform with both the Ukrainian and British flags attached.
His captors asked his mother Ang Wood to "press Boris Johnson for a swap deal".
A fundraiser page was set up on Wednesday in the Brit's name with the message: "Rest in peace Sibs we will never forget you."
"A good lad with not a care in the world, a can do attitude and always found the funny side in anything. Thoughts go out to you and your family..."
Scott was described in a Facebook post on the Logistics Support Squadron group as a "former serving soldier" who "showed Commando spirit until the end".
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters   here  .
Over the past few years Scott had used Facebook to fundraise for Young Lives Vs Cancer.
Someone who claimed to know the fallen soldier through online gaming and streams has paid tribute to Scott and shared a link to Gofundme.com.
"Not only by the UK community but also the close friends he made over in Oceania. My thoughts are with all his loved ones at this time."
Mr Sibley and the other missing in Ukraine are believed to have answered the call of Ukraine's government at the beginning of the war for international volunteers to join their defence of the country.
They added: "We are aware of a British national who is missing in Ukraine and are supporting their family. We are urgently seeking further information."
Scott Sibley who is understood to have volunteered for Ukraine's military to fight against invading Russian soldiers, has been described as "one hell of a beautiful guy".
As many publicly heeded that rallying cry to boost Ukraine's chances of military resistance, the British government advised against travelling to fight.
A British man thought to have been fighting with Ukraine's military against Russian soldiers has been killed and another has been reported missing, the UK Foreign Office says
