Can Russian nuclear missiles reach the UK  and what weapons do they have
20220225
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/can-russian-nuclear-missiles-reach-26328860
Britain's nuclear deterrent, which is based in the Royal Navy, maintains at least one nuclear-armed ballistic missile submarine in the ocean which goes undetected at all times.
However, Ukraine made the decision to get rid of these weapons, opting to fully denuclearise instead.
The statement added that it deters states from using their nuclear weapons or carrying out extreme threats against the UK.
The news that Russia has declared war on Ukraine has rocked the world, with people even fearing the beginning of another World War.
Data produced by the Arms Control Association shows both Russia and the US have thousands of nuclear weapons, with the UK, France and China all also numbering in the hundreds.
Nuclear weapons are the most drastic weapon in the armoury of superpowers, and using them has very grave consequences.
This system of deterrents has been in place since 1969, and it can only be activated by the serving Prime Minister, even if it's deployed as part of a NATO action.
In a move branded an act of war, the Russian invasion of Ukraine began earlier this week, with around 10,0000 troops taking over Donetsk and Luhansk, two Russian-speaking areas of Ukraine.
Heres what you need to know about Russian nukes and if they can actually reach the UK when launched.
Yes, Russian nuclear weapons - which can be launched from the sea, land or air - do have the range to hit the UK, with Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles ICBMs being able to travel thousands of miles.
Currently, Russia has about 4,447 warheads, of which 1,588 are deployed on ballistic missiles and heavy bomber bases. It holds another 977 strategic warheads and 1,912 nonstrategic warheads in reserve, according to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.
"Potential aggressors know that the costs of attacking the UK, or our NATO allies, could far outweigh any benefit they could hope to achieve."
Ukraine does not have any nuclear weapons. After the Cold War ended in 1991 and Soviet Union - which Ukraine was part of - broke up, large numbers of nukes were left behind in Ukraine by Moscow.
With increasing worries over what could be the beginning of the bloodiest conflict in Europe since WW2, even people outside the line of fire have begun to consider how the war might affect them  with the use of nuclear weapons always remaining a possibility.
Writing about the reason for the deterrent, the government says: "The purpose of nuclear deterrence is to preserve peace, prevent coercion and deter aggression.
As Russia continues to invade Ukraine, fears over how the countrys nuclear weapons could potentially affect the UK have been mounting. So can Russian missiles reach the UK? Heres what you need to know
Though Russia's stockpile of nuclear weapons are much lower than it was during the Cold War peak, it still hold the largest stockpile of nuclear warheads in the world.
At the moment, the possibility of nuclear weapons being used during the Russia-Ukraine conflict remains a long way off, with the devastation outweighing any gains on both sides.
