Chernobyl could start leaking deadly radiation in next 48 hours after Russians cut power
20220309
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/chernobyl-could-leak-deadly-radiation-26426865
"The nuclear station has no power supply. The military actions are in progress, so there is no possibility to restore the lines. Slavutich city is also out of power supply."
In troubling news, the Russians disconnected the Chernobyl nuclear power plant from the national grid causing Ukrainian officials to warn that it was emitting 'unknown levels' of radiation.
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has begged the Russians to allow vital repair work to be undertaken at Chernobyl nuclear power plant due to fears it could leak radioactive material
Ukraine has warned that the Russian occupied Chernobyl Nuclear power plant could be just 48 hours away from leaking dangerous radiation.
A spokesman for Ukrenergo said: "Because of the military actions of the Russian occupiers, the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl was fully disconnected from the power grid.
The war-torn country has begged Russia for a ceasefire so urgent repairs can be made to the site, which was claimed by Vladimir Putin's forces in the early days of the conflict.
According to Energoatom, the resultant radioactive cloud "could be carried by wind to other regions of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, and Europe."
In a sign of desperation, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has taken to Twitter to urge Russia to think again.
He said: "The only electrical grid supplying the Chornobyl NPP and all its nuclear facilities occupied by the Russian army is damaged. CNPP lost all electric supply.
"I call on the international community to urgently demand Russia to cease fire and allow repair units to restore power supply.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
And now Ukraine's nuclear company Energoatom has said unless repairs are made it may be impossible to cool the nuclear fuel, adding: "The temperature in the holding pools will increase, the release of radioactive substances into the environment may occur."
"After that, cooling systems of the storage facility for spent nuclear fuel will stop, making radiation leaks imminent."
