Cold War nuclear bunker in mint condition on sale in UK for 25k  but theres a catch
20220304
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/nuclear-bunker-uk-sale-25k-26391791
The underground hideaway was constructed in 1961, in the prospect that there would be a devastating attack.
And given the fragile situation, the accommodation has now gone on the market after being listed by Unique Property Bulletin, reports The Mirror.
It has an outer layer of bricks to protect against penetration, while bitumen provides waterproofing on its exterior.
Any owner could climb down a deep shaft fixed with a steel ladder leading to a one-metre "monitoring room."
It has enough space for three people to hide and even features an earth bonding system to protect against electro-magnetic pulse from nuclear explosions.
Sellers say it hasn't been vandalised or experienced any flooding, which means it is in good condition for would-be buyers.
"This bunker survived the civil defence cutbacks of the mid-1960s when half the original number were closed, many now having been demolished."
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters   here.
A Cold War nuclear bunker in "mint condition" has hit the market in the UK as fears continue to mount over Russia's invasion - but there's a slight catch.
The countryside location it says is also close to the village of Brundall where amenities include a market, post office, and local pub.
Listed by Unique Property Bulletin, it says: "UKWMO Brundall is located in Norfolk, approximately 118 miles from London.
"Operational bunkers were modified by the Home Office in the 1980s with polystyrene insulation to the internal walls and ceiling and this remains in good condition."
"Unlike some bunkers, this example never suffered from water ingress and has remained absolutely dry, a testament to quality construction.
The ancient bunker is on sale for 25,000 and can be found five metres underground in Brundall, Norfolk.
It is made of a solid piece of steel-reinforced concrete and reaches five metres beneath the ground.
"Most bunkers were built on high ground so their ground zero cameras would have panoramic views of the horizon.
A rare chance to purchase an underground hideout is being offered in the UK for over 20,000 - but it has no connection to several necessities such as water and sewer systems
"It is tanked by waterproofing with bitumen and then an outer layer of bricks to protect against penetration.
"This plot is no exception and benefits from a very pleasant vista of surrounding unspoilt rural East Anglia.
It has been over a week since Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which has sparked concerns on whether there could be a World War Three.
The listing for the bunker states: "The structure was cast in a continuous process as one solid piece of steel-reinforced concrete so that it could move in the ground as one if it were subject to the shockwave from a nearby nuclear burst.
It is fitted with a radio and a landline, but there is one catch with this sale - no connection to water, electricity or sewer systems.
