Defiant Ukrainians flock to beaches despite continuing Russian threats
20220610
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/defiant-ukrainians-flock-beaches-despite-27205517
Their leisurely activities come despite ongoing bombardments at Kharkiv and Dnipro in the countrys north and centre.
Nataliia Humeniuk, a spokeswoman of the southern military command, said she realized that the tourism business and recreational component was an important element, "but we also realize that if we don't hold the defense of our region, there will be no budget to fill."
Russian troops retreated from Kyiv Oblast in early April and Ukraine's Interior Minister Denys Monastyrsky said yesterday there was no danger of an attack on the capital
Odesa's local economy has taken a huge hit as the southwestern Ukraine port city was shut down for business.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our free newsletters    here    .
"They the military said not to go there to the seaside," said 18-year-old resident Kyrylo Zinchenko, who used to be a driver before Odesa's tourism dried up.
"We can't live without the sea. If not for the sea, there would probably be no Odesa," said 82-year-old resident Viktor Holchenko.
However, he noted the situation could quickly change. Even still, the people of the capital relaxed on the sand, while others took a dip in the Dnieper river.
The Ukrainian military has cordoned off the once popular beaches to ensure no one tampers with the weapons.
However, elsewhere the situation is more bleak. In Odesa, in the country's south along the Black Sea, tourists have been replaced by mines.
Over 100 days since Russia's most recent invasion of Ukraine, signs of normality are starting to appear through the smokes as Kyiv residents returned to the city's riverside beaches to enjoy sunny weather.
Also, Russias navy is said to have 40 cruise missiles aimed at Ukraine and has warned of increased attacks.
But Sophia Misiac, 18, who fled Kyiv in February to escape an onslaught, said, via The Sun: It feels incredible to be back.
Russian troops retreated from Kyiv Oblast in early April and Ukraines Interior Minister Denys Monastyrsky said yesterday Thursday June 10 there was no danger of an attack on the capital.
Her friend Sophia Alexeiyenko, 18, said: I feel safe here now. It feels no different to before.
