Depraved UK journalist urges Putin to show no restraint and crush Ukraine
20220318
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/pro-putin-russian-uk-site-26501115
The people you're fighting now in western Ukraine are not your 'cousins', Bandera is their hero and they're the descendants of those who also queued up at your borders in 1941.
Finish the job before you get bogged down in a protracted guerilla war, which is what defeated the US in every one of its adventures and why it doesn't invade any more but creates situations in which others do the fighting for them.
Russia's media war against Ukraine has been failing miserably since the invasion began, but one Russian mouthpiece is still peddling pro-Putin material on its UK website
The longer you let this grind on and show restraint, the more you risk NATO getting involved and are forced into considering the unthinkable.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The longer you take the weaker you look and over the last eight years you've seen how signs of weakness embolden NATO.
You will not win anything tip toeing around the propaganda of the West whose citizens are now at the stage of having to be warned that a floor is slippery when wet, or that a packet of peanuts may contain nuts!
And the mysterious columnist added: Watching the nonsense now presented as news, the various loud bangs often added as a backdrop amid shaky journalist voices assuring the viewer that just out of sight as they always are, are columns of Russian tanks mowing down everyone in sight, but then dispelled by images of orderly queues of refugees with suitcases, like holiday tourists, waiting patiently for the next bus with electricity still functioning normally.
Written by John V, who is described on the site as a UK citizen and a recently retired post-graduate English and Social Science teacher, it states: Mr. Putin, if I may.
One of Russian President Vladamir Putin's UK media mouthpieces has called on the despot to show no restraint during the invasion of Russia.
News channels across the world have been sending front-line news coverage, while journalists such as Sky News veteran Stuart Ramsey were being shot at.
But a new column on its website has taken the shocking rhetoric to a new level.
Mr V also hit out at journalists risking life and limb to cover the invasion.
The English website of pro-Putin Russian news orgnaisation Pravda has often peddled pro-Russian propaganda, in the same way that RT News did until it was pulled from UK television screens a few weeks ago.
