Donald Trump makes bizarre claim he could ban Putin from saying the word nuclear
20220425
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/trump-says-could-ban-putin-26794750
They were loaded several days ago ahead of a mission by the submarine in the Black Sea.
Trump went on to claim that Putin believes nobody will attack Russia because they're too afraid of his nuclear threat.
The former US President spoke on Piers Morgan's new talk show Uncensored on Talk TV, stating: "Putin uses the N word. I call it the N word.
He told Piers Morgan: "He's doing them because he thinks 'nobody's gonna ever attack us, because they're all stupid, and they're afraid to talk.'"
Russian Kalibr-type cruise missiles were loaded onto the Veliky Novgorod diesel-electric submarine - the very ones bombing the peaceful cities of Ukraine."
Russian defence minister Sergey Shoigu has boasted that deployment in Syria from the Caspian Sea confirmed a high effectiveness of the missiles at major distances of nearly 1500 km 932 miles".
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here .
The threat of nuclear war by Russia has ramped up after new leaked images show a Russian submarine being stocked up with nuclear-capable missiles.
"And everybody's so afraid, so afraid, so afraid. And as they're afraid, he uses it more and more. That's why he's doing the kind of things he's doing right now."
Donald Trump has made the bizarre claim that he could ban Vladimir Putin from ever saying the word "nuclear" again.
"He uses the N word, the nuclear word all the time. That's a no-no, you're not supposed to do that. He uses it on a daily basis.
Lethal Kalibr strategic missiles have been spotted being put onto a Veliky Novgorod diesel-electric submarine, which is thought to be heading to Ukraine to potentially be used in the invasion.
The last time the missile was spotted and used was in 2014 when Russian submarines in the Mediterranean sea launched them on positions of the rebels in Idlib, Syria.
Ukraine's Yug operation command said: By blocking shipping, conducting surface situation detection and aerial reconnaissance, the Russians continue to carry the threat of a missile attack on almost the entire territory of Ukraine."
Former US President Donald Trump has made a strange claim that he could ban Russian President Vladimir Putin from ever saying the word "nuclear" again or else there would be "problems"
