Drunk Russian soldiers face off with FSB officers in bar gunfight that left three dead
20220831
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/drunk-russian-soldiers-face-fsb-27878756
But news coming out of occupied Kherson, in the south of country, tell of drunk and angry Russians fighting among themselves as the Ukrainian Army threatens to drive them back to their homeland.
I especially want to emphasise that we feel the support of the population in the liberated territories, he said in a televised briefing.
Meanwhile, Viktor Zolotov, director of the Russian National Guard, told a visibly unwell Vladimir Putin that the Ukrainian invasion was going very well indeed.
According to the report, leaked to Yahoo News, three FSB officers spotted two soldiers from the 8th Artillery Regiment of the Russian Black Sea Fleet  Sgt. Sergei Obukhov and Junior Sgt. Igor Sudin  in uniform idly spending time, consuming alcoholic drinks.
As one of the FSB officers, Sergei Privalov, tried to grab Obukhovs gun, Sudin suddenly opened up with his AK47  killing Privalov and one of his comrades Igor Yakubinsky.
Borodin and Sudin were taken to the Russian Defence Ministrys Federal Naval Clinical Hospital No. 1427 in Sevastopol.
A fourth, unnamed FSB officer was also reportedly present at the scene and fled unharmed.
The deadly squabble is not an isolated case. An anonymous Ukrainian journalist told Sky News that Russian soldiers were drunkenly staggering through the streets of Kherson with "a bottle of alcohol in one hand, a machine gun in the other.
Reports being fed back to the Russian high command speak of a well-disciplined Russian Army enjoying themselves after success in Ukraine.
When disciplined by the FSB men, the two soldiers reacted angrily, drawing their weapons, and Obukhov fired his pistol into the floor.
The Russians live in fear of Ukrainian fighters hiding among the civilian population: "There is a checkpoint at almost every intersection," the source said. "All cars and buses are checked. Everyone is asked for their passports. They tear down garage doors and gates. They are looking for weapons, they are looking for some equipment. They are very afraid of partisans."
In the exchange of fire that followed Obukhov was also killed and the third FSB man, D.A. Borodin, was severely wounded.
The shoot-out is now being investigated by V.O. Savchenko, an official in Russias Military Investigations Department.
Secret Russian Government documents tell of a bloody brawl between Russian troops and the feared Federal Security Service FSB.
Local reports say that drunken Russian troops in Kherson are staggering through the city's streets with 'a bottle of alcohol in one hand, a machine gun in the other'
