Elon Musk jokes he could die in mysterious circumstances after Russian warning
20220509
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/elon-musk-jokes-could-die-26909700
Musks Starlink system has been a lifeline for Ukrainians since the start of the war. With many confessional means of communication cut off the orbital network has been the only way that news can flow in and out of besieged cities.
But he singled out Musk, saying that because his Starlink satellites has been used for communications by Ukraines military  including the controversial Azov Brigade  he would be held accountable like an adult.
There are over 10,000 Starlink dish antennas in service in Ukraine, and more are reported to be on the way.
The Russian space agency chief has issued a number of threats against opponents of the attack on Ukraine over the last few weeks, recently claiming that Russias nuclear arsenal could destroy the whole of NATO in half an hour.
Showing that even billionaires do what their mums tell them to, Musk replied Sorry! I will do my best to stay alive.
This is not an ideal internet, said Dmytro Zinchuk, the head of network operations for the main Ukrainian internet provider Freenet . But still when there is no connection at all, Starlink is just a salvation for people who have been without connection for many weeks.
But that lighthearted response didnt go down well with Musks mum, Maye Musk, who replied on Twitter with an angry emoji, saying "Thats not funny.
Rogozin said that a captured Ukrainian commander, Colonel Dmitry Kormyankov, had told his interrogators that computer equipment for connecting to Musks network of Starlink internet satellites had been delivered by the Pentagon.
Stay up to date with all the Daily Star's latest news by signing up to one of our free newsletters here.
And for this, Elon, you will be held accountable like an adult  no matter how much youll play the fool.
Tech billionaire Elon Musk has warned his Twitter followers to watch out for a Russian assassination attempt after he was named in a propaganda message by Roscosmos boss Dmitry Rogozin.
Elon Musk, thus, is involved in supplying the fascist forces in Ukraine with military communication equipment, Rogozin added.
And in a reference to the poisonings of Putin critics Alexei Navalny and Alexander Litvinenko Musk said If I die under mysterious circumstances, its been nice knowin ya.
Russian space agency boss Dmitry Rogozin accused the SpaceX billionaire of 'helping fascists in Ukraine' with his Starlink satellite internet system  and Musk's mum warning him not to joke about it
Musk wryly responded on Twitter the word 'Nazi' doesnt mean what he seems to think it does.
