F idiot Russians mocked by Ukrainian soldier for hapless shooting skills
20220314
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/f-idiot-russians-mocked-ukrainian-26460742
Russia has been ridiculed for its numerous self-inflicted mistakes during its invasion into Ukraine, and now soldiers defending the country have joined in with the mocking
Another clip from the film shows him, along with other soldiers, filming the realities of the war using a drone controlled by an iPhone.
According to the translation, he said: We are very lucky that they the Russian soldiers are so fg stupid.
Russian soldiers on the front line of the invasion into Ukraine have been slammed as fing stupid" and goofs, by a Ukrainian battling to save his homeland.
He added: Every time we speak to our defenders, it became a tradition to hear about non-professionalism of the enemy.
Video footage emerged of what appears to be a clip from a documentary of Ukrainian soldiers being very blunt about what it's like fighting against the Russian invasion.
According to Ukrainian officials, around 1,300 soldiers have been killed since the invasion began last month, while Russia has so far failed to release it's casualty numbers.
However, Justin Bronk, research fellow at the UKs Royal United Services Institute, told the Financial Times that the losses are massively more than in any other recent conflict including Georgia, Chechnya or Afghanistan in the 1980s
He added: What we have seen on the ground is an extremely bad plan coupled with absolutely no warning to operational commanders they were about to throw their troops into operational combat which has created an enormous number of problems for them.
While it is not clear exactly where in Ukraine the soldier is, he can be seen shaking his head to the sound of more Russian shelling explosions.
And in one clip, a soldier is filmed lying down among scrubland and snow, holding a gun of some kind, with yellow and blue tape on his helmet, being interview.
Never want to miss a story like this? You can get all of Daily Star's articles sent directly to your inbox! Sign up in seconds here!
