Fresh Putin blow as Ukraine claims 200 Russian troops wiped out in just 24 hours
20220817
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/fresh-putin-blow-ukraine-claims-27764461
"This is a people's war of liberation, this is an all-Ukrainian struggle for freedom and independence for our country. Ukraine is protected by millions in one way or another.
READ MORE: Putin vows to give Russian mums one-off 13.5k payment if they have 10 children
"And we have to do - and will do - everything to preserve this nationwide foundation of defence.
"This is a significant advantage of Ukraine and the root cause of our future victory - the struggle of our defenders is based on the unconditional support of the Ukrainian people.
The reported deaths come as rumours swirl about the possibility that targets in Russian-held Crimea have been destroyed by Ukrainian special forces.
The number of troops claimed to have been killed has frequently varied between the two sides and even agencies in the west.
This huge loss of life comes alongside substantial amounts of destroyed equipment. While not all figures are agreed upon exactly, Ukraine claims to have destroyed 1,886 tanks, 4,162 armoured troop carriers, 233 planes and 196 helicopters.
In the latest edition of the address he gives each night, he said: "I want to thank all Ukrainians who help our Armed Forces, our intelligence, our special services weaken the army of the occupiers.
Moscow has consistently said it has lost fewer troops and less equipment than Ukraine claims. Information from western agencies usually comes somewhere in the middle.
Vladimir Putin has been dealt a fresh blow as Ukrainian officials claim their forces killed 200 of his troops in one day.
According to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraines official Facebook account, 44,100 of Putin's troops have been killed by the defenders since the war began.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
The staggering losses add to the already enormous total number of Russians that Ukraine claims to have killed.
As rumours swirl about devastating attacks carried out by Ukrainian special forces in occupied Crimea, the defending nation has claimed to have killed a huge number of Russian troops in the last 24 hours
"Millions of people who fight at the front, who fight for their cities and villages, including in the occupation, who stopped the occupiers' military equipment, who informed and inform our intelligence and special services, who oppose the occupiers in their rear, who ensure the necessary supplies for Ukraine and the work of all our state institutions and economy, who volunteer, who fight for our interests abroad, who fight in the information war.
