Furious Putin could deploy father of all bombs that vaporises bodies official warns
20220225
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/furious-putin-could-deploy-father-26333683
Russian forces also fired missiles at several Ukrainian cities and landed troops along the country's south coast with the Mirror reporting that special force and airborne troops were also on the ground at the city's Boryspil Airport, amid fierce fighting.
The unnamed official said: "My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence.
"They dont adhere to the same principles of necessity and proportionality and rule of law that Western forces do."
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
Hundreds are feared dead while explosions were seen in cities across Ukraine, including the capital Kyiv, as dawn broke after Putin declared a 'special military operation' was underway in the region.
The explosives which are also known as vacuum bombs use the atmosphere itself as part of the explosion and are among the most powerful non-nuclear weapons ever developed.
Ukraine's health ministry said 137 people have been officially killed on the first day of the conflict, with many more injured.
Russia could resort to using weapons - dubbed the 'father of all bombs' - if their assault of Ukraine is unsuccessful, Western officials have warned.
The news comes as the Russian President issued a chilling warning yesterday February 24 that allies of Ukraine who try to interfere with his attack will "face consequences greater than any you have faced in history".
Thermobaric weapons were developed by both the US and the Soviet Union in the 1960s and in September 2007, Russia detonated the largest one ever made - making it a point of concern for Western forces.
Western officials fear Vladimir Putin could use savage superweapons that vaporise bodies and crush internal organs if their invasion of Ukraine doesn't go as planned
The West is concerned that Vladimir Putin could unleash high-power thermobaric weapons that vaporise bodies and crush internal organs if their 'schedule' is slowed down further by Ukrainian resistance forces.
