Germany rubbishes Russias war tweet as it says sadly were experts on Nazis
20220306
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/germany-rubbishes-russias-war-tweet-26399783
Professor Andrew Futter of the University of Leicester said that Putin has little to gain from resorting to nukes but warned a bloody civil war may leave him desperate.
The Daily Star reported how World War Three could decimate the entire planet with a "nuclear winter".
"The sanctions hysteria in which London plays one of the leading, if not the main, roles, leaves us with no choice but to take proportionately tough retaliatory measures.
The UK would "cease to exist" if a nuclear war broke out and even the safest places would suffer from the fallout of a "nuclear winter".
Germany's embassy in South Africa hit out at Russian claims they are "fighting Nazism" in Ukraine. It accused its Russian counterparts of being "cynical" with Russia "slaughtering" innocent people
The country's embassy in South Africa was responding to a tweet from its Russian counterpart which appeared to lay out the reasons for Russia's invasion of its neighbours last month.
"It's definitely not 'fighting Nazism'. Shame on anyone who's falling for this. Sadly, we're kinda experts on Nazism."
Germany has rejected Russian claims that Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has the aim of "fighting Nazism".
"We appreciate your support and glad you decided to stand with us today, when Russia, like 80 years ago, is fighting Nazism in Ukraine!"
The tweet said: "We have received a great number of letters of solidarity from South Africans, both individuals and organizations.
"What Russia is doing in Ukraine is slaughtering innocent children, women and men for it's own gain.
Russia has also said it "will not forget" Britain's support of Ukraine in a terrifying veiled threat.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
The threat of nuclear war has also been raised after Putin placed Russia's nuclear deterrent on 'high alert' in response to Western sanctions.
But German diplomats fired back: "Sorry, but we can't stay silent on this one, it's just far too cynical.
Spokesperson Maria Zakharova warned: "Russia will not forget Britain's desire to cooperate with ultra-nationalist forces in Ukraine and the supply of British weapons to the Kyiv regime.
