Glam exmodel sniper killed in Ukraine suffocated in bunker fire after Russian bombing
20220706
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/glam-ex-model-sniper-killed-27412288
Brave Thalita do Valle, 39, died fighting for the Foreign Legion in Ukraine against Vladimir Putin's invading forces, suffocating in a bunker blaze caused by Russian bombing
The stunning ex-model sniper who died in Ukraine suffocated in a bunker fire after Russian bombing.
He revealed: "Thalita has always been involved in humanitarian missions with the foreign legion of some country or here in Brazil.
Hailing from Ribeirao Preto some 300km North of So Paulo, is thought that Thalita was a law student and photographic model when she was 18.
Thalita travelled to Ukraine three weeks ago having lived in So Paulo for 30 years before that.
Friend and fellow Brazilian Douglas Burigo, 40, is thought to have died trying to save the former model.
"Her friend Douglas returned to save her in the interval between the bombing and ended up dead. She died of asphyxiation, she wasn't hit by shrapnel."
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
"Thalita went to the bunker and there was already a fire with the bunker closed with her inside.
Theo explained that, as she was a keen humanitarian, her trip to Eastern Europe following Vladimir Putin's invasion wasn't unusual.
Initial reports indicated that courageous Thalita do Valle, 39, died in the city of Kharkiv last Thursday June 30 as Russian bombers targeted the battalion she was with.
She got into humanitarian work as a rescue worker after two dam disasters in Mariana and Brumadinho in 2015 and 2018 respectively.
Reports suggest she trained as a sniper with the Peshmerga - a branch of the Iraqi Armed Forces - and fought against ISIS in the Middle East.
He said: "We were notified of everything that happened. There were successive attacks and the battalion was divided.
"My sister was always peaceful, a genuine progressive. Guns are part of a context, war, but she saved lives, she saved animals.
Dad who ran off with Ukrainian refugee his family took in says 'I am not a monster'
Her brother, Theo Rodrigo Vieira, was given the news by the Ukrainian Foreign Legion on Sunday July 3.
