Harrowing photos show state of Ukraines ghost town decades after Chernobyl disaster
20220314
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/chernobyl-nuclear-plant-destruction-seen-26466150
Energoatom has also said that without electricity it is impossible to ensure the cooling of spent nuclear fuel, adding: "The temperature in the holding pools will increase, the release of radioactive substances into the environment may occur."
However, the official Soviet records put the death figure at 31  but the real figure is thought to be thousands, if not millions.
In the next few days, 144 servicemen were admitted to the hospital, of which 28 died as a result of acute radiation poisoning.
Images from various photographers posted to the website Abandoned Spaces on Monday March 11 show crumbling buildings, abandoned amusement rides and children's toys lying in the dust.
The news comes after reports of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant being plunged into darkness after being cut off from Ukraine's national grid last week by Russian troops, sparking fears of another disaster.
The Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko said that the Ukrainian authorities do not know what the radiation levels are at Chernobyl nuclear power plant, as they have not heard about what is happening there since it was seized by Russian troops.
Prior to the incident, the city's population had grown to 49,000 people and it was home to 5 primary schools, 25 schools, 10 gyms, a large hospital, parks, factories, an amusement park, cinemas, and a pool.
The blast at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine, which was part of the Soviet Union, killed two people straight away.
Most of the people who lived in Prypiat worked at the power plant which had been conducting a test to see how much power was needed to keep the No.4 reactor operating in the event of a blackout.
Schoolwork and newspapers bearing the date were also seen in school buildings and empty beds remain inside the hospital wards.
A selection of horrifying photos have exposed dramatic images of Ukraine which capture the destruction caused by the Chernobyl disaster.
A selection of photographers have exposed dramatic images of Pripyat, Ukraine which was left abandoned following the Chernobyl disaster in April 1986 and remains a ghost town
He said Ukraine also had no control over what was happening at the occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, where it said 400 Russian troops were stationed.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
It is impossible to pinpoint an exact figure of how many people died as a result of the Chernobyl disaster because there are still people today who are suffering the effects of radiation.
The events of April 27 1986 destroyed many things, including the nearby city of Pripyat which remains abandoned to this day.
Over 50 tonnes of radioactive material was blasted into the air which destroyed much of the surrounding areas.
