Healthy baby girl born in Ukrainian underground station as Russian bombs fell
20220226
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/healthy-baby-girl-born-ukrainian-26335998
The doctor's post read: "In the reception - wounded. Meanwhile, in the basement of the maternity ward, in conditions far from those who deserve a new life - the voice of the newborn... It's a boy!"
The nation's armed forces said they'd shot down a Russian military transport plane carrying 150 paratroopers, which came down near Vasylkiv, 20 miles south of Kyiv.
She hid from the gunfire in a shelter in the city as gunfire raged outside and her screams were heard by police who rushed in to help.
A heartwarming picture of a baby girl born in an underground station in Kyiv amid a blitz of the city by Russian bombs has captured people's hearts after it was shared online
Ms Hopko, Chairwoman of Democracy in Action Conference, said: "Mia was born this night in stressful environment- bombing of Kyiv.
Social media users dubbed the tiny tot 'a little angel' as the country was subjected to apocalyptic scenes overnight as heavy shelling continued.
We've got the best royal scoops, crime dramas and breaking stories - all delivered in that Daily Star style you love.
To keep up to date with all the latest news stories, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters   here   .
The picture of her mother gripping her tiny hand in the shelter was hailed as beacon of hope amid the horrors of war as the world watches on.
The capital Kyiv was hit by artilery during a bitter night of fighting as troops closed in on the city centre.
Want all the latest shocking news and views from all over the world straight into your inbox?
Meanwhile, a maternity doctor revealed a baby boy had been born in a hospital next to an apartment block damaged by bombing.
The unnamed mother, said to be 23, gave birth to her baby daughter Mia on Friday night as Putin's troops continued their attack on Ukraine and advanced on the capital city.
A young mum has given birth to a baby girl in an underground metro station in Kyiv as the city was blitzed by Russian bombs.
Heart-warming photos taken moments after Mia was born captured people's hearts after it was shared online by Ukrainian politician Hannah Hopko.
Our great newsletters will give you all you need to know, from hard news to that bit of glamour you need every day. They'll drop straight into your inbox and you can unsubscribe whenever you like.
Ukraine's health minister says 198 people - including three children - have been killed in fighting across the country.
"When Putin kills Ukrainians we appeal to mothers in Russia and Belarus to protest against Russia war in Ukraine. We defend lives and humanity!"
