Heartbreak as former US marine 22 killed in Ukraine leaves behind 7monthold baby
20220429
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/former-marine-killed-ukraine-leaves-26836234
A 22-year-old former US Marine who was hired to fight Ukrainian soldiers against Russian invaders was tragically killed this week., leaving behind his seven-month-old baby.
Cancels mother, Rebecca Cabrera said: "He wanted to go over because he believed in what Ukraine was fighting for, and he wanted to be a part of it to contain it there so it didnt come here, and that maybe our American soldiers wouldnt have to be involved in it."
New York father Willy Joseph Cancel, 22, has tragically been killed in Ukraine this week after being hired to fight Russian invaders by a private military contracting company
Keep up to date with all the latest news stories by signing up for one of Daily Star's free newsletters here.
They are trying, the men that were with him, but it was either grab his body or get killed, but we would love for him to come back to us.
The 22-year-old travelled arrived in Ukraine on March 13 to fight with men from "all different countries," Cabrera said.
Willy Joseph Cancel, 22, was hired by a private military contracting company to fight in Ukraine when he passed away on Monday, family members told CNN.
The US State Department said it was closely monitoring the situation" and continued to urge US residents not to travel to Ukraine due to the active armed conflict and the singling out of US citizens in Ukraine by Russian government security officials.
It is not currently clear what the circumstances of Cancel's death are, and it is understood that his body has not been recovered.
Cancel, from New York, reportedly signed the contract to earn some extra money away from his full-time job as a corrections officer.
Devin Tietze, Cancel's brother-in-law, told CNN the 22-year-old was the "type to fight for whats right regardless of the outcome".
He always kept everybody laughing and calm. He was the man that stood up when everybody else stood back.
