Heroic Ukrainian boy 14 killed after trying to warn neighbours of Russian strike
20220504
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/heroic-ukrainian-boy-14-killed-26865898
As Ukraine's civilian death toll continues to climb well into the thousands, once again people across the world have expressed horror and sadness at the pointless loss of life, with tributes pouring into social media for Valerie and Kira.
Another user posted: "What a terrible tragedy. It hurts, to look at that beautiful young woman and her young innocent child, realising what has happened to them."
"The vibrancy in Valeriyas eyes in this photo just breaks my heart. And that poor baby," wrote one Reddit user, while another commented: "The eyes of the baby. The way she is looking at the camera. So much innocence. Its so heartbreaking."
The sad news comes less than a few weeks after a Ukrainian mum and her three-month-old daughter were senselessly killed when Russia launched an air strike on Odesa.
The port city of Odesa has been a long-held target of Russian President Vladimir Putin, and locals are now outraged at the death of a young boy who tried to save elderly neighbours
Odesa mayor Gennady Trukhanov slammed the death of the boy and the actions of Russia as another blow.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
Valerie Valeriya Glodan, and her infant daughter, Kira, were among the eight people killed after cruise missiles were dropped on to an apartment block in the southern Ukrainian port city, with Putin's approval.
He added: There will never be forgiveness for those who shed the blood of innocent people, especially children.
And rather than saving himself, he ran around his local area making sure that those who needed help were able to get to safety in time as many elderly residents in the area do not have smart phones.
And one resident told local news: He was a very good, kind, and sympathetic boy.
Viacheslav Yalyshev, who lives in the port city of Odesa, was notified via an app, warning him of an imminent strike.
A 14-year-old schoolboy has been hailed as a hero after telling elderly neighbours about an incoming Russian air strike in Ukraine.
His dad, Yevhen, who is apart of the Ukrainian air force, said on social media: You are my hero, you are the hero of Ukraine.  Sadly, the young lad was killed when two rockets hit a building nearby as well as a church roof.
He studied diligently and often did his homework in his basement when there were bombings.
