Heroic Snake Island sailors who shouted go fk yourself at Russians freed
20220325
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/heroes-who-told-russian-ship-26555453
But one of the sailors could be heard discussing with his mates how to respond: So thats it Should I tell them to f themselves? Russian warship, go f yourself.
It was initially feared that their brave response had cost them their lives, but it later emerged that theyd been captured from the rescue ship Sapphire.
Audio was released of the captain of the ship warning the 19 men to surrender or face being bombed on the tiny island, which is about 30 miles off the coast of Ukraine. They were told to lay down your arms and surrender to avoid bloodshed and unnecessary victims.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
But Putin has been resorting to ever-more brutal methods, with fears growing that he is prepared to exacerbate things yet further.
The development comes as the Russian invasion moves into its second month, with Vladimir Putins expectations of securing a lightning victory now just a distant memory.
The development was announced by Ukraine's deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk, who said Ukraine had returned 11 Russian civilian sailors rescued from a sunken ship near Odesa.
It read: The first exchange of war hostages occurred on President ZelenskyyUa's order. Additionally, today, Ukraine exchanged 11 Russian sailors we rescued from a sunken ship near Odesa to 19 Ukrainian sailors authors of the legendary phrase "Russian warship, go f yourself"".
The brave sailors hit the headlines within the opening hours of the brutal war when they refused to surrender to a Russian warship that wanted to take over Snake Island, which they were defending.
Now they have been released in a prisoner exchange, with 50 military and civilian prisoners handed back in the largest swap reported so far.
Brave Ukrainian sailors summed up the remarkable spirit of their countrys resistance against Russia when they stood up to the invaders. They have now been freed after a prisoner exchange
The news of the heroes release was confirmed by the Ukrainian parliament's official Twitter account, which gleefully seized the opportunity to repeat the immortal words that had been directed at the Russian ship.
Brave Ukrainian resistance has seen the Russians pushed back in many parts of the country.
A group of heroic Ukrainian sailors who inspired their nation  and the rest of the world  when they told the Russians to go fk themselves have been released.
