Huge Russian oil depot on fire after Ukraine launch attack on Putins side of border
20220401
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/huge-russian-oil-depot-fire-26607960
He said in a statement: "The fire at the oil depot in Belgorod started as a result of an air strike by two helicopters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which entered Russia at a low altitude, said the governor of the region Vyacheslav Gladkov."
Vyacheslav Gladkov, the Russian governor of the region, claimed the explosives had been fired from two helicopters.
Another video posted by a resident on Russian social media site VKontakte shows three large columns of flames rising above the city.
On Wednesday a military depot burst into flames in Belgorod after the arsenal was struck by a missile shell, according to Russian state media.
Witnesses said they believed the strike had come via drone or short range ballistic missile.
He added that two people have been injured as a result of the blaze. Three streets near the site are being evacuated, according to Belarussian opposition news outlet Nexta.
At least four injuries were reported, although the actual number could have been significantly higher.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Two people have been injured after a huge fire broke out at an oil depot in Russia in an area which Ukrainian forces are thought to have been striking this week, causing homes to be evacuated
A third clip seems to depict an oil tanker frantically driving away from the depot, with the fire intermittently growing larger and then smaller behind them.
The blaze in Belgorod close to the border with Ukraine follows reports earlier in the week of a strike by Volodomyr Zelesnkyy's forces in the same area.
A massive fire has broken out at a Russian oil depot after a suspected Ukrainian missile strike.
If confirmed as a blast by the Ukrainian military, it would the nation's latest counter-offensive after the President reportedly ordered troops to retake some areas occupied by the Russians.
Footage from the scene appears to show a rocket landing at the site, resulting in a blast that illuminates the night sky.
