ISIS praise Ukraine war as Gods punishment but wont back either crusader nation
20220309
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/isis-terrorists-praise-ukraine-war-26422462
"Whether long or short, this Russian-Ukrainian war is but the beginning of the next wars between the Crusader countries, and the images of destruction and death we see are but a small scene of the situation in which the great wars begin.
ISIS have lauded Russia's invasion of Ukraine as "God's punishment" on the West, but refuse to pick a side between the two "crusader countries".
"The crusader versus crusader is still in its infancy, so, O God, perpetuate their wars and break their hearts."
The Jihadists have also predicted that "great wars" are to come, hoping that conflicts in the Western world will be detrimental for the "enemies of Islam".
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
It read: "What is happening today, the direct bloody war between the Orthodox crusaders  Russia and Ukraine  is but one example of God's punishment for them, as described in the Qu'ran.
ISIS terrorists described the "images of destruction and death" following Russia's invasion of Ukraine as "amusing punishment" for all "enemies of Islam" involved in the conflict
It is not surprising that ISIS have not taken a side in the Russia-Ukraine conflict - instead hoping that it is equally disastrous for all involved.
ISIS also won't offer support for Islamic forces from Chechnya fighting on the Russian side, describing them as "apostate militias" for their willingness to do so.
Hence, the Jihadists went on to describe the war as an "amusing punishment... upon them for their disbelief in God Almighty".
Vladimir Putin sided with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad against the group following Russia's intervention there from 2015.
They continued: "The state of the escalating competition between America and Russia to control the countries of Eastern Europe, especially after the policy of 'support and containment' that America pursued."
The statements were made in an article in the terror cell's al-Naba newsletter, a weekly publication which started in 2014.
Ukraine is one of the countries signed up to the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is Jewish.
