Loyal dog spotted guarding dead body of owner killed by Russian troops in Ukraine
20220407
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-dog-guards-body-owner-26653695
A devastating picture of a dog sat by his dead Ukrainian owner after he was reportedly shot dead by Russian troops has been shared on social media, prompting an outcry from the public
The charity UAnimals, who shared the photo, have worked in Ukraine since 2016 to give food and shelter to pets and wildlife in need.
Many areas surrounding the capital have been under attack from shelling for several weeks. More missiles have been reported in the last few days, despite claims from Russia that it is pulling its forces back from the area.
The heartbroken pup could be seen laying down next to what is believed to be its keeper in an image widely posted on social media.
Hundreds of pets are thought to have been abandoned in the country after their owners fled or were killed since the outbreak of conflict.
One wrote: "R I P. Absolutely Heartbreaking a man's best  loyal friend to the end. I hope someone rescues this precious baby."
A caption on the picture read: The dog does not leave the owner, who was shot dead by the Russian occupiers near Kyiv.
Social media users rushed to offer their messages of sympathy, with many appearing to find it a saddening symbol of the devastation brought by war.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The photograph, believed to have been taken near Kyiv, was shared by a Ukrainian animal rights organisation.
While another said: "Such a heart-rending picture, I hope someone can take this poor dog in and feed and love him."
Their account on the fundraising platform Patreon has so far attracted 3,427 supporters from around the world.
A loyal dog has sat by the dead body of its Ukrainian owner after he was shot dead by Russian troops.
The organisation recently began evacuating animals out of Ukraine to find safety from conflict in nearby countries.
An emotional commenter added: "So cruel. I don't understand how this is possible!!! So, so sad. I hate..."
