Mariupol on verge of environmental disaster as Putins mass graves poison water supply
20220523
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/mariupol-verge-environmental-disaster-says-27036022
Keep up to date with all the latest news stories. by signing up for one of Daily Star's free newsletters here.
Lyudmyla Leontiyivna Denisova, Ombudsman for Human Rights in Ukraine claims that mass burials in the city  many of which are shallow burials have been eroded by damaged water supplies.
The besieged city of Mariupol is on the verge of an grisly 'epidemic' and environmental disaster, according to a Ukrainian official.
Also, due to exploded missiles and air bombs, soils and groundwater in the city are also contaminated with chemicals and heavy metals. This threatens mass poisoning and an epidemic of infectious diseases for the people of Mariupol, and the consequences for the environment will be felt for years not only in Ukraine but also abroad.
There are things that can only be reached at the negotiating table. We want everything to return to as it was before but Russia does not want that.
The Ombudsman for Human Rights in Ukraine warned there is a high risk that cadaveric venom bacteria, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and other pathogens could leak into water systems
The post read: For almost three months of capturing and occupying the city, residents buried relatives and neighbours killed by the racists in the courtyards near houses, close to the water supply and sewerage communications.
Most graves are not very deep, almost on the surface. After the launch of damaged water supply systems, water spilled on the ground began to erode natural burials.
Some of the garbage is flooded with water from damaged water pipes and rain, which leads to the growth of pathogenic bacteria, which then enter groundwater, rivers and the sea, she continued.
It comes after Russia declared victory in Mariupol following a three-month battle to take control of the Ukrainian city, which now lies in ruins.
As a result, there was a high risk of cadaveric venom, bacteria, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and other pathogens that could be found in the water system, underground springs and rivers with the sea.
According to The Guardian, he continued Under what format I dont know  with intermediaries, without them, in a broader group, at the presidential level,
But the war will be bloody, there will be fighting and it will only definitively end through diplomacy.
Denisova also claimed that the damaged filtration systems and pumping stations for sewage were also damaged, meaning that drinking water is mixing with sewage and is no longer fit for consumption.
Following claims Russia has taken control of the city Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said that discussions between Ukraine and Russia will undoubtedly take place.
Posting on Telegram, the Russian-born Ukrainian politician cautioned that there is a high risk that cadaveric venom bacteria, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and other pathogens could leak into water systems.
The Human Rights Ombudsman also claimed that the city has turned into a garbage dump since there has been no organised waste collection in weeks leaving rubbish piling up outside houses, as reported by 5.ua.
