McDonalds new Russian owners have new names for chain  including The Only Way
20220504
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/mcdonalds-new-russian-owners-put-27143390
Maccies was one of a number of big corporations to pull out of Russia after Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine.
Other terms such as McCafe, McFlurry and Big Mac are also trademarked by McDonalds and are unavailable for use in Russia.
Billionaire Alexander Govor has snapped up 850 McDonald's outlets in Russia, and potential names for the fast-food chain include 'Fun and Tasty', 'Open Checkout', and 'The Only Way'
One Twitter user said the new Russian brand should be called McGenocide, with the current slogan altered to Im killing it.
McDonald's new Russian owners have put up a list of new names for the burger chain after the fast-food giant pulled out of the country.
A McDonalds spokesman: We are working on creating a new brand and have already sent applications for the registration of several names.
But the American chain has already trademarked McDuck in the US, meaning it is unavailable for use.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
McDonalds opened in the Soviet Union in 1990 and was viewed as a symbolically significant development during the final months of the Cold War, with huge queues formed around the block for its opening.
The new owners have now submitted a series of potential new names to the Russian patents office, Rospatent.
The outlets will be rebranded, leading to social media users to coin suggestions for the new name.
The fast-food chain announced last month they had sold nearly 850 restaurants to Russian billionaire Alexander Govor after closing stores in response to the invasion of Ukraine.
A poll on Telegram, held by the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade, showed that McDuck - a slang term for the fast-food chain in Russia - was one of the most popular options.
Potential name changes include The Same One, Fun and Tasty, Open Checkout, and The Only Way.
As part of the sale of the companys 32-year operation in Russia, Govor has reportedly agreed to continue paying all 62,000 workers.
