Meghan and Harrys Ukraine statement slammed as dangerous breach of protocol
20220225
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/meghan-harrys-ukraine-statement-slammed-26325967
Royal fans have questioned Prince Harry and Meghan Markle over a breach of royal protocol after the couple spoke out about the attacks in Ukraine.
A user said: Speaking out when there is need to, against any form of injustice, oppression and discrimination exemplify responsibility, courage, humanity and leadership.
Other users said that Harry and Meghan were jumping on bandwagon sic but a number of fans were pleased to see them show support for Ukraine.
Speaking yesterday, Mykhailo Podolyak, adviser to the Ukrainian presidential office, said: "It is impossible to say the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe after a totally pointless attack by the Russians.
Russian troops managed to seize the Chernobyl nuclear power plant after battling with the Ukrainian military.
Ukrainian forces battled Russian troops on three sides of the country on Thursday after Moscow unleashed the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two.
Russian President Vladimir Putin launched attacks on Ukraine in the early hours of Thursday morning, resulting in a number of deaths and destruction across the country.
The ongoing invasion of Russian forces prompted Harry and Meghan to speak out about the situation.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
While another commented: If they choose to comment on political issues, they should return his title given to him by the British Queen.
"By making a statement as the Duke and she by affiliation they represent themselves as an extension of the BRF. That is irresponsible and dangerous.
However, some royal fans have raised questions about Harry and Meghan speaking out rather than remaining neutral like most members of the Royal Family, despite them no longer being working royals and therefore no longer having to follow protocols..
They called on the "global community and its leaders" to join them in condemningRussia, whose actions they said was a breach of "international and humanitarian law".
One Twitter user said: Isn't this against the Royal protocol they have to be seen neutral after all his is still a Prince.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex put out a statement last night on the website of their organisation, Archewell, giving their support to the people of Ukraine.
The message from the couple said: "Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all of us at Archewell stand with the people of Ukraine against this breach of international and humanitarian law and encourage the global community and its leaders to do the same."
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry showed their support to the people of Ukraine following the attacks by Russia - but some royal fans questioning them breaking protocol by not staying 'neutral'
