Moment Russias multimillion pound fighter jet dancing towards ground after strike
20220427
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/moment-russias-multi-million-pound-26813262
In the last 24 hours, Ukrainian Air Force has destroyed nine tanks, 11 artillery systems, four electronic warfare systems, as well as one Su-25 ground attack aircraft, one Ka-52 attack helicopter and two cruise missiles.
The Russian SU-33 fighter jet was hit by the Ukrainian forces as it spiralled out of control in air while the pilot made an emergency escape from the falling aircraft
As the fighter jet heads straight to the ground and engulfs in flames, a pilot is seen pulling out his parachute and making a emergency escape to land.
This came as Russian insiders revealed that Vladimir Putin has a plan to seize as much Ukrainian territory as he can before the war ends.
A new video of a Russian fighter jet "dancing" towards the ground has showed proof that Ukrainian forces putting up a strong fight against the Russians.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The clip, posted by German journalist Julian Rpcke on Monday April 25, captured the moment the multi-million dollar get spinning out of control in air and crashing into the ground.
A statement said the Russian forces also captured the village of Zavody, in the Kharkiv sector.
"The great holiday today gives us great hope and unwavering faith that light will overcome darkness, good will overcome evil, life will overcome death, and therefore Ukraine will surely win!" he said on Sunday at St. Sophia Cathedral.
The Russian commander reportedly feeling like peace negotiations have reached a "dead end" and the sinking of the Moskva warship has left him feeling humiliated and reluctant to sign anything.
"Do stupid things, ein stupid prices," he commented. "Russian Su-33 'dancing' to the ground over Kharkiv after getting hit by Ukrainian air defense."
According to Kyiv Post, Ukraines Army General Staff AGS admitted on yesterday Wednesday, April 27 its troops had been forced back at some locations in the Kharkiv.
Despite the intensification of Russian attacks, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy openly rejected Russias claims that they captured Mariupol and in his message on Orthodox Easter Day confirmed that the port city is still under Ukrainian control.
