Moment lone Russian Z tank hit by missiles 5 times as crew runs for their lives
20220317
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-tank-hit-heavy-fire-26494079
Ukraines Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the building was now fully ruined while claiming Russian forces could not have not known this was a civilian shelter.
A Russian tank marked with a mysterious "Z" label was seen getting blown up by Ukrainian forces as soldiers abandoned the armoured vehicle and ran for their lives.
The tank was under heavy and repeated bombardment from Ukrainian forces who continues to fight against Vladimir Putin's troops in the besieged city of Mariupol
As he crawls on the ground, another blast hits just metres away from him, sending debris through the air.
At one point, a Russian fighter escapes the front hatch of the vehicle and flees on foot to the kerbside.
Russian forces are facing difficulties advancing in certain cities in Ukraine as another video shows a column of Russian tanks being abandoned after being mired in the mud.
The lone Russian army vehicle was reportedly being hunted down by the Ukrainian National Guard in the besieged port city of Mariupol, in southern Ukraine.
"The plane dropped a bomb on a building where hundreds of peaceful Mariupol residents were hiding," it said.
Some soldiers are seen opening the hatches and ready to evacuate but they are soon hit by possibly some rocket-propelled grenades.
Military experts said it showed "an example of poor planning" from Russia as one said: "The situation will worsen as the weather warms up and the rains start, itll just chain them to the ground."
Huge plumes of smokes billow out of the tank as the third bomb strikes the tank, bringing it to a halt.
For more stories from the Daily Star, sign up to one of our newsletters here.
The drone footage, released on Wednesday by the Azov Battalion on Telegram, shows at least five massive blasts hitting the tank.
On Wednesday, officials in Mariupol alleged that Russia had struck a theatre in the centre of the city, where hundreds of civilians had been sheltering.
