Moment Ukraine shopping centre obliterated by Russian missile in CCTV footage
20220629
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/moment-ukraine-shopping-centre-obliterated-27354093
The Kyiv regime is showing bloody provocations to the entire world, and of course they are blaming us, Olga Skabeyeva grumbled.
Vladimir Putin's latest attack on innocent people in Ukraine was caught on CCTV as a missile was seen flying through the air before obliterating a shopping centre
The incident is said to have been Vladimir Putin's latest significant attack on innocent Ukrainian people.
Dozens have also been left injured and several are still missing in the wreckage of the building in the city of Kremenchuk, which came under attack on Monday June 27.
"The hardest thing is to see the corpses - adults, children," he added as he confirmed that firemen were still searching for around 50 to 60 missing people.
The chilling footage of the incident shows the building engulfed in flames as debris is sent flying into the air, which is so intense that local fire chief Ivan Melekhovets, who has been taking part in the rescue operation, said anyone left inside had "no chance of surviving".
The Kremlin mouthpiece went on to deny that the attack had ever targeted the mall, and instead went on to put forward the Russian Defence Ministrys argument that the missile had been targeting an automobile plant nearby before fires spread to damage the shopping centre.
The footage has since been shared on Twitter by Ukrainian media, which has sparked outrage as viewers branded Kremlin's attack as "terrorism".
Snaps of the building following the attack show it completely decimated and anything left standing is now completely charred and covered in ash.
In the clip, translated and shared on Twitter by journalist Julia Davis, Skabeyeva went on to reference Bucha where horrific war crimes are alleged to have taken place despite Putins claims of his soldiers heroism.
The confirmed death toll for the attack that took place in central Ukraine currently stands at 18, with 36 people still missing, news agency Reuters has reported.
The news comes after a pro-Putin TV host has doubled down on the incident, suggesting Russian troops had been targeting a vehicle plant nearby and warning NATO about provoking Russia further.
To get world news stories from Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox sign up to one of our free newsletters here.
CCTV footage has captured the horrifying moment a Russian missile obliterated a shopping centre in Ukraine, killing at least 20 people.
This theory has subsequently been proven false by misinformation spotters Bellingcat, who mapped out the distance between the two sites and found footage proving that the mall had been hit first.
