Mysterious Z symbol on Russian tanks in Ukraine should be feared expert claims
20220222
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/mysterious-z-symbol-russian-tanks-26302448
Speaking to the International Business Times, former field intelligence officer David Kime claimed mercenaries from a Russian paramilitary organisation told him that the Z stands for Zelenskyy - the name of the current President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
Russian defence policy expert, Rob Lee also tweeted: It appears Russian forces near the border are painting markers, in this case, Z, on vehicles to identify different task forces or echelons.
Russian military convoys have been spotted entering separatist 'breakaway regions' in Ukraine after President Vladimir Putin ordered the deployment of troops late on Monday night Feb 21.
Several experts have weighed in on the possible meaning of the letter 'Z' appearing on Russian military vehicles as they enter Ukraine as some believe it should be feared
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Its vital that any attacking force can be distinguished, particularly from the air where Russian forces will have complete control.
Social media users have been left stumped by Russian tanks marked with a mysterious Z symbol that some have suggested should be feared.
The tanks were seen to have the letter Z inside a large square marked on the outside - which has left experts and members of the public baffled.
Investigative journalist Aric Toler, who was among the first to report on the invasion claimed his agency had been monitoring this stuff non-stop for eight years but had not seen a symbol like this before.
The news comes after the UK's health secretary confirmed that the British government believes Russia to have already begun its invasion of Ukraine.
The chilling clips shared on Twitter show armoured vehicles and men in uniform driving across the border into Donetsk.
Images of tanks, supply vehicles and rocket launchers have since gone viral on social media since reports have emerged that Russia is invading Ukraine.
And former Health Secretary Sajid Javid said: We are waking up to a very dark day in Europe and its clear from what we have already seen and found out today that the Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity.
The Ukrainians have very similar tanks and vehicles and will want to reduce the risk of friendly fire.
Other experts have since weighed in on the potential meaning as a Kyiv military source told The Sun yesterday: It would suggest final preparations are complete.
