Newlywed Ukrainian couple sign up to army to fight Russians the day after their wedding
20220226
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/newlywed-ukrainian-couple-sign-up-26335157
Immediately after their wedding, they headed off to the local Territorial Defence Centre to receive instructions.
A Ukrainian couple who tied the knot just hours after Russia invaded their country spent their first day as a married couple defending their country after signing up for the army.
Want all the latest shocking news and views from all over the world straight into your inbox?
Sviatoslav Fursin and Yaryna Arieva were due to tie the knot in May, but brought their big day forward and spent their first day as a married couple fighting the Russians
Yarna said her husband was her 'closest friend on the Earth' and said they hope to be able to celebrate their marriage properly one day.
Yaryna told CNN: "That was very scary. It's the happiest moment of your life, and you go out, and you hear that.
She added: "Maybe they Russia will just get out from our country and we will have an ability to celebrate normally.
Sviatoslav Fursin, 24, and his bride Yaryna Arieva, 21, had planned to get married in May, but brought the wedding forward when Vladimir Putin ordered Russian soldiers to invade their homeland.
Yarna added: "The situation is hard. We are going to fight for our land. We maybe can die, and we just wanted to be together before all of that.
"I just hope that everything will go normal and we will have our land, we will have our country safe and happy without any Russians in it."
Our great newsletters will give you all you need to know, from hard news to that bit of glamour you need every day. They'll drop straight into your inbox and you can unsubscribe whenever you like.
We've got the best royal scoops, crime dramas and breaking stories - all delivered in that Daily Star style you love.
The couple, who met in October 2019 at a protest in the center of Kyiv, had planned to get married on May 6 and celebrate at a restaurant with a cute terrace overlooking the Dnieper river.
"Maybe they will just give us armor and we will go and fight. Maybe we will help with something else. They will decide.
To keep up to date with all the latest news stories, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters   here   .
After saying their vows at St Michael's monastery in the nation's capital Kyiv on Thursday - just hours after Putin's troops stormed the border - the couple walked out to the sound of air raid sirens blasting out over the city.
But their plans changed suddenly when the Russian tyrant launched a military operation in the early hours of Thursday morning and the nation woke up to a series of missile attacks before dawn.
The couple signed up to Ukraine's citizen army and spent their first day picking up their rifles to defend their country.
"We have to protect it. We have to protect the people we love and the land we live on. I hope for the best, but I do what I can to protect my land.
