Predatorstyle thermal camera shows drone dropping bombs on fleeing Russian troops
20220613
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/predator-style-thermal-camera-shows-27221376
The footage, shared by Ukraine's 47th Motorised Infantry Battalion, showed the Russian soldiers fleeing for their lives as they escape into the woods, apparently after hearing a drone approaching.
WARNING, GRAPHIC CONTENT: Ukrainian army tracked down a small group of Russian soldiers who were fleeing on feet at night, the drone deployed at two bombs on them as soon as they spotted movement in the woods
It's not certain when or where the footage was taken but Ukrainian president Vlodymyr Zelenskyy said his troops are fighting for "literally every metre" in capital city Kyiv.
The invader, along with another soldier, were reportedly belonged to a Russian paramilitary organisation called The Wagner Group.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Seconds later, the drone drops two bombs on a soldier hiding in the bush, sparking in a huge plume of smoke.
A terrifying video shows Ukrainian soldiers dropping bombs on Russian troops as they carry out a "Predator-style" hunt using infrared cameras.
NASA satellites trained to track fires showed burning in a wooded area to the west of Izyum on late Saturday and into Sunday - an indication of shelling in the area.
The group is reported to have moved most of its soldiers who had been fighting in Libya to Ukraine to bolster Putin's army in an attempt to capture as much as possible of eastern Ukraine as possible.
Further to the north, there was evidence of Ukraine launching a counter-attack against Russian troops near Izyum  previously the main thrust of the Donbas offensive before a push southwards towards Slovyansk stalled.
Infrared cameras on the drone pick up signals indicating the Russians' location in the woods as the Ukrainian army searches for them on a "night hunt".
In Bakhmut, the Donetsk Oblast of Ukraine, a dead Russian soldier was photographed wearing an arm patch with a sewn-on message: "I don't believe in anything. I am here just for the sake of violence."
