Prince Harry and Meghan stand with people of Ukraine in defiant Russia statement
20220224
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/breaking-prince-harry-meghan-say-26325001
Russia launched the attack in the early hours of Thursday morning following weeks of intelligence suggesting an invasion could take place.
The Prime Minister extended punitive measures on Thursday to hit five further oligarchs, including the Russian Presidents former son-in-law, and to target more than 100 businesses and individuals.
An adviser to the Ukrainian presidential office Mykhailo Podolyak said: "It is impossible to say the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe after a totally pointless attack by the Russians.
Ukrainian Health Minister Lyashko says that 57 were killed and 169 injured by Russian forces today.
Ukrainian forces battled Russian troops on three sides of the country on Thursday after Moscow unleashed the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two.
A Russian security source said Russian military massed in the Chernobyl "exclusion zone" before crossing into Ukraine early on Thursday,
This is a breaking news story and is constantly being updated as our reporters work to source the latest information, reaction, pictures and video - refresh for the latest news
The message from the couple on Archewell said: "Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all of us at Archewell stand with the people of Ukraine against this breach of international and humanitarian law and encourage the global community and its leaders to do the same."
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The Sussexes statement follows world leaders condemning the attacks including the Present of the United States, Joe Biden.
Meanwhile, Russian troops managed to seize the Chernobyl nuclear power plant after battling with the Ukrainian military.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have called on the "global community and its leaders" to stand with the people of Ukraine. following the attacks by Russia.
Harry and Meghan, who are currently in the US, decided to speak out after Russia's attacks have caused hundreds to flee their homes in fear.
"Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. And now he and his country will bear the consequences."
Russia wants to control the Chernobyl nuclear reactor to signal NATO not to interfere militarily, the same source said.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has also hit out at Russia and promised the largest and most severe package of sanctions it has ever faced to punish blood-stained aggressor Vladimir Putin for invading Ukraine.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex said that they stand with the Ukrainian people as they slam Russia's actions as a breach of "international and humanitarian law".
