ProPutin MILF Mother Russia insists Kremlin troops are liberating Ukraine
20220511
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/pro-putin-milf-says-russian-26933551
Replying to one of her photos, a fan said: "You look like a beautiful sexy poseable doll in these pics."
A self-proclaimed world-class athlete, fitness trainer, physiotherapist and motivational woman, Olga lives in Israel but proudly states she is from Moscow.
However, Putin does still have one cheerleader in the form of fitness model Olga Kurkulin, who refers to herself as Mother Russia.
Olga repeatedly refers to Putin's illegal invasion as the patriotic war and shares strange videos ostensibly from the frontline.
A pro-Putin Russian model has doubled down on her country's barbaric invasion of Ukraine and insists her troops are 'liberating' Ukrainians.
When she's out and about she can often be seen wearing strange pro-Putin T-shirts and from the looks of the rest of her posts, it's pretty clear she's drinking the rest of the Kremlin's Kool-Aid.
Captioning one of an old man speaking to a soldier, Olga wrote: "In the liberated Mariupol, a Veteran of the Patriotic War thanks the Russian soldier for saving him and for the fact that now there is an opportunity to freely celebrate the holiday and wear well-deserved awards."
This is of course understandable given the circumstances, but don't let reality get in the way of propaganda eh Olga!
When she's not spreading dangerous propaganda or going on and on about how much she loves Russia, Olga keeps her legions of devoted fans entertained with suggestive pictures.
Olga also claims that the Ukrainians who she charmingly refers to as "Nazi invaders" banned the celebration of Victory Day, which is Russia's equivalent of D Day.
Ever since Russia invaded Ukraine in February, Putin's popularity both outside and inside Russia has plummeted with many of his high profile comrades abandoning any association with him.
Model Olga Kurkulin, who refers to herself as Mother Russia, has posted a series of messages in support of Vladimir Putin's bloody invasion of Ukraine and seems to think Russia's war is justified
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Olga has posted a series of racy snaps throughout the conflict in support of his bloody war.
Whether dressed in bikinis, flashing her bottom or lying fully naked spread eagled on the floor, Olga knows how to play to her audience, many of whom seem completely besotted with her.
