ProPutin undies with patriotic Z symbol dubbed best contraception ever
20220815
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/pro-putin-undies-patriotic-z-27747698
The strange pants  which carry the infamous Z symbol on the front  were spotted in a local market in Tver, Russia.
Investigative journalist Aric Toler, who was among the first to report on the invasion, claimed his agency had been monitoring this stuff non-stop for eight years but had not seen a symbol like this before.
The Russian Z symbol  which has been likened to the Nazi swastika  was first spotted in February, just after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine.
New pro-Russian underwear has been labelled as the best contraception ever by raucous Twitter users.
The Z symbol - which has been compared to the Nazi swastika - was spotted on a pair of undies found in a Russian market in the small town of Tver, and it sparked ridicule on social media
To get more stories from Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox sign up to one of our free newsletters here .
The strange undergarments sparked widespread ridicule on the social media app, with one user calling it the best contraception ever, while another labelled them as an instant passion killer.
Another expert, from the Kyiv military, said at the time: Its vital that any attacking force can be distinguished, particularly from the air where Russian forces will have complete control.
And former field intelligence officer David Kime claimed mercenaries from a Russian paramilitary organisation told him that the "Z" stands for "Zelenskyy" - the name of the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
And a third posted: If I was about to get intimate with someone and found she was wearing this, she could be a supermodel and she would remain distinctly unfked.
The tanks were seen to have the letter "Z" inside a large square marked on the outside.
Another user wrote: Great to wear for those on the battlefield because they'll be sing in it while getting wiped out by UA Ukrainian army.
Former Ukrainian ambassador to Austria, Olexander Scherba, posted a photo of the white frilly knickers with a pink Z on them on Twitter - they have also been seen in red.
The Ukrainians have very similar tanks and vehicles and will want to reduce the risk of friendly fire.
