Putins new flagship warship on fire after Ukraine strike just weeks after Moskva sunk
20220507
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putins-makarov-warship-on-fire-26901112
Russia has been dealt another blow in its invasion of Ukraine after reports its newest flagship Admiral Makarov is up in flames after it was hit with the same Neptune missiles that sunk the Moskva
The Makarov, which can carry up to 200 workers, is fitted with deadly 24 Buk medium-range surface-to-air missiles.
It marks another humiliating blow for the Russian President in his invasion of Ukraine and comes just weeks after the Moskva sinking.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told Russian state-owned news agency TASS: No, we do not have such information.
The Pentagon was forced to deny claims that they were secretly behind the attack and. disputed having any involvement.
Putins officials had been careful to keep Makarov away from the Ukrainian coast as they were aware it would be a key target for missile crews.
This means the aggressive nation cant replace damaged vessels and is down to just three major warships.
But despite evidence from the Ukrainian government and military tracking sites, Russian officials denied the attack.
Vladimir Putins new flagship navy vessel is on fire after being hit by a Ukrainian missile, reports say.
The ship is one of the most modern vessels owned by Russia and was only commissioned in 2017.
US officials had previously alleged that Pentagon provided intel that helped  Ukraine  identify and strike the Moskva.
Any losses to military fleets are particularly disastrous for Russia because Turkey is refusing to let their warships travel through their water passage to get to the Black Sea.
Stay up to date with all the Daily Star's latest news by signing up to one of our free newsletters here.
Admiral Makarov, a 125-metre warship, burst into flames after it was hit off the coast of Snake Island, according to officials in Kyiv.
Its eight Kalibr cruise missiles also mean the ship can wreak devastation on inland targets.
The recent sinking of the Moskva had been a huge blow for Moscow and was the biggest sinking of a Russian warship wince WW2.
