Putin warns the ball is in the USAs court to prevent Russia going to war with Ukraine
20211223
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-warns-the-ball-usas-25771835
Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed that the ball is in America's court as it looks to step back from war with Ukraine.
He also said that he was ready to create a better future for the people living there and blamed leaders in Kiev who, he claims refuse to talk to representatives of the Donbass.
How would the US react if we delivered rockets near their borders with Canada or Mexico?
The Russian president was taking part in an end-of-year press conference when he accused the US government of "placing rockets at our doorstep" and "brazenly lying" to him
Putin also defended Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea and support of rebels in the Donbass region of eastern Ukraine, saying that inhabitants of both regions had always thought of themselves as Russians.
Putin then accused American leaders of having brazenly lied to us about NATOs five waves of expansion.
He did confirm that he was not looking for war with Ukraine, and said it could be avoided if Western powers gave Moscow unconditional security guarantees.
On Russia's economy, he said that the country has recovered better from the pandemic compared to many other countries, and that he expects real incomes to rise by 3.5 over the next year.
For more of the latest news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
He added: Did we approach their borders? No. They approached ours - it feels like the West and Russia live in different worlds.
Answering questions from the world's media at his end-of-year press conference, Putin was adamant that he is not the aggressor when it comes to tensions brewing in the region, as the US has begun supporting Ukrainian troops on the border.
However, it wasn't all negative, as he did admit that ongoing negotiations with US leaders were positive.
When asked how he could give an order to attack Ukraine, Putin hit back, asking the journalists present to ask the Ukrainian authorities how can they shell their own citizens, the Moscow Times reports.
