Putin decides end date for Ukraine war with troops told they must win by then
20220325
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-decides-end-date-ukraine-26552610
Despite significant losses and demoralised personnel, the military and political authorities of the Russian Federation are still not rejecting the possibility of continuing to wage the war against Ukraine.
Most medical establishments located on the Russian side of the border with Ukraine, near the border, are occupied by wounded soldiers of the Russian army.
So Putin is trying to sort of recycle this anti-Nazi narrative to appeal to a very strong emotion as a way of rattling support for what he's doing.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
Russian troops have been told to make sure the invasion into Ukraine is over by May 9 - a date of historical importance in Russia.
Violating the rules of war, the occupying troops are destroying the infrastructure of peaceful cities and villages.
They quote a source as saying: "According to the available information, there is an ongoing propaganda campaign among the personnel of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation which seeks to impose the idea that the war has to end by May 9, 2022.
A national holiday is held every year on that date to celebrate the end of the Second World War  and, in Russia, it is when they claim sole, or Soviet, victory over the Nazis.
Expert Thomas Graham told Newsweek: One of the great Russian triumphs of the last century was the victory over Nazi Germany, which came at tremendous sacrifice by the Soviet people.
The day usually sees a huge military parade held in Moscow, and the country joins forces with former members of the Soviet Union, plus Israel and Serbia.
The claim has come from a member of the general staff of the armed forces of Ukraine, according to Russian news outlet Pravda News.
Russia has set sights on winning the war in Ukraine in a matter of just days. Their troops have been told they must be victorious by a date with historical significance
