Putin loses 40th highranking officer as Russias invasion of Ukraine reaches 50th day
20220414
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-loses-40th-top-officer-26712508
While Mezhuevs death has not yet been officially acknowledged by the Kremlin, Russian poet Andrey Kovalev, a prominent Putin supporter, has called for Mezhuev to be awarded a posthumous medal for his sacrifice.
The source told the Mirror: The Russian way of urban warfare was never pretty and we are seeing that in degrading and revolting and barbaric detail at the moment.
Russian troops are currently regrouping in eastern Ukraine after they having been driven out of Kyiv, and Moscow is reportedly preparing a massive wave of reinforcements to overwhelm Ukrainian defences.
Latest reports from Ukraine suggest that yet another high-ranking Russian army officer has been killed as Vladimir Putins invasion reaches its 50th day.
If reports of Lieutenant Colonel Denis Mezhuev's death are confirmed, he will be the 40th top Russian commander to have lost his life in Ukraine since the invasion began in February
Lieutenant Colonel Denis Mezhuev, commander of the 1st Guards Motor Rifle Sevastopol Red Banner regiment, is the 40th Russian commander to die in Ukraine, in a war that has taken a particularly high toll on the Russian officer class.
One NATO official told reporters on Monday: I would imagine that, at outside estimates, what youre looking at is a force which is probably the Russians looking to double or even treble the amount of force that they bring into that Donbas area.
Confirmed Russian casualty figures are hard to come by but Ukraine claims to have killed around 20,000 Russian fighters in the field.
These indiscriminate attacks - the targeting of civilians, alleged war crimes - have shocked and horrified us all.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
One in five of Russias casualties have been officers  a far higher ratio than would be expected in a modern military operation.
The Russian forces have been described by one Western official as poorly-led, ill-disciplined and frustrated, after sustaining extremely high casualties. This collapse of moral is thought to be behind reports of Russian war crimes.
But I would note that that is going to take some considerable time to bring them up to that sort of number."
