Putin mocked as his state of the art missiles operate on 1960s technology
20220422
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-mocked-missiles-operate-1960s-26771185
He was soon mocked mercilessly for his posturing by being turned into the spitting image of fellow dictator crackpot Kim Jong-Un who is known for his missile launches.
Vladimir Putin's invading Russian army has been mocked and labelled "fake" by Ukrainian resistance fighters who claim that their "state of the art" technology is actually incredibly basic.
Terrifyingly the missile is said to be capable of targeting an area the size of France, the Mirror reports.
Specifications of the mighty missile have not been officially revealed however it is understood to be able to fire up to 12 nuclear warheads in one flight, all the while dodging anti-missile systems.
"An analysis conducted by Ukrainian experts of X-55 cruise missile guidance and navigation systems, as well as their modifications X-555 and X-101, showed that 'modern' guidance units were developed in 1960-1970.
It is referred to as a long-range weapon with good reason as the Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile is believed to boast a maximum flight distance of 6,000 miles
This latest humiliation comes just days after Putin was roundly mocked by the world after unveiling his new set of intercontinental ballistic missiles, charmingly nicknamed "Satan II".
Ukrainian experts have studied the missiles Russia has been dropping on the country and concluded that the vast majority of them operate on systems developed back in the 1960s
"Most of the X-101 missiles launched on the territory of Ukraine did not hit the planned targets."
Sharing an image of a deconstructed Russian cruise missile, the message began: "Russia is a fake country."
Putin had meant to send a chilling warning to those who "threaten" Russia - but when you're the bad guy of the entire world people are more likely to laugh at you than take you seriously as he is surely starting to learn.
And in a scathing takedown of Russia's military capabilities, some Ukrainian experts have taken to Telegram to myth bust Putin's prowess and explain why the vast majority of Russian missiles do not hit their targets.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
As a result of Russia reigning hellfire down on Ukraine for two months, scientists in the country have had lots of projectiles to study in depth throughout the conflict.
Whether or not Putin looked pathetic, what is sadly true is how phenomenally advanced the missiles are.
It continued: "Modern "Russian cruise missiles are equipped with electronics developed in the 60s of last century
