Putins terrifying 604ft city killer nuclear submarine is ready as tensions rise
20220126
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putins-terrifying-604ft-city-killer-26059034
Russias world record submarine is twice the size of a Royal Navy sub with Vladimir Putin's weapon, the Belgorod, being hailed as a threat following plans for it to enter service
The Belgorod, which is reportedly twice the size of Royal Navy submarines, has been specially created to carry deadly Poseidon torpedoes.
Designers of the Belgorod gave it a stealthy design, despite its world record size, and with its nuclear power sauce, it is capable of sailing to anywhere in the world.
Poseidon torpedoes are reportedly nuclear tipped and guided by an artificial intelligence with the ability to cause devastation at its intended target.
Speaking to the Sun, Mr Clark said: Their aim is to retain the credible capability either to disrupt or destroy the cables that the UKs economy and its entire communications rely on.
Stay in the loop with all the latest Daily Star news by signing up for one of our free newsletters here.
At a press conference on Wednesday, Charles Michel, President of the European Council, gave out a warning over any action against Ukraine would have serious consequences.
The submarine is so huge that it can even deploy a smaller min-sub and advanced drones for covert missions.
The source added: "It is assumed that this event can be timed to coincide with the Day of the Russian Navy, which will be celebrated on July 31."
Defence expert Rob Clark, from the Henry Jackson Society, believes the submarine should be treated as a very real threat.
According to sources speaking to Russia's TASS news agency Belgorod nuclear submarine will be added to the fleet in the summer of 2022.
A giant 604ft Russian submarine dubbed a city killer is set to be unleashed on the seas by president Vladimir Putin later this year.
There are reports that Russia currently has an estimated 100,000 soldiers near the border of Ukraine.
Russia has recently accused the US and others of "escalating tensions" over alleged plans to invade its neighbours Ukraine, which the country denies.
The submarine is expected to hold eight deadly Poseidon missiles, which can be shot at such speeds it can trigger a tsunami to devastate coastal areas.
