Putin fumes as 12 senior officers wiped out in single strike as defence system fails
20220711
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-fumes-12-senior-officers-27448347
The HIMARS missiles were launched at an occupied region of Ukraine where a reported 12 senior officers, including generals and colonels, were based.
"My question is simple: when will this bull end? Can you  the military-industrial complex so that we finally have the preventive means to stop these missile attacks."
It isn't just state television that fumed over the missile strike, but Vladimir Putin himself.
Russian forces have been dealt yet another blow after 12 officers were reportedly killed in a missile blast that has left Russian president Vladimir Putin furious over defensive failures
Pro-Russian sources were reportedly furious with the attacks, with Russian state TV reporter Alexander Sladkov fuming that Ukraine "has struck several times at our decision-making centres - with results."
A report on the attack that left 12 Russian officers dead stated: "Not only that - during an attack on a military base in Ilovaisk, HIMARS missiles destroyed the S-400 complex, which was supposed to protect the area from air strikes."
Damage to the area, alongside the reported death of 12 senior officials, also included the apparent destruction of a dozen weapons systems and military equipment in the area.
Former prime minister Mikhail Fradkov could be fired and even face criminal action over the defensive failure, as could state-owned arms company director-general Yan Novikov.
Missiles were fired at Chornobaivka in the Kherson region, with the attack praised as part of a counter measure against Russian forces who are continuing their invasion of Ukraine.
READ MORE: Vladimir Putin 'using Cold War tractors' in Ukraine after running out of usable kit
Russia has suffered yet another critical loss in their invasion of Ukraine after a US-supplied missile launcher destroyed a Russian command post, leaving Russian president Vladimir Putin furious.
Sladkov continued: "The centres are small but important. I will not write here where, when, how much, and who was hit in order not to give out military secrets.
Rumours over a lack of ammunition for Putin's forces have aired alongside the missile defence failure, as Ukraine are reportedly gearing up a million troops to take back the southern region held by Russia.
One report claimed that Putin is so enraged that he is now pinpointing scapegoats for the attack, with his own allies potentially taking the blame for the failure of the S-400 missile defence system.
