Putins pal Steven Seagal says hes standing by Russia through thick and thin
20220414
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/showbiz/steven-seagal-supports-russia-through-26712706
The Under Siege star, a well-known friend of the Russian leader, attended a lavish party in Moscow to celebrate his birthday on Sunday, April 10.
Steven, who dons a sleek ponytail and a thick moustache, stands on a stage and tells the guests: "Each and every one of you, you are my family and are my friends.
We'll bring you the inside track from telly expert Ed Gleave and soap specialist Sasha Morris. Oh, and your daily fix of Piers, Katie Price, Demi Rose and all your other Daily Star favs.
Get the latest updates on all the things TV and showbiz by signing up to the Daily Star showbiz newsletter.
The Hollywood star appeared in Russia to celebrate his 70th birthday with Vladimir Putin's close allies and was spotted giving a speech to show his support for the country
Steven previously described Putin as "one of the greatest world leaders, if not the greatest world leader, alive today".
Steven Seagal said he stood by the close allies of Russian president Vladimir Putin "through thick and thin" after flying to Moscow to celebrate his 70th birthday.
Viewers shared their thoughts on Twitter as one said: "That makes sense...Russia is stuck in the 80-90s, back when Seagal was at least a B-listed celebrity.
"I look at both as one family and really believe it is an outside entity spending huge sums of money on propaganda to provoke the two countries to be at odds with each other."
Well, we've got you covered with our showbiz, TV and soaps newsletters - they'll drop straight into your inbox and you can unsubscribe whenever you like.
There's MUCH more where that came from! Want all the jaw-dropping stories from the world of showbiz and up to the minute news from TV and soaps?
Margarita Simonyan, one of Russia's leading pro-Kremlin media moguls and editor-in-chief of Russian Today, was also in attendance according to the Financial Times.
In February, he told Fox News that propaganda from an "outside entity" pitted Russia and Ukraine against each other.
The 70-year-old was granted a Russian passport in 2016, having vocalised his support for the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and was made Russia's special envoy to the US in 2018.
"And I love all of you and we stand together, through thick and through thin."
Russian state television presenter Vladimir Soloviev, who is fiercely pro-Kremlin and anti-Ukraine, was also present at the dinner and was spotted standing next to the Hollywood action man in a viral video.
