Putin rolls out his thermonuclear missiles for Victory Day rehearsal in warning to West
20220407
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-set-show-nuclear-weapon-26899866
According to The Times, the rehearsal parade could also see 500 captured fighters - including three British fighters - being 'forced to go through Red Square for cameras.
Russia flexed its nuclear muscle today with thermonuclear missiles being rolled through Moscow's Red Square in a rehearsal for the annual Victory Day parade set to take place on Monday, May 9.
Several soldiers and servicewomen were seen marching outside the Kremlin in preparation for the celebrations. They were brandishing guns, waving Russian flags and performing salutes in jubilation.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
His warning comes after a Russian missile destroyed a Ukrainian national museum as many land mines and trip wires remain in place after the Russian occupation.
Evacuations efforts have been underway at Mariupol, with dozens of people including 11 children, being rescued on Friday and handed over to representatives of the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Russian officials and Ukrainian deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk have said that operations to evacuate will continue into the weekend.
Two Brits Aiden Aslin, 28, and Shaun Pinner, 48, were captured by Russian forces at Mariupol last month while they fought alongside Ukrainian forces.
Another British fighter, Andrew Hill, was also detained in Russia, a video showing the the father of four from Plymouth being interrogated on Russian TV.
He said: "While the entire civilised world remembers the victims of terrible wars on these days, the Russian Federation wants parades and is preparing to dance over bones in Mariupol."
Vladimir Putin looks set to use the Russian public holiday - marking the country's victory over Nazi Germany and the end of WW2 in Europe - to send a warning to the West by showing off the thermonuclear RS-24 Yars ballistic missile.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian soldiers are preparing to take a stand against Putin's forces in the besieged city of Mariupol, where hundreds of civilians have been taking shelter in tunnels under a steel mill.
Eight MiG-29 fighters were also spotted flying through the sky in a 'Z' formation, the insignia used by Putin's military as a symbol of Russia's ruthless attack on Ukraine.
As Russia's attack on Ukraine continues to get more ruthless and desparate, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has also reminded people not to go into forests.
Weighing 49.6 tonnes, the powerful missile is a weapon of mass destruction that experts believe can carry up to 10 warheads, and is capable of striking London or New York within minutes by travelling at a speed of 24,500kmhr.
Ukraine's first deputy interior minister Yevhen Yenin has warned that Victory Day is likely to be an important day for Putin, who is desperate to secure a victory.
Vladimir Putin has sent a chilling warning to the West with a rollout of nuclear missiles set to be released for this year's Victory Day parade as the assault on Ukraine continues
The nuclear missile was driven past rows of armed guards on a 16-wheeler vehicle on Saturday's rehearsal for the actual Victory Day parade on Monday, followed closely by several Iskander-M missile launchers.
With speculation on Putin's intention to finish the fight for Mariupol growing, cities across Ukraine are also preparing for an expected increase in Russian attacks as Victory Day approaches.
