Putins terrifying tanks travel 90kmh and hit targets 5k away as Russia conflict ramps up
20220125
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putins-terrifying-tanks-travel-90kmh-26046366
But it's not just the huge numbers of people ready to fight for Russia that make it such a powerful military force - they also have some world-class equipment and weapons of war.
Due to the huge costs, fewer tanks are being made than originally planned. Popular Mechanics report that 2,300 were originally planned and so the drop off has been extremely steep.
These aren't the only tanks Russia has though, with the eastern nation still in possession of a massive selection of war weapons and armoured vehicles including the fearsome T-90 tanks which have been seeing active duty since 1993.
Forces.net reckons that while the UK has an undeniably terrifying 227 tanks bristling with guns and high tech gear, this number is made to sound a little less impressive by Russia's 12,950.
Speaking the House of Commons Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: "If Russia invades Ukraine, we would look to contribute to any new Nato deployments to protect our allies in Europe."
Tensions are heating up on the Russian-Ukrainian border with Vladimir Putin lining up a massive army and making NATO chiefs jittery about a possible invasion.
Russia has got one of the biggest and most powerful armies in the world, with millions of troops, loads of tanks and some of the best tech out there - and one new tank could be scariest of the lot
Russia has a huge army that makes the UK's look tiny, and so any efforts the UK were to make would be alongside its NATO allies, which includes the likes of the USA, Canada, Germany and France.
Even though they won't be the newest tank around they can still go a scary 70 kmh. They can also hit points 4 km away and it takes just over 11 seconds for the missile to get to its target.
Due to high costs, the T-14 has only so far been built in very small numbers, with around 100 due to be rolling off the production line in 2022.
Russia still has an active conscription system, meaning people aged between 18 and 27 often have little choice about doing national service. France24 report that more than 250,000 people are conscripted each year.
According to Forces.net, Russia has a huge force of over 1 million active service personnel and 2 million more in the reserves, as of 2020.
This new-generation killing machine has some truly terrifying stats. According to Army Technology, it can travel at 90 kmh, or 56mph. It can also drive for around 500km before needing to refuel and hit targets with its main cannon from a whopping 5km range.
Meanwhile, the UK has said that it would send troops to Ukraine to help its ally if Russia were to set foot over the thin red line.
Meanwhile, as of 2021, Statista claims that the British army is comprised of just 149,000 service people.
Perhaps the most impressive in Russia's arsenal will be their brand new battle tank - the T-14 Armata, some early models of which are due to be deployed this year.
