Putins chilling torture techniques including the elephant and chemical punishment
20220321
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/putins-chilling-torture-techniques-including-26516690
The most horrific prisoner of war camp the Russian's used during the conflict was located in Chernokozovo.
"They cuffed my hands behind my back and said, "Go on, swim". I practically lost my sight when they shoved my head in there.
"There was also something else, a barrel full of water with a cage on top. You couldn't get out of there."
Another survivor said that under the duress of the elephant's trunk, people would admit to anything.
Russia's President Vladimir Putin has been denounced by the world for his horrific invasion of Ukraine and the treatment of its people, however a startling lesson from history shows he could be much worse.
During Russia's invasion of Chechnya in the 1990's, Vladimir Putin's forces employed a range of torture techniques including asphyxiation and chemical baths, it has been claimed.
One ex-prisoner was only 17 at the time he was taken to the camp and suffered fearsome pain at the hands of Russian guards.
During Russia's invasion of Chechnya in the 1990's, Vladimir Putin's forces employed a range of horrific tortures against prisoners of war including electric shocks, beatings, rape and chemical punishments
He said: "Once the gas mask was on, they would choke you, so you were gasping to breathe.
He recalled the frightening day he was given a chemical bath by the occupiers which left him blind for days.
Stay up to date with all the latest Daily Star news by signing up to one of our free newsletters here.
The horrific conflict came relatively early on in the despot's premiership and has many alarming parallels to his latest move in Ukraine, although there has been so far no evidence to suggest Russia is torturing Ukrainians.
And as Russian troops swarmed the tiny republic, tales of horror started to emerge from the front line of the way Putin's forces treated their enemy.
Common practises at the camp included beatings, mock executions, rape, electric shock torture and even chemical treatments.
Despite the overwhelming evidence to support the prisoner's claims, Vladimir Putin and Russia never admitted to torturing prisoners in the conflict.
"And they would let go and you would breathe in deeply. And then they would squirt CS gas down the breathing hole. It was so bad just the sight of the gas mask in the room would make people confess to anything."
One survivor described the practise, saying: "'They put a gas mask on your head. Your hands are cuffed behind your back, so there is nothing you can do.
In a 2000 article for the Guardian, war reporter John Sweeney spoke to members of the Chechen forces who had been captured by Russian, many of whom claimed to have been tortured.
