Putin uses deadly hypersonic missiles for first time ever as Ukraine war takes dark turn
20220312
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-putin-uses-deadly-hypersonic-26506222
The Russian military says it used the Kinzhal hypersonic missile to destroy an underground ammunition depot in Delyatyn, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast, according to local news outlet Zvezda.
Vladimir Putin has deployed the use of deadly hypersonic missiles in Ukraine for the first time ever, as the conflict in Ukraine takes a dark turn.
No one will see the missile launch or its flight. They will only see when the missile hits the target, said the frigates commander, first rank captain Igor Krokhmal.
Putin went on to say that nobody was under direct threat from these super nukes, at least for now, and that other countries are rapidly trying to catch up with the Russian technology.
Speaking at an energy forum in Moscow last year, the Russian leader also said that his "intercontinental" weapons can travel five times faster than those being developed in America.
Details about the operation remain scarce, but Russia has previously bragged about its hypersonic weapons arsenal.
"This is a much more serious weapon than you just said. And they are already on alert in Russia.
"Weapons with a speed of Mach 3 or more are being developed in the United States. Our systems fly at a speed of over Mach 20."
The deadly conflict in Ukraine has taken a sinister turn as Russia's leader Vladimir Putin has decided to unleash hypersonic missiles for the first time as he continues his invasion
TV Zvezda - a channel owned by the Russian defence ministry - said of footage of a similar missile last week: The Russian Zircon hypersonic missile's stealth features have been disclosed
Missiles such as the 3M22 Zircon are said to be so fast and able to fly so low that they evade traditional anti-missile defence systems.
The speed of the Zircon hypersonic missile is so high that it prevents the opponent's air defence system from detecting its impact in time.
The Kremlin had previously branded the deadly weapon, which carries a conventional or nuclear warhead, unstoppable.
In the early hours of 24 February Putin warned of consequences that you have never faced in your history, perhaps touting the use of such extreme weaponry.
He bragged with pride: "This is not just a hypersonic, this is an intercontinental missile.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
He continued: "There is nothing unusual here. The high-tech armies of the world will have such systems, they will, and in the near future.
