Putins crimes in Ukraine likened to Stalins Katyn Forest massacre where 22000 died
20220404
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putins-war-crimes-like-stalins-26631044
Reacting to the developments on Twitter, Stalin historian Simon Montefiore said the barbarity was not unlike that which the former Soviet leader was famed for.
As reports of Russian war crimes against Ukrainian citizens mount, a prominent historian has likened Vladimir Putin's actions to those of Joseph Stalin who slaughtered 22,000 Polish officers during the 1940 Katyn forest massacre
"It took 28 nights  the chief executioner wore a butcher's apron over his NKVD uniform.
"As we absorb todays Russian killings of Ukraine civilians, its hard not to think of the past."
Shockingly, it was not until 2010 that Russia admitted Joseph Stalin had specifically ordered the slaughter.
The Katyn Forest massacre is remembered as one of World War Two's most brutal episodes for good reason.
Yesterday April 3 a mass grave containing the bodies of 57 civilians was found in the town of Bucha, near to Kyiv, where Russian troops have been forced out.
The latest grave was found with several corpses only partially buried or not buried at all while bodies of men, women and children were also seen strewn across roads.
Each was carried out with German weaponry as chillingly the executioners complained that the recoil on their Russian guns made it painful to carry out the task.
Reports of Russian atrocities in war-torn Ukraine have spiralled in recent days with the brutality of troops being likened to ISIS.
Shortly after Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin had carved up Poland between them, the Russian dictator ordered the mass execution of every captured Polish officer as well as the country's intelligentsia.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
To this day, Poland still considers the massacre an act of genocide against their people.
Today, Vladimir Putin's Russian regime has not publically stated they are responsible for the atrocities being committed against Ukrainian civilians nor even acknowledged they are happening.
He said: "Today in 1940, Stalin  Beria started the murder of 22000 Poles in Katyn Forest.
A prominent historian has compared Vladimir Putin's rumoured Russian war crimes to Joseph Stalin's infamous 1940 Katyn forest massacre which saw 22,000 Polish officers murdered in 28 days.
