Putin unveils secret weapon in looming Ukraine conflict  soldiers in lipstick
20220127
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/putin-unveils-secret-weapon-looming-26070750
At last years event, troops applied all manner of camouflage paint to their faces  stars, flags and bright colours among them.
French president Emmanuel Macron is due to have a telephone conversation with the Russian leader later today in a bid to stave off a conflict.
Its designers gave it a stealthy design, despite its huge size, and it is capable of sailing anywhere in the world.
Though Putin bars his female soldiers from hand-to-hand combat on the frontline they could supply key supporting roles in an invasion.
Vladimir Putin has unveiled a secret weapon in his looming conflict with Ukraine  women soldiers in lipstick and nail varnish.
The Belgorod is reportedly twice the size of Royal Navy submarines and has been specially created to carry deadly Poseidon torpedoes.
Russia has a battalion of female soldiers who are kitted out in lipstick and nail varnish. The country hosts a beauty contest which judges the women on their looks as well as their battlefield skills
The Russian presidents one million plus troops include up to 160,000 women who are encouraged to show off their femininity. Putins Ministry of Defence even holds an annual beauty contest that judges them on their looks and battlefield skills.
Poseidon torpedoes are reportedly nuclear tipped and guided by an artificial intelligence with the ability to cause devastation at its intended target.
Tensions are still simmering between Russia and Ukraine as the US rejected Russia's demand to bar its neighbour from NATO.
The nation also possesses tanks that travel at 90kph and can hit targets as far as 5km away.
It comes after the US rejected Putins demand to bar Ukraine from joining Nato. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he would not budge on Ukraines rights to sovereignty and be part of security alliances.
Meanwhile, Putin has unveiled his terrifying 604ft 'city killer' nuclear submarine amid rising tensions between Russia and Ukraine.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
