Russian officials arrive in Belarus for peace talks with Ukraine claims brazen Kremlin
20220227
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/breaking-russian-officials-arrive-belarus-26340109
The Ukrainians are fighting heroically, and in some places with great success, as many of us thought they would because theyre a great country and a very brave country.
Sanctions on Russia's central bank could limit Putin's use of his more than $630 billion in international reserves, according to Reuters.
Heavy fighting has also been reported in Kharkiv, where Russia blew up a natural gas pipeline, a Ukrainian state agency said.
A Russian delegation has arrived in Homel, Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials as the Kremlin say they are now awaiting Ukraine to meet them after a fourth day of attacks
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has praised Ukrainians for fighting heroically as allies unveiled new measures to hit Russias financial system.
The Kremlin says a Russian delegation has arrived in the Belarusian city of Homel for talks with Ukrainian officials.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Russia appears to be looking to hold peace talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy following Russian President Vladimir Putin ordering an invasion on Thursday.
Russian troops were later seen entered Kharkiv, Ukraine's interior ministry adviser Anton Herashchenko said on Telegram.
The results of the blasts reportedly sent huge flames and billowing black smoke into the sky as mayor Natalia Balasinovich said: "The enemy wants to destroy everything."
"This will be the key evidence of your support for our country," Mr Zelenskyy said in a statement.
The news comes as Ukraine is establishing a foreign "international" legion for volunteers from abroad, Mr Zelenskyy said on Sunday.
The leader of Ukraine has said his country is ready for peace talks with Russia, but will not conduct these in Belarus, which was an invasion staging ground.
Mr Johnson also said the West is tightening the economic ligature around Russia, with Britain, the US, Canada and the European Union together announcing that selected Russian banks would be excluded from the Swift global payments system.
The Prime Minister added: Lets be in no doubt, things are not going all the way of President Putin, very far from it.
Ukrainian forces are believed to have held off Russian troops advancing on the capital of Kyiv as Russian forces attacked oil and gas facilities in Ukraine overnight, causing huge explosions.
Western allies have prepared new sanctions, including banishing key Russia banks from the main global payments system.
These videos, posted by him and a state agency, showed several military vehicles moving on a street and in a separate video, a burning tank.
Russian missiles targeted an oil terminal in Vasylkiv, southwest of Kyiv, according to the town's mayor.
