Russian businessman puts 750000 bounty on Putins head  but wants him alive
20220303
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/russian-businessman-puts-750000-bounty-26373473
Some reports suggest that I promised to pay for the assassination of Putin, he continued.
"The bravery, the tenacity of Ukraine, my God, we have all been taken aback and it is so important we do everything we can to support them in what they are doing and make sure - and this is where the sanctions, weve got the Economic Crime Bill, transparency and enforcement coming through on Monday in Parliament."
Want all the latest shocking news and views from all over the world straight into your inbox?
It comes after an expert warned Russian oligarchs are growing "tired" of Putin and may turn on him like Julius Caesar.
The crypto investor's initial Facebook post was removed by the social media company, as it included a fake wanted poster with the phrase Dead or Alive on it.
Ukraines defence ministry said: A decision has been taken to hand over captured Russian troops to their mothers if they come to collect them in Ukraine, in Kyiv.
And speaking to Business Insider, he said that the money will come directly from his own funds  as he was once worth around 300 million  and he is hoping others follow suit.
While such an outcome would be cheered by millions of people around the world, I believe that Putin must be brought to justice.
Our great newsletters will give you all you need to know, from hard news to that bit of glamour you need every day. They'll drop straight into your inbox and you can unsubscribe whenever you like.
Defence analyst Professor Michael Clarke said those close to the president are turning away from him and could "end him" after facing humiliation.
A huge bounty of around 750,000 has been placed on the head of Russia's despotic president Vladimir Putin.
He added: If enough other people make similar statements, it may increase the chances of Putin getting arrested and brought to justice,
Prof Clarke warned that one of his loyal allies could end up "stabbing him in the back".
We've got the best royal scoops, crime dramas and breaking stories - all delivered in that Daily Star style you love.
Videos of captured Russian troops showed them weeping as Prisoners of War, with one young soldier told to call his mum to "pick him up".
Putin is not the Russian president as he came to power as the result of a special operation of blowing up apartment buildings in Russia, then violated the Constitution by eliminating free elections and murdering his opponents.
As an ethnic Russian and a Russia citizen, I see it as my moral duty to facilitate the denazification of Russia.
POWs were captured on camera sobbing, saying we dont want this war and claiming they were used like cannon fodder by commanders.
As the walls of Vladimir Putin's close friends 'close in on him', Russian businessman Alex Konanykhin has issued a 750,000 bounty on the head of the Russian president - but wants him kept alive
"But we do know that this is a ruthless force, an extremely dangerous force obviously imminently right now for Ukraine, but actually dangerous for wider Europe and the world.
Local reports add that some Ukrainians have been offering food and tea to the captured troops.
"This is a ruthless invading force. When it comes to tactics and military strategy, Im not going to second guess Vladimir Putin and what he might be thinking, what might be in his head.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
I will continue my assistance to Ukraine in its heroic efforts to withstand the onslaught of Putin's Orda.
This is not our war. Mothers and wives, collect your husbands. There is no need to be here, an injured soldier sat in front of a Ukrainian flag was filmed saying.
He wrote: I promise to pay $1,000,000 to the officers who, complying with their constitutional duty, arrests Putin as a war criminal under Russian and international laws.
He did later clarify that his offer was not to assassinate Putin but to, essentially, perform a citizen's arrest on him as he would rather see Putin face justice for what he has done in Ukraine.
