RussiaUkraine war means mankind not going to Mars this year warn global space agencies
20220228
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/russia-ukraine-war-means-mankind-26351944
But a statement from the ESA made it clear that this is now unlikely to happen, with the statement saying: Regarding the ExoMars programme continuation, the sanctions and the wider context make a launch in 2022 very unlikely.
The Director General also noted that the space agencys decisions must be taken in collaboration with the countries that contribute to ESA, as well as in the context of any sanctions those member states decide to put in force.
He said: We deplore the tragic events taking place in Ukraine, a crisis which escalated dramatically into war in recent days, he wrote.
But a project that has suffered as a result of the Russo-Ukrainian conflict is the ExoMars mission that is meant to see a European lander carried to Mars on board a Russian spacecraft.
According to the European Space Agency, the ExoMars missions that was meant to see a European lander carried to Mars on board a Russian spacecraft is now unlikely to happen
Both NASA and the European Space Agency ESA have confirmed that co-operation will continue with their Russian counterpart Roscosmos, with which they work on projects including the International Space Station.
ESA Director General Josef Aschbacher did not give any indication of the space agencys general plans but condemned the war.
The ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine means that mankind will probably not go to Mars this year, space agencies have warned.
The arrival of the lander  named Rosalind Franklin  on the red planet had been scheduled for 2020 but the Covid-19 pandemic caused it to be delayed.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Mars missions are only able to launch approximately every two years or so because they require the plants to be aligned in a specific way which makes the journey more efficient.
That means that if a launch doesnt take place this year, then it will have to wait until 2024.
