Russia says it can destroy NATO satellites but dismisses western hysteria
20211123
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-says-can-destroy-nato-25531270
Russia has warned that it has the capability to destroy NATO satellites using its new 'Star Warrior' technology, which would render the West's GPS-guided missiles useless.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
On Monday, the White House 'serious concerns' over Moscow's escalation of military presence and hardware along the frontier, which included tanks and missile batteries, as well as its sustained threats to Kyiv, Daily Mail reports.
The Americans are painting a frightening picture of hordes of Russian tanks that will start to crush Ukrainian cities, saying they have some 'reliable information' of such Russian intentions,' said the SVR in a rare statement to the Russian press.
However, state TV brazenly called a 'warning shot' even as Russia sent more than 94,000 troops to the border with Ukraine, which sparked fears that Vladimir Putin was ready for an invasion that would dwarf the annexation of Crimea in 2014.
Last night, Biden considered sending Javelin anti-tank missile launchers and Mi-17 helicopters to Ukraine, which could stop the Russian T-80 tanks in its tracks.'
Amidst the latest confrontation in Ukraine, Russian State TV last night claimed Moscow's anti-satellite ASAT missiles were able to obliterate 32 Nato satellites and 'blind all their missiles, planes and ships, not to mention the ground forces.'
Russia tested their new ASAT systems on a defunct Soviet satellite last week. The test caused shrapnel to start flying towards the International Space Station ISS, provoking outrage from NASA and Washington.
Another option the US could consider is sending in Russian-made Mi-17 helicopters that were previously used in Afghanistan. However, such actions could be seen as a major act of provocation in Moscow.
Russia also tested their new anti-satellite systems on a defunct Soviet satellite last week, which caused shrapnel to start flying towards the International Space Station
'We continue to have serious concerns about Russian military activities and harsh rhetoric toward Ukraine and call on Moscow to deescalate tensions,' said Biden's Press Secretary Jen Psaki.
However, the Kremlin's SVR foreign intelligence agency accused Washington of whipping up 'hysteria', and dismissed claims it had any intention of launching an invasion.
Tensions over Ukraine have been felt across the world, with Boris Johnson personally intervening to speak out on the issue.
