Russian colonel killed in fireball helicopter crash after being hit by missile
20220620
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-colonel-killed-fireball-helicopter-27278077
His death follows the loss of two colonels announced on the same day last week  highly decorated Colonel Sergei Krasnikov, 56, who had volunteered to rejoin the forces to go to war, and Colonel Sergei Postnov - in his 40s.
However, Russia's overall losses are believed to be in excess of 30,000, with some estimates of nearer to 50,000. These figures include at least 11 generals.
The military helicopter carrying Lt-Col Sergey Gundorov, 51, was struck by a portable surface-to-air missile near Volnovakha in the Donbas.
Flames and black smoke are seen from the explosion as a second Russian helicopter is seen firing decoy flares and apparently escapes unscathed.
A Russian account on the death of the high-ranked pilot, who has had previously won three Orders of Courage, first-class said: Bright eternal memory to the Hero who left on his last flight.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Lt-Col Sergey Gundorov, 51, became the 55th Russian colonel to die in Vladimir Putin's war on Ukraine after his helicopter became a fireball when it was hit by a missile
The news comes after Britains chief of defence staff claimed that Russia "has already lost the war."
Among condolences to the married father of two, were family pictures showing him with his sons and wife Anzhela, alongside a message from his teenage younger son Ilya saying simply: Love you Dad.
Admiral Sir Antony David Radakin, the UKs highest-ranking military officer, says Vladimir Putins invasion of Ukraine was a dreadful mistake and while the fighting is not yet over Russia has already strategically lost the war.
Vladimir Putin lost his 55th colonel in the Russia-Ukraine war as the stricken Mi-35 touched the ground before cartwheeling over a narrow strip of woodland, becoming a fireball and crashing in a field.
Russia will never take control of Ukraine, Sir Tony said, adding that it would end up a more diminished power as a result.
He died after completing a combat mission on 16 June but his loss is only now acknowledged, it has been claimed.
Dramatic footage shows the moment a Russian colonel crashes in his helicopter in a 'fireball' after being hit by a Ukrainian  missile.
