Russian soldier blown up live on Instagram as he brags about killing Ukrainians
20220501
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/bragging-russian-soldier-killed-instagram-26839092
There is uncertainty around whether the soldier was shooting a live video, or a story, and whether it was Instagram or TikTok.
"Our main goal has been completed at A, we got on only 3 x 300 wounded," a caption along with the video reads, posted on Reddit.
"We also rely to a large extent on satellite images, and this is in combination of TikTok videos. Everything combined, I think, gives us a slightly better picture of what is actually going on."
"We're trying to figure out which units are coming," Lukas Andriukaitis with the Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab said. "Where are they? Where they're being based, what kind of equipment they're bringing."
"Imagine walking around like your taking a stroll in a park in an active warzone. No tactical columns, no spacing, and absolutely no situational awareness.
Either way, people online agreed that it was ill advised to appear so casual in a warzone.
Before the start of Vladimir Putin's full scale invasion of Ukraine in late February, experts were said to have been monitoring their army's movements using TikTok.
WARNING: DISTRESSING FOOTAGE The young soldier was apparently bragging about his column's success for the day as he casually strolled through an active warzone in Ukraine, speaking to his camera before disaster struck
A Russian soldier who bragged about kills on the frontline in Ukraine while on Instagram Live was blown to pieces while broadcasting to his followers.
Professional military analysts like Konrad Muzyka use videos posted to TikTok by Russian and Belarusian civilians as clues.
Another added: "Dude youre in the middle of a f war and youre filming a tick tok video. Absolute fools, Slava Ukraini."
For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
"Each conflict has its own social media platform that propels the story to the world. Now, it's TikTok," Muzyka said.
The young soldier was apparently bragging about his column's success for the day as he casually strolled through an active warzone, speaking to his camera.
Moments later a large explosion abruptly halts the video - and reportedly takes the soldier's life.
