Russia could melt enemies with thermobaric rocket launchers that can rupture lungs
20220224
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-could-melt-enemies-thermobaric-26319740
The Mirror reports that Russia has a number of thermobaric weapons that launch a barrage of fuel-air explosive warheads that can 'melt' an opposing army in seconds.
Sebastian Roblin, a military expert, writing for 19fortyfive.com, said: "A TOS-1 rocket barrage will wipe out everything within the 200-by-300m blast zone."
According to Military Today, the TOS-1A is a 30- or 24-barrel multiple rocket launcher and thermobaric weapons mounted on a T-72 tank chassis.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that 'unparalleled' hypersonic missiles are ready for action as troops continue to pour into Ukraine.
It comes as Russian military forces have launched a major assault on Ukraine, with reports of missile strikes in major cities, and the country declared a state of emergency.
The precise death count on both sides of the conflict is not yet known with more reports of devastation occurring constantly.
They are used to clear out buildings, field fortifications and bunkers, and are generally similar to multiple launch rocket systems, however they have a shorter firing range.
The Sun reports that sources in Ukraine shared videos of the bizarre-looking tanks heading for the border with the paper - which are loaded with incendiary or thermobaric rockets.
Around 40 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed since the conflict began this morning while at least 18 more people are understood to have been killed in a missile attack in the Ukrainian city of Odessa.
Troubling reports from the frontline of the Ukraine convict have suggested Russia may deploy an arsenal of thermobaric weapons that are capable of 'melting' armies
He added: "The location suggests they will take part in an operation towards Kyiv. Note the circle markers."
This morning, PhD student at the Department of War Studies at King's College London Rob Lee claimed thermobaric MLRS and other Russian military equipment were entering Ukraine from Belarus.
The vacuum that follows the explosions is also said to be strong enough to cause deadly internal damage, including rupturing of vital organs, such as a person's lungs.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
The weapons, which include the TOS-1 "Buratino" and TOS-1A "Solntsepek", are seen as some of the more dangerous weapons on the modern-day battlefield.
The self-propelled multiple rocket launcher system can destroy several city blocks in one hit, causing indiscriminate damage.
Some experts have claimed that this arsenal of devastating weapons could be used in his full-scale attack on Ukraine which has already claimed countless lives.
