Russian Army may be hiding true Ukraine death toll by shipping dead soldiers to Siberia
20220403
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-accused-hiding-true-ukraine-26624273
The region immediately surrounding the capital - called Moscow region - has similarly suffered far less fatalities than many places, with two reported dead, and 21 captured.
Available Russian statistics on the war dead are seriously incomplete, yet the Ukrainians have also produced data for Putins losses which are not disputed by the Soldiers Mothers Committee in Moscow.
A similar pattern relates to St Petersburg, Putins birth city, where there is one recorded death, and two captured troops.
And reports indicate that the true toll here is almost certainly higher, not least because there is a time-lag in the information on the war dead.
Taken together the available data shows a striking pattern that far-flung Russian regions are the most savagely hit by the crushing losses.
Moscow has sustained no announced deaths, while ten servicemen from the capital were captured by the Ukrainians.
A sinister postcode lottery relating to Russians slain in the war in Ukraine means that there have been as yet no publicly acknowledged deaths of troops from Moscow.
Reports have highlighted Dagestan, close to the Caspian Sea, Tatarstan on the Volga River, Irkutsk in Siberia and Primorsky, on the Pacific coast, as suffering significant losses.
Many of those killed from some of these faraway towns and cities are not ethnic Russians, and tragically a large number of these cannon fodder men are young, in their late teens or twenties.
More information is available from the rising number of local reports of funerals, and regional media coverage.
This contrasts sharply with the region of Buryatia, in Siberia, five time zones east of Moscow, where 64 have been reported killed in the war.
Russia is reportedly covering up the deaths of its soldiers through a postcode lottery that means Moscow and St Petersburg suffer less casualties than faraway towns and cities with non-ethnic Russians
Stay in the loop with all the latest Daily Star news by signing up to one of our free newsletters here.
Instead, the worst-hit regions for the heavy losses - held by critics to be cannon fodder - are remote from Vladimir Putins capital city.
This indicates the political and media elite in Moscow are not personally seeing the increasing flow of coffins returned from a war in which Russia has lost an estimated 17,000 soldiers in five weeks.
Pictures of some of the war dead highlight the appalling suffering in Buryatia, a Buddhist republic on the shore of Lake Baikal with a 972,000 population, some 12 times less than the city of Moscow.
Funerals are being held for those slain in the war in many regions - but not in main cities Moscow and St Petersburg, although there is anecdotal evidence of a handful of burials of soldiers whose deaths were not announced.
