Russia to blow up ammo next to Europes biggest nuclear power plant Ukraine fears
20220314
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-warns-russia-blow-up-26463151
The warning comes more than a week after the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant was captured by Russia on the night of Friday, March 4.
"In the next hour, the occupiers, who captured the Zaporizhzhia NPP, plan to begin 'disposal' of ammunition right on the site of the station near the ruins of the ZNPP training centre."
"The invader is on the territory of our ZNPP, there are about 50 units of heavy equipment on the territory and up to 500 soldiers.
"In fact, the invaders are now using the territory of the plant as their military base."
According to Ukrinform, the press service of nuclear power firm Energoatom, ammunition is set to go off near power unit No.1.
Russia is planning to blow up ammunition next to Europe's biggest power plant, the parliament of Ukraine has warned.
"Russia is going to blow up ammunition in front of the Zaporizhzhia NPP power unit," the parliament of Ukraine said today Monday, March 14.
Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant was taken over by Russian forces at the begining of March - now Ukraine officials fear that Putin's troops will detonate ammo by the plant
"Another 1,000 soldiers and 400 units of equipment are near the town of Enerhodar in a unit that belongs to a thermal power plant  a common coal-fired station.
A fire erupted after Russian shelling struck one of the facility's power units, which Ukraine's Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba, feared could have created a blast "10 times larger than Chernobyl" before it was extinguished.
Petro Kotin, the Head of the National Nuclear Energy Generating Company of Ukraine Energoatom said: "Two plants have been seized: Chornobyl NPP from the very beginning of hostilities and Zaporizhzhia NPP has been seized for about 9 days.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters   here  .
It has been reported that the Russian military, who captured the power plant, are using the facility as a military base.
Now, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine have issued a frightening update about Russia's plans on Twitter.
