Russian TV claims Ukraine killed own people and dead bodies in Bucha are actors
20220406
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-tv-claims-ukraine-killed-26647001
The shocking pictures verify that corpses were lying in the open for weeks before Bucha was reclaimed by Ukrainian forces.
"The next mess up on their part was an illustration of cannibalism that was committed by the Kyiv regime.
Russian forces have been accused of a litany of war crimes including murder, torture and rape, with troops carrying out acts of "unspeakable, deliberate cruelty and violence" in the town close to Kyiv.
The emotional leader vowed to ensure the "war crimes" committed by Russian soldiers in his country were "the last such evil on Earth".
Speaking on Russia-1, a reporter told a series of shocking lies about the atrocities committed and alleged that Zelenskyy's troops had killed their own citizens.
The lies are made all the more revolting by the fact that Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had to tragically fight back tears when he visited the suffering town earlier this week.
However, in the face of irrefutable evidence to the contrary, Russia's state-controlled media continues to lie to their citizens in the most brazen and disgusting ways possible.
WARNING DISTRESSING CONTENT: A Russian media report has alleged that the atrocities committed in Bucha by Russian troops are actually the work of the Ukrainian forces and that the dead bodies are actors
Horrific satellites images taken from the skies above Ukraine have now laid bare the vicious war crimes of Russian troops.
The new images show bodies piled up in the streets in the town of Bucha while it was still under Russian control.
He said: "When the first reports came out that the Kyiv regime is blaming the Russian army in some kind of Bucha massacre the first photos came out and it became clear that this is not just a production but a cannibalistic production."
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Sick Russian media outlets have claimed that Vladimir Putin's massacres in Bucha are the work of Ukrainian soldiers and actors as the Kremlin ramps up its denial in the face of global outrage.
Horrific photos from the city showed mutilated bodies of civilians scattered along the road in shallow mass graves, with most being found with tied hands and signs of intense torture.
He continued: "There are people on the video that are lying dead on the street with white armbands. What does that mean? It means that after Russian forces left Bucha the so-called liberators came in and they simply killed peaceful citizens. They killed the people of Ukraine and then used them for their production.
