Russian mayor slammed over photos of girl being taught to kill Nazi with rifle
20220511
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-mayor-slammed-over-photos-26937827
Exiled Russian multi-millionaire Mikhail Khodorkovsky posted shocking photos earlier this week that showed a young girl being trained to shoot fascists with a rifle.
Moiseev wrote: In Kislovodsk, they carried out an operation to shoot the last fascist - on the gates of one of the private households they hung an effigy of the fascist invader and occupier, who was shot with an air rifle."
President Zelenskyy is himself a Jew, but that hasnt stopped Putin calling him and his government Nazis and launching an invasion of Ukraine that is aimed at de-Nazifying the former Soviet country.
Theres no doubt that some Ukrainian nationalists collaborated with Hitler's forces during the 1940s. As many as 2 million Jews are thought to have been killed in Ukrainian territory during the Holocaust.
Today, hard-right politics are a minor force in Ukrainian politics and anti-semitism is less of an issue than it is in neighbouring territories.
He has repeatedly claimed that anti-Semitic forces run Ukraine and that fascists orchestrated street protests in 2013 and 2014 that opposed closer economic ties with Russia..
The Nazi occupation of the Soviet Union is still a very controversial subject in Russia and Ukraine.
Seen with that background, Moiseevs photographs make for disturbing viewing. Moiseev has since deleted his Telegram post, after dozens of locals replied, saying it was in very poor taste.
The pictures, apparently taken in the south Russian city of Kislovodsk, were originally sourced from a Telegram account belonging to the Mayor of Kislovodsk Yevgeny Moiseev.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Lola Joaquin, commenting on Twitter, said this is so sick, and another commenter replied This could be a modern adaptation of a scene from Dostoevsky clearly psychological child abuse. A society that can permit this is not well.
The tasteless images showed a young girl  aged between ten and 12  being encouraged to fire a rifle at a mannequin dressed in a crude imitation of a Nazi uniform
The girl was being encouraged to shoot at a crude effigy wearing jeans, combat jacket and a mocked-up Nazi armband.
Long before he launched his invasion of Ukraine, Russia s leader Vladimir Putin had described Ukrainians as fascists.
