Russian tank sent flying high into sky after Ukrainian paratroopers blow it to bits
20220620
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-tank-sent-flying-high-27284006
The BMP-1AM armoured assault vehicle was struck by an anti-armour missile fired by Ukrainian paratroopers  adding to Russia's growing shortage of men and equipment
While the BMP was produced in huge numbers during the Cold War years, the loss of yet another one will be a bitter blow to Vladimir Putins army, as international sanctions eat into Russias ability to manufacture weapons.
We think there is a good prospect of Ukraine pushing back Russia when these weapons arrive, he told reporters.
Meanwhile Ukraines arsenal is only increasing as shipments from the UK and other western allies continue to flow in. The Aystralian government has just this week pledged 14 M113 armoured personnel carriers  very similar tkit to the Russian vehicle just destroyed by Ukraine.
This is a generational moment, Brigadier King told The Times. We either help Ukraine to fight or we accept that maybe not straight away, but in the next few years were going to be fighting somewhere else.
Shocking footage from the war in Ukraine shows the moment that a Russian BMP-1AM armoured assault vehicle was obliterated by a Ukrainian missile.
An intelligence report from the Ministry of Defence said: Russias combat force in the Donbas is highly likely operating in increasingly ad hoc and severely undermanned groupings.
Brigadier Chris King, the officer in charge of the British Army's 104 Logistic Support Brigade, which organises weapons shipments to Ukraine from a forward base in Germany known as The Attic, says that he expects to be supplying Ukraine for years to come as the war looks set to continue for quite some time.
Meanwhile, the UKs defence secretary Ben Wallace, says he expects to be sending more anti-ship missiles to Ukraine to help deter Russian attack by sea.
Armed with a 73mm Grom infantry support gun and a Malyutka missile launcher, the BMP also has capacity to carry an eight-man infantry squad along with their equipment.
The BMP-1AM, a holdover from the Soviet Cold War arsenal, is a heavily armed troop carrier thats hardened against nuclear fallout and biological agents and was intended to roll through Europe in the event of a major conflict with NATO.
