Russian seize Europes biggest nuclear plant in act of war after dangerous blaze
20220304
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-russian-troops-capture-europes-26382857
Images of built-up cities, apartment blocks and people walking about their business are now replaced with debris strewn on the floor and fires raging amid the rubble.
Michael Horowitz, a security analyst and Head of Intel at Le Beck International, shared an update from Ukrainian officials on Twitter.
A fire raged at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant after Russian shelling struck one of the facility's power units.
Google Maps photos of the city of Kharkiv show the true devastation after bombing and constant fighting.
"Operation personnel monitors the state of the power units and ensures their operation in accordance with the requirements of process procedures for safe operation."
Russia has now blocked both Facebook and Twitter in order to limit the public's access to the outside world, Interfax news agency reports.
That fire, which Ukraine's Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba warned could create a blast "10 times larger than Chernobyl" has now been extinguished.
The post also gave a situation report on the state of the site's six nuclear power units.
President Zelensky upped his criticism of the West for not implementing a no-fly zone, telling NATO forces: Every person who dies from today will die because of you. If Ukraine won't survive, Europe won't survive either."
This comes as earlier today Russian troops captured Europe's biggest nuclear plant in Ukraine after a night of shelling which almost had apocalyptic consequences.
Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba previously warned: "If it blows up, it will be 10 times larger than Chernobyl."
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Matthew Kroenig, Nuclear Expert at The Atlantic Council, told BBC News Putin's seize of the plant was an "act of war".
Officials in Ukraine have confirmed that Vladimir Putin's Russian forces have captured the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant after a night of extreme fighting with almost apocalyptic consequences
It stated: "Currently, the site of the Zaporizhzhia NPP is occupied by the military forces of the Russian Federation.
The invaders have also launched at least 500 missiles against their neighbours, with more civilian casualties piling up every day  despite Vladimir Putin insisting that Russia is not bombing Ukrainian cities.
He failed to tell his beloved partner where he was really going and travelled to face Putin's forces, saying he would call his wife to tell her the truth later.
Boris Johnson previously had a phone call with Zelensky over the situation, describing it as "gravely concerning" and dubbing Putin's actions as "reckless".
50,000 residents who couldn't or were not drafted into the battle against the invasion, fought for their way onto a crowded train.
Russia has committed over 90 of its troops gathered along the Ukrainian border to the invasion, according to a senior US defence official.
Local politicians previously said that firefighters were not able to get close to the scene due to being shot at.
Thousands of Ukrainians continue to flee the country as Russia's brutal attack on the country continues.
The Ukrainian state nuclear company has claimed three Ukrainian troops have been killed and two are wounded following the nuclear plant attack.
This news comes as a British Army veteran told his wife he was going birdwatching, but instead flew out to Ukraine to join the fight.
Unit 1 is in outage, 2 and 3 have been disconnected, 4 is still in operation and 5 and 6 are being cooled down.
