Russian troops seize Chernobyl after battling Ukrainians over nuclear power plant
20220224
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-russian-troops-breach-chernobyl-26321639
"If troops attack us and someone tries to take away our country, our freedom, our lives, the lives of our children, then we will defend ourselves, he said.
Russian forces have seized Chernobyl after fighting Ukrainian troops at the site of the nuclear power plant.
The news comes after the Russian president today insisted that Russian interests and security are non-negotiable, hours after US President Joe Biden warned of the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The President of Ukraine took to Twitter to say Russian forces are trying to seize the zone.
But Zelenskyy, whose last-ditch bid to call Putin to convince him to hold off an attack was greeted with silence, said it was the Russian leader who was acting like Hitler.
"Russia has attacked Ukraine in a cowardly and suicidal way like Nazi Germany did during World War II, he said.
"The National Guardsmen, who guard the collectors of unsafe nuclear radioactive waste, are fighting hard.
"Our defenders are giving their lives so that the tragedy of 1986 will not be repeated. Reported this to SwedishPM.
Large parts of Chernobyl were closed to the public for decades after a nuclear power reactor melted down there during the Soviet Union's reign in 1986.
Putin said he was launching a special military operation seeking what he called the demilitarisation and de-Nazification of Ukraine which he claimed had been held hostage since the fall of the Soviet Union.
The violent attacks may have destroyed a nuclear waste storage facility, according to an advisor to the Ukrainian interior ministry.
Earlier in an emotional address to his nation as Putin prepared to strike he vowed Ukraine would fight for principles, justice, international law, the right to determine your own future and peace - even if it meant tens of thousands of deaths.
Intense fighting had broken out between Russian and Ukrainian forces in Chernobyl as Ukraine troops fought to protect the plant with unconfirmed reports of damage to a nuclear waste storage facility
Putin warned that if the West messes with Russia it will face 'consequences greater than any you have faced in history.'
For the latest breaking news and stories from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking  here.
The Russian president launched a full-scale shock-and-awe invasion of Ukraine - reminded the world his nation was one of the most powerful nuclear powers.
"Advisor to Ukrainian interior ministry says Russian forces entered Chernobyl and that fighting there destroyed a nuclear waste storage facility," NBC's Richard Engel tweeted this afternoon.
"If the invader's artillery hits and ruinsdamages the collectors of nuclear waste, radioactive nuclear dust can be spread over the territory of Ukraine, Belarus and the country of the EU!"
And in a chilling televised threat that shocked senior US government officials, Putin declared: "No-one should have any doubt that a direct attack on Russia will lead to defeat and dire consequences for a potential aggressor.
Mr Zelenskyy warned Russian invaders: "When you attack, you will see our faces - not our backs.
An adviser for the Interior Minister of Ukraine, Anton Gerashchenko said today, according to LBC: "The invaders from the territory of Belarus have moved into the Chernobyl AES Zone.
Fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces in the area in the north of the country may have led to the damage, according to NBC.
"To anyone who would consider interfering from outside If you do you will face consequences greater than any you have faced in history. All the relevant decisions have been taken. I hope you hear me.
