Russian soldiers using rape as strategy of terror in war with Ukraine says lawyer
20220517
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/russia-using-rape-strategy-ukraine-26982460
It follows after a senior British diplomat said there was "credible evidence" of Russia committing unspeakable acts on Ukrainian minors on the front line.
Evil Russian soldiers are raping women and children as part of their strategy, according to a lawyer, as horrifying reports of sexual assault on the front lines continue to emerge
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Commenting on the horrifying reports, Kathleen Hallisey, Senior Associate at Hugh James Solicitors, said: "Given the depravity already displayed by Putin and his Russian forces in wiping out large swathes of Ukraine and massacring entire communities, it is perhaps unsurprising that Human Rights Watch has just released a report detailing rape and sexual violence by Russian soldiers against Ukrainian civilians, including babies and children."
Last month a soldier was detained back home after vile footage of a baby being raped was wildly circulated online.
Activists from Human Rights Watch claim these are not isolated crimes, but part of a Russian strategy to instil further fear in Ukrainian citizens.
She added that while rape by Russian soldiers may be something people feel they "can do little about", it was in fact important that the public put pressure on politicians to pursue justice against senior military commanders who allow it to happen.
Similarly, a 14 year-old girl who was raped by five men in Bucha is now pregnant.
She explained: "We must ensure that military commanders who order or allow it are also punished, including those at the very top. Only then we will begin to see an end to rape as a weapon of war."
Depraved Russian troops have been using rape as part of their strategy in the war with Ukraine, according to a human rights lawyer.
The comments come as harrowing reports of sexual assault by Vladimir Putin's troops on the front line continue to grow following the army's retreat from eastern areas of the nation.
Dame Barbara Woodward, the UK's ambassador to the United Nations, commented that there was now a "very real risk of a lost generation" and "the continuation of a cycle of violence" caused by Russian war crimes.
