Russia launches probe into claim Brit SAS heroes secretly on the ground in Ukraine
20220423
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/russia-probes-whether-brit-sas-26782007
Russia has launched a formal probe following claims that Brit SAS heroes are secretly on the ground in war-torn Ukraine.
It claimed that Britain is trying to spin a false PR story that the pair were almost Ukrainians serving as defenders.
The report claimed that the SAS often work in war zones under cover of medical workers.
This is no ordinary special force - these are intellectuals, in each group there is always an ideologist, you can say a professor, and the rest are particular specialists, said a Russian law enforcement source.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here .
Russia's Investigative Committee are investigating whether Britain's SAS have been hiding in Ukraine. It comes as Brits Shaun Pinner and Aiden Aslin are currently being held after siding with Kyiv
The clip has urged foreign fighters to "go home before it's too late" and said the pair's fate will be in the hands of the winners.
An IC source claimed SAS operatives in Ukraine are specialists in sabotage and partisan activities, recruiting and training agents to work in hostile territory.
The Investigative Committee of Russia will investigate the facts of the activities of British SAS saboteurs in Ukrainian regions, said news outlet RIA Novosti.
It comes as Russia has warned British mercenaries could be executed if they choose to stay in Ukraine to fight Putin's troops.
But its not like that, said the video which also claimed the SAS was training Ukrainian forces in Kyiv.
The SAS is considered one of the most highly qualified in the world in organising coups d'etat, mass protest rallies, contract killings of political figures, recruiting agents, including those in the highest echelons of power, and preparing terrorist attacks, said the RIA Novosti report.
The Investigative Committee IC has announced that they will look into the alleged role of sabotage experts being undercover in the besieged country.
With a high degree of probability, these specialists arrived in order to improve the skills and efficiency of the Ukrainian special services in coordinating the activities of sabotage groups in the territories of Ukraine controlled by Russian troops, said the IC source.
Footage on social media has revealed that Brits Shaun Pinner, 48, and Aiden Aslin, 28, are both being detained after siding with Kyiv in Donbas.
The committee is headed by Russias top criminal investigator, Alexander Bastrykin, who was a university classmate of Vladimir Putins.
