Terminator robots armed with assault machine guns launched in Ukraine
20220621
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/terminator-robots-armed-assault-machine-27287618
A security source said that the technology is virtually undetectable and that the wire controlling it cannot be seen from above.
The country has deployed the robotic battlefield scout called GNOM Gnome in the south-Eastern city of Zaporizhzhia, reports the Mirror.
The source said: "The technology does exist already in bomb disposal machines, offering the controller the ability to see and direct a machine towards the threat.
The source, reported by Daily Express, continued: "Such machinery has become extremely sophisticated but it seems this GNOM is designed silently to approach the enemy positions directly and spy on them, possibly allowing them to direct artillery onto the target accurately, or to launch and effective ground assault.
Military company, Temerland had prototyped the tech with scouting missions against Vladimir Putin's invading Russian forces, but the drones appear to have been repurposed into Terminator-like killing machines.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Ukraine has deployed miniature 'Terminator' robots armed with assault machine guns on the frontline to battle through its war with Russia.
But reports now indicate the survey bot has been adapted into a ruthless killing machine, with the sophisticated bit of tech having the potential to play a key part in the war.
"This would also give the operator a distinct advantage in saving the risk to life of defending troops and, if the surveillance package is sophisticated enough, allowing the gun to open fire either lethally or as a diversion whilst some other attack is launched."
Weighing just 110lb and measuring at two foot long, the drone is currently being used as a surveillance tool and as a way to transport small pieces of equipment along the frontlines.
The 4x4 mini killing machines have been deployed on the front lines to combat invading Russian forces and are being operated by Ukranian troops in the city of Zaporizhzhia
Launched straight onto the frontline, they are armed with 7.62 assault machine guns and travel on wheels, with the first version piloted by troops hidden hundreds of feet away.
