Terrified Russian soldiers lock themselves in tank as Ukrainian mocks them in German
20220310
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/terrified-russian-soldiers-lock-themselves-26433509
As he walks across the top of the tank, his camera picks up the infamous 'Z' mark painted onto the vehicle. The letter is being used as a symbol of support for Russias invasion, after experts initially theorised it was to mark where Kremlin tanks were headed.
As Putin vows to press on with his internationally condemned "special military operation", Ukrainian officials claimed last Monday March 7, to have killed over 11,000 Russian troops and taken out 290 tanks, 46 aircraft and 999 armoured personal carriers so far.
"I think we're also seeing remarkable resistance by Ukraine, both its armed forces and its people and we're seeing the unity of the whole globe coming together, applying pressure to Russia.
It is believed the soldier is speaking German as a reference to Vladimir Putin telling his invading forces they were going to Ukraine to "de-Nazifi" the country.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Chief of the Defence Staff Admiral Sir Tony Radakin insisted that the Ukraine war is "not going well" for Russia's president, faced with an "incredibly complex" situation.
"You've also seen basic failures in terms of maintenance and their kit failing. Russia hasn't operated at this scale since the Second World War and it is incredibly complex and difficult."
Frightened Russian soldiers were forced to lock themselves in a tank to escape a Ukrainian solider. The squaddie could be heard taunting them in German, calling them 'Russian pig soldiers'
The clip comes as it was claimed that Ukrainian forces are "decimating" their Russian counterparts, as Vladimir Putin's invasion is "failing under pressure", according to one of the UK's top admirals.
In footage circulating online, the Ukrainian troop records himself as he mounts the tank and torments its occupants, greeting them in German with "good morning Russian pig soldiers."
Speaking to the BBC about whether Russian success in Ukraine was 'inevitable', Sir Tony said: "No. I think we've seen a Russian invasion that is not going well.
"Russia is suffering, Russia is an isolated power. It is less powerful than it was ten days ago. Some of the lead elements of Russian forces have been decimated by the Ukrainian response.
Terrified Russian soldiers locked themselves in a tank as they were mocked in German by a grenade-toting Ukrainian soldier.
