Terrifying Russian convoy 40 miles long seen advancing towards Kyiv by satellite
20220301
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/terrifying-russian-convoy-40-miles-26353549
A huge convoy of invading Russian forces is heading towards Kyiv, according to new satellite pictures.
A long convoy of Russian military vehicles has been spotted racing towards Kyiv, prompting new fears that the Ukrainian capital could fall to Putin's invading forces
Residents in Kyiv have been urged to keep a lookout for markings which have allegedly been used by Russian forces and pro-Kremlin saboteurs.
Aerial photographs taken on Monday February 28 show a long line of military vehicles en route to the Ukrainian capital.
The southern end of the convoy can be seen towing artillery trucks to the east of Antonov airport, which Russian troops successfully captured on Friday February 25 after a two-day battle.
Russian forces have been advancing through Ukraine to surround Kyiv since the beginning of their 'special military operation' on Friday.
It is thought that Putin's objective is to capture the capital and install a 'puppet regime' Ukrainian government in the place of the current one headed by Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The chilling symbols, which consist of red crosses on the roofs of apartment buildings, are being used to aid Vladimir Putin's soldiers, according to sources in Kyiv.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Thus far, Putin's men have been unable to capture Kyiv or Kharkiv, the country's two largest urban centres.
Eerie images have surfaced of the markings alongside harrowing footage, with one video on Twitter allegedly showing a pro-Russian symbol on gas pipes on a residential building.
The satellite images also show the impact of caused by airstrikes on the airfield, which the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence claimed was now too badly damaged to be used now by Russian forces.
Maxar, who have been taking photos of Russian troop movements for the last two weeks, also say that that their new round of images also show ground troops and attack helicopters 20 miles north of the Ukrainian border in Belarus.
It is substantially longer than the 17 mile line reported earlier in the day, according to Maxar Technologies, at 40 miles long.
In one of the photographs, buildings which appear to be houses can be seen burning as the convoy passes by.
