Tunnel to Hell could give the world unlimited power and make energy bills cheap
20220316
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/tech/news/tunnel-hell-could-give-world-26481331
Ever since the invasion of Ukraine began, countries around the world have been looking for ways to wean themselves off of Russian oil and gas amid skyrocketing energy bills.
The company has called its project a "necessity, not an option", and says that "deep geothermal energy is at the core of an energy-independent world."
The hope is to build the world's first ever 'magma observatory', where they can observe molten rock as hot as 1,300 degrees celsius deep underground for the first time.
If it works, it could let any country on Earth have unlimited clean energy without the need for fossil fuels or even solar and wind power.
An American power company wants countries to start drilling the world's 'deepest hole' to tap into unlimited clean energy from the Earth's crust - it could help cut skyrocketing bills
In other hole news, an international team of researchers are planning to dig a hole 1.2 miles deep into the molten rock of the Krafla volcano in northeastern Iceland.
Quaise Energy has raised $63 million 48 million to dig 20km 12.7 miles below the surface of the Earth where it can slurp up geothermal power from 500C molten magma.
It is developing a new drilling technique known as 'millimetre wave electromagnetic drilling', which shoots superpowered light beams capable of burning holes clean through the planet's surface to reach the Earth's mantle.
The research team believe they might find a new energy source and even develop an early warning system for eruptions around the world
The funding raised by Quaise Energy will be used to build drilling machines that could be in action as soon as 2024.
A US energy company wants to dig the world's deepest tunnel so that it can suck energy out of the Earth's crust.
The firm believes any country in the world could benefit from digging these 'tunnels to Hell', allowing them to become energy-independent and produce clean power.
