Ukraine set to enter Eurovision with prerecorded performance filmed from safe space
20220315
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/showbiz/breaking-ukraine-set-enter-eurovision-26474132
This year, the UK will be represented by TikTok star and musician Sam Ryder at the annual competition.
It comes after Russia was banned from participating in the European music show, after broadcasters in countries like Norway and Finland had called for the country to be kicked out of the contest following their invasion of Ukraine.
The EBU European Broadcasting Union said including Russia in the competition could bring the contest "into disrepute in light of the unprecedented crisis in Ukraine".
Opening up about his upcoming Eurovision stint, Sam said: "Having been a fan of Eurovision since I was a kid l I am so honoured to have been presented with the opportunity to sing at an event alongside some of Europes most talented creatives, performers and songwriters.
For more of the latest showbiz news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Last year, James Newman sang for the UK in the competition with his song Embers, but it received "nil points".
"I hope to sing my head off in a way the UK can be proud of, and to showcase a song I wrote with my friends last summer makes the whole experience even more special. See you in Turin legends!"
The TikTok star will perform his song SPACE MAN, which was co-written with Grammy-winning songstress Amy Wadge, who worked on Ed Sheeran's track Thinking Out Loud.
Although Ukraine will take part in the annual competition, which is being held in Italy's Turin in May, the country's will instead pre-record their song to be submitted to the event organisers.
The last time the UK made the top ten was when Jade Ewen sang It's My Time in 2009.
It comes as the nation fights back against constant military attacks from Putin's Russia, which first invaded Ukraine last month on February 14.
Ukraine has revealed it will take part in this year's Eurovision Song Contest despite its conflict with Russia, but the nation's act KALUSH Orchestra will pre-record their song
Announcing the news, Ukraine's Eurovision act KALUSH Orchestra said: "Despite the fighting, the KALUSH Orchestra will record their performance in a safe place, which will be sent to the organizers of the song contest, and in case of our victory over the occupiers by May, our delegation will go to Italy and sing live all over Europe!"
In a statement, the EBU said it was dedicated to "protecting the values of a cultural competition which promotes international exchange and understanding, brings audiences together, celebrates diversity through music and unites Europe on one stage."
The exciting news was revealed last week by BBC DJ Scott Mills on Radio 1 Breakfast with Greg James.
