Ukrainian soldier thanks gifts from the Queen after destroying Russian tank
20220310
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-soldier-thanks-gifts-queen-26435840
The UK will also increase the supply of rations, medical equipment, and other non-lethal military aid that it sends to the Eastern European country.
He thanked the gifts from Her Majesty The Queen, saying: Give us more toys like these and there will be more destroyed tanks."
NLAWs are lightweight missiles designed to take out armoured vehicles with a firing range of more than half a mile.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
He said the Russians are changing their tactics and so the Ukrainians need to too.
The UK has sent 3,615 NLAWs to Ukraine in recent months, to aid them in their fight against Russia.
The soldier thanked the UK for sending weapons which were used to destroy a Russian tank  asking for more toys like these in order to keep beating off the Russian attacks
While details of the use of Western equipment in action are unreliable, reports suggested that NLAWs helped stop Russian advances in some areas.
The squaddie from the Sumy region thanked the UK for sending weapons to Ukraine  including the NLAW Next Generation Light Anti-tank Weapons missile system.
A Ukrainian soldier has thanked the Queen after using a British missile to destroy a Russian tank.
Updating MPs on the Russo-Ukrainian war in the House of Commons, Mr Wallace said the UK will send Starstreak anti-aircraft weapons and a small consignment of Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine.
The news comes as Defence Secretary Ben Wallace announced plans on Wednesday, March 9, for the UK to send more weapons to Ukraine.
The soldier added that civilians also want to use the missiles but the army cannot give NLAW to every Ukrainian, although we would like to.
In a video posted by CBS News, he was seen dressed in a camouflage uniform and black vest, standing among the wreckage of a burned-out Russian tank.
