Ukrainian military leaflet instructs Russians how to surrender including posture tips
20220302
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-military-leaflet-instructs-russians-26371415
It states that Russians should throw down their weapons, stand up straight and yell surrender.
"Mum, I'm in Ukraine. This is a real war. I'm scared, we're firing at everyone, even civilians."
Having either surrendered or been captured by Ukrainian forces, videos show several young Russian soldiers in tears about what they were being forced to do.
Today March 2, Russias Defence Ministry's casualty report revealed that 498 Russian troops have been killed in Ukraine, with 1,597 wounded since they invaded.
A leaflet titled 'How to surrender correctly' has been circulating in Ukraine informing Russian troops of the correct way to lay down their arms as the bloody conflict reaches its second week
The invitation to lay down their weapons comes after a group of young-looking Russian soldiers were filmed crying on the phone to their parents, claiming they had no idea they were going to be made to attack people defending their territory.
The leaflet has purportedly been made by the Ukrainian Bar Association and is titled "How to surrender correctly."
And in an effort to spare further bloodshed, Ukrainian defenders have begun circulating leaflets advising the invaders how they can lay down their arms without losing their lives.
For emotional support, you can call the Samaritans 24-hour helpline on 116 123, email josamaritans.org, visit a Samaritans branch in person or go to the Samaritans website.
The colourful poster comes with diagrams and is an exhaustive account of the do's and dont's of the surrendering process.
In one video, a soldier is seen saying: They don't even pick up the corpses, there are no funerals.
And several text messages from soldiers, which were read out on video, state: We were told we would be greeted with open arms, but they call us fascists.
You don't touch the corpses because otherwise the FSB Russian federal security service will arrest you.
"Ukraine is not an aggressor and fulfils the conditions of the Geneva Convention on the treatment of prisoners of war."
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
A leaflet advising Russian troops how best to surrender to Ukrainian forces has gone viral in the country in yet another sign that Vladimir Putin's aggressive invasion of the country isn't going entirely to plan.
If these conditions are followed the troops will be captured where they will enjoy the full benefits of prisoners of war under the Geneva Condition.
The leaflet states: "Amnesty for those who voluntarily laid down their arms and presented military equipment.
A week has passed since Russian troops entered the country and resistance from the Ukrainians has been fierce.
