Ukraine remains favourite to win Eurovision Song Contest amid ongoing conflict
20220510
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/showbiz/ukraine-remains-favourite-win-eurovision-26924638
And it's been predicted that it could even clinch Eurovision glory, with many countries expected to get behind it in a show of solidarity with the nation.
In February, the European Broadcasting Union EBU said that it thought having a Russian entry at the 2022 event  which is being held in Turin - would "bring the competition into disrepute".
The country's entry  a track entitled Stefania by the Kalush Orchestra  is going down a storm.
The UK's entry Sam Ryder, who is performing his original track Space Man at the event, currently has odds of 61.
Meanwhile, the UK - which doesn't always fare that well in the much-loved song contest  is also a strong contender and is in third place, so looks set to avoid the horrifying "nil points" situation.
"The Reference Group recommendation was also supported by the EBU's Television Committee. The decision reflects concern that, in light of the unprecedented crisis in Ukraine, the inclusion of a Russian entry in this year's contest would bring the competition into disrepute."
READ MORE: When is Eurovision? Date of final, who is hosting and who is UK entry?
With just a few days to go, Gambling.com says Stefania is currently the 47 favourite.
Ukraine's Eurovision Song Contest entry - a track called Stefania performed by the Kalush Orchestra - is currently the hot favourite to win this year's competition
They face competition from Italy, who won last year with rock band Maneskin and are currently second favourites with odds of 51.
They said in a statement: "The Executive Board of the EBU made the decision following a recommendation earlier today by the Eurovision Song Contest's governing body, the Reference Group, based on the rules of the event and the values of the EBU.
Russia is not participating in this year's Eurovision Song Contest because of what is happening in Ukraine.
Ukraine's Eurovision entry is the firm favourite to win the song contest as the conflict with Russia goes on.
