Ukrainian nuclear staff filmed begging Russians to stop shooting at power plant
20220305
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-nuclear-staff-begged-russians-26392445
A tweet claimed that the power plant was back under Ukrainian control by midnight but the Ukrainian government has not provided an official update verifying the information.
Keep up to date with all the latest news stories. by signing up for one of Daily Star's free newsletters here.
The battle started a fire, which the Russian soldiers prevented firefighters from putting out for several hours. Eventually, crews extinguished the blaze, which the troops used as an opportunity to invade.
Russian President Vladimir Putin went on TV to declare that he would keep battling for 'total victory' while he spouted propaganda that Russia's forces are not deliberately targeting civilians and that the 'special operation' is proceeding on time with all of its major objectives completed to schedule.
You are endangering the security of the entire world. Attention! Stop shooting at a nuclear hazardous facility. Stop shooting at a nuclear hazardous facility! Stop shooting at a nuclear hazardous facility! Attention! Stop it!
Fukushima, in Japan, melted down after a tsunami cut electricity to the plant, disabling its cooling system. Chernobyl exploded after a training exercise-gone-wrong caused an uncontrolled nuclear reaction.
The United Nation's nuclear monitoring agency said that, fortunately, none of the site's six reactors had been directly damaged and radiation levels remained normal. Three Ukrainian troops were killed defending the complex, Kyiv said.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has slammed Russia's troops for seizing the power plant as he urged Russian citizens to remember the 'catastrophic' Chernobyl disaster.
Distraught staff inside a Ukrainian nuclear power plant begged Russian soldiers to stop shooting at them warning that they were endangering the entire world.
Ukrainian authorities released the distressing footage captured from inside the control room of the Zaporizhzhia, reports The New York Times.
Now a decade after the disaster, researchers are still struggling to clean up fuel in the waters of the wasting reactors, with an estimated 10 per cent only cleaned so far.
The work of the vital organs of the Zaporizhzhia station may be disrupted. It will be impossible for us to restore it.
The attack on the plant comes as Russia's war against Ukraine is now entering its tenth day, with no sign of stopping after talks between the two sides yesterday broke up without agreement.
According to the Daily Mail, nuclear experts warned the attacks were 'frightening' but that any disaster caused by fighting would be similar to Fukushima in 2011 rather than Chernobyl in 1986.
Staff inside the control room of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant begged Russian soldiers not to shoot, a move they said could potentially endanger the whole world
The nuclear facility, which is responsible for creating roughly 20 of Ukraine's electricity, was attacked during the early hours of Friday March 4.
CCTV captured a fierce gun battle between the Russian soldiers and those attempting to defend the building.
In the clip the announcer pleaded with the soldiers, saying: Stop shooting at a nuclear dangerous facility. Stop shooting immediately! You threaten the security of the whole world!
