Ukraines elite Shaman special forces always shoot Russians in the balls
20220628
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraines-elite-shaman-special-forces-27344936
Twenty Two said the its difficult to move silently while carrying full load of equipment  and its even trickier now the clip is broken on his night-vision googles and he has to hold them rather than attach them to his helmet.
Youre always shooting at the balls, there is not enough protection there, its 100 to kill the enemy.
The Russians have massive superiority in terms of air and artillery assets, but the daring stealth tactics of the Shaman battalion  sometimes venturing over the border to strike at ammo dumps and fuel depots in Russia itself  are levelling the playing field.
The man, who used the code-name Twenty Two in his interview with The Times, explained that Ukrainian fighters try to engage the Russians at point-blank range to avoid the invaders artillery.
But even with all of the difficulties they face, the Shaman battalion still manage to surprise Putins troops.
They have a lot more artillery than us, but their morale is very low, they cant engage in one-on-one combat. Its psychologically very difficult to stand in a firefight where youre using frag grenades and underslung grenade launchers.
He was afraid and I just shot him from maybe seven metres away, underneath the bulletproof plate carrier.
Even with the regular shipments from Britain and the US, replacing damaged weapons and equipment is always a problem, he said.
A fighter from Ukraines elite 10th Special Forces Detachment  known as the Shaman battalion for their supernatural ability to infiltrate enemy position undetected  revealed how he always aims his gun at his opponents groin.
President Zelenskyys forces will need more advanced kit to beat Putins artillery. US politician Jason Crow, himself an Iraq war veteran, told the US House of Representatives: he needs more sophisticated, longer-range drones that can target, that have sophisticated precision-strike munitions and that can also return and be used multiple times and be rearmed.
The UK is sending M270 multiple-launch rocket systems to help Ukrainians to protect themselves against Russian artillery and Defence Minister James Heappey recently confirmed that "hundreds" of Brimstone missiles were also on their way.
Youre destroying his arteries and breaking his pelvis. He cannot escape, he cannot run, he cannot crawl, he cannot do anything. Its impossible to give first aid to a man wounded in this area. You cant use a tourniquet or bandage.
Fighters from Ukraine's so-called 'Shaman battalion' reveal the brutal close-quarters tactics they use to cripple Russia's supply lines despite being massively outgunned
But the elite special forces fighters know they cant keep up their hit-and-run tactics forever.
READ MORE: Brit facing death sentence 'wants to see his children' as he's paraded on Russia TV
He says that in their close-quarters engagements, he and his comrades can tell that the Russians morale is suffering: Were always trying to keep tight, to grab the belt of the enemy, because at that point they cant use their artillery.
