Ukraine praise Russian speedo grandad for accidentally revealing Putins weapon location
20220824
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-praise-russian-speedo-grandad-27819264
Speaking on the contested piece of land, which Russia has occupied since 2014, he said: "This Russian warbegan with Crimea and must end with Crimea  with its liberation."
A speedo-clad Russian tourist who accidentally revealed the location of Vladimir Putin's weaponry has been praised by the Ukrainian Defence Ministry.
Clearly one Russian bloke did want an unpleasantly hot summer break, but he also ended up breaking the location of Russian anti-air missiles.
The pot-bellied tourist revealed the location of an anti-air weapon on the beaches of Crimea with a snap of the bloke enjoying his holiday near an active artillery position.
The location of the anti-aircraft weaponry was confirmed with cross-analysis of a previous photo of the area dated to July of this year, with Ukraine previously asking Russian tourists not to visit Crimea unless they fancied an "unpleasantly hot summer break".
The bloke can be seen waving to camera with the anti-aircraft unit positioned behind him, with the big military vehicle not just a temporary landmark for this man's holiday, but a Russian S-400 anti-air system.
"Sometimes they can be really helpful. Like this man taking pictures at Russian air defense sic positions near Yevpatoria, in occupied Crimea.
In a post to Twitter, the tongue-in-cheek Defence Ministry said: "Maybe we are being too hard on Russian tourists...
A speedo-clad Russian tourist who accidentally revealed the location of Vladimir Putin's Crimea-based anti-aircraft weaponry has been praised by the Ukrainian Defence Ministry for his 'good work'
It is unclear what, if anything, Ukraine is going to do with the information provided to them by the helpful tourist, but Crimea has seen several major explosions over the last few weeks.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy has recently reiterated his belief that Crimea should remain part of Ukraine, Metro reported.
For the latest breaking news stories and incredible tales from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Since the photo was posted, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry have praised the bloke's "good work" in identifying Russian air defence systems.
