Ukraine releases chilling fake video of Eiffel Tower being blown up in Russia warning
20220313
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-releases-fake-clip-eiffel-26455930
"Today its Ukraine, tomorrow it will be the whole of Europe. Russia will stop at nothing."
Ukraine has released a chilling propaganda video that shows the Eiffel Tower dramatically being blown up in a mock-up of Russia's invasion.
In the clip, a woman could be seen trying to pose for a photograph, with the Eiffel Tower fitting between her hands moments before a huge explosion descended.
The Ukraine parliament has frightened social media with a realistic-looking doctored video of what might happen if Russian forces were to target Paris as they continue their brutal invasion
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here .
The video also featured heart-wrenching quotes from Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy which read: 'We will fight till the end. Giving us a chance to live.
The tourist attraction was struck by a bomb in the fake footage which prompted the lady to run away from the scene as people could be heard screaming in the background.
Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine said: "Would the famous Eiffel Tower in Paris or the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin remain standing under endless bombing of Russian troops?
'Close the sky over Ukraine, or give us air fighters. If we fall, you fall.'
Sirens could be heard in the stimulation, alongside a baby's cry, as the blaze ripped through the Eiffel Tower with dark smoke emerging from the affected buildings.
"If we fall, so will you. Close the sky over Ukraine or give us fighters," they added in a follow-up tweet.
The Ukraine parliament uploaded the realistic hoax clip on Twitter, which seemingly warned that the whole of Europe will be Putin's next target.
The harrowing footage reenacted what could happen if the French capital was targeted by Russian forces.
In the terrifying footage, Paris was edited to look like it was being attacked by airstrikes, as Ukrainian officials warned that Russia will spread their violence to other countries.
The clip was posted on Friday  March 11 and has since been watched by 1. 6 million people.
