Ukraines heroic minesweeping dog has now sniffed out hundreds of Russian explosives
20220416
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraines-minesweeping-dog-found-100s-26724943
Working alongside the Ukrainian Emergency Services, Patron has been seen busily searching through the rubble of destroyed towns where clean up efforts continue.
Following the horrifying discoveries of murdered civilians in mass graves in regions formerly occupied by Russia, the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced that a number of "booby-trap" mines were also left behind.
They said in a statement: "While retreating, Russia's military personnel is massively setting up booby-traps, banned by the international law, even on food facilities, private housing and human corpses."
Fortunately, Ukrainian demining teams have their furry secret weapon helping to ensure the formerly occupied regions are made safe.
The hero pooch first made headlines last month after he was pictured at work donning a miniature Ukrainian military vest.
Patron Bullet in English is an adorable two-and-a-half-year-old Jack Russell helping to remove mines left by retreating Russian forces in the Chernihiv region, north of Kyiv.
The Ukrainian minesweeping dog that took the internet by storm has now successfully sniffed out 'hundreds of Russian explosives'.
The BBC reports that Patron's super senses have now been responsible for "hundreds" of Russian mines being removed.
The olfactory centre in the brains of dogs - responsible for their sense of smell - is around 40 times larger, proportionally, than it is in humans.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Patron, a now famous Ukrainian Jack Russell dog who first made headlines last month, has now helped with the removal of "hundreds" of explosives left behind by retreating Russian forces
It's a place where you can share a picture of your dog in our Top Dogs feed and share your doggy advice.
Patron started his minesweeping career when he was just six-months-old and is said to love cheese and belly rubs.
Since then the landscape of the conflict has changed dramatically with Vladimir Putin pulling troops out of northern Ukraine where their war effort was faltering badly.
The use of mine detection dogs dates back to the Second World War but it is only in recent years that they have been used globally.
It is thought that there are over 750 dogs working in humanitarian demining programmes around the world.
Some breeds of dogs, including Jack Russell Terriers, have a heightened sense of smell and are exceptionally skilled at discriminating target odours from other background smells, making them more effective than human demining squads.
Like all mine detection dogs, he works by sniffing out the odour of explosives and other chemicals leaking from inside the devices.
