Ukraine military strikes within Russian border for first time as blast hits enemy camp
20220330
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-may-attacked-russia-enemy-26588737
A massive explosion in Russia which has left two injured appears to have been fired by Ukrainian forces, in what would mark the first serious attack on Putin's side of the border
Irpins mayor Oleksandr Markushyn announced the news on his Twitter account, and promised that any Russian attempts to retake the strategically important city would be repelled.
Unconfirmed footage from two local Russian news outlets appears to show massive fireballs coming from ammunition blowing up at a suspected temporary army base near Belgorod in Russia.
The head of the village is now in place. With me in direct contact. Promptly tells me all the information. There are no casualties or injuries among the residents. There is no destruction on the territory of the village."
Over in the centre of the country, Ukrainian forces reportedly liberated the besieged city of Irpin on Tuesday, which had been decimated by airstrikes.
If true, it would mark the first time the Ukrainian military has hit personnel on Vladimir Putin's side of the border since the outbreak of the conflict.
A source speaking to the Russian Tass news agency said a weapon had been fired from the Ukrainian side, and cited an emergency services source as saying four people had been injured in the blast.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Ukrainian forces are thought to be behind a huge explosion at a Russian military camp just across the border late on Tuesday.
Belgorod itself is about 50 miles north of Kharkiv in Ukraine, which has been under heavy shelling from Russian forces for several weeks.
He said: We have good news today, Irpin has been liberated. We understand that there will be more attacks on our city and we will defend it courageously.
"The head of the village is now on the spot. He is in direct contact with me. He promptly tells me all the information. There are no victims or injured among the residents
Discussing the blasts in a post on Telegram on Tuesday evening, Belgorod governor Vyacheslav Gladkov wrote: "Now explosions are heard on the territory of Belgorod and the Belgorod region. The incident occurred near the village of Krasny Oktyabr.
