Ukraine tells mothers of Russian POWs to come and collect their captured sons
20220302
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-tells-mothers-russian-pows-26369226
The Committee of Soldiers' Mothers of Russia, an organisation that helps military families, says it has been inundated with calls from parents concerned about their children since the attack on Ukraine began last Thursday February 24.
Reports from Ukrainian sources say entire units of Russian troops are surrendering en masse, and some are walking back across the border into Russia.
We, Ukrainians, unlike Putin's fascists, are not at war with mothers and their captive children. We are waiting for you in Kyiv!
Ukrainian sources also say that 198 Russian tanks, 29 planes, 846 armoured vehicles and 29 helicopters have so far been destroyed.
And the Russian POWs can go home, Ukraine says, as long as their mums come to collect them.
There you will be met and escorted to Kyiv, where your son will be handed over to you.
"Get to Kaliningrad or Minsk," mothers are advised. "From there by bus or taxi to the Polish border. Then through the territory of Poland you need to get to the checkpoint with Ukraine.
Professor Maria Popova, Associate Professor of Political Science at Canadas McGill University, told ITV News she thought the Russian armys slow progress in Ukraine may have "spooked" the circle around Vladimir Putin.
The message goes on to explain the best way of getting to the Ukrainian capital after "Putin's fascist army invaded and closed the airspace".
In a video message posted to Facebook, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian government claimed more than 200 Russian soldiers have been taken prisoner in the past week.
Within days of the start of the offensive, videos started appearing on social media which were said to show Russian soldiers that had been captured by Ukrainian forces.
Mothers of the 200 or so Russian soldiers currently being held captive in Ukraine have been told how to travel to Kyiv, where their sons will be returned to them
"It is clear things have gotten out of hand, in terms of the resistance they are seeing in Ukraine," she said. "You also have to remember that Russian society, overall, did not demand this war in any way. Polls say only 10 of Russians support the war in Ukraine."
Ukraines Ministry of Defence has launched a "Come back alive from Ukraine hotline, offering help and support for the parents of Russian soldiers killed or captured in the fighting.
In a military report quoted by ITV News, Ukraine claims "cases of abandonment of posts and voluntary captivity by entire units have been reported."
In one typical example, a young man in Russian army uniform says: "Mum and Dad, I didn't want to come here. They made me.
A message being sent to Russian families on Telegram reads: If you have received confirmation that your son is in our captivity, the mothers of Russian soldiers must get to Kyiv."
Mothers of captured Russian prisoners of war POW have been told their sons will be returned to them - as long as their mums come to pick them up.
Russia's Ministry of Defence has admitted losses in Ukraine but has said it has sustained far fewer casualties than Ukraine.
Latest figures released from Ukraine yesterday say that around 5,710 Russian military personnel have been eliminated in addition to the 200 that have reportedly been captured.
