Ukraine war could last 10 years as UK warns Putin is less trustworthy than USSR
20220428
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/war-untrustworthy-putin-could-last-26818915
If someone intends to interfere in what is going on from the outside they must know that constitutes an unacceptable strategic threat to Russia. They must know that our response to counter strikes will be lightning fast - fast! he stressed.
In a speech last night the minister added that Britain should send heavy weapons, tanks and aircraft to Ukraine to help the fight against Russian aggression.
The war in Ukraine, originally expected by Russian commander to be over in a matter of weeks, could drag on for a decade according to the UK's Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.
The Satan 2, or Sarmat missile, can carry ten nuclear warheads at incredible speeds. Missiles based in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia would take roughly 16 minutes from launch to hit London.
Within government, ministers are said to be concerned start an increasingly desperate Putin may resort to using chemical weapons, or even order a nuclear strike to break Ukrainians spirit.
As the war threatens to spill over beyond Ukraine's borders, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss issues a stark warning that the conflict could last for a decade
But Ms Truss  widely tipped as Boris Johnson's eventual successor  described the Russian leader as a desperate rogue operator who should not be rewarded for his aggression and vowed to continue to support Ukraine
Its not yet known who was responsible for these incidents but Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has blamed Russia, saying: "The goal is obvious - to destabilise the situation in the region, to threaten Moldova.
There are fears Putin could send his invasion force into the neighbouring states of Moldova or Georgia if his assault on Ukraine is successful.
Top Russian general, Rustam Minnekayev, said "control over the south of Ukraine is another way out to Transnistria, where there are also cases of oppression of the Russian-speaking population.
Already, there have been reports of explosions in Transnistria, a Moldovan province that known to be on Putins hit list.
Saying that Britain and its NATO allies must keep going further and faster to push Russia out of the whole of Ukraine, Ms Truss warned that we must be prepared for the long haul.
We have all the weapons we need for this. No one else can brag about these weapons, and we won't brag about them. But we will use them.
The expansion of the war beyond Ukraines borders is a disturbing sign that the Russian attack is set to bloom into a wider conflict.
And he may not even stop there. In a warning to any nations that might consider sending aid to the besieged country, the Russian leader hinted that he might use his new Satan 2 hypersonic missile against countries that support Ukraine  including Britain.
