Ukrainian soldiers claim to have shot down 11m helicopter with 75 rocket launcher
20220419
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-shoots-down-11m-helicopter-26742361
According to the Ukrainian military unit Operational Command 'East' the attack happened as Putins helicopters flew low over the terrain under cover of darkness.
A 11m Russian attack helicopter has reportedly met its end at the hands of a group of Ukrainian resisters who managed to shoot it out of the sky using a rocket launcher that cost just 75
And an anti-aircraft gunner fired two missiles on them. One, however, hit a heat trap, and the other shot down a Ka-53. It fell It was a pity to spend a Stinger on them, so the Russian Ka-52 was hit with the ordinary Igla.
The Igla that Yaroslav refers to is code for a cheap Soviet-developed portable surface-to-air missile SAM system which reportedly costs just $100 75.
The incident is said to have occurred in the heavily contested Kharkiv region where the two sides are battling intensely.
He said: At night, enemy helicopters went very low. They circled over our positions, not even allowing us to raise our heads.
Russian forces have begun a massive offensive across the east of Ukraine as the war enters a deadly new phase, according to the Ukrainian president.
He said in a video address: "We can now say that Russian forces have started the battle of the Donbas, for which they have long prepared.
Volodymr Zelenskyy described the development as the beginning of the "Battle of Donbas" and said the Ukrainian army had been expecting the latest assault.
"No matter how many Russian soldiers are driven there, we will fight. We will defend ourselves. We will do it daily. We will not give up anything Ukrainian, and we do not need whats not ours."
Another post on the page joked: We joke among ourselves that we shot down a Russian screwdriver approximately $15 million worth of weapons for 100 bucks paid for by the Soviet Union."
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Missile blasts and troop movements were witnessed across the Donbas region on Monday, only days after Vladimir Putin withdrew Russian forces from the area around Kyiv to focus on capturing land near the Russian border.
In more embarrassing news for Vladimir Putin, Ukranian forces appear to have destroyed a 11million Russian Ka-52 helicopter with a rocket launcher worth less than 100.
Top of the range units can sell for as much as $30,000 23,000 however it's thought that Ukrainian forces have been purchasing weaponry at discounted rates during the conflict.
Striking a defiant tone in the rousing speech, the actor-turned-President claimed he was confident his army could repel the invaders.
