Ukrainian mums launch secret missions saving 100s of kids hiding from Russian tanks
20220318
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-mums-secret-missions-saving-26497606
Ksenia also recalled the time she had to guide her friend Alyona, a 40-year-old who works for her Kyiv finance company, to safety.
It took two days driving through the warzone to get Alyona and the four children she rescued to safety, to a secret place in the Carpathian Mountains.
The Claw's daring missions - which started almost immediately after Russia launched its "special military operation" - see up to 35 kids at a time saved from the ravages of war.
"They need us. Look at them - they send me photos of themselves drawing cats. We have to get them out of that place. It is horrific and they are very frightened."
The group managed to save three more kids from an area near Kyiv in their most recent outing, but The Claw ringleader Ksenia, 50, insists there is more work to be done.
Ksenia said: "I was talking to Alyona on the phone, guiding her to safety as she drove, whilst trying to work out how to feed the 100 kids we had already rescued."
A group of brave mums in Ukraine called The Claw are running daring secret missions into war-torn regions to save kids hiding from Russian tanks while Vladimir Putin drops bombs
The women have sneaked past Russian soldiers in woods, climbed through derelict buildings destroyed by shelling and frantically driven the kids to safety, reports the Mirror.
A daring group of Ukrainian mums have created an organisation launching secret missions to save terrified kids hiding from Russian tanks.
Oksana, a key Claw member, told the Mirror: "Its not gentle, we have no time to comfort them properly, we bundle them into the car as many as possible then drive avoiding the tanks - for two days until we are safe."
Sobbing as she scrolled through photos of yet-to-be rescued children on her phone, the mum-of-two said: "We still have work to do - there are kids who need to be rescued.
She told the Mirror: "We got the name 'The Claw' because we are clawing these kids to safety when we rescue them."
A vast proportion are orphans, their parents killed during the invasion or the fighting in Donbas over the past eight years. Others have parents missing or stuck abroad.
They managed to secure Alyona a safe route out by using Ksenia's contacts in the police and by mapping out the latest Russian troop movements.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
The Claw have already rescued a staggering 227 children from Ukraine's capital Kyiv as they take refuge in basements while Vladimir Putin's bombs rain down.
Alyona, whose husband is away fighting the Russians, had been holed up with four kids for six days.
