Ukraine fighter jets launch devastating attack on Russian targets on Snake Island
20220508
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/ukrainian-jets-attack-russian-positions-26903857
The raid marks a major escalation of Ukraine's air campaign against Russian targets occupying the territory.
According to the Ukraine Weapons Tracker, two fighter jets struck during the daring raid on the strategic land mass - known as Zmiinyi Island - some 80 miles south of the port of Odessa.
For more of the latest showbiz news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
This is believed to have cleared the way for the twin-engine, supersonic Su-27s to strike on or before yesterday Saturday, causing significant damage. Three weeks ago it is thought a Ukrainian anti-ship missile battery sank the Russian Black Sea flagship battle cruiser Moskva.
Ukrainian Air Force attack on Snake Island marks escalation of campaign against Russian targets with defence systems and ships coming under attack as May 9 Victory Day nears
Russia flexed its nuclear muscles on Saturday May 7 with thermonuclear missiles being rolled through Moscow's Red Square in a rehearsal for the annual Victory Day parade set to take place on Monday, May 9.
According to reports, Ukrainian armed drones have been targeting the island for at least a week, destroying defence systems, at least two patrol boats and a landing craft.
Putin appeared to use the Russian public holiday marking the country's victory over Nazi Germany and the end of WW2 in Europe to send a warning to the West.
The attack on the island came as Russia prepared for its May 9 Victory Day celebrations, marking the end of the Second World War. Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, is reportedly keen to make an announcement about the successful progress of the war in Ukraine, and is currently attempting to snatch territory in the east of the country.
It tweeted: "The Ukrainian Air force is still alive- seen here are two Ukrainian Su-27 striking Russian facilities on the famous Snake Island in the Black Sea, in remarkable footage filmed by a TB-2 drone. As we can observe, there is serious damage."
The Ukrainian Air Force "is still alive" after launching an audacious attack on Russian facilities on Snake Island in the Black Sea that was captured on film.
