Ulrika Jonsson slams insensitive Strictlys Kristina Rihanoff over Ukraine remark
20220305
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/showbiz/ulrika-jonsson-slams-kristina-rihanoff-26396313
She continued: "I'm not supporting Putin, war, invasion, lost lives and politics. I hate it as much as a human being possibly can. If I offended anyone it wasn't my intention and I'm deeply sorry. While I was born in Russia I left it 22yrs ago and an American citizen.
The tweet that sparked fury came when Kristina lashed out at UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson for introducing lockdowns as a way of curbing the pressure put on the NHS and reducing the volume of deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic.
"She swiftly showered social media with apologies if she had upset anyone. Shame on her."
"Don't give a st about the war but I do about the debt because of NO TRADING for 2yrs.
The comments came after the professional dancer sent an "insensitive" tweet about the conflict in Ukraine last week where she claimed she didn't "give a st about the war".
She wrote: "I made fun of Eurovision tweet by Sky. I did think there was far more important information on that day that Eurovision. This is in any form says I was supporting what's happening at the moment between Russia  Ukraine.
"It's absolutely devastating for someone like me who's grandad from Ukraine and I gave Ukrainian name to my daughter Milena. My best friend is also from Ukraine. I grew up with knowledge that we were one nation and one country.
Ulrika Jonsson has lashed out at former Strictly Come Dancing star Kristina Rihanoff accusing her of being "incapable of reading a room."
Former Strictly star Kristina sparked outrage last week over an "insensitive" tweet about Russia's ongoing attack on Ukraine.
Kristina posted: I do want to focus on what sort of punishment Boris Johnson will have for destroying my family run business and 1000 of others. Many of my friends LOST businesses because of government lockdowns.
For more of the latest showbiz news from Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
Ulrika, 54, addressed the since-deleted tweet in her column in The Sun as she criticised the stance taken by Kristina.
She wrote: "Apparently she cares more about her failing yoga business, which was forced to shut during the lockdowns.
The dancer later deleted her tweet, issuing an apology when she saw a backlash online.
She then went on to condemn the war and remind her followers that she is an American citizen.
Ulrika Jonsson hit out at Russian born former Strictly Come Dancing professional dancer Kristina Rihanoff after she sent a controversial tweet about the conflict in Ukraine
"So you can hate me if this will give you comfort but If I didn't say something you wanted me to say it's bcs sadly I'm powerless doing anything to help anyone in both countries and I don't believe in useless posts which can't help to safe lives.
She said: "How are some people so painfully incapable of reading the room? And the moment an apology includes the word 'if', you know the antagonist meant every word they said."
