Victoria Derbyshire rolls eyes as she shuts down Putin stooge over Ukraine claims
20220302
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/tv/victoria-derbyshire-rolls-eyes-shuts-26366035
No one is justifying things that werent done, because Russias military and Russias army is not killing innocent people, Russias army is destroying the military infrastructure in Ukraine, he said.
Victoria Derbyshire interviewed a Dean at the Institute of International Relations on the BBCs rolling news channel when she became angry at his denial that Ukrainian civilians have been targeted
Elaborating on this, the so-called expert made a number of unfounded claims that people in the Donbas region of Ukraine had been killed and tortured during this time.
But despite footage showing an attack on a television tower resulting in damage to a holocaust memorial, the expert denied that civilians had been targeted.
Still, Henry ploughed on, asking the newsreader to provide a figure for the number of civilian casualties resulting from the Russian invasion.
The Russian military began an assault on their neighbouring country on February 24, and satellite footage has shown a 40 mile long procession of armoured vehicles and soldiers making their way towards the capital Kyiv.
A BBC News Presenter reacted angrily when a pro-Russian guest denied that the Russian military had been targeting innocent civilians in its advances on Ukraine.
And, after Henry drew comparisons with the Western invasion of Iraq, which he suggested was deserving of action, he attempted to justify Putins special operation in Ukraine.
In response, Victoria asked: Why have hospitals been hit? Why has a TV tower been hit? Why has an administrative building in the north of the country been hit? Why has an orphanage been hit, is that infrastructure? Come on. Henry simply doubled down, arguing that this information is untrustworthy as it comes from the Ukraine government.
Im telling you that thousands of Russian people have been killed in the Donbas region over eight years.
Hes invaded an independent, sovereign country, and hes killing innocent men, women and children, thats what hes doing Im asking you, how do you justify that? Victoria asked.
You told me that Russia is killing innocent people, please tell me what is the number of innocent people being killed there, he continued.
One commented: Well done Victoria for how you handled this man. And for sticking up for the TRUTH. Another acknowledged Victorias efforts to remain calm, sharing a clip with the caption: Victoria Derbyshire doing her best to hold it together while interviewing a Putin stooge.
To get more Ukraine stories from Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox sign up to one of our free newsletters here.
Henry Sadaryan firstly suggested that the war in Ukraine was set in motion eight years ago after the Russo-Ukrainian war over Crimea.
Victoria Derbyshire was speaking to the Dean of the School of Governance  Politics at Moscow State Institute of International Relations on the BBCs rolling news channel about the conflict when the exchange became heated.
Russia is destroying at the moment the military infrastructure of Ukraine and the reason for doing that is that Ukraine is a threat to Russias security at the moment.
