Vladimir Putin loses 8th general in Ukraine in latest blow to Russias dismal war effort
20220417
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-loses-eighth-general-26732421
It is unknown how he died or where he met his demise but it is believed he had been deployed in the area around besieged Mariupol.
Alexander Beglov, the governor of St Petersburg, said at his burial: A true patriot, a brave and brave man, he honestly and to the end fulfilled his military and human duty. The people will not forget their heroes. Eternal memory to him.
Rezantsev was cited early on in the war as the one telling soldiers that the invasion would be over quickly - something which Russia has failed to do, after its 72-hour invasion target was surpassed nearly one month ago.
Details of what role he was playing in Ukraine, and his more recent military roles are scarce, as his profile has been wiped from the Kremlin-run website Kremlin-Roadmap, which details past and future actions taken by the Russian military.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
Vladimir Putin has lost his eighth general fighting in Ukraine, in another major blow to his war effort.
Last month, Lieutenant General Yakov Rezantsev, who was thought to be close to Putin, was reportedly killed at a command post manned by the 49th Russian Army unit in the south of Ukraine.
US-based Ukrainian journalist Victor Kovalenko said Rezantsev was "most likely the notorious murderer of civilians in Mariupol."
Major General Vladimir Frolov, deputy commander of the 8th Combined Arms Army, which was stationed near Mariupol, is the latest Russian general to be killed in Ukraine
Major General Vladimir Frolov, deputy commander of the 8th Combined Arms Army, was laid to rest with full military honours in St Petersburg.
He claimed Frolov had fallen a heroic death in battle with Ukrainian nationalists, following Russia's twisted portrayal of the invasion.
His death followed seven other Russian generals killed in the war, although the Kremlin has only publicly acknowledged the death of one, Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky, who it was was believed shot by a sniper.
