Vladimir Putins best Top Gun pilots wiped out after car hit in deadly missile attack
20220725
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putins-top-gun-pilots-27575016
The death toll of Russian colonels stands at 82. Mad Vlad has reportedly lost 56,572 fighters since Russia first invaded Ukraine on 24 February 2022.
Vladimir Putins best Top Gun pilots have been killed after their motorcade was hit by a missile.
This news comes amid reports that some Russian fighters get as little as five days' training before being sent into the war-torn region.
Ukraine spokesman Serhiy Leshchenko said their forces continued to use HIMARS to cause numerous losses to the aggressor state.
Lt Col Maksim Potyomin, 41, and Col Anatoly Stasyukevich, 54, were taken down in an attack in the Donetsk region.
Potyomins father Alexey, chairman of Volgograd Regional Parachuting Federation, said: My sons car was hit by a HIMARS missile, which we have been hearing so much about lately. His injuries were incompatible with life.
The Top Gun pilot has been posthumously awarded the order of courage by a Putin decree, according to reports.
"They trained us for five days, we waited for another five days for a force rotation and then we went to our positions.
"I wouldn't want to be next to him in battle. How can you fight like that?"
Lieutenant Colonel Maksim Potyomin, 41, and Col Anatoly Stasyukevich, 54, were taken down in an attack in the Donetsk region after being struck by a HIMARS missile
"After all the medical check-ups, they asked me if I was ready to go to the military base the day after tomorrow.
One soldier, known only as 'Ivan' to protect his identity, said the training he received was 'not enough' after he had less than a week of combat and defence training - claiming one of his fellow troops didn't even know how to use a machine gun.
His godmother Natalya Duddinka told of her huge grief, adding: There are no words to express this pain.
"Of course, it was not enough. There was a soldier in our company who didn't know how a machine gun works. So I taught that guy how to disassemble and assemble a machine gun.
He told the Moscow Times: "When the special military operation started  although in fact, it is a war  I took it as a personal tragedy. I told myself that I wanted to go there and no one would stop me. I'm a patriot.
