Vladimir Putin has made chilling nuclear war prediction that no one would survive
20220411
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putins-chilling-nuclear-war-26683017
It was only last month when experts claimed Putin "wants to use" his nuclear weapons and may detonate one of them near the UK.
An anti-ballistic missile system, new military bases and if need be, new offensive systems. We have to aim our missile systems at facilities that are threatening us. The situation becomes more tense."
The NATO-Russia Founding Act was signed in 1997, a political agreement explicitly that states: NATO and Russia do not consider each other as adversaries.
He added: "Once a country becomes a NATO member, it is hard to resist the pressures of the US and all of a sudden any weapons system can be placed in this country.
Russian president Vladimir Putin has continued to threaten the use of nuclear weapons despite admitting he believes everyone will die if the world is plunged into nuclear war
Russian President Vladimir Putin is known for flashing about his huge weapons of mass destruction and experts have been predicting he will unleash them since the outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine war.
But Putin is still said to regard the alliances gradual eastward expansion, which saw ex-Soviet satellites Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland join in 1999, followed by Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia in 2004, as a 'broken promise.'
Speaking in the US documentary The Putin Interviews released in 2017, the Russian president told US film director Oliver Stone: "I dont think anyone would survive such a conflict.
At the time the president was discussing the pressures of NATO as countries along the Russian border seemed to be building their armies to join the alliance.
"There is always hope. Until they are ready to bring us to the cemetery and bury us."
For the latest breaking news stories and incredible tales from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
This deadly threat is made all the more sinister when the 69-year-old made it clear that he believes no one would win if nuclear war broke out.
The current conflict in Ukraine is believed to be the Kremlin leader attempting to block the neighbouring country from joining NATO.
