Wife who ordered her soldier husband to rape Ukrainian women in sick call identified
20220416
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/wife-who-ordered-soldier-husband-26725801
Keep up to date with all the latest news stories. by signing up for one of Daily Star's free newsletters here.
According to the Daily Mail, reporters tried to contact the couple on the numbers identified. Roman reportedly answered but denied he was the man in the clip. Though Radio Liberty said his voice was a match.
A man's voice - which is allegedly her husband Roman Bykovsky, is then heard saying: 'Uh-huh. 'So I should rape and not tell you anything?
The wife of a Russian soldier has been caught ordering her husband to rape Ukrainian women in a horrifying phone recording, it has been claimed.
The audio clip started with the blue and yellow title: 'SECURITY SERVICE INTERCEPT: Wives of Russian invaders allow their men to rape Ukrainian women.'
They say the call was traced to the Kherson region in April and linked with two numbers, belonging to 27-year-old Roman Bykovsky and his wife Olga Bykovskaya.
It comes as Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russian troops of carrying out 'hundreds of rapes' including sexual assaults on small children.
Now, the couple has allegedly been identified as Roman Bykovsky and his wife Olga Bykovskaya.
Laughing the woman responded: Yes so that I wouldn't know anything. Why do you ask?' she adds.
A statement from the SBU on Telegram said: The wives of Russian aggressors are urging their husbands to rape Ukrainian women.
Roman's social media pages were closed to the public but using his friend's and family's profiles a photo was found of him in his military uniform, which established that is now part of Russia's 108th Guards Airborne Assault Regiment.
We are working for victory to expel this evil spirit from Ukraine as soon as possible!
Olga's social media accounts meanwhile were open but have since been deleted. On her account, she was shown in pictures with the man identified as Roman Bykovsky. It also showed the pair sharing a 4-year-old child together.
Investigative journalists claim they have worked with Ukrainian authorities to trace the call and identify the couple behind a disgusting phone call in which a woman tells her husband he rape Ukrainian women
Now, investigative journalists from Radio Liberty have claimed they worked with Ukrainian law enforcement to track the call and identify the couple.
The sick 30 second recording was released by the Ukrainian Security Serice SBU earlier this week and in it a woman can be heard giving her partner permission to rape Ukrainian women so long as he uses contraception.
This shocking interception by the SBU reflects the moral values not only of the occupiers but also of their relatives, 80 of whom now support the war in Ukraine.
The voice of a woman, reportedly Bykovskaya, is then heard: So yeah, do it over there. Ukrainian women there. Rape them. Yeah. Don't tell me anything, understand,.
