Wild moment 38m Russian fighter jet burns in field after being shot down by Ukraine
20220403
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/moment-38m-russian-fighter-burns-26625720
Ukrainian forces claim to have downed yet another Russian fighter jet, this time near the town of Izium, capturing the pilot who ejected his aircraft and tried to flee
This was the work of a 22-year-old Ukrainian woman who used an Igla infrared surface to air missile.
Her identity is being kept a secret amid fears Russian agents will try to assassinate her.
In the 15-second clip, the fighter can be seen falling to the ground on the horizon, before it is engulfed in a thick cloud of black smoke, visible from miles away.
A 38million Russian fighter has been seen burning in a field after it was shot out of the sky above Ukraine.
According to Ukrainian MP Anton Gerashchenko, the jets pilot managed to eject successfully, but was subsequently caught by Ukrainian troops as he tried to flee.
In early March, Ukrainian officials claimed their forces brought down an SU-25 jet in the skies over Kharkiv.
The strike is yet another blow for Vladimir Putin's military forces which are struggling to gain control of Ukraine after having been met with fierce opposition.
On March 18, Ukrainian officials alleged an SU-34 was destroyed by troops firing a shoulder-launched Stinger missile, while a week later they claimed another alleged SU-34 was shot down to mobile air-defence units.
Regional governor of Kharkiv, Oleg Synegubov, said at the time his city's Air Defence Forces subdued the target with two surface-to-air missiles.
The aircraft can be seen erupting over Ukraine's second city as people cheer before crashing to the ground and exploding again upon impact.
Ukrainian authorities say they have shot down two planes and one helicopter in the past 24 hours alone.
The SU-35 was brought down near the city of Izium in the eastern part of the country, by Ukrainian forces, local news outlet Nexta reports.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
In a clip of the incident, the plane can be seen transforming into a fireball as it plummets to the ground, much to the delight of Ukrainians watching below.
The woman, who up until a few weeks ago was studying at university, reportedly was only taught how to use the device two weeks ago but is now regarded as an expert.
