Womans sobbing WhatsApp voice memo captures moment Russian tanks destroyed in Ukraine
20220302
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/womans-sobbing-whatsapp-voice-memo-26371609
An unidentified woman has been heard sobbing in voice messages she sent on WhatsApp after a Russian "tank brigade" was totally destroyed in Ukraine.
The weeping speaker claims to have found out about her deceased friends and neighbours that were among the troops a day before the recording was made.
The recording, which was obtained from the Kyiv Independent, was reportedly sent by a woman living in Aleysk, Russia, which is over 2000 miles east of Kyiv, the home base for the 35th Brigade.
An unidentified woman in the city of Aleysk in Altai, Russia sent crying voice notes in a WhatsApp group that the local tank brigade had been totally destroyed in Ukraine
The news comes after almost a week of intense fighting, Vladimir Putin has finally admitted how many Russian soldiers have died during the invasion of Ukraine.
For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.
Meanwhile, the Russian bombardment of Kharkiv in Ukraine has killed 21 people and hurt 112 as some Russian planes had also been shot down, a Ukrainian official said.
Russias Defence Ministry's casualty report said that 498 Russian troops have been killed in Ukraine, with 1,597 wounded since they invaded the neighbouring country a week ago.
Some 498 Russian troops have been killed in Ukraine, with 1,597 wounded, Russias Defence Ministry said in its first report of military casualties since the country invaded its eastern European neighbour last week.
In the translation of the message, the woman claims that just 18 of 150 troops in the brigade managed to survive, and the majority of the fatalities were young men.
She particularly mentioned a military service member named Evgeniy Zhilin, whose name has been found in Russian military records that documented the names of 120,000 Russian soldiers allegedly involved in the invasion of Ukraine last week.
