Women armed with machines and rifles ready to defend key city from invading Russians
20220323
https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/women-odessa-ukraine-take-up-26538072
Thousands of Russian ground forces with heavy equipment are pushing toward Odessa from the east, though they are meeting stiff Ukrainian resistance.
The Russian ships that threaten Odessa from the sea represent only one prong of an expected three-pronged attack.
Foreign policy expert Josh Rogin warned this week how those in Odessa need our help.
Yet 10 per cent of me feels oddly joyful because the war will sever our ties with Russia once and for all."
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.
The woman in the Ukrainian city of Odessa are preparing for the Russian invasion to hit them by taking part in weapons training.
Odessa is one of the few cities in the country left largely untouched, due to it being seen as pivotal to the future of the country in whatever shape that comes  especially as it is a big port city.
Woman, and men, can be seen taking up positions on the front line, awaiting the Russian invaders.
Ukrainians have tried to mine the beaches, but there arent enough mines to go around. Military units are positioned to resist any landing, but Ukrainian forces dont have enough anti-ship weapons, such as Harpoon missiles, to keep the Russian fleet at bay.
The Ukrainian city of Odessa has been left largely untouched during the invasion - but now Russians are advancing, and the city's women stand ready to fight them
Pictures emerged this week of civilian women being shown how to use machine guns, as Russia advances on the modern city.
Speaking to the Daily Mail, local factory owner Ruslan Popkov, 50, said: My dominant emotion is fear. Do the Russians intend to kill all 35million of us?
To the west, the mayor said he expects Putin to activate Russian troops already stationed in Transnistria, a Moldovan territory occupied by soldiers Moscow calls 'peacekeepers'.
Writing in the Washington Post, he said: Odessas mayor, Gennadiy Trukhanov, told me during an interview that he doesnt know exactly when Russian forces will attack, but ominous signs are everywhere.
Russian warships are probing the Black Sea beaches and shelling parts of the coastline, indications an amphibious invasion force might soon be on the way.
