RBIs central board weighs impact of RussiaUkraine war on domestic economy
20220325
https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/rbis-central-board-weighs-impact-of-russia-ukraine-war-on-domestic-economy/article65258881.ece
According to an article, State of the Economy, in the RBIs latest monthly bulletin, the ongoing geopolitical crisis has heightened the uncertainty clouding the global macroeconomic and financial landscape even as the world economy struggles to recover from the pandemic.
As the conflict escalates, oil and other commodity prices are blazing to multi-year highs, and financial markets are on edge, driven by massive sell-offs, according to the article put together by senior RBI officials.
The Board, which met at Bengaluru,discussed the Reserve Banks activities during the current accounting year 2021-22. It also approved the budget for the accounting year 2022-23, RBI said in a statement.
The last meeting of the Central Board was held on February 14 before the outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
RBI Deputy Governors Mahesh Kumar Jain, Michael Debabrata Patra, M. Rajeshwar Rao, T Rabi Sankar, and other Directors of the Central Board  Satish K. Marathe, S. Gurumurthy, Revathy Iyer and Sachin Chaturvedi  attended the meeting.
Amid these testing times, the Indian economy is experiencing spillovers as it recovers from the third wave of the pandemic.
Consumer and business confidence are rising, alongside improvement in demand conditions. On the supply side, a resilient farm sector and a sustained retrieval in both industrial and services sectors are broadening the recovery, said the officials.
Ajay Seth, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, and Sanjay Malhotra, Secretary, Department of Financial Services, also attended the meeting.
The Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India RBI, on Friday, reviewed the various areas of operation of the centralbank, the current economic situation, and global and domestic challenges, including the overall impact of current global geopolitical crises.
