Exleader returns to defend Ukraine from Russia
20220118
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/185501/ex-leader-returns-to-defend-ukraine-from-russia/
A court in Kyiv was to decide later Monday whether to place Poroshenko in pre-trial detention.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
He told them he had returned to help Ukraine face the growing threat of Russian invasion and accused his successor, President Volodymyr Zelensky, of betrayal of the country.
He returned to Kyiv early on Monday on a flight from Warsaw and passed through passport control amid chaotic scenes, saying later that border guards had tried to prevent him from entering the country.ADVERTISEMENT
Tensions are at an all-time high between the West and Russia, which Ukraine accuses of having massed troops on its border ahead of a possible attack.
On Friday, Washington accused Moscow of sending saboteurs trained in explosives to stage an incident that could be a pretext to invade the pro-Western neighbour.ADVERTISEMENT
We are here to unite and defend Ukraine, Poroshenko told the crowd, which held up posters reading We Need Democracy and Hands off Poroshenko.
Poroshenko, 56, is one of the countrys richest men. He was elected president after Russia annexed the peninsula of Crimea and as fighting escalated between Kyivs troops and Moscow-backed separatists in the industrial east of the country.
In 2019, he was trounced in a presidential election by Zelensky, a comedian with no previous political experience at the time.
ADVERTISEMENT Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
Poroshenko is now a member of parliament and leader of an opposition party, European Solidarity.
KYIV: Ukraines ex-president Petro Poroshenko returned to Kyiv from Europe on Monday despite the risk of arrest, vowing to help protect the ex-Soviet country from a possible Russian invasion.Poroshenko, who served as president from 2014 to 2019, was placed under investigation for high treason and left Ukraine in December.
