Missile strikes kill 18 in Odessa
20220702
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/195198/missile-strikes-kill-18-in-odessa/
We are going to stick with Ukraine, and all of the alliance are going to stick with Ukraine, as long as it takes to make sure they are not defeated by Russia, he said.ADVERTISEMENT
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
Kyrylo Tymoshenko, a senior official at the Ukrainian presidency, later wrote on Telegram that the death toll had risen to 18, including two children.
The strikes, in Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi, were launched by aircraft that flew in from the Black Sea, said Odessa military administration spokesman Sergiy Bratchuk.ADVERTISEMENT
The worst-case scenario played out and two strategic aircraft came to the Odessa region, he said in a TV interview, adding they had fired very heavy and very powerful missiles.
Ukrainian emergency services initially said 17 people were killed and 30 wounded in both attacks.
KYIV: Missile strikes killed 18 people and wounded dozens in Ukraines Odessa region Friday, a day after Russian troops abandoned positions on a strategic island in a major setback to the Kremlins invasion.The news came after Nato leaders wrapped up a summit in Madrid, with US President Joe Biden announcing $800 million in new weapons for Ukraine.
The missiles were fired early Friday, hitting an apartment building and recreation centre about 80 kilometres 50 miles south of the Black Sea port of Odessa, which has become a strategic flashpoint in the conflict.
Earlier this week, there was global outrage when a Russian strike destroyed a shopping centre in Kremenchuk, central Ukraine, killing at least 18 civilians. Putin has denied Moscows forces were responsible.
Fridays attacks came a day after Russian troops abandoned their positions on Snake Island, off the coast of Odessa.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
