New US sanctions target Russias proPutin oligarchs
20220305
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/188150/new-us-sanctions-target-russia-s-pro-putin-oligarchs/
Were adding dozens of names...including one of Russias wealthiest billionaires, and Im banning travel to America by more than 50 Russian oligarchs, their families and their closest associates, US President Joe Biden told reporters.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
The sanctions match earlier EU measures against Russias wealthiest figures, but also include a ban on travel to the United States and preventing these targeted people from hiding their assets through transfer to family members.
The oligarchs, government officials and business owners who have amassed vast wealth in an economy where only Putin loyalists can get ahead, are seen as vulnerable because much of their wealth is tied to Western interests.
Biden accused oligarchs of lining their pockets with the Russian peoples money while the Ukrainian people are hiding in subways from missiles and he vowed to maintain the strongest, unified economic impact campaign in all history against Moscow.ADVERTISEMENT
WASHINGTON: The United States imposed sanctions on the ultra-wealthy Russian oligarchs at the heart of President Vladimir Putins regime in the latest ratcheting up of pressure on the Kremlin to halt its invasion of Ukraine.They and their family members will be cut off from the US financial system, their assets in the United States will be frozen and their property will be blocked from use, the White House said in a statement.
ADVERTISEMENT Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
The United States and governments all over the world will work to identify and freeze the assets Russian elites and their family members hold in our respective jurisdictions, their yachts, luxury apartments, money, and other ill-gotten gains.ADVERTISEMENT
Britain, a favourite destination for oligarchs, announced a similar full asset freeze and travel ban on billionaire businessman Alisher Usmanov and former deputy prime minister Igor Shuvalov. The pair, worth an estimated $19 billion, have close links to the Kremlin, the Foreign Office said.
