Stop the war now appeal by Jokowi
20220226
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/187707/stop-the-war-now-appeal-by-jokowi/
The Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, however, stated that it was not a form of invasion. This is not a Russian invasion only in the east of Ukraine, but a full-scale attack from multiple directions, he said on his Twitter account DmytroKuleba today.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
On Feb. 22, he mentioned tensions in Ukraine. I share the view with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres that the crisis in Ukraine must be dealt with carefully to prevent a major disaster for mankind. However, this peace effort must be swift and cannot be delayed, he said.ADVERTISEMENT
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
Phase 2A of MRT Jakarta will connect a 6-km route from Bundaran HI to Kota Station, he added. Phase 1, which was operationalized in 2019, covered the 15.7-km Lebak Bulus-HI Roundabout route, on which 13 stations are located, he noted.
JAKARTA: Indonesian President Joko Jokowi Widodo pic has not yet given a complete official statement on the military operations launched by Russia in Ukraine. But in the midst of heated conditions, he suddenly called for the war to be stopped.Stop the war. This war torments humankind and endangers the world, said the President via his Twitter account jokowi on Thursday evening.
The provision of modern, convenient, and integrated transportation must be continued, especially for DKI Jakarta, he said in a statement broadcast on the official YouTube channel of the Presidential Secretariat.
We know that in 2019, the construction has been completed and has been operating for Phase 1 from Lebak Bulus to the HI Roundabout. And today, we will start from the HI Roundabout to Kota, the Head of State said.
And, Widodo officially launched the operation of a tunnel boring machine TBM for the construction of Phase 2A of the MRT Jakarta project at the Bundaran HI MRT Station in Jakarta on Thursday.ADVERTISEMENT
Earlier today, President of Russia Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation in Ukraine. Putin said the act was not aimed at invading Ukraine, but to demilitarize and denazify.
The Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Teuku Faizasyah said Indonesia condemned Russias attack on Ukraine and called for adherence to international law and the United Nations Charter on territorial integrity.
