Strong demand to help AirAsia weather RussiaUkraine war
20220305
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/188152/strong-demand-to-help-airasia-weather-russia-ukraine-war/
On digital banking, he said the group will continue to carry on its mission to strengthen its financing offering, even without a licence from Bank Negara Malaysia BNM.
We are not worried about it at the moment because theres more demand than supply. More people want to fly than what we can put on flights.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
It will come down once the Russia-Ukraine conflict stabilises, plus there is also a lot of oil that hasnt been released yet and the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC and allies still produce the same capacity, he noted.
Fares will be higher due to current higher oil prices, but still relatively cheap due to declining Covid-19 test prices, Capital A Bhd chief executive officer Tan Sri Tony Fernandes pic told reporters after the launch of the TimeToListen campaign Friday.
He said the companys BigPay service has secured a digital money lending licence from the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, allowing it to offer financing products.
Kuala Lumpur: AirAsia believes strong demand from travellers will help the budget airline cope with the adverse impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
ADVERTISEMENTSo, in terms of an Asean fintech, were far ahead of everybody. And if we get a banking licence, great. If we dont, then well just carry on, he added. BNM will announce the recipients of the digital banking licence this month.
The Capital A chief said that besides Malaysia, BigPay is awaiting digital banking licence approvals in Thailand, Indonesia, and Philippines.
We are an innovative company. Of course, we want a banking licence, but thats up to BNM and we think we can give a good service to Malaysia and Asean and especially small and medium enterprises, Fernandes said.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
Brent crude oil price rebounded early Friday to above US$114 per barrel after a contraction of more than two per cent Thursday amid the escalating Russia-Ukraine war.
Inclusivity in AirAsia was flying, now inclusivity in Capital A is allowing everyone to get a loan.
