Sunglasses hide tears as show goes on at Milan Fashion Week
20220226
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/187689/sunglasses-hide-tears-as-show-goes-on-at-milan-fashion-week/
Lush mohair bodices in jewel tones of emerald combined with high leather collars, straps and metal rings  as if a naughty Elizabethan princess suddenly found herself in the dungeon.
At Prada, co-designers Miuccia Prada and Raf Simons paired simple white tank tops with narrow, tiered cigarette skirts adorned with spangles, leather, or transparent panels at the thighs.
Fuzzy teddy bear-style wool was seen on bomber jackets, overcoats, even pants and shorts, while an oversize quilted, double-faced puffer coat was just what the doctor ordered in these trying times.
Shoulders were oversized on black dresses that incorporated chains at an angle at the neck, while tweed overcoats offered a touch of whimsy with poofs of curly lambswool at the biceps in green, pink or blue.
Fashion show usher Alessandro Vailatti said he thought no one should be ashamed at feeling uplifted by the flights of fancy on display.
Cheetah bodysuits. Faux reptile capes. Leopard, leather, and fringe together  whats not to love when the world is falling apart?
although everyone was aware of the latest news, the fashion world operated as a parallel universe.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
I was crying before the first show because its difficult for me, said the 22-year-old Kyiv native, outfitted in a puffy Prada vest and surrounded by her equally spruced-up friends.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
One French videographer inside the show, who gave his name as just Etienne, said perhaps that was for the best.ADVERTISEMENT
It tries to be cut off from what goes on in the world, Tipaldi said.
One Ukranian stylist and creative director, Anna Mazzhyk, said she was awoken by her parents at seven am, only to learn Russia is attacking Ukraine right now, she said.ADVERTISEMENT
Indeed, the runways offered up distractions galore for guests, including Kim Kardashian  thus far the fashion weeks biggest celebrity  in the front row at Prada, sheathed in avocado and black leather, to watch a newly redheaded sister Kendall on the catwalk.
Belgian model Louise Robert said that Ukranian model bookers backstage at Prada were visibly upset, trying to figure out when and how they could go home.
Earlier, Max Maras Ian Griffiths showed a comforting collection whose brown and cream tones and rich textures brought a reassuring sobriety to the mix  even as an eerily discordant musical soundtrack appeared to recall the news everyone was valiantly trying to forget.
And for those who like fashion loud and in your face, Roberto Cavalli presented on Wednesday night a theatrical collection of what designer Fausto Puglisi called cage dresses, with bands of fabric barely covering strategic parts of the torso, together with the labels signature over-the-top animal prints.ADVERTISEMENT
I think most people are crushed, he said. But we cant do politics inside here.
MILAN: The fashion set put their best face forward despite worries over the invasion of Ukraine, as Milan Fashion Week guests and workers vowed to go on with the shows.The lineup, which included Emporio Armani, MM6 Maison Margiela, Prada and Moschino, appeared to go off with all the studied nonchalance expected at fashion events  but some admitted it was hard to focus, given the situation in the East.
