Ukraine filmmakers horrified by Top Gun jet display at Cannes
20220421
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/192804/ukraine-film-makers-horrified-by-top-gun-jet-display-at-cannes/
I know a few good Russians but most good Russians ended with Crimea, Khalpakhchi said, referring to the annexation of the Crimean peninsula by Russia in 2014.
We feel strongly that anything and everything Russian must be cancelled, said Andrew Fesiak, founder of Ukrainian production firm F Films.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
They are in a terrible situation, this war is a catastrophe... For them its even difficult to hear the Russian language. I can understand that, Serebrennikov said.
Meanwhile, a panel of Ukrainian film professionals were critical of the festivals decision to include exiled Russian director Kirill Serebrennikov in the competition for the Palme dOr with his film Tchaikovskys Wife.ADVERTISEMENT
There was an emotional screening of Mariupolis 2, the final film by Lithuanian director Mantas Kvedaravicius who was killed while filming in Ukraine last month  reportedly by Russian forces.ADVERTISEMENT
I was with a friend from Mariupol, a producer. Shes been experiencing the war for eight years, said Hanna Bilobrova, the girlfriend of Kvedaravicius, who was with him in the eastern Ukraine city up to his death.
The team who completed Mariupolis 2 said they were shocked by the French Air Force display team that had screeched across the sky the previous evening as part of celebrations for the new Tom Cruise blockbuster.
The stark documentary shows desperate residents trying to survive among the ruins of Mariupol following the invasion.
But for European culture to cut off Russian culture would be a big mistake and Im happy the festival chose the right way  not to work with officials but not to ban an independent Russian film with a sad story from the 19th century, he added.
The director has been in exile since the invasion and called for an end to the war at his films premiere on Wednesday.ADVERTISEMENT
But another member of the Ukrainian panel, Andriy Khalpakhchi of the Kyiv International Film Festival, said there was no such thing as good Russians at the current time.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
But such serious fare can sometimes sit awkwardly with the more spectacular Hollywood displays that light up the red carpet in Cannes.
At a time when Ukrainian film-makers are forced to stop making movies because they either need to flee for their lives or take up arms... Russian film-makers cannot pretend that everything is fine and that they are not to blame.
CANNES: Ukrainians at the Cannes Film Festival said that all Russians should have been banned from the event and expressed horror at the fighter jet display used to promote Top Gun: Maverick.The 75th edition of the festival has given a platform to Ukrainian films this year, banned official Russian delegations and featured a video message from President Volodymyr Zelensky at its opening ceremony.
We were on the balcony and heard jets flying and we almost lay down. Bombs didnt follow. My friend began to cry. She was very ashamed about her reaction and I said theres nothing to be ashamed about. Were still alive.
