Ukraine no longer insisting Nato membership
20220310
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/188476/ukraine-no-longer-insisting-nato-membership/
I have cooled down regarding this question a long time ago after we understood that ... Nato is not prepared to accept Ukraine, Zelensky said in an interview aired Monday night on ABC News.ADVERTISEMENT
When ABC asked him about this Russian demand, Zelensky said he was open to dialogue.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
Russia sees Nato enlargement as a threat, as it does the military posture of these new Western allies on its doorstep.ADVERTISEMENT
Referring to Nato membership, Zelensky said through an interpreter that he does not want to be president of a country, which is begging something on its knees.
Shortly before he shocked the world by ordering the invasion of Ukraine, Putin recognised as independent two separatist pro-Russian republics in eastern Ukraine, Donetsk and Lugansk, that have been at war with Kyiv since 2014.
Russia has said it does not want neighbouring Ukraine to join Nato, the transatlantic alliance created at the start of the Cold War to protect Europe from the Soviet Union.
In more recent years the alliance has expanded further and further east to take in former Soviet bloc countries, infuriating the Kremlin.
ADVERTISEMENT Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
WASHINGTON: President Volodymyr Zelensky said he is no longer pressing for Nato membership for Ukraine, a delicate issue that was one of Russias stated reasons for invading its pro-Western neighbour.In another apparent nod aimed at placating Moscow, Zelensky said he is open to compromise on the status of two breakaway pro-Russian territories that President Vladimir Putin recognised as independent just before unleashing the invasion on February 24.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
He said these two regions have not been recognised by anyone but Russia, these pseudo republics. But we can discuss and find the compromise on how these territories will live on.
