US warns Russia is ready for long war
20220512
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/192291/us-warns-russia-is-ready-for-long-war-/
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 but Ukrainian forces managed to push Moscows forces back from Kyiv, and the conflict is now well into its third month.
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
Moscow switched its focus to the Russian-speaking Donbas region, where separatists have been fighting since 2014, after failing to take Kyiv.
Ukraines presidency said the epicentre of the fighting has moved to Bilogorivka in the Lugansk region, the site of a deadly Russian air strike on a school on Sunday that Ukrainian officials said killed 60 people.
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
But US Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines said Tuesday that Putin will not end the war with the Donbas campaign and is determined to build a land bridge to the Russian-controlled territory in Moldova.ADVERTISEMENT
As it battled Russian attempts to advance in the east, Kyiv hailed what it said was EU powerhouse Germanys change of stance on a Russian oil embargo and on supplying arms to Ukraine.ADVERTISEMENT
Putin gave few hints on his plans in a speech during a huge military parade in Moscow on Monday, saying only that Russian troops were defending the Motherland and blaming the West for the conflict.
US intelligence also views it as increasingly likely that Putin will mobilise his entire country, including ordering martial law, and is counting on his perseverance to wear down Western support for Ukraine.
KYIV: The United States warned that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready for a long war in Ukraine and will not stop at the eastern Donbas region where fighting is currently raging.Washingtons bleak prediction came as Ukraine said its membership of the European Union was a question of war and peace for the whole continent as it faces up to Moscow.
ADVERTISEMENT Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
Violence still raged in southern Ukraine with overnight missile strikes in the port of Odessa, while officials said some 1,000 troops were trapped in the Azovstal steelworks in the devastated city of Mariupol.
Shelling also continued in Ukraines easternmost strongholds, the sister cities of Severodonetsk and Lysychansk, it said. An AFP team saw columns of Ukrainian trucks moving away from Severodonetsk on Monday.
