Zelensky eyeing Russia neutrality demand
20220329
http://dailyexpress.com.my/news/189717/zelensky-eyeing-russia-neutrality-demand/
The UN estimates that at least 1,100 civilians have died and more than 10 million have been displaced in a devastating war that has gone on far longer than Moscow leaders expected.ADVERTISEMENT
 Do you have access to the Daily Express e-paper and online exclusive news? Check out subscription plans available.
KYIV: President Volodymyr Zelensky said his government is carefully considering a Russian demand of Ukrainian neutrality, a key point of contention as negotiators for both sides prepare for a fresh round of talks aimed at ending the brutal month-long war.This point of the negotiations is understandable to me and it is being discussed, it is being carefully studied, Zelensky said during an interview with several independent Russian news organisations.
But as the Russians face serious tactical and logistical problems, Ukraines intelligence chief Kyrylo Budanov said Putin might be seeking to divide the country in Korea-like fashion to impose a separation line between the occupied and unoccupied regions.
But US President Joe Biden questioned that interpretation and may have roiled the coming talks by saying in Warsaw that Russian President Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
The ad-libbed remark sparked outrage in Moscow and sowed widespread concern in Washington and abroad, seeming to undercut Bidens own efforts on a European visit to underscore a carefully crafted unity in support of Kyiv.
The new talks, starting in Turkey on either Monday or Tuesday, according to conflicting reports, come after the Russian army said it would begin focusing on eastern Ukraine in a move some analysts saw as a scaling back of Moscows ambitions.
Asked by reporters Sunday if he had been calling for regime change, Biden responded: No. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz also told media that was not the objective of Nato, nor that of the US president.ADVERTISEMENT
 Follow us on Instagram and join our Telegram andor WhatsApp channels for the latest news you don't want to miss.
But Frances President Emmanuel Macron warned that any escalation in words or action could harm his efforts in talks with Putin to agree on evacuating civilians from the devastated port city of Mariupol.
