Illinois Democrats plan seeks to divest from Russian debt
20220314
https://pantagraph.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/illinois-democrats-plan-seeks-to-divest-from-russian-debt/article_da722da3-fe18-564d-8dec-e1eb6c4e7f60.html
Pritzker called on state employee pension systems on Feb. 28 to review their portfolios for divestment possibilities.
"This is not a situation where we can sit back and ignore what's happening," Chicago Democratic Rep. Lindsey LaPointe said of Russian President Vladimir Putin's Feb. 24 invasion of its neighbor. "It is now time for us to do what we can here in Illinois."
The leaders also promised help with refugees, said they hope negotiations can resolve the conflict, and said that "Illinois must stand strong for democracy and support the brave men and women of Ukraine."
SPRINGFIELD  Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker and fellow Democrats who lead the General Assembly have pledged to push legislation to penalize Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
"As Vladimir Putin's war against Ukraine escalates, it threatens everyone around the world. We are unified in our belief that Putin must be stopped," the statement said. "Working together, our offices will advance legislation to remove any Russian companies from Illinois' pension assets and prohibit contracting with any companies based in Russia."
According to data from the U.S. Census Bureau, the number of people living in poverty in the U.S. decreased for the fifth consecutive year. Roughly 37 million people, or 11.4 percent of the total population, were living below the poverty line in 2019. Even during the coronavirus pandemic, poverty rates fell due to federal aid. Unemployment benefits kept 5.5 million people from falling into poverty, according to Supplemental Poverty Measure data.
Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.
State Rep. Lindsey Lapointe, D-Portage Park, speaks at the Illinois State Capitol in Springfield on Wednesday, Feb. 10, 2021.
Eastbound Washington Street in Bloomington will be closed to traffic between Main and East streets for sewer work.
The legislation would also give the Illinois Department of Human Services authority to create a Ukrainian Refugee Resettlement Program that would provide health care, mental health services and English-language assistance to Ukrainians granted temporary protected or refugee status. The United Nations reports 3.5 million people have left Ukraine since the Feb. 24 invasion.
LaPointe's proposal would require divestment "from Russian stocks and sovereign debt," along with those of Russian ally Belarus. It names the Teachers' Retirement System and Illinois State Board of Investment and urges public systems not controlled by the state, such as the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, to do the same. Many states and other government bodies have made similar moves to stop interaction with Russia.
Residents and trustees on Monday saw the beginnings of what Normal's Uptown South project could be.
The Census Bureau uses a set of money income thresholdsincome before taxes and excluding capital gains or benefits such as public housing, Medicaid, and food stampsthat vary by family size and composition to determine who is in poverty. If a family's total income is less than the family's threshold, then that family and every individual in it is considered in poverty.
Many experts argue that the poverty measure in the U.S. is a grossly outdated and incomplete barometer of financial security. When you consider the implications of falling on either side of these thresholdslike qualifying for various federal assistance or not the formula is staggeringly simple. These thresholds are established by tripling the cost of the most basic food plan in 1963the year they were created and adjusting for family size and annual inflation. By this definition, the poverty threshold today for a family of four is roughly $26,000 annually for an individual, that number is $13,000. But the reality of economic hardship does not abide by the output of a calculation, nor is the lived experience the same way from person to person.
Finally, LaPointe's plan would create a "Money Laundering in Real Estate Task Force" that would assess the likelihood that residential, industrial and commercial property sectors across the state to draw illicit Russian money, including luxury real estate in Chicago.
A House Democrat last week introduced a plan to divest from Russian debt, welcome Ukrainian refugees to Illinois and develop a method for detecting Russian money laundering in local real estate.
The Illinois Refugee Resettlement Program, which began in 1975, has helped more than 129,000 refugees from about 86 countries start new lives here, state records show. Its budget is largely federal dollars. LaPointe said her bill has no additional funding. House Deputy Republican Leader Tom Demmer of Dixon last month introduced a plan that would add $20 million in state money to expand the program for those fleeing Ukraine.
On Friday, he issued a joint statement with Senate President Don Harmon, of Oak Park, and House Speaker Emanuel "Chris" Welch, of Hillside, welcoming action from the General Assembly.
Basic needs extend well beyond the cost of food alone, and these thresholds do not reflect this reality. They fail to account for the vast cost of living differences based on geography, the cost of housing, child care, transportation, medical care, or taxes. Additionally, the definition of family is often not reflective of modern society and households.
McLean County residents are being asked to take part in a survey about their home and business internet speeds, as well as their interest in e
The Bloomington-Normal NAACP will host candidate forums March 9 at Mt. Pisgah Baptist Church, 801 W. Market Street, in Bloomington.
Because of these factors, poverty looks different from state to state and even city to city. Stacker compiled a list of cities in Illinois where the most live below the poverty line using data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Cities with a population of at least 10,000 individuals are ranked by percent of individuals living below the poverty line in 2019.
In response to Pritzker's Feb. 28 letter, the state's largest pension account, the Teachers Retirement System, representing about 225,000 working and retired instructors, asked its 150 or so asset managers to examine investments for ties to Russia, spokesman Dave Urbanek said. It can be a complex process, particularly when investments are part of co-mingled funds, Urbanek said.
