Photos The latest scenes from Ukraine as Russian attacks continue
20220422
https://pantagraph.com/news/world/photos-the-latest-scenes-from-ukraine-as-russian-attacks-continue/collection_e61e8014-70b7-5aa7-bad4-09664275e5ba.html
A Ukrainian soldier stands as sappers search for mines left by the Russian troops in the fields at the village of Berezivka, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Worshippers wait in line on their knees during Easter Orthodox Christian celebrations at the Saints Peter and Garrison church in Lviv, western Ukraine, Friday, April 22, 2022. New satellite images show apparent mass graves near Mariupol, where local officials accused Russia of burying up to 9,000 Ukrainian civilians to conceal the slaughter taking place in the ruined port city that's almost entirely under Russian control. AP PhotoFrancisco Seco
Ulya, age 6, arrives with her family from Mariupol at a refugee center fleeing from the Russian attacks, in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
People from Mariupol and nearby towns step out a bus, with a sign on the window that reads in Russian: "Children", and arrive at a refugee center fleeing from the war, in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
Formula One teams have begun testing their cars before the new season, the devastating earthquakes in Turkey have taken a toll on historic lan
In this image from video provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks from Kyiv, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP
This gallery shows the most compelling scenes from a devastating earthquake that hit southeast Turkey and northern Syria on Monday.
Firefighters battle a fire at a warehouse after a Russian bombardment in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoFelipe Dana
A man carrying his belongings leaves his house as he walks past buildings destroyed by artillery in Chernihiv on Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
A man rides his bicycle next to a destroyed Russian tank in Chernihiv, Ukraine, on Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
Evgeniy, right, waves as he arrives with his wife and four children from Mariupol at a refugee center in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022, after fleeing from the Russian attacks. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
Azov battalion Kraken unit commander Konstantin Nemichev poses for photo inside the regional administration building, heavily damaged after a Russian attack last month, in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoFelipe Dana
Two brothers were rescued in Australia after drifting at sea, riders at a Florida fair were left hanging upside down after a Ferris wheel malf
Helena stands next to her belongings after arriving from Mariupol at a refugee center in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022, after fleeing from the Russian attacks. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
People gather near candles in memory of Ukrainians killed during the Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in Lviv, western Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed victory Thursday in the battle for Mariupol, even as he ordered his troops not to take the risk of storming the giant steel plant where the last Ukrainian defenders in the city were holed up in a maze of underground passages. AP PhotoFrancisco Seco
Rostilav, 4, left, smiles to the camera as he arrives with his family and friend Yaroslav, from Mariupol, at a refugee center fleeing from the Russian attacks, in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
Ukrainian soldiers examine Russian multiple missiles abandoned by Russian troops, in the village of Berezivka, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoEfrem Lukatsky
Valentina Greenchuck, 73, gestures after arriving from Mariupol at a refugee center in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022, after fleeing from the Russian attacks. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
Internally displaced people from Mariupol and nearby towns arrive at a refugee center fleeing from the Russian attacks, in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
Valentina Greenchuck, 73, holds a plastic bag containing an orthodox icon after arriving from Mariupol at a refugee center in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022, after fleeing from the Russian attacks. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
A woman looks out of a building damaged by Russian shelling last month, in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, on Thursday, April 21, 2022. Citizens of Irpin are still without electricity, water and gas after since the Russian invasion began. AP PhotoPetros Giannakouris
Worshippers wait in line to kiss what represents the coffin of Jesus Christ during Easter Orthodox Christian celebrations at the Saints Peter and Garrison church in Lviv, western Ukraine, Friday, April 22, 2022. New satellite images show apparent mass graves near Mariupol, where local officials accused Russia of burying up to 9,000 Ukrainian civilians to conceal the slaughter taking place in the ruined port city that's almost entirely under Russian control. AP PhotoFrancisco Seco
An internally displaced elderly woman from Mariupol looks out of a bus after window arriving at a refugee center fleeing from the Russian attacks, in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, Thursday, April 21, 2022. Mariupol, which is part of the industrial region in eastern Ukraine known as the Donbas, has been a key Russian objective since the Feb. 24 invasion began. AP PhotoLeo Correa
Women next to their belongings wait for transportation next to buildings destroyed by artillery in Chernihiv on Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
A civil defence volunteer stands guard at a checkpoint controlling the traffic near Kyiv, Ukraine on Thursday, April 21, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
