Taoiseach says granting EU candidate status to Ukraine sends message of solidarity
20220623
https://www.kilkennypeople.ie/news/national-news/843633/taoiseach-says-granting-eu-candidate-status-to-ukraine-sends-message-of-solidarity.html
On the issue of blockades on Ukrainian grain exports, Mr Martin accused Russian president Vladimir Putin of weaponising hunger.
Europe is sending a message of solidarity to Ukraine by granting the country EU candidate status, the Taoiseach has said.
We in Ireland know what the European Union means, being a member of the European Union. Its the 50th anniversary of Irelands decision to join the European Union, probably the single most transformative decision and event that happened in modern Irish history.
Michel Martin was commenting in Brussels at what he described as a very significant and historic two-day meeting of the European Council when Ukraine will be formally granted candidate status for future EU membership.
Asked to comment on claims that Irish imports of some Russian goods have actually increased, Mr Martin added: All the safeguards have been taken. Were very alert to our role as a country to make sure that the sanctions are enforced and are adhered to and well be taking every precaution at the ports and general surveillance to prevent that from happening.
It can spur on reforms, can spur on economic development, and notwithstanding that Ukraine is going through a terrible, terrible, inhumane war, their cities and towns have been levelled, their people have been terrorised  the greatest humanitarian crisis since World War Two.
So, I always cannot comprehend how we could ever refuse accession to other member states, because we know that membership itself can be transformative.
There are no sanctions against the movement of food and Europe has been very clear about that because we do not want to, in any shape or form, be a catalyst for any famine or hunger and thats the big fear at the moment because of the fact that grain is not getting out of Ukraine, that there could be very significant impacts in terms of famine and thats a big worry, particularly around the Horn of Africa, the Middle East and so on, he said.
The council meeting is expected to see EU candidate status granted to both Ukraine and Moldova. Georgias bid to become a member state will also be acknowledged with the country formally designating as having a European perspective  a step below candidate status.
Its historic in the sense of the enlargement of the European Union and Im particularly pleased as a long-standing advocate for Ukraines application to candidate status to become a member of the European Union.
Putin has weaponised food, hes weaponised energy, hes weaponised migration as part of his overall war effort, which I think is wholly immoral and wrong.
Its very significant for Ukraine, very significant for Moldova and, indeed, Georgia, in terms of European perspective.
But on food and materials that give rise to the production of food, were very clear  there are no sanctions in relation to that because people need food around the world.
And I think today the European Union is sending a message of solidarity to the people of Ukraine that you belong to the European family, you belong to the European Union, and the decision will be taken today to facilitate your application and you will have candidate status to join the European Union along with Moldova and, over time, with Georgia.
Speaking to reporters, Mr Martin also raised fears over the prospect of famines in parts of the world due to Russian blockades on Ukrainian grain leaving the country.
The move comes as war continues to rage in Ukraine following Russias invasion in February.
