Amid speculation over his whereabouts Russias defense minister resurfaces
20220324
https://krdo.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/03/24/questions-swirl-over-whereabouts-of-russias-defense-minister/
Russias Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu held a meeting on Saturday, state media reported, amid speculation over his whereabouts and health during the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
Chubais first rose to prominence as Russian President Boris Yeltsins finance minister in the 1990s before going on to hold powerful posts in the Russian energy industry.
Peskov dodged questions on Thursday about the health of Shoigu. The Defense Minister has a lot on his plate at the moment, he said when CNN asked about Shoigus reported absence. The special military operation is going on. Naturally, now is not exactly the time for media activity, this is quite understandable.
Those items include robotic complexes, information support and electronic warfare equipment, and of course, logistics, as it has always been the case, Shoigu said, according to TASS.
State-owned TV channel Russia 24 broadcast footage on Thursday of a virtual meeting attended by Shoigu, but did not say when the meeting took place.
With the challenges we are facing today, we are moving according to plan in implementing the state defense procurement contract, Shoigu said. Considering the fact that the government funding for this year is 15 higher than for the previous year, we must of course take a look at what needs particular attention when fulfilling the state defense procurement contract.
The anchor quoted Peskov suggesting Shoigu was giving a report to the National Security Council on the military operation in Ukraine remotely. The broadcast footage, which interrupted a live interview, did not show Shoigu speak, but his image appeared on screen among other video call participants reporting to Putin.
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported the last time Milley last spoke to Gerasimov. It was February 11.
We continue to believe that engagement between U.S. and Russian defense leaders is critically important at this time, Kirby added.
State news agency Tass reported Shoigu met with the countrys Ministry of Finance to discuss maintaining the supply of advanced weapons for the conflict.
Scrutiny of Shoigu had increased in recent days. On Thursday, Kremlins spokesperson Dmitry Peskov  declined to comment on media reports that he had health problems.
Western leaders said at the time that Russias military had encountered unplanned obstacles and resistance.
Peskov confirmed that Chubais quit his job as Putins climate envoy, but denied any knowledge of Chubais reported opposition to the invasion of Ukraine.
Shoigu appeared in a Channel One broadcast on March 18 that the Russian outlet said was from that day, but Russian journalists have speculated that the event being broadcast was from March 11.
No, the Kremlin doesnt know anything about it, Peskov told CNN when asked to comment on reports suggesting Chubais quit his job over disapproval of Putins decision to launch the war in Ukraine.
He also claimed that the Russian army had received more than 16,000 applications from volunteers in the Middle East wanting to join the war in Ukraine.
The Kremlin spokesperson declined to disprove the report by Agentstvo when asked by CNN. I cant. You shouldnt listen to the Agenstvo media outlet. Please address these questions to the Ministry of Defense.
Peskov said Chubais had not been a full-time government employee and was working on a voluntary basis.
Shoigu reportedly claimed that despite sanctions on Russia, the level of execution of state contracts is at 85. Outside observers have expressed skepticism that Russia can continue to produce high-tech weaponry amid severe international sanctions, particularly if procurement of some technology by Russia is restricted.
In addition, Shoigu spoke about legal changes that would guarantee government support to Russian troops who have fought in Ukraine, TASS reported.
All is going according to the plan, we report to you here every day this week, Shoigu said.
Russian military leaders, including Shoigu, have been stonewalling their US counterparts, declining calls since the invasion began, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement Thursday. He added that US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mark A. Milley, have sought, and continue to seek, calls with their Russian counterparts. Minister Shoigu and General Valery Gerasimov have so far declined to engage.
The speculation over Shoigus health emerged as a longstanding Russian government insider, Anatoly Chubais, became the highest-profile Kremlin figure to resign since the war began a month ago.
Those who are appointed by presidential decree write resignation letters addressed to Putin, he added.
The defense minister also asked Putin for more weapons to arm the separatist regions in Ukraines Donbas.
Shoigu, a close ally of President Vladimir Putin, has kept a low profile recently despite having a leading role in Russias invasion of Ukraine. The independent investigative Russian outlet Agentstvo reported Wednesday that Shoigu was in poor health, citing anonymous sources in the ministry.
CNN has previously reported that the last known time Austin last spoke with Shoigu was on February 18. Milley last spoke to Gerasimov on February 11.
During a televised Security Council Meeting in Russia on March 11, Shoigu told Putin that its invasion of Ukraine was being carried out successfully, despite evidence to the contrary.
