Belarus claims to have shot down Ukrainian missiles
20220703
http://krdo.com/news/national-world/cnn-world/2022/07/03/belarus-claims-to-have-shot-down-ukrainian-missiles/
Meanwhile, the governor of the Russian city of Belgorod  which lies near to the Ukrainian border  said at least three people had been killed and dozens of residential buildings damaged by explosions early on Sunday morning.
Thank God, the Pantsir anti-aircraft systems managed to intercept all the missiles launched by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lukashenko said in comments that appeared on his presidential website on Saturday and were also published by state-run news agency Belta.
Russian President Putin has said that sanctions and unprecedented political and social pressure from the West are speeding up his countrys reunification plans with Belarus.
Without providing any evidence of the alleged attack, Lukashenko  a close ally of Russian leader Vladimir Putin  called the act a provocation.
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has accused Ukraine of firing missiles at military facilities on his countrys territory.
The Ukrainian military did not immediately respond to CNNs requests for comment on Lukashenkos claims.
The blast also destroyed five houses and damaged 11 apartment buildings and 34 private residential houses, he said.
Gladkov said the cause of the explosions was being investigated and that the regions air defense systems had presumably worked.
Russian officials have repeatedly accused Ukraine of mounting cross border attacks  usually on fuel depots and military installations  claims Ukrainian government agencies say are intended to stoke anti-Ukrainian sentiment.
As recently as last week, six Russian Backfire bombers flying over Belarusian airspace launched 12 Kh-22 cruise missiles which hit targets in Kyiv, Chernihiv and Sumy Oblast, according to Ukraines Air Force Command.
Formerly under Soviet control until declaring its sovereignty in 1990, Belarus remains one of Russias closest allies and has played a key role in its invasion of Ukraine  despite Lukashenko saying previously his country was being dragged into the war.
Russian troops launched the invasion on February 24 crossing into Ukraine from Belarus after months amassing along Ukraines border. In the first days of the assault, Russian Tu-22 Backfire bombers used Belarusian airspace to launch coordinated cruise missile attacks on targets within Ukraine, and NATO officials told CNN in March that the vast majority of Russian air operations in Ukraine are launched from Belarus.
