Putins speech was shocking to many but not to people in Kyiv
20220222
https://krdo.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/02/22/putins-speech-was-shocking-to-many-but-not-to-people-in-kyiv/
Cherepanova said Putins address, as creepy as it was, made little difference to her daily life.
Kateryna Cherepanova, a 38-year-old from the Khmelnytskyi region of western Ukraine, said the speech Putin delivered on Monday was disgusting.
I have two sons and grandchildren, I dont want them to go to war, she said. Shevel said her mother is originally from Russia and so she has relatives in the Altai region, near Russias borders with Kazakhstan and Mongolia.
A crowd of protesters gathered in front of the Russian embassy on Tuesday afternoon, waving Ukrainian flags and posters with anti-Russian messages.
Olga Shevel came to Kyiv early on Tuesday morning from Fastiv, a town 50 miles southwest of the capital.
And then the young boys are being conscripted and they dont even know where they are going, she added. Ive seen a picture of the Russian soldiers, very young boys  somewhere in Rostov region in some kind of a hut or a tent lying on the floor, just on the tiles, sleeping. As a mother I felt sorry for them, she said.
Its been like this for 15 years. He has always been lying. This is not diplomacy, its just idiocy, Kyiv resident Nina Vasylenko told CNN.
Asked what shed like the West to do, she replied: They can invite Ukraine into NATO. Or the European Union. Or put really strict sanctions on Russia and stop trading with Russia and block the new gas pipeline, she added.
Based on his reaction to Ukraine acting as a sovereign country, we can expect anything from him, he said. Dymchuk, 33, has friends in the Vinnytsia region to the west of Kyiv and plans to send his family there if the capital becomes dangerous.
Dymchuk added that he would stay in Kyiv, doing what he said was his duty as a member of Ukraines Territorial Defense Forces, the reserve forces of Ukraines military. His unit, like many across the country, has ramped up its training in recent weeks.
Weve had the war for eight years, now its official, she added. One thing she is contemplating though is switching from speaking Russian to Ukrainian. Cherepanova grew up speaking Russian  as many Ukrainians do. Its a symbolic thing, she said.
Waiting for a bus with her friend and former classmate Ala Bovtun, Vasylenko, who said she was 60 years old, said the fact Putin had officially recognized two breakaway territories in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine as independent makes no difference.
In a park next to European Square in Kyiv, an impromptu performance by popular Ukrainian rock band Okean Elzy attracted a small crowd of people. Many joined in and sang along the chorus of one of their biggest hits: Everything will be good.
The morning after Russian President Vladimir Putin suggested that Ukraine had no right to exist as an independent state, many in the countrys capital, Kyiv, appeared glad to see the world waking up to a reality theyve been living for years.
It was crazy, but we were not shocked, he repeated what he wrote before, his imaginary history. I just hope that Russian people were shocked if they were listening to him, because it was so crazy, so surreal, she said.
Putin does not understand what democracy and diplomacy are, his idea is: This is mine and I have to take it. He wants to take Ukraine, thats what he says  My belle,' Bovtun said, referring to Putins crude remark about Ukraine last week.
We saw a lot of tanks moving, one after another, the whole column of military machinery moving towards Kyiv on the Zhytomyr highway. So that made me feel quite anxious, she said.
While Ukraines political leaders responded with strong words to the events of Monday night, the reaction on the streets of Kyiv was more muted.
But I think that most European countries and the US already knew what was going on, she added. They didnt want to get into a conflict with Russia, they just wanted to get the oil and gas. The slogans about justice, they are just slogans.
In a cafe near Kyivs Saint Sophia Cathedral, Ivan Dymchuk was enjoying a break in the midday sun. He said Putins speech had made him a bit more worried.
Cherepanova said she was hoping that listening to Putins grievance-packed speech would inspire Western countries to send help to Ukraine.
Later Tuesday, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz announced that he had halted approval of the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline in response to Moscows actions in eastern Ukraine.
I think now is a good moment for the West to help us. Not by words, but by actions. But I dont think that it will be something more meaningful than just deep concerns and all that stuff, she said.
