Ukraines security service hunts the spies selling information to Russia
20220517
https://krdo.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/05/16/ukraines-security-service-hunts-the-spies-selling-information-to-russia/
Got it, got it, the suspect replied. Ill text you back. One and a half to two hours.
There are fewer and fewer ideological traitors, he says. Even those who supported the aggression of the Russian federation in 2014 in the Donbas, during the creation of the so-called DPR and LPR Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics  when they saw what happened with Mariupol, Kharkiv, Kyiv, Bucha and dozens and hundreds of other localities, they started to change their world view about Russia.
Ok, waiting, Nikolai replied. Be careful. Pay attention to the cameras so they dont see you. Take photos and videos secretly.
These missiles come at the coordinates which are transmitted by such criminals, he tells us back at headquarters. People die because of these missiles. Our soldiers are killed, and civilians are killed.
Every time I arrest someone like him, I know one thing: Im from here myself. My loved ones, all my relatives, are from Lyman  a nearby town that has been under heavy Russian bombardment for weeks  he says.
In eastern Ukraine, the thuds of duelling Russian and Ukrainian artillery are a near-constant presence. Much of the Russian shelling is indiscriminate, but some is aimed at high-value targets like military encampments, arms depots, or the SBUs own headquarters in Kramatorsk, which was partially destroyed in the opening weeks of the war.
He says he tries to keep his anger at bay, but its hard not to take the betrayals personally.
On a dusty street in the eastern Ukrainian town of Sloviansk, a man in a long-sleeved black shirt and cargo pants smokes a cigarette. Hes being watched.
Hes ours, a man says into a radio from his car down the road. Here he goes.
When confronted by an SBU investigator on the scene, the suspect quickly admits to communicating with the enemy.
From the other direction, a van swerves, and two men in combat fatigues and face coverings jump out. The man in black drops to the ground, as if by instinct. The officers  from Ukraines security service, or SBU  pat him down and retrieve their prized evidence: His mobile phone.
With that, the man is led to the SBUs unmarked car, and driven away. Serhiy says he will be transferred west, to Dnipro, where he will face trial. If it is proven that his spying led to death or severe consequences, a conviction could send him to prison for the rest of his life, Serhiy says.
Some of the suspects are classic infiltrators: Russian citizens, brought to the Donbas region at the beginning of the war, who live among the population. Others are political sympathizers. But the man leading todays sting, who were calling Serhiy, says most people spy for money.
The SBU here say theyre carrying out stings like this once or twice a day. This man has been under investigation for just four days.
The SBU says Russian forces rely heavily on collaborators like the alleged spy CNN saw being arrested in Sloviansk this weekend to pinpoint their targets and evaluate the success of their hits.
You did a good job yesterday, wrote Nikolai. The same information is needed today. Photos, videos, geo-data of the military on the CNIL a military encampment. How long does it take to get the information?
The suspect this weekend tells the investigator that he was offered just 500 hryvnia, or around 17 dollars, in exchange for targeting information. He says he was recruited through the messaging app Telegram by someone identifying himself as Nikolai.
Coordinates, movements and so on, the suspect says, head downcast. The locations of the hits. That sort of thing. The situation in general, and so on.
At the moment, they have no place to live, they have nothing. They have nowhere to come back to. I remember it every time. I remember the Kramatorsk railway station every time, he says, referring to a Russian airstrike in April that killed at least 50 people.
