Ukraine will not accept concessions to Russia Foreign Minister says
20220125
https://krdo.com/news/national-world/cnn-europe-mideast-africa/2022/01/25/ukraine-will-not-accept-concessions-to-russia-foreign-minister-says-2/
Kuleba called the USs plan to reduce staff levels at its embassy in Kyiv, beginning with the departure of nonessential staff and family members, premature.
Ukraine has warned that Russia is trying to destabilize the country ahead of any planned military invasion. Western powers have repeatedly warned Russia against further aggressive moves against Ukraine.
First, President Biden is personally committed to Ukraine. He knows this country, and he doesnt want Russia to destroy it, said Kuleba.
If we learned anything since 2014, its that its flawed logic to handle President Putin from the perspective: Lets do nothing in order not to make him angry. This is not how it works, he said. Strength, resolve, deterrence these are the three elements that work with Putin, he respects strength, this is the fact.
Kuleba praised the decision and rejected suggestions that the move could anger Putin and escalate the crisis further.
We have to be smart, we have to be reasonable, but we have to be strong, said Kuleba. If he feels the slightest signs of weakness, it will only prompt him to further escalate and to resort to war. And thats what we have to avoid.
Kuleba said he has no doubts about the USs commitment to defending Ukraine, despite comments from President Joe Biden suggesting that a minor incursion by Russian troops might not lead to a severe response from the NATO military alliance.
On Monday around 8,500 US troops were placed on heightened alert for possible deployment to Eastern Europe.
He put himself in this situation, no one else pushed him in that deadlock, Kuleba said. The set of demands put forward by Russia is designed in a way that if Russia is willing to act in good faith, there is a possibility to walk out of the negotiating room and say we made a deal.
We paid a lot  including 15,000 lives of our citizens  to secure the right to decide our own future, our own destiny, he insisted.
Kuleba emphasized that the country would not accept any compromises aimed at placating Russian President Vladimir Putin, amid fears Russia may be planning to invade Ukraine  something Moscow denies.
He said he respected every countrys right to protect its citizens, but added that an evacuation spreads panic and plays into Putins aim to destabilize Ukraine from the inside and to make us weaker without resorting to military force.
Russia has asked the US and NATO for certain security guarantees, including binding pledges that NATO wont admit Ukraine or expand further east. Putin has emphasized that these demands are not an ultimatum, and Kuleba believes Russia is willing to talk.
The Kremlin denies it is planning to attack and argues that NATO support for Ukraine  including increased weapons supplies and military training  constitutes a growing threat on Russias western flank.
Kuleba believes Putin has shot himself in the foot with the troop build-up, adding that there is very little Moscow can gain from the current situation that would save face.
Second, we heard from those US officials, speaking openly to the media, but also speaking to me and to other Ukrainian officials directly on the phone, that the United States will remain absolutely committed to slashing Russia if any type of incursion, invasion, interference takes place, he added.
Ukraine will not allow anyone to impose any concessions on us as part of efforts to de-escalate the threat of conflict with Russia, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told CNN in an exclusive interview Tuesday.
If anyone makes a concession on Ukraine, behind Ukraines back, first, we will not accept that. We will not be in the position of the country that picks up the phone, hears the instruction of the big power and follows it, said Kuleba.
