White House says its no longer calling potential Russian invasion of Ukraine imminent
20220126
https://krdo.com/politics/cnn-us-politics/2022/02/02/white-house-says-its-no-longer-calling-potential-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-imminent-2/
Biden himself has predicted Putin will ultimately decide to launch an invasion, though has acknowledged the uncertainty surrounding the situation and said even Putins top aides are likely in the dark about the Russian Presidents intentions.
Yet even sending troops to countries not under current threat from Russia will draw the ire of Putin, who has made known his concerns about NATO and US forces being deployed in former Soviet states.
Officials said Bidens decision to deploy troops to Europe, made following a lengthy briefing from top Pentagon officials on Tuesday, was not sparked by a particular event over the past days.
There is a feeling abroad that there is war here. Thats not the case, Zelensky said during a news conference last Friday.
Ukrainian officials said privately it would be more productive for the United States to apply sanctions before a Russian attack than to warn of impending war.
It wasnt clear when or where US and Russian officials would resume negotiations over each sides security concerns, even as both Washington and Moscow indicate a preference for a diplomatic solution.
Instead, they said it was the result of continued consultations with European allies about security needs in the region. And they made explicit the troops would not be sent into Ukraine itself to defend the country from Russian aggression.
I used that once. I think others have used that once. And then we stopped using it because I think it sent a message that we werent intending to send, which was that we knew Russian President Vladimir Putin had made a decision, press secretary Jen Psaki said during a briefing Wednesday.
On Wednesday, Psaki said shed only used the word imminent once, but wouldnt going forward.
No, I would not say that we are arguing that its imminent because were still pursuing a diplomatic solution to give the Russians an off-ramp. Our hope is that this will work and that Putin will understand that war and confrontation is not the path that he wants to follow, but he wants to take a path at diplomacy, she told NPR.
On Wednesday, after the Pentagon announced the new deployments to Poland, Romania and Germany, the White House downplayed the suggestion the move could be viewed as escalating tensions.
The discrepancy caused some frustrations to break into the open. Last week, Psakis description of an attack as imminent drew anger in Kyiv. Ukrainian officials, including Zelensky, disagreed, and said the descriptions could cause panic and economic turmoil.
The White House says it will no longer describe a potential Russian invasion of Ukraine as imminent, suggesting the word sent an unintended message when officials used it last week.
The decision to discontinue the use of imminent came after a rift emerged between US and Ukrainian officials over how best to describe the threat from Russia. While Biden and his senior officials have warned Putin could order troops over the border at any moment, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has downplayed the prospects of imminent war.
Kyiv would find more value in taking active deterrent measures such as immediate sanctions against Nord Stream than the persistent verbal warnings predicting imminent war for the last couple months that provide no deterrent, and are actually unintentionally negatively impacting the Ukrainian economy, an adviser to Zelensky said, referring to the Russia-Germany gas pipeline Nord Stream 2.
Biden, in turn, has deployed 3,000 US troops to Eastern Europe in a bid to reassure NATO allies of the continued American commitment to their security.
Whats important to be very clear about here is theres one aggressor here. That aggressor is Russia, Psaki said.
Other American officials have also avoided the term in recent days. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the US ambassador to the United Nations, said in an interview Tuesday that a Russian invasion of Ukraine isnt imminent because the US is still seeking to provide Russia with a diplomatic off-ramp.
Still, the shift in language did not suggest new optimism that Russia was preparing to pull back the 100,000 troops it has amassed at Ukraines border. While Putin said during his own news conference Tuesday he was open to continuing talks, there was little in his remarks to indicate a plan to stand down.
I would say the vast majority of times Ive talked about it, we said he could invade at any time, she went on. Thats true. We still dont know that hes made a decision.
