Avoiding crisis between Russia and Ukraine
20220219
https://chicago.suntimes.com/columnists/2022/2/19/22941358/avoiding-crisis-between-russia-ukraine-column-jesse-jackson
Whats needed now is for the people of Russia, Europe and the U.S. to make it clear to their leaders there is no appetite for war or for economic recession  and demand their leaders find a way out of this mess. War over Ukraine would be tragic and absurd. Sadly, it would not be the first nor the last war like that.
Russia provides over 40 of Europes natural gas and over 25 of its oil. If sanctions were to disrupt that, it would devastate the Russian economy but also that of Germany and the rest of the U.S.s European allies. The U.S. would feel the impact, as oil and gas prices soar.
Although Biden has ruled out the use of U.S. troops in Ukraines defense, Russian and U.S. military aircraft now jockey dangerously close to the Black Sea. Sanctions themselves, if implemented, would blow up the economy of Europe and quite possibly the world. Before we find ourselves in a war we dont want, it is time for some common sense.
Then the U.S. was complicit in street protests that led to the overthrow of a democratically elected, if massively corrupt, Ukrainian leader who was leaning toward joining the Russian economic zone. When that happened, Putin dispatched forces to take Crimea and secure its base on the Black Sea. U.S. and its allies then imposed the first level of sanctions.
Ukraine has been intertwined with the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union for centuries. Pundits suggest that Ukraine joining NATO would be like Mexico entering a military alliance with China. The real analogy would be Texas seceding from the U.S. and entering a military alliance with China. For all the Biden rhetoric decrying spheres of influence, no American president would allow that. It isnt surprising that once Russia began to recover its strength, any Russian leader would seek to stop Ukraine from joining NATO.
Were risking war or economic disruption because admitting that Ukraine wont be part of NATO would be seen as backing down to Putins threats. Biden would be savaged by hawks in both parties. Pundits argue that American credibility would be shot, that China would be emboldened to take Taiwan, and that NATO  if it acknowledged publicly what its actual policy is  would be finished.
The crisis over Ukraine is on the verge of boiling over. Russia has amassed troops on the Ukrainian border, demanding the U.S. promise not to bring Ukraine into NATO. The Biden administration rejects that demand and warns a Russian invasion will be met with harsh economic sanctions.
The NATO alliance provides any one member the virtual guarantee that all will come to its defense if it is attacked. Needless to say, the alliance doesnt and cant accept every country that wants in. If it did, the guarantee would mean nothing. So, why Ukraine?
Obama, Trump and Biden have all made it clear the U.S. wont defend Ukraine militarily. In fact, Ukraine is unlikely ever to be asked to join NATO. With Russia controlling Crimea, Ukraines borders are in dispute, making it ineligible by NATOs own rules. Ukraines economy is a basket case, and its politics are utterly corrupt. Over the last 30 years, it has had, by far, the worst economic record of any country in Europe. Ultra-nationalists and neo-fascists are a powerful force driving the current confrontation.
The Biden administration says it stands for the principles that any sovereign nation should determine its own course and that NATO will retain an open-door policy. These are fine propositions that dont answer the question about NATOs policy.
Ukrainians would suffer the most from war and economic disruption. The best resolution would be for Ukraines government to accept it has to find a way to live with its powerful neighbor and also announce it wont seek to join NATO, if Russia affirms its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine essentially agreed on that proposition in the so-called Minsk Accords  but Ukraine and Russia cant agree on who makes the first steps to finalize the deal.
Putin is a brutal authoritarian who has warned for over a decade that Ukraine must not be allowed in NATO. The U.S. ignored reassurances made by previous Russian leaders that NATO would not expand after the Cold War ended and the Soviet Union collapsed.
