Chicagoan home after escaping war in Ukraine Im incredibly lucky
20220619
https://chicago.suntimes.com/news/2022/6/19/23161819/ukraine-russia-invasion-war-chicago-woman-trapped-parents-olga-tsoi
Olga Tsoi called the reported war crimes terrifying and awful, saying it is difficult to watch people from her home subjugated to such atrocities, whether she knows the people involved or not.
I always get so happy when I come home to Chicago, and thats how I felt when I landed, Tsoi said. But I also must acknowledge Im incredibly lucky. Like, Im able to come back to my apartment just how I left it. All my things are intact and not in shambles. So many Ukrainians are left with nothing right now.
The war, now past 100 days old, has displaced over 6.5 million Ukrainians, many into neighboring countries, including Poland, according to estimates from The UN Refugee Agency.
Just a few days before she was finally set to fly back to Chicago,  she was awakened by the explosions of Russian bombs hitting Kyiv.
Refugees wait in a crowd for transportation after fleeing from the Ukraine and arriving at the border crossing in Medyka, Poland, in March.
She did this all with her mother, Oksana Tsoi, at her side  and Olga pledged she would bring her back to the United States with her. But the Rogers Park resident soon realized that was untenable.
Workers are shown in June, beginning to remove debris from a Kyiv apartment building that was hit by a Russian missile in March.
Her mother, meanwhile, will be moving to Toronto, where another daughter has just relocated in the wake of the war. Olga Tsoi takes comfort in knowing her mom has family in Toronto and is only a two-hour flight away.
After making it to Poland with her mother, Tsoi spent 90 days there, working in soup kitchens and delivering bags of groceries to families in need. She helped find housing for families by putting them up in hotels and tried her best to help those displaced develop a course of action  such as where they could relocate.
While Olga Tsoi was in Krakow, Poland, she worked at a soup kitchen and helped deliver food to families.
Thats how she returned to Chicago alone after exhausting the amount of time she was allowed to stay in Europe as a U.S. resident. Returning to Chicago was somewhat bittersweet.
It wasnt until April 25 that the United States launched its program to welcome up to 100,000 Ukrainian refugees  two months after the invasion.
She had not arrived in Poland by choice. Home for a visit to her native Ukraine, shed fled when Russian forces invaded in February.
Russia had launched its attack just before sunrise, with artillery strikes hitting Kyiv and other major cities.
Last week, Olga Tsoi boarded a plane in Poland, headed home to Chicago after escaping Ukraine.
Refugees seeking shelter, as Olga Tsoi of Rogers Park and her mother did, inside a bomb shelter in the basement of a school in Kyiv, Ukraine, hours after Russia launched airstrikes on the city in February.
Olga Tsoi left helps distribute meals to refugees from Ukraine at a facility in Krakow, Poland.
She said those very things couldve happened to her and her mother, who were stuck in a bomb shelter at the beginning of the invasion. Had they not found a way out of Kyiv, Tsoi said, they planned to stay at her sisters apartment, which they considered safe.
We kept waiting, waiting, waiting, and by the time the United States said we could do some sort of sponsorship, we decided to get my mom into Canada, Tsoi said. Im moving my mom to Canada because, first, it was faster, and if she came to the U.S., there were more restrictions, like she could only stay for two years and wouldnt be able to go back to Ukraine.
She lives in Rogers Park but grew up in Ukraine and was back there to spend the holidays with her mother just before the war. She had knee surgery while there, and her recovery took longer than expected, forcing her to stay longer than planned.
Instead, that apartment building was raided by Russian troops, who tore down doors, destroying personal items they found inside. The building now is unrecognizable, Olga Tsoi said.
In my head I thought  because Poland right away opened its borders to Ukrainians  I thought every country was going to be the same, Olga Tsoi said. I figured I was just going to take my mom home to the United States and, well, thats not how it works.
In Bucha, a city just outside of Kyiv, there were reports of people being killed by the Russian troops were occupying the territory for some time. There were bodies found burned, some with hands bound, according to the Associated Press.
Countries across the globe were quick to condemn the invasion of Ukraine, and within weeks Russia was accused of committing war crimes for deliberately attacking dozens of hospitals throughout the country. Russian soldiers were also accused of committing sexual violence against Ukrainian women and executing civilians.
