Chicagoan trapped in wartorn Ukraine makes it to Poland
20220301
https://chicago.suntimes.com/2022/2/28/22955838/russia-invasion-ukraine-war-chicagoan-trapped-poland
Now, they need to get to the United States embassy in Warsaw so Tsois mother can seek asylum and come back with her to Chicago.
First, when they were awakened from their sleep as bombs and missiles landed near their apartment in Kyiv, they needed to find a bomb shelter.
I still dont think it has hit her just yet, Tsoi said. Like, she still is thinking this is temporary or just some sort of phase. She is still talking about how she forgot to water the plants in her apartment and that she hopes they dont die when she gets back.
She and her mother are among more than 500,000 refugees who have fled Ukraine since Russia launched its war.
It feels like it hasnt stopped, like its just been one long day  I mean we still havent really slept, Olga Tsoi of Rogers Park told the Chicago Sun-Times Monday. We are here now, but your brain hasnt settled because you are constantly thinking about the next goal, and with each of those goals you have tunnel vision, which takes all your mental fortitude to accomplish it.
She said having a goal-by-goal mentality is how she and her mother Oksana Tsoi got out of Ukraine and made it to Krakw, Poland.
But it is hard for Tsoi to feel relieved in this moment. The rest of her family is still in Ukraine. And her home is still under attack.
They found one in a nearby schools basement. Then, when they decided to flee the country, they focused on finding a bus and getting to Lviv. After that, it was time to get to the border of Poland and western Ukraine.
I cant just deliver food to him, you know? Tsoi said. We are constantly checking in on our loved ones, just hoping they are OK and safe.
Tsoi, 31, grew up in Ukraine. Visiting family there and recovering from recent knee surgery, she was supposed to return to Chicago days before Russia sent troops and tanks into Ukraine.
Tsoi and her mother havent figured out how they will get to Warsaw, which is about 180 miles away. They are fortunate to be at a hotel where they have warm showers and a hot meal.
A Chicago woman who was trapped in Ukraine by Russias invasion of the country has made it to Poland  but she says the journey for her and her mother is only beginning.
Her father and other relatives werent able to get out in time in southern Ukraine. They live in Kherson, which has been completely blocked off by Russian military as it continues to make an offensive push in the south.
