Ukrainians in Chicago protest Russian invasion Pray For Peace Pray for Ukraine
20220224
https://chicago.suntimes.com/2022/2/24/22949164/ukrainians-chicago-protest-russian-invasion-ukraine
Aleksey Graboviy, 30, an investment banker and attorney from Bucktown, said his mothers cousin is a medic in Ukraines military.
They were met with nonstop honks of approval from motorists on the Kennedy Expressway below.
About 54,000 people of Ukrainian heritage live in the Chicago area, according to the Census Bureau. Bandriwsky said a good portion of them live in the city, but also in Palatine and towns along Cumberland Road from Park Ridge to Elmwood Park.
I feel like I am there right now. Im texting them every hour to make sure theyre safe, she said, noting they hadnt seen any signs of war yet.
We do not want war. We just want to live in a peaceful democratic country. But we will fight for our country and never give up, she said.
Everyone is texting me Youre so lucky you got out and I am, I guess, but I just dont feel like that, she said.
Oleksiy Vynnytskyy, 28, an urgent care nurse from Wheeling, attended the protest with his sister,Anastasiya, and his wife and two kids.
We want to show that the people in our country are not alone, the whole world is withthem, said Anastasiya Vynnytskyy, 25, a medical student from Mundelein.
I dont know whats worse, being over there and being in danger or being here and knowing that we cant do anything, really, he said.
This is an existential battle for democracy, not simply for Ukraine, but all the values we hold very dear here in the West, said Pavlo Bandriwsky, vice president of the Ukrainian Congress Committee of AmericaIllinois Division. The organization is based at the Ukrainian Cultural Center on Chicago Avenue.
We cant imagine that Putin wont respond here, Quigley said, noting Russia could hit the United States with various cold war tactics or cyberattacks.
U.S. Rep. Mike Quigley attended the gathering outside Saints Volodymyr  Olha Ukrainian Catholic Church and emphasized the importance of imposing crippling sanctions against Russia.
I was talking to my niece whos in Ukraine this morning, theyre hearing bombs going off. They live nearthe city of Lviv in western Ukraine not far from an airport that was targeted, said Bandriwsky, a retired financial services executive from the Northwest Side.
If my family had stayed in Ukraine I wouldhave been drafted and gone willingly and I would be fighting right now, and its insane to think that there are so many like me that are doing this and are getting killed now by obviously a superior military force, he said.
In Ukraine right now the whole nation is treating each other like brothers and sisters, theyre trying not to panic, trying to keep their mind cold, because they realize this is war, she said. Like this is actually happening. I talk to my friends and its hard for them to believethis is happening. Theyre like Were like in the 21st century and were entering war in Europe? Its just like incredible to put in your mind.
The reason Im bringing all this up is not to diminish the horrors that our Ukrainian friends are experiencing but to wake Americans up, that they must play a role. They need to understand thesacrifice that will be involved and that we need to give Ukraine all of the military assets they need for ultimate victory.
We talked to him last night and he was so calm. It was strange. He said it was because it hasnt been a question of if there would be an invasion, it was a question of when, and he said, Now well do the best we can.
Ukraine wants to have a democratic, independent, sovereign nation, he said. We want to live like normal people. Ukrainians have been under Moscow subjugation before, theysuffered under the Communist regime for decades. Ukrainians dont want that life. They want to live like we do in the West. They want rule of law. They want the opportunity for economicgrowth and the chance to raise their children in a solid environment. And its our obligation to help them with that.
A crowd of about 200 people demonstrated Thursday outside Saints Volodymyr  Olha Ukrainian Catholic Church against Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Natalie Vivsyana, 23, is a ballroom dance instructor who lives in Schaumburg. Her twin sister and parents live nearLviv in western Ukraine.
At a separate protest in Ukrainian Village Thursday afternoon, Koledov Serhiy, consul general of Ukraine in Chicago, told a crowd of about 200, My American friends, today a new world ... we will defend our soil.
Valentin Balaban, 25, lives in Ukrainian Village, where he grew up, and said hes worried about his 33-year-old sister who lives in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine.
Leaders in his hometown in western Ukraine have asked anyone able and willing to carry a gun to join in defending thecommunity, he said. His parents work in a medical facility and will be there to help any wounded, he said.
She told me she woke up to the vibration of their windows, said Balaban, who works in sales. Its reallyhard to evacuate Kyiv right now. Shes actually stationed in a bunker right now with my nephew.
Waving flags of blue and yellow, about 100 Ukrainians gathered on the Harlem Avenue overpass Thursday morning to protest the Russian invasion of their homeland.
This is not a war between the Russian people and our people. ... This is a war between one crazy guy and his group and our country, he said, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
