Just One Course  to Save Ukraine Ukrainians in South Florida React to Bidens State of the Union
20220302
https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/local/just-one-course-to-save-ukraine-ukrainians-in-south-florida-react-to-bidens-state-of-the-union/2703509/
Ukrainians in South Florida and across the country very closely watched what President Joe Biden had to say during his State of the Union address Tuesday.
I was expecting that the President and the community were going to give more protection to Ukraine, Nesterova said.
Of course we are absolutely grateful to the United States, Lemesh said.  But we dont know whats in Putins mind  Pushing the nuclear button is an option for Putin, and it doesnt matter if Biden shelters the sky or he doesnt shelter the sky.
Biden said American troops will not fight Russian forces in Ukraine, but are standing at the ready in Europe should Russian troops invade NATO countries.
Julia Lemesh is president of nonprofit Ukrainian Global Scholars, and Ilona Nesterova is Mrs. Universe Ukraine 2021.
In addition to recapping the economic sanctions taken against Russia and President Vladimir Putin, Biden announced a DOJ task force targeting the crimes of Russian oligarchs.
Just one course, to save Ukraine, said Lemesh as she watched the presidents address. ... Thank you for blocking SWIFT!
My relatives are safe as far as this situation is unfolding, but I had first casualties amongst my friends, Lemesh said.
Britain, Ukraine, Russia, and the United States signed the Budapest Memorandum in 1994, which provided security promises for Ukraine after the country agreed to join the treaty.
While Lemesh and Nesterova say theyre grateful for Americas assistance, they requested a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
I understand that they decided to shelter everybody who is in NATO, but what about Ukraine? That is right at the border like a buffer between Russia and the peaceful world, Nesterova said.
However, American leaders have said a no-fly zone is not an option, fearing direct intervention with Russian forces in Ukraine could spark a worldwide conflict.
Nesterova discussed Ukraines decision to give up its arsenal of nuclear weapons and join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
NBC 6 sat down with two members of the local Ukrainian community as they watched Biden address everything from Russia's war against Ukraine, the American economy and the deadly coronavirus pandemic.
