More Than 90 of Ukrainians Believe Their Country Will Win the War Zelenskyy Warns of WWIII
20220320
https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/business/money-report/ukraines-zelenskyy-appeals-to-russians-officials-say-mariupol-art-school-bombed/2717839/
Sasse defended his vote against an omnibus legislation that included Ukraine aid, saying the aid totaled less than 1 of the package.
More than 90 of Ukrainians believe their country will win the war with Russia, a poll by local research institute Rating Group showed. The survey of 1,000 respondents also found that 74 support direct talks with Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
He said the Mariupol blockade "will go down in history" as a war crime. "To do such a thing with a peaceful city that the occupiers did is the terror that will be remembered even in centuries."
The council said the building was destroyed and "peaceful people are still under the rubble," adding that there were women, children and the elderly. CNBC and NBC News could not confirm if the report was accurate. "Information on the number of victims is being clarified," the council said on its official Telegram channel.
It doesn't appear that Beijing has yet provided any military assistance to Moscow or violated the economic sanctions on Russia, he said.
The United Nations says 10 million Ukrainians have fled their homes, including those who have left the country and others who remain within the border.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned that if peace talks with Russian leader Vladimir Putin fail, it would mean the start of a third global war.
Abramovich owns a 14,000-square-foot home on 200 acres in Snowmass, Colorado, near Aspen. The Russian billionaire bought the property in 2008 for $36.5 million. Abramovich also owns a 5,500-square-foot home in Snowmass Village, which he purchased in 2008 for $11.8 million.
The agency said it believes the actual number of casualties are "considerably higher," since information from areas with intense fighting is delayed and some reports are being corroborated.
Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv from the north-east have "stalled," according to the UK Defense Ministry's latest intelligence update.
Poland has received the bulk of the 3.3 million Ukrainians who have fled their country since the start of the war. According to the UN Refugee Agency, Poland has taken in more than two million Ukrainian refugees.
Struggling with a lack of supply of mega-homes near Aspen, real-estate brokers hungry for listings are likely trying to reach out to Abramovich to get him to sell, according to Riley Warwick, co-founder of Aspen-based brokerage team Saslove  Warwick at Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the country won't give up the two pro-Russian republics in the eastern region of the country or the Russian-annexed Crimea.
"This week again missiles and bombs have fallen on civilians, the elderly, children, and pregnant mothers. All this is inhuman!," he said. "Indeed, it is also sacrilegious because it goes against the sacredness of human life, and this comes before any strategy!"
Speaking to reporters a day after the U.S.-China meeting, Wang said Beijing will make its own assessmentof the situation in an objective and fair manner.
Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed about 14,700 Russian armed forces have been killed since the start of the invasion.
Russian officials say the missiles can reach targets some 1,240 miles away, according to the BBC.
A local resident retrieves what he can from his destroyed apartment, located in a five-story residential building that partially collapsed after shelling the day before.
At least an additional 1,459 people have been injured, including 98 children, from Feb. 24 through March 19, according to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Meanwhile, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a direct appeal to Moscow and the people of Russia, claiming 14,000 Russian soldiers have been killed since the invasion began. Zelenskyy also warned of dire consequences if ongoing ceasefire talks with Russia fail.
The move will limit the country's capacity to produce aluminum, "a critical export for Russia," said the statement.
He will meet with Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw to discuss the global response to the unfolding humanitarian and human rights crisis in Ukraine. Their bilateral meeting will take place after Biden's meetings with NATO allies, G-7 leaders and European Union leaders in Brussels.
The survey also found that 74 of respondents are supportive of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's direct talks with Russian leader Vladimir Putin, but 89 are against a temporary truce that doesn't include a Russian troop withdrawal.
"Both leaders stressed the continued importance of sanctions in exerting pressure on Putin and they condemned the abhorrent attacks on innocent civilians, following the appalling bombings in Mariupol," a Downing Street spokesperson wrote in a statement.
Russia's military claims it fired Kinzhalhypersonic missiles on Ukrainian targets again, this time hitting a fuel depot in Kostiantynivka, defense ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said in a statement posted to the Kremlin's Telegram channel, according to NBC News and the AP.
"You cannot just demand Ukraine to recognize some territories as republics, these compromises are simply wrong," Zelenskyy told CNN's Fareed Zakaria.
His comments came after the Friday meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and U.S President Joe Biden, during which Biden warned of "consequences" if China were to provide material support to the Kremlin in its war against Ukraine.
Ukraine, which has sought NATO membership since 2002, is bordered by four NATO allies Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. Poland currently hosts the majority of the troops from the 30-member alliance and has thus far taken the lion's share of refugees fleeing Putin's war.
President Joe Biden will not be visiting Ukraine during his upcoming Europe trip, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Twitter.
Russian progress 'significantly blunted' amid failure to control Ukraine airspace China says it's on the right side of history
Johnson also requested a battlefield assessment as well as an update on the ongoing negotiations between Ukrainian and Russian officials.
The rotations come after the director of the International Atomic Energy Agency warned he was "gravely concerned" with the difficult circumstances the staff was facing at the site.
The alliance, which has more than 140 warships at the ready as well as 130 aircraft on heightened alert, has previously warned Russian President Vladimir Putin that an attack on a NATO member state will be viewed as an attack on all, triggering the group's cornerstone Article 5.
Russia has used the idea of demilitarizing and "de-Nazifying" Ukraine as one of its pretexts for war. Zelenskyy, who is Jewish and whose family members were killed in the Holocaust, said the idea of Ukrainians being neo-Nazis is "laughable," but he fears what else Putin "is capable of doing for his mission."
"And you don't notice it? But there will only be more victims. As long as this war continues. Your war is against us, Russia against Ukraine. On our land," he said, according to an NBC News translation.
Ukraine's president made a direct appeal to Moscow and the people of Russia early on Sunday morning, claiming 14,000 Russian soldiers have been killed since the invasion began.
Rating Group polled 1,000 Ukrainians who are 18 years and above from all regions, except Crimea and Donbas.
Beijing has so far refrained from condemning Russia, and has refused to call the violence in Ukraine an "invasion."
Experts say a $50 million Colorado mansion owned by Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich would likely be among the first assets frozen if he is sanctioned by the White House in response to the war in Ukraine, CNBC's Robert Frank reports.
As of Saturday, 64 people were evacuated, according to a translation of a Facebook post. At the same time, 46 people volunteered to replace some of the employees to maintain an appropriate level of safety.
"Instead, Russia has increased its indiscriminate shelling of urban areas resulting in widespread destruction and large numbers of civilian casualties," the ministry said in a Twitter post.
"Lay down your arms," Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev, the director of the Russian National Center for Defense Management, said in a briefing distributed by Russia's defense ministry, according to Reuters. "All who lay down their arms are guaranteed safe passage out of Mariupol."
Russian bombs fell on an art school in the city of Mariupol where about 400 residents were in hiding, according to Mariupol's city council.
Konashenkov said Russia also launched cruise missiles from warships from the Caspian sea on the fuel depot strike.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that he planned to discuss advancing Ukraine's interests at the NATO and G-7 meetings this week, according to a Downing Street readout of the call.
"It's had the effect of him moving his forces into a wood chipper," Austin said of Russian President Vladimir Putin. "The Ukrainians have continued to attrite his forces and they've been very effective using the equipment we've provided them."
Last week, Canberra sanctioned two Russian oligarchs who have links to Australia's mining industry, Reuters reported. One was Oleg Deripaska, who holds a stake in Queensland Alumina, a joint venture between Rusal and Anglo-Australian mining company Rio Tinto.
"Putin is in an information bubble, I think this is an information bunker. It is so powerful, this bunker of information, that he really thinks that Ukrainians are neo-Nazis," Zelenskyy told CNN's Fareed Zakaria.
Biden is set to meet with European leaders at aNATO summit in Brussels on March 24. Biden's first trip to Europe since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine comes after Vice President Kamala Harris visited Poland and Romania. But some have been calling on Biden to visit Ukraine, after leaders from Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia visited the capital of Kyiv.
Russian forces have killed at least 902 civilians, including 75 children, since it began its invasion of Ukraine, the United Nations said.
The U.N. had initially predicted 4 million people would leave Ukraine to escape the violence.
He said Ukraine has until 5 a.m. Moscow time 10 a.m. ET on Sunday to lay down arms and accept its offer of humanitarian corridors. Mizintsev, without providing evidence, said Ukrainian "bandits," "neo-Nazis" and nationalists had engaged in "mass terror" in Mariupol, Reuters reports.
"The two leaders agreed to step up their direct communication even further in the days to come," the spokesperson added.
The bulk of Russia's forces remain more than 25 kilometers from the center of the city, according to the ministry.
Russia has demanded that Ukraine recognize the independence of Donetsk and Luhansk. It's also called on Ukraine to recognize Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014, as Russian territory.
Some 93 of Ukrainian survey respondents believe their country will win the war against Russia, according to a poll conducted by local research institute Rating Group.
"They cannot just say about their feelings that Ukraine is a betrayer or that we are neo-Nazis, because Russians are acting in the same manner as neo-Nazis at the moment," Zelenskyy said.
Nearly half of those surveyed hope the war will end over the next few weeks, while almost a quarter of the respondents believe the conflict will last several months.
"Forces advancing from the direction of Hostomel to the north-west have been repulsed by fierce Ukrainian resistance."
Prominent politicians and officials have sharply rebuked Boris Johnson after the British prime minister tried to draw comparisons between the war in Ukraine and the 2016 Brexit vote.
"There is no justification for this! I plead with the international community to truly commit to ending this abhorrent war," the Pope tweeted in English, Ukrainian and Russian.
China is on the right side of history with regard to the Ukraine crisis  and time will prove it, said Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, according to Chinese state media.
"The president is going to Europe, and he will be meeting with all of our partners and allies there. I have not seen any discussions of going into Ukraine. But you have to remember, we have discouraged Americans from going into Ukraine. This is a country at war, I can't imagine that that would be on the table," U.S. ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said earlier in the day on CNN's "State of the Union."
It warned there could be increased civilian casualties as Russia will likely "continue to use its heavy firepower to support assaults on urban areas as it looks to limit its own already considerable losses."
"We have always stood for maintaining peace and opposing war," Wang said, according to CGTN News.
Mizintsev also claimed in the briefing that humanitarian corridors for civilians would be opened to the east and the west out of Mariupol at 10 a.m. Moscow time 3 a.m. ET on Monday.
Speaking Saturday, Johnson said that it was theinstinct of Britons, like Ukrainians, to choose freedom. "I can give you a couple of famous recent examples. When the British people voted for Brexit, in such large, large numbers, I don't believe it was because they were remotely hostile to foreigners. It's because they wanted to be free to do things differently and for this country to be able to run itself," Johnson said.
And, according to Mariupol's city council, Russian bombs fell on an art school in the city where about 400 residents were in hiding.
President Joe Biden spoke to Xi for nearly two hours on Friday regarding the Russian invasion of Ukraine. He warned China of global backlash and "consequences" if Beijing helps Russia on its war against Ukraine.
The U.S. service members and NATO troops are currently deployed in neighboring NATO member countries and are not directly fighting with Russian forces inside Ukraine.
Ukraine's Prosecutor General Office tweeted Sunday saying 115 children have now died since the invasion began on Feb. 24.
Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said seven humanitarian corridors had been agreed for Sunday.
Civilians trapped in Mariupol city under Russian attacks, are evacuated in groups under the control of pro-Russian separatists. Men were being checked before being allowed to leave the city.
Several Australian ministries on Sunday jointly announced a ban on exports of alumina and aluminum ores including bauxite to Russia.
Reuters reports that the front lines between Ukrainian and Russian forces are "practically frozen," citing a video address by presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych. The reason for the stalemate is that Russia doesn't have enough combat strength to push further into Ukraine, he said.
The Hong Kong-listed shares of Rusal, a Russian aluminum producer, dropped by as much as 8.9 following an announcement by the Australian government that it would ban exports of alumina to Russia.
"The trip will be focused on continuing to rally the world in support of the Ukrainian people and against President Putin's invasion of Ukraine, but there are no plans to travel into Ukraine," Psaki said.
This is CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine. See below for the latest updates.
"If these attempts fail, that would mean that this is a third world war," Zelenskyy said in an interview with CNN's Fareed Zakaria that aired Sunday morning.
The comments were branded tasteless by opposition figures in the U.K., while former president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, said his words would offend Ukrainians.
"We will never accept any external coercion or pressure, and we will also oppose any groundless accusations or suspicions targeted against China," he added.
Since the Kremlin's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, NATO has readied 140,000 troops in the region and mobilized a colossal war chest of advanced military equipment in preparation.
The Australian government said it would ban exports of alumina and aluminum ores to Russia as part of its sanctions against the country for invading Ukraine.
In his latest speech, VolodymyrZelenskyy spoke in Russian saying: "This is 14,000 mothers ...This is 14,000 fathers. These are wives, these are children, relatives and friends."
It's been extremely difficult to pinpoint the number of Russian deaths. American intelligence estimates more than 7,000 Russian soldiers have been killed,The New York Timessaid Wednesday. Russia, meanwhile, has claimed fewer than 500 deaths, the paper reported.
Russia said it used the Kinzhal for the first time in combat on Saturday to target an ammunition depot in Western Ukraine. CNBC could not independently verify Russia's claims of using the missile.
Russia has made limited progress in capturing Ukraine's eastern cities even though the Kremlin continues to encircle a number of those cities, according to the latest intelligence by the U.K. Defense Ministry.
Russia's campaign now has "essentially stalled," with Putin being unable "to achieve the goals as rapidly as he wants to achieve them."
Pope Francis called Russia's attacks on Ukraine a "senseless massacre where every day there is a repetition of slaughter and atrocities.
One includes Mariupol to Zaporizhzhia in the Donetsk region, with private cars of Mariupol residents being refueled in Berdyansk on the way to Zaporizhzhia.
She alleged that Moscow has committed "nearly all possible war crimes that humanity has seen."
"I think that without negotiations we cannot end this war," Zelenskyy said. "If there is just 1 chance for us to stop this war, we need to take this chance."
Russia called on Ukrainian forces to lay down their arms in the eastern port city of Mariupol, Reuters reports.
The war in Ukraine has caused 10 million Ukrainians to flee their homes, including those who have left the country and others who remain within the border, the head of the U.N.'s refugee agency said.
"But they've not said no. And I think what the U.S. is trying to do is make sure that doesn't happen. And they just can't get a yes out of the Chinese or any kind promise," Kennedy told CNBC's "Squawk Box Asia" on Monday.
"Heavy fighting continues north of Kyiv," the ministry said, adding that the city "remains Russia's primary military objective" despite a continued lack of progress.
CNBC or NBC News has not independently verified the death toll. Estimates of Russian deaths have varied since the war started.
"We don't need to have fighter pilots in the air. We don't need to have boots on the ground inside Ukraine because Ukrainians have the will to fight," Sasse, a Republican and member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in an interview with "Fox News Sunday." "We need to have the will to rearm them constantly."
Olga Stefanishyna, Ukraine's deputy prime minister for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, spoke to Sky News this morning saying the situation in her country is growing "more and more severe."
Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse accused the Biden administration of moving too slowly on providing weapons to Ukraine as it tries to fight off Russian attacks.
The majority of casualties recorded have been caused by the use of explosive weapons with a "wide impact area," the agency said. That includes shelling from heavy artillery and air strikes.
Ukrainian and Russian officials have met intermittently for peace talks, which have failed to progress to key concessions. Still, Zelenksyy has called for another round of talks with Moscow.
Earlier Sunday, President Zelenskyy said in a televised address that more than 4,000 residents in the besieged city of Mariupol managed to leave for Zaporizhzhya.
More than 3.3 million people have fled the country as of Saturday, according to data from the U.N. The bulk of those have sough refuge in Poland, with others travelling to neighboring countries such as Romania, Moldova, Hungary and Slovakia.
"Over the past day there were practically no rocket strikes on Ukrainian cities," Arestovych said, according to Reuters.
She added: "The number of civilian victims is far more than those from the armed forces of Ukraine."
"Ukraine will resist as long as it is needed to make sure no terror, no genocide is committed on this land in the 21st century."
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pushed back against Russia's false claim the country needs to be "de-Nazified," saying President Vladimir Putin is extremely deep in a misinformation bubble.
President Joe Biden will be heading to Poland on Friday to discuss how to support Ukraine following "Russia's unjustified and unprovoked war on Ukraine," the White House said.
China does not want to take a strong position on Ukraine that could undermine Russia,said Scott Kennedy of Washington D.C.-based think tank Center for Strategic and International Studies.
The Russian government is essentially feeding its soldiers "into a wood chipper" as it continues its invasion on Ukraine, U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on CBS's "Face the Nation."
The Chornobyl Nuclear Plant said that some employees were able to rotate out or leave after having been forced to work for more than 3 weeks straight following the Russian takeover of the facility.
"Among the responsibilities of those who wage war, everywhere in the world, is the suffering inflicted on civilians who are forced to flee their homes," Filippo Grandi said on Twitter.
