Police More Than 900 Civilian Bodies Found in Kyiv Region
20220415
https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/national-international/zelenskyy-hails-ukrainians-resolve-50-days-into-invasion/2736861/
The bodies of more than 900 civilians have been discovered in the region surrounding the Ukrainian capital following Russia's withdrawal  most of them fatally shot, police said Friday, an indication that many people were "simply executed.
A flagship russian warship is a worthy diving site. We have one more diving spot in the Black Sea now. Will definitely visit the wreck after our victory in the war, Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov tweeted Friday in a boast.
According to Nebytov, utilities workers in Bucha gathered and buried bodies in the Kyiv suburb while it remained under Russian control. Russian troops, he added, were tracking down people who expressed strong pro-Ukrainian views.
Associated Press journalists in Kramatorsk heard the sound of a rocket or missile and then the blast, followed by sirens wailing Friday. It was not immediately clear what was hit or whether there were casualties. A day earlier, a factory in the same city was hit by an airstrike.
"Why the exhumation is being carried out and where the bodies will be taken is unknown, the council said on the Telegram messaging app.
The last time such a large warship sank in combat was 1982, when a British submarine torpedoed an Argentine navy cruiser called the ARA General Belgrano during the Falklands War, killing over 300 sailors.
The number and the scale of missile attacks on objects in Kyiv will be ramped up in response to the Kyiv nationalist regime committing any terrorist attacks or diversions on the Russian territory, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.
Ukrainian officials have not confirmed striking targets in Russia, and the reports could not be independently verified.
The Neptune is an anti-ship missile recently developed by Ukraine based on an earlier Soviet design.
The sinking reduces Russias firepower in the Black Sea, although military analysts disagreed on the event's significance to the course of the war. Either way, the loss was viewed as emblematic of Moscow's fortunes in an eight-week invasion widely seen asa historic blunderfollowing the retreat from the Kyiv region and much of northern Ukraine.
Fighting continued in industrial areas and the port, and Russia for the first time used the Tu-223 long-range bomber to attack the city, said Oleksandr Motuzyanyk, a spokesman for the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense.
Consequently, we understand that under the Russian occupation, people were simply executed in the streets, Nebytov said.
A renewed bombardment could mean a return to the steady wail of air raid sirens heard during the early days of theinvasionand to fearful nights sheltering in subway stations. Tentative signs of pre-war life have resurfaced in the capital after Russian troops failed to capture the city and retreated to concentrate on eastern Ukraine, leaving behind evidence ofpossible war crimes.
More violence could be in store for Kyiv after Russian authorities accused Ukraine of wounding seven people and damaging about 100 residential buildings with airstrikes in Bryansk, a region bordering Ukraine. Authorities in another border region of Russia also reported Ukrainian shelling Thursday.
Amid its threats, Moscow continued preparations for a renewed offensive in eastern Ukraine. Fighting also went on inthe pummeled southern port city of Mariupol, where locals reported seeing Russian troops digging up bodies. In the northeastern city of Kharkiv, shelling of a residential area killed seven people, including a 7-month-old child, and wounded 34, according to regional governor Oleh Sinehubov.
A large explosion also rocked the eastern city of Kramatorsk, where a missile strike on a train station a week earlier killed more than 50 people as thousands heeding warnings to evacuate the Donbas area waited to leave.
The jarring number emerged shortly after Russias Defense Ministry promised to step up missile attacks on Kyiv in response to Ukraines alleged assaults on Russian territory. That ominous warning followed the stunning loss of Moscow'sflagshipin the Black Sea, which a senior U.S. defense official said Friday was indeed hit by at least one Ukrainian missile.
Also Friday, a regional Ukrainian official said that seven people died and 27 were wounded after Russian forces opened fire on buses carrying civilians in the village of Borovaya, near the northeastern city of Kharkiv. The claim could not be independently verified.
In one central park, a small group of people including a woman draped in a Ukrainian flag danced to the music of a portable speaker.
The Russian Defense Ministry said Russian strikes in the Kharkiv region liquidated a squad of mercenaries from a Polish private military company of up to 30 people and liberated an iron and steel factory in Mariupol. The claims could not be independently verified.
Mariupols capture would allow Russian forces in the south, which came up through the annexed Crimean Peninsula, to fully link up with troops in the Donbas region, Ukraines eastern industrial heartland and the target of the looming offensive.
The Moskva, named for the Russian capital, then sank while being towed to port Thursday after taking heavy damage. Though Moscow did not acknowledge any attack, saying only that a fire had caused ammunition on board to detonate, the loss of the ship represents an important victory for Ukraine and a symbolic defeat for Russia.
News about the Moskva overshadowed Russian claims of advances in the southern port city of Mariupol, which Moscow's forces have blockaded since the early days of the invasion. Dwindling numbers of Ukrainian defenders have held out against a siege that has come ata horrific cost to trapped and starving civilians.
Around Kyiv, Andriy Nebytov, the head of the capital's regional police force, said bodies were abandoned in the streets or given temporary burials. He cited police data indicating 95 died from gunshot wounds.
However, Ukrainian officials said their forces did strike a key Russian warship with missiles. A senior U.S. defense official backed up the claim, saying the U.S. now believes the Moskva was hit by at least one, and probably two, Neptune missiles. Earlier, the Pentagon said it could not confirm the cause of the large fire aboard the guided-missile cruiser. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss an intelligence assessment.
Russia used missiles to destroy a facility for the repair and production of missile systems in Kyiv, Konashenkov said.
Dmytro Chubenko, a spokesman for the regional prosecutors office, told Ukraines Suspilne news website that Ukrainian authorities had opened criminal proceedings in connection with a suspected violation of the laws and customs of war, combined with premeditated murder.
More bodies are being found every day, under rubble and in mass graves, he added, with the largest number found in Bucha, where there were more than 350.
The Mariupol City Council said Friday that locals reported seeing Russian troops digging up bodies that were buried in residential courtyards and not allowing new burials of people killed by them.
Russia's warning of renewed airstrikes did not stop Kyiv residents from taking advantage of a sunny and slightly warmer spring Friday as the weekend approached. More people than usual were out on the streets, walking dogs, riding electric scooters and strolling hand in hand.
Mariupols mayor said this week that the city's death toll could surpass 20,000. Other Ukrainian officials have said they expect to find evidence in Mariupol of atrocities like the onesdiscovered in Buchaand other towns outside Kyiv.
Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces in the Donbas since 2014, the same year Russia seized Crimea from Ukraine. Russiahas recognized the independenceof two rebel-held areas of the region.
