Putin Blames the West for Ukraine War in Victory Day Speech
20220509
https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/business/money-report/putin-blames-the-west-for-ukraine-war-in-victory-day-speech/2755731/
Russia has not commented on the latest attack. Previously, it has denied targeting civilian infrastructure despite much evidence to the contrary.
Before the invasion, Russia had amassed almost 200,000 troops along its border with Ukraine  insisting all the while that it had no intention of invading. There was little evidence of military aggression from Ukraine toward Russia, but Moscow's claims to the contrary were seen by many as a pretext for justifying its attack.
Speaking ahead of a massive parade of troops, tanks and military hardware in Moscow, Putin claimed Russia's invasion of Ukraine had been necessary because the West was "preparing for the invasion of our land, including Crimea," according to comments translated by Reuters.
Putin has appeared unrepentant, however, vowing repeatedly to purge Ukraine of what he call its "Nazi" nationalist leadership  a baseless claim, widely discredited, that is seen as Putin's way of justifying the invasion to the domestic audience.
It was widely expected that Putin could use the speech to announce a victory in Ukraine or an all-out war on the country. Another possibility was even the mass mobilization of the Russian army and wider population, putting them on a wartime footing. Putin did not use the speech to announce any escalation, however, although his anti-Western rhetoric was as staunch as ever.
Fighting in the east appears to be ramping up, and this weekend Russia bombed a village school in eastern Ukraine where people were sheltering, killing about 60, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Sunday during an address to the G-7 leaders of the world's most industrial nations.
Putin referred to the Donbas numerous times throughout the speech, appearing to double down on Russia's new strategy of focusing on the "liberation" of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Zelenskyy, who is himself Jewish, released a video address Sunday which was filmed in front of semi-destroyed Ukrainian apartment blocks following Russian shelling. In it, the Ukrainian president said that evil had returned, but insisted his country would not lose the war. "Russia will lose, because evil always loses," he said.
It's unclear whether Putin was referring to Russia, or territory that Moscow considers to be Russian. This includes Crimea, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014, and the eastern Donbas region, where Donetsk and Luhansk  two pro-Russian self-proclaimed "republics"  are located.
"Defending the Motherland when its fate is being decided has always been sacred," he said. "Today you are fighting for our people in Donbas, for the security of Russia, our homeland."
The remarks came as Russia commemorates one of the most important events on its national calendar  Victory Day  marking the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War II.
Russia's invasion has prompted international condemnation and swathes of wide-ranging economic sanctions on the country's key sectors, companies and individuals connected to the Kremlin.
G-7 leaders vowed Sunday to further Russia's economic isolation and decried the invasion, saying in a statement that Putin's actions "bring shame on Russia and the historic sacrifices of its people," referring to the Soviet Union's role in defeating Nazi Germany.
The southern port city of Mariupol is particularly important to Putin as it would enable a land bridge between Russia and Crimea to be created, via the Donbas region.
The region has been home to some of the most intense fighting since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, including a number of likely war crimes, such as the shelling of a theater in Mariupol, where civilians were sheltering, killing hundreds of people.
Evoking that triumph in his speech Monday, Putin urged the Russian army toward victory in Ukraine, saying there was a duty to remember those who defeated Nazism.
President Vladimir Putin on Monday tried to defend Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine in his annual "Victory Day" speech, urging his forces on to victory while evoking Russia's triumph over Nazi Germany in World War II.
Putin provided no evidence for his claims, but used the speech to lambast NATO and Ukraine's allies, and justify what Russia claims is a "special military operation" in Ukraine.
