Russias Onslaught Continues Amid Optimism Over Talks
20220316
https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/national-international/russia-sees-business-like-spirit-in-talks-ukraine-kremlin-demands-more-realistic/2714672/
International pressure against the Kremlin mounted and its isolation deepened as the International Court of Justice, also known as the World Court, ordered Russia to stop attacking Ukraine, though there was little hope it would comply. Also, the 47-nation Council of Europe, the continent's foremost human rights body,expelled Russia.
Earlier Wednesday, Zelenskyywent before the U.S. Congressvia video and, invoking Pearl Harbor and 911, pleaded with America for more weapons and tougher sanctions against Russia, saying: We need you right now.
The fighting has led more than 3 million people to flee Ukraine, by the United Nations' estimate. The overall death toll remains unknown, though Ukraine has said thousands of civilians have died.
Russias chief negotiator, Vladimir Medinsky, said the sides were discussing a possible compromise for a Ukraine with a smaller, non-aligned military.
Hopes for diplomatic progress to end the war rose after Zelenskyy acknowledged Tuesday in the most explicit terms yet that Ukraine is unlikely to realize its goal of joining NATO. Putin has long depicted Ukraines NATO aspirations as a threat to Russia.
Lavrov welcomed Zelenskyys comment and said the businesslike spirit starting to surface in the talks gives hope that we can agree on this issue.
While Moscow's ground advance on the Ukrainian capital appeared largely stalled, Putin said the operation was unfolding successfully, in strict accordance with pre-approved plans. He also decried Western sanctions against Moscow, accusing the West of trying to "squeeze us, to put pressure on us, to turn us into a weak, dependent country.
Speaking to Congress, Zelenskyy said that Russia has turned the Ukrainian sky into a source of death. But Biden has rejectedZelenskyys requeststo send warplanes to Ukraine or establish a no-fly zone over the country because of the risk of triggering war between the U.S. and Russia.
U.S. President Joe Biden announced the U.S. is sending an additional $800 million in military aid to Ukraine, including more anti-aircraft and anti-tank weapons and drones. He also called Vladimir Putin a war criminal in his sharpest condemnation of the Russian leader since the invasion began.
The two sides were scheduled to speak again Wednesday, but details of the talks or whether they took place weren't immediately forthcoming. After Tuesday's negotiations, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said a neutral military status for Ukraine was being seriously discussed by the two sides, while Zelenskyy said Russias demands for ending the war were becoming more realistic.
Russian forces destroyed a theater in Mariupol where hundreds of people were sheltering Wednesday and rained fire on other cities, Ukrainian authorities said, even as the two sides projected optimism over efforts to negotiate an end to the fighting.
In Kyiv, residents huddled in homes and shelters amid a citywide curfew that runs until Thursday morning, as Russian troopsshelled areas in and around the city, including a residential neighborhood 2.5 kilometers 1.5 miles from the presidential palace. A 12-story apartment building in central Kyiv erupted in flames after being hit by shrapnel.
The Russian defense ministry denied bombing the theater or anywhere else in Mariupol on Wednesday.
A neutral status is being seriously discussed in connection with security guarantees, Lavrov said on Russian TV. There are concrete formulations that in my view are close to being agreed.
Many people were buried in the rubble, the statement said, though there was no immediate word on how many had been killed or injured. Satellite imagery from Monday showed the word children written in large white letters in Russian in front of and behind the building, the Maxar space technology company said.
Amid the vast humanitarian crisis caused by the war, the Red Cross has helped evacuate civilians from besieged areas and has delivered 200 tons of aid, including medical supplies, blankets, water and over 5,200 body bags to help ensure the dead are treated in a dignified manner."
Ukraine also appeared to have successes, with satellite photos from Planet Labs PBC analyzed by The Associated Press showing helicopters and vehicles ablaze at the Russian-held Kherson airport and air base after a suspected Ukrainian strike on Tuesday.
A senior U.S. defense official said the Russians were still making little tangible progress in much of the country, but have begun shelling the suburbs of Odesa, Ukraine's third-largest city and a major naval and shipping hub. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss U.S. military assessments, said Russia's aims weren't clear, but Western officials have long worried about a ground assault on the coastal city.
My heart breaks from what Russia is doing to our people, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address, calling for more sanctions on Russia after the bombing.
Kyiv regional leader Oleksiy Kuleba said Russian forces had intensified fighting in the Kyiv suburbs and a highway leading west, and across the capital region, kindergartens, museums, churches, residential blocks and engineering infrastructure are suffering from the endless firing."
Another source of dispute is Crimea, which was seized and annexed by Russia in 2014, and the separatist-held Donbas region in eastern Ukraine, which Russia recognizes as independent. Ukraine considers both part of its territory.
The airstrike ripped apart the center of the once-elegant building, where hundreds of civilians had been living since their homes had been destroyed in the fighting, Ukraine's foreign ministry said in a statement.
And 10 people were killed while standing in line for bread in the northern city of Chernihiv, the Ukrainian General Prosecutors Office said.
Nearly 30,000 people managed to escape the city Tuesday in thousands of vehicles by way of a humanitarian corridor, city officials said. Zelensky said 6,000 more left on Wednesday, including 2,000 children, but evacuations elsewhere were stopped because of Russian shelling.
Local authorities said Russian forces took hundreds of people hostage at a Mariupol hospital and were using them as human shields.
Using the flashlight on his cellphone to illuminate a hospital basement, Dr. Valeriy Drengar pulled back a blanket to show the body of an infant 22 days old. Other wrapped bodies also appeared to be children, given their size.
Prospects for a diplomatic breakthrough were highly uncertain, however, given the gulf between Ukraine's demand that the invading forces withdraw completely and Russia's suspected aim of replacing Kyiv's Westward-looking government with a pro-Moscow regime.
Nowhere has suffered more thanthe encircled city of Mariupol, where local officials say missile strikes and shelling have killed more than 2,300 people. The southern seaport of 430,000 has been under attack for almost all of the three-week war in a siege that has left people struggling for food, water, heat and medicine.
In other developments, the mayor of the city of Melitopol, who was seized by Russian forces five days ago, has been freed, said Zelenskyy chief of staff Andriy Yermak. No details were given about how he became free.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak denied Russian claims that Ukraine was open to adopting a model of neutrality comparable to Sweden or Austria. Podolyak said Ukraine needs powerful allies and "clearly defined security guarantees to keep it safe.
