Ukraine Says It Killed a Top Russian General US Collects Evidence of Possible Russian War Crimes
20220307
https://www.nbcmiami.com/news/business/money-report/possible-russian-energy-ban-sends-oil-prices-soaring-poland-u-s-in-talks-to-send-fighter-jets/2707267/
"What we won't do is have a system where people can come into the UK without any checks or any controls at all  I don't think that is the right approach  but what we will do is have a system that is very, very generous," Johnson said.
The talks come as Russia's onslaught of Ukraine entered its twelfth day and as Moscow's military forces continued to attack some Ukrainian cities.
Ursula von der Leyen, president of the EU Commission, said on Twitter on Monday that the bloc would hold discussions on Tuesday aimed at "quickly" reducing the EU's dependence on Russian fossil fuels.
NBC News reported that the deal would involve Poland giving MiG fighter planes to Ukraine, and the United States in turn replacing Poland's fighters with U.S.-made F-16s.
Deloitte's decision makes it the last of the Big Four global accounting firms to say that it will no longer conduct business in Russia as the Krelim wages war on Ukraine. It joins Ernst  Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers and KPMG in making similar announcements.
For example, the route out of Kyiv was leading to Gomel, Belarus, where civilians would be airlifted to Russia, according to Vereshchuk. Meanwhile, the route out of Kharkiv would take evacuees into Belgorod, Russia, where they would travel by rail to chosen relocation points in Russia, she added. Those fleeing the Ukrainian city of Sumy would also only be taken by road or rail to locations in Russia, Vereshchuk told reporters.
Gerasimov was identified by the intelligence agency as the chief of staff and first deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army.
Alexander Stubb, professor and director at the European University Institute in Florence, discusses his country's response to the war in Ukraine and the prospect of Finland joining NATO.
Envoys from Russia and Ukraine met in Belarus, close to the Polish border, Monday for a third round of talks as Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine entered its 12th day.
Vereshchuk told the press briefing on Monday that Ukraine had sent "its own vision of humanitarian corridors to Russia," asking Moscow to provide a cease-fire while civilians were evacuated from Kyiv and surrounding towns, as well as Mariupol, Volnovakha, Sumy and Kharkiv to other locations in Ukraine.
"Children are dying. People are fleeing their homes. And for what?" Thomas-Greenfield said after calling on Russia to commit to the establishment and protection of humanitarian corridors into and out of key areas of Ukraine.
Russia announced on Monday that it would allow a ceasefire from 10 a.m. Moscow time 2 a.m. ET to enable to evacuation of civilians from four Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv. Russian state-controlled media said this had been done following a personal request from French President Emmanuel Macron to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
On the other hand, people who are informed or have a stake in this, "like the oligarchs who have investments all over the world and want to keep their wealth" may be growing concerned as international sanctions hit.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has reportedly said Russia is prepared to bring an abrupt halt to its military action in Ukraine if Kyiv meets a number of highly contentious conditions.
It has also helped inspire average Ukrainians to mount a fierce resistance to Russia's invasion, one that has surprised experts and military leaders around the world.
U.S. Army soldiers assigned to the 82nd Airborne carry military equipment as they take part in an exercise outside the operating base at the Arlamow Airport in Wola Korzeniecka, Poland.
Ahead of Monday's talks, Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, tweeted, "In a few minutes, we will start talking to representatives of a country that seriously believes that large-scale violence against civilians is an argument."
West Texas Intermediate crude futures, the U.S. oil benchmark, surged 8, at one point topping $130 a barrel, to reach its highest level since mid-2008. Brent crude, the international benchmark, traded 9 higher to $128.60, also the highest price seen since 2008.
Nearly all of the troops Russia amassed on Ukraine's border are now fighting inside the country, a senior Pentagon official said Monday.
Rose Gottemoeller, a former deputy secretary general of NATO, said there are signs Russian President Vladimir Putin retains strong support in certain parts of the country.
The U.S. ambassador to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, Michael Carpenter, earlier in the day condemned Russian President Vladimir Putin for his "unprovoked war," which has driven more than 1.5 million refugees out of the country.
China has so far said it won't participate in sanctions against Russia and also abstained from a United Nations vote to rebuke Russia for invading Ukraine.
Secretary of State Anthony Blinken promised fellow NATO member Lithuania the U.S. will act to repel any Russian military aggression against that country and other Baltic nations.
Russian President Vladimir Putin's "endgame" in Russia's war against Ukraine is to "replace the Zelenskyygovernment" with someone of his "own choosing," said Graeme Gill, professor emeritus at the University of Sydney.
However, if Russia succeeds in taking over Ukraine, it would prefer it not to be headed by Zelenskyy as he has proved to be "an effective figurehead of the opposition to the Russians in their invasion of Ukraine," he said.
It added that internet access in Ukraine was likely to be disrupted following attacks on infrastructure, with outages already reported in the cities of Mariupol, Sumy, Kyiv and Kharkiv over the last week.
The United States is collecting evidence of possible war crimes and human rights abuses by Russia during its ongoing invasion of Ukraine, a National Security Council spokesperson told NBC News.
The post contains embedded audio files purporting to be intercepted communications between Russians discussing Gerasimov's death.
"I don't think he's going to lose his grip on power, but perhaps some messages will start to get through to him," she said.
Separately, Ukraine says Moscow is seeking to manipulate its cease-fire arrangement by allowing Ukrainian civilians to evacuate only to Russia and Belarus. Moscow claimed Monday that it will stop attacks in four Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, to allow the evacuation of civilians.
But Ukraine has accused Moscow of creating "completely immoral" evacuation routes that lead civilians out of Ukrainian cities into Russian territory.
"Oil is rising on the prospect for a full embargo of Russian oil and products," said John Kilduff, founding partner of Again Capital. "Already high gasoline prices are going to keep going up in a jarring fashion. Prices in some states will be pushing $5 pretty quickly."
"This is an unacceptable variant of the humanitarian corridors opening," she said. "Our people won't go to Belarus and to Russia. I hope that French President Emmanuel Macron understands that Russians are trying to manipulate his honest intention to provide people from Ukraine and other countries a path to safety."
United Airlines is suspending two of its four India routes after pulling out of Russian airspace last week.
United had initially canceled its San Francisco-New Delhi and its Newark-Mumbai service last week, flights that are now suspended until further notice. It will continue to operate flights to New Delhi from its hubs in Chicago and from Newark, New Jersey.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reports that more than 1.7 million civilians have fled Ukraine since the launch of Russia's unprovoked invasion on Feb. 24. In just 12 days, the exodus from Ukraine has created the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
"It is decided on our land whether any other European nation will become the next victim of the same aggression," he said. "The future of the continent depends on us, on our resistance."
The Ukrainian president has repeatedly asked NATO to establish a no-fly zone over his country, but the U.S. and its allies have so far rejected that request. Setting up a no-fly zone would mean the alliance would have to shoot down Russian aircraft over Ukraine.
The future of the European continent was dependent on how the conflict in Ukraine plays out, he added.
"While we know this is the right decision, it will have an impact on Deloitte's 3,000 professionals located in Russia and Belarus," the company said in a press release. "Like others, we know our colleagues in Russia and Belarus have no voice in the actions of their government. We will support all impacted colleagues during this transition and do all we can to assist them during this extremely difficult time."
Putin previously said he would consider a third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as "participation of that country in the military action."
"As the situation in Ukraine deteriorates people are going to want to see this country open our arms to people fleeing persecution, fleeing a war zone," he added.
A third round of talks between Russia and Ukraine will start at 4 p.m. local time 9 a.m. ET, one of Ukraine's negotiators and an advisor to the Ukrainian presidential office, Mykhailo Podolyak, said via Twitter.
The official also said the United States will deploy another 500 troops to Europe, bringing the total number of American forces on the continent to more than 100,000.
In the face of logistical and supply chain problems, Russians are increasingly turning to heavy artillery, the official said, effectively trying to bomb Ukraine into submission.
The official figure cited by the UNHCR's data portal Monday was 1,735,068. Most of those fleeing are women and children, following Ukraine's decision to bar fighting-aged men from leaving the country.
France did not ask Russia to evacuate Ukrainian civilians into Russian territory, a French government official told reporters on Monday.
Global consulting and accounting firm Deloitte said it will no longer operate in Russia and Belarus.
Ukraine's policymakers were made aware of these conditions, Peskov said, "and they were told that all this can be stopped in a moment."
Gerasimov was identified by the intelligence agency as the chief of staff and first deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army. Another senior officer from that army, Gen. Andrei Sukhovetsky, was killed by a sniper last week.
The president also urged other countries and global companies to stop imports to Russia, saying that "the international community should be more strict."
The Kremlin noted that Russians who are in debt to foreign creditors from the countries on that list will be allowed to pay them back, according to the state media outlet.
There are about 33 Lukoil gas stations in New Jersey, Murphy said. He noted, however, that "they happen to be franchised by local New Jersey interests in most cases."
"We see what's happening on the ground in Ukraine. This time, if there is a nuclear accident, the cause will not be a tsunami brought on by mother nature. Instead, it will be the result of human failure to act when we knew we could, and we knew we should," Grossi said via Twitter.
The Polish zloty slumped on Monday, touching a record of 4.9734 against the euro during morning trade, data from Reuters showed.
"We're trying to figure out what to do with them," Murphy, a Democrat, said of the gas stations on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The agency, which said Gerasimov had been "liquidated," claimed that data obtained related to his death near the city in northeast Ukraine "show significant problems with communication" in Russia's army, "and with the evacuation of their defeated units."
"There are a number of very strong nationalists in Russia. Apparently they were present in  motorcades outside of the Kremlin yesterday, waving flags, supporting the president," she told CNBC's "Squawk Box Asia" on Tuesday.
"I'm not afraid of anyone. For as long as it takes to win this war!" he added, according to an NBC News translation.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Monday that China's relationship with Russia is "rock solid," while maintaining the position that negotiations are needed to resolve the Ukraine conflict. Wang added the Red Cross Society of China would provide Ukraine with emergency supplies "as soon as possible."
"We continue to evaluate and adjust our schedule in response to the evolving situation in Ukraine," United said.
Canadian Forces personnel load lethal and non-lethal aid for Ukraine on a transport aircraft bound for Poland, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, at CFB Trenton in Trenton, Ontario, Canada.
Blinken was speaking at a press conference in Lithuania's capital city Vilnius with that country's foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis. He made similar remarks in Latvia, another Baltic country that belongs to NATO.
The foreign minister was speaking at an annual public appearance on the sidelines of a parliamentary meeting typically held in March. This year's briefing lasted more than 90 minutes and covered China's relations with a range of countries and regions around the world.
Speaking on Monday, Zelenskyy said Russian troops, "forgot that we are not afraid of police vans, of tanks, of machine guns when the most important thing is on our side - truth."
Neither side was optimistic for progress, especially after the humanitarian evacuation corridors that were agreed to in the last round of talks were subsequently attacked by Russian forces over the weekend.
"Unfortunately, Mr. Putin doesn't seem to be listening, and we are concerned that the world needs to be prepared for a very long and very difficult road ahead," she said.
She said it was clear Putin plans to "destroy and terrorize Ukraine," even though many Russians don't want war and the Ukrainian people won't give up.
A no-fly zone over Ukraine would "greatly increase" the risk of a war between the U.S. and Russia, according to Ted Galen Carpenter, senior fellow for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute.
Economist Stephen Roach said there's only one person in the world right now who has "leverage" over Russian President Vladimir Putin, and that's Chinese leader Xi Jinping.
Evacuation attempts were halted over the weekend after Russian forces were accused of violating a cease-fire in the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha.
President Joe Biden will hold a secure video call with the leaders of France, Germany and the United Kingdom on Monday morning to discuss the latest developments in Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the White House has announced.
Speaking to the media on Monday, Turkey's Mevlut Cavusoglu said the two diplomats would meet in Antalyawhere Turkey will hold an international diplomatic forum.
Yet even with so much manpower deployed, the two main Russian convoys outside Ukraine's major cities of Kharkiv and Kyiv remain stalled, the official said, according to NBC News.
Poland, Ukraine and the United States are in talks on a deal that would get more MiG fighter jets into the hands of Ukraine.
Across Europe, government and private rail services are offering Ukrainians free passage on trains, and bus companies are organizing transport for children and the elderly, according to Reuters.
The virtual meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be held in the secure White House Situation Room starting at 10:30 a.m.
Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba over the weekend said warplanes and air-defense systems are his country's "highest demand" as Ukraine faces almost 200,000 Russian troops and their vehicles.
"If the invasion continues and Russia does not back off on its plans in Ukraine, we will need new sanctions, new steps against this war, for peace," Zelenskyy said in a video address, according to an NBC News translation.
"I would not say it's being operated unsafely  we are getting the reports and the assessments from the Ukrainian regulator, and for the time being this is the situation," IAEA Director-General Rafael Mariano Grossi said. "That being said, the conditions are absolutely extraordinary. This 'normal operation' is a technical term, but there is nothing normal about what is going on," he added.
Russian Maj. Gen. Vitaly Gerasimov was killed near Kharkiv, the agency said on Monday night local time. Ukraine's second-biggest city has been the scene of intense fighting for days.
This has been CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine on Monday. See below for the latest updates.
His comments come after Russia's shelling of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant on Friday prompted widespread dismay.
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield warned that the world should brace for the already-dire humanitarian crisis in Ukraine to worsen as Russia continues its invasion.
The currency's previous low against the euro was in 2004, shortly before Poland joined the EU.
"Russia is probably targeting Ukraine's communications infrastructure in order to reduce Ukrainian citizens' access to reliable news and information," the ministry said.
"That would greatly increase the danger of a war between the United States and Russia, and we are talking about a war with nuclear implications at that point," Carpenter said.
Over the weekend, evacuations from Mariupol were aborted on both Saturday and Sunday as Ukrainian officials said Russian troops continued to attack both the city and the planned route out of it.
The list includes all 27 European Union member states, as well as the United States, the United Kingdom, Ukraine, Switzerland, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Taiwan and others, according to Russian state media.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian authorities said around 400 civilians fleeing Volnovakha came under Russian fire on Sunday despite promises of a safe exit, according to Reuters.
"The United States commitment to NATO's Article 5  an attack on one is an attack on all," Blinken said, "that commitment is sacrosanct."
Neither Ukraine nor Russia has established air superiority in their 11-day old war, and Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made an urgent request for fighter aircraft during a call with 300 members of Congress on Saturday.
"Our bill would ban the import of Russian oil and energy products into the United States, repeal normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus, and take the first step to deny Russia access to the World Trade Organization. We would also empower the Executive branch to raise tariffs on Russian imports," she said.
The reported killing comes days after another deputy commander of the 41st Combined, Gen. Andrei Sukhovetsky, was fatally shot by a Ukrainian sniper.
Roach told CNBC that China is holding the "trump card" here and the best thing it can do now is negotiate a deal between Russia and Ukraine.
Wang portrayed China's relations with these regions as separate from Beijing-Moscow ties. On relations with the U.S., Wang said that rather than provoking or pursuing competition with China, the U.S. should work to restore relations to the "right track."
Ukraine's defense intelligence agency said that Russian Army Major General Vitaly Gerasimov was killed, and other senior Russian Army officers "were also killed or wounded" in action near the city of Kharkiv.
The Russian government approved a list of dozens of nations and territories deemed "unfriendly" to Russia and its citizens, according to state media in Moscow.
So far Poland has absorbed the largest share of the refugees, the U.N. said, with approximately 1 million border crossings by civilians from Ukraine. Hungary has absorbed slightly more than 180,000, while Slovakia has processed 128,000 civilians.
What Putin "really wants is to cut off the head" of the Ukrainian government and put in place a government of his own, he told CNBC's "Squawk Box Asia" on Monday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy released a new video Monday evening on Telegram, telling his fellow citizens that he is in central Kyiv at an official presidential residence, with no plans to leave the city despite the Russian assault.
In a daily intelligence update on Monday, the U.K. Ministry of Defense said there were reports of Russian forces targeting television towers in Ukrainian cities.
Zelenskyy is reported to have escaped three assassination attempts by Russian-backed special forces, but can "expect there to be further ones," Gill said.
Speaking at a press briefing in Kyiv on Monday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said the safe routes  or humanitarian corridors  were taking citizens to Russia.
"We will defend every inch of NATO territory if it comes under attack," Blinken said, reiterating comments made by President Joe Biden in his State of the Union address last week."No one should doubt our readiness no one should doubt our resolve."
Those nations have imposed or joined the unprecedented array of crippling sanctions slapped on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the prospect of a ban on Russian oil and gas sent jitters through energy markets as oil prices hit 13-year highs, though they gave back most of those gains.
The Kremlin's official line is that its invasion of Ukraine is a "special operation" aimed at liberating Ukrainians from their own government, but the West has rejected this stance, calling Russia's invasion of Ukraine unprovoked warfare. The International Criminal Court has opened an investigation into alleged Russian war crimes.
The International Court of Justice has opened a preliminary hearing in a case brought by Ukraine, in which Kyiv will ask for emergency measures to order Russia to suspend its military campaign under legislation on the prevention of genocide.
While Ukrainian delegates will give oral evidence at the initial hearings in The Hague on March 7 and 8, Russian officials said they would not send a representative to the court and failed to show up on Monday.
"I am staying in Kyiv, on Bankova Street. Not hiding," Zelensky said, citing a street where both the Ukrainian president's office and the House of Chimeras official residence are located.
Russian humanitarian staff in Ukraine said the decision was a result of the "disastrous humanitarian situation" in the country and "French President Emmanuel Macron's personal request for a cease-fire to Russian President Vladimir Putin," Russian news agency Interfax reported.
United had said it would no longer use Russian airspace, shortly before the U.S. said it was banning Russian aircraft from United States airspace last Tuesday.
"The court regrets the non-appearance of the Russian Federation in these oral proceedings," the judge said as she opened the hearing.
"To the question did you ask that the corridors go to Russia  the answer is obviously no," a French government source told journalists on Monday. "We asked the Russians to stop fighting, to protect civilians and to send aid."
Meanwhile, a spokesman for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the Kremlin's evacuation corridors were "completely immoral," according to Sky News.
His comments came during a visit to a British military base with Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and Canada's Justin Trudeau.
Ukrainian pilots are not trained to fly U.S.-made warplanes. However, Poland and Ukraine both operate MiGs  aircraft designed and made in Russia  that are left over from the days of the Soviet Union.
"Boycott oil products from Russia," he continued. "You can call it an embargo, or you can call it a moral obligation when you refuse to finance the terrorist."
They added: "The personal request of the President of France as of the rest of the allies and partners is that the Russian offensive cease. As long as the offensive is underway because the Russians refuse to put an end to it, it is to respect international humanitarian law."
Lukoil, one of Russia's largest energy producers, has more than 200 gas stations in the U.S. As Russian President Vladimir Putin continues to wage war in Ukraine, Americans have called to boycott those stations, a small slice of the Lukoil's overall business that nevertheless has been targeted in the push to punish Moscow's economy.
Moscow is seeking to "manipulate" its cease-fire arrangement by only allowing Ukrainian civilians to evacuate to Russia and Belarus, a Ukrainian official has said.
These include Ukraine ceasing military action, changing its constitution to enshrine neutrality, acknowledging Crimea as Russian territory and recognizing the rebel-held areas of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent territories, Peskov told Reuters.
He said that he had spoken to the leaders of Poland, the U.K., France, Italy and India, all of whom had given Zelenskyy "important messages that will only strengthen Ukraine."
His comments were thought to be Russia's most explicit statement so far of the terms necessary to stop Moscow's onslaught of Ukraine, which entered its twelfth day on Monday.
"We are a very, very generous country. What we want though is control and we want to be able to check," Johnson told reporters on Monday. "I think it's sensible given what's going on in Ukraine to make sure that we have some basic ability to check who is coming in."
"It's absolutely imperative that the United States resist Zelenskyy's call for a no-fly zone over Ukraine," he told CNBC's "Street Signs Asia" on Monday.
CNBC's Steve Sedgwick reports from Vilnius, the capital and the largest city of Lithuania, where he explains the geography and history of the region, and why it's so concerned regarding recent Russian military aggression and the invasion of Ukraine.
U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has rejected calls for Britain to make it easier for Ukrainian refugees to enter the country, following sharp criticism that the government's visa routes for those fleeing the conflict are far too restrictive.
United States and European officials have begun discussing the possibility of a government in exile led by Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in the event that he and his aides are forced to flee Ukraine and establish a new government while in Poland.
U.S. crude oil jumped above $125 per barrel in early trading Sunday evening, as the market continued to react to supply disruptions stemming from the war between Russia and Ukraine and the possibility that the U.S. and its allies and partners could institute a ban on Russian oil and natural gas.
Russian forces are now in control the plant, with Ukrainian staff working under their orders. He said it's currently operating safely, "but there are many, many questions on the ability to sustain this for much longer if we don't support these in some way."
Moscow claimed Monday that it will stop attacks in four Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, to allow the evacuation of civilians.
Russian state-affiliated news agencies reported Monday that the latest cease-fire would begin at 10 a.m. Moscow time 9 a.m. Ukraine, 2 a.m. ET in the cities of Kyiv, Mariupol, Kharkiv, and Sumy.
Zelenskyy's insistence upon staying in Kyiv as Russian missiles shell the capital and Russian troops advance on it has become a defining image of this conflict.
Some 45 participating states launched the so-called Moscow Mechanism last Thursday to document and gather evidence of violations of international law by Russia, he said.
Turkey, a member of the NATO military alliance, has sought to position itself as a mediator to the Russia-Ukraine crisis.
New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said the state is considering action against dozens of Russian-linkedLukoilgas stations as he aims to sever financial ties with the nation in response to its invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called on the international community once again to boycott Russian oil.
Ukraine's defense intelligence agency claimed that the country's forces have killed a second Russian general within days of a first general killed last week.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba have reportedly agreed to hold talks in southern Turkey on Thursday, in what will be the highest-level meeting between the two sides since Russia invaded Ukraine last month.
"The humanitarian toll of Putin's war on Ukraine is mounting," the ambassador said during a meeting of the UN Security Council, of which Russia is a member.
The small number of participants on this call is noteworthy. Ever since Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine began last month, most of Biden's world leader calls have either been one-on-one or with larger groups like the G-7 or European powers.
In a letter to Democratic colleagues, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the U.S. House of Representatives is "exploring strong legislation" to ban imports of Russian oil.
Kyiv has already rejected an initial list of Russian demands that included changing Ukraine's constitution and recognizing the Ukrainian territories of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent republics.
It comes after evacuation attempts were halted over the weekend after Russian forces were accused of violating a cease-fire in the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha.
Tit-for-tat airspace closures and safety concerns after Russia's invasion of Ukraine have forced carriers to take longer routes, some of which require refueling stops.
Russia has expressed support for talks with the IAEA and Ukraine, but rejected the IAEA's proposal of Ukraine's Chernobyl as the meeting site, Grossi said.
Currently the IAEA, the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog, is remotely monitoring the situation at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia plant, but there may come a time for the physical presence of observers, the agency's chief said during a press conference in Vienna on Monday.
"The brutality of this war is both revolting and heartbreaking," said Carpenter. "Children have been killed, grandparents driven from their homes, families forced to flee their country in the face of relentless strikes on civilian infrastructure," he said.
Martin Klus, Slovakian state secretary at the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, gives an update on NATO's latest efforts to deter Russia's war in Ukraine as hundreds of thousands of refugees flee the invasion.
Russian state-controlled media said Monday morning that the latest cease-fire  planned from 10 a.m. Moscow time 9 a.m. Ukraine, 2 a.m. ET in the cities of Kyiv, Mariupol, Kharkiv, and Sumy  followed a personal request from Macron to Russian President Vladimir Putin for a cessation of hostilities in Ukraine.
The House will vote on aid to Ukraine this week totaling $10 billion in humanitarian, military and economic support.
"I don't think anyone in the United States thinks that Ukraine's security is worth taking that level of risk," he added.
U.N. nuclear chief Rafael Mariano Grossi has called on the International Atomic Energy Agency's 35-nation Board of Governors to do everything possible to avert a nuclear accident in Ukraine.
The Russian government said it has informed the U.N., Red Cross and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe of its cease-fire plans.
Within its own borders, Russia has taken steps in recent days to clamp down on news coverage of the conflict in Ukraine. Lawmakers approved a bill on Friday that will make it a criminal offence to call for the introduction of foreign sanctions on Russia, while spreading so-called "fake" information about Russia's military could soon carry prison sentences of up to 15 years.
Vereshchuk said Monday morning that the evacuation routes proposed by Moscow led to Belarusian or Russian territory.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said it wants to meet with Ukrainian and Russian authorities to ensure the safety of Europe's largest nuclear power plant, which came under attack by Russian forces on Friday.
"Young children have also been severely traumatized by the violence and destruction. They've witnessed so many things to the point that they've stopped speaking. The physical and psychological wounds of the is war will be long lasting," she said.
