Airlines should stop flying over all of Ukraines airspace Conflict zone monitor
20220224
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/russia-partially-shuts-airspace-near-border-with-ukraine-citing-safety-concern
Flights from 11 airports in southern Russia and one airport in occupied Crimea were cancelled, Russias main aviation authority Rosaviatsia said in a statement.
The US Federal Aviation Administration said in its latest guidance on Feb 9 that a cross-border conflict between Ukraine and Russia could pose a direct or indirect threat to civil aviation.
Safe  Airspace, which was set up to provide safety and conflict zone information for airlines after Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 was shot down over eastern Ukraine in 2014, said it had increased its risk level to do not fly.
MOSCOW AFPREUTERS -Flights from cities in southern Russia near Ukraine were cancelled on Thursday Feb 24after President Vladimir Putin announced his army had begun a military operation in the country.
The United States, Italy, Canada, France and Britain have advised their airlines to avoid certain  airspace above eastern Ukraine and Crimea but so far have stopped short of a total ban.
Regardless of the actual movements of Russian forces into Ukraine, the level of tension and uncertainty in Ukraine is now extreme,  Safe  Airspace said on its website. This itself gives rise to significant risk to civil aviation.
Several airlines were still flying over Ukraine on Thursday, according to a Reuters check of flight tracking website FlightRadar24.
Airports at Dnipro, Kharkiv and Zaporizhzhia in Ukraine are closed to traffic until Thursday morning, also according to notices to airmen. No reasons were provided for the closures.
These include large cities such as Sochi, Krasnodar and Anapa. It said the restrictions will be in place until March 2.
Russia hadalso closed some  airspace in the Rostov flight information region to the east of its border with Ukraine in order to provide safety for civil aviation flights, according to a notice to airmen.
Two Ukrainian airlines last week disclosed problems in securing insurance for some of their flights while foreign carriers began avoiding the countrys  airspace as Russia massed a huge military force on its border.
The aviation authorities of Russia strongly recommend that passengers on the next flights and those who meet them do not go to the airport, the statement read.
Separatists in Ukraine asked on Wednesday for Russian help to repel aggression and Kyiv announced compulsory military service and a state of emergency as the West slapped more sanctions on Moscow in a bid to stop an all-out invasion.
A conflict zone monitor had earlier warned airlines against flying over any part of Ukrainebecause of the risk of an unintended shootdown or a cyberattack targeting air traffic control.
