At least 7 killed by Ukraine strike on Russianheld town Russian news agencies say
20220712
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/at-least-six-people-dead-in-ukraines-strike-on-nova-kakhovka-russias-tass-says
Putin says the special military operation in Ukraine is necessary because Moscow had to defend Russian-speaking people against persecution which he says the West has ignored.
The citys hydroelectric power plant was not damaged, RIA cited Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Russian-controlled administration in Kherson as saying.
Both sides have accused each other of targeting civilians though both sides deny they do.
Ukraine and its Western backers say that President Vladimir Putin has no justification for what they say is an imperial-style land grab against a country whose borders Moscow recognised as the Soviet Union collapsed.
Since Russia sent troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 in the biggest ground invasion in Europe since World War Two, thousands have been killed, millions displaced and whole swathes of some Ukrainian cities turned into wastelands.
There are still many people under the rubble. The injured are being taken to the hospital, but many people are blocked in their apartments and houses, Mr Leontyev added.
Officials from the Russian-installed administration said that Ukraine struck with US-supplied HIMARS missiles that destroyed warehouses containing saltpeter, a chemical compound which can be used to make fertilizer or gunpowder, resulting in a large explosion.
Unverified footage on social media showed smoke and sparks, followed by an immense fireball erupting into the night sky.
According to TASS, in addition to damaged buildings, the attack also led to an explosion at fertiliser warehouses in the region.
MOSCOW REUTERS -At least seven people were killed and 70 wounded in an overnight missile attack by Ukrainian forces on the Russian-held town of Nova Kakhovka in Ukraines southern Kherson region, the Russian-installed administration there said on Tuesday July 12.
The Kremlin chief warned the West last week that he had not even started to get serious in Ukraine, daring the United States and its allies to try to defeat Russia and cautioning that sanctions would trigger a catastrophic hike in energy prices.
Ukraine has said it expects a fresh assault by Russian ground forces, following widespread shelling which killed more than 30 people.
Ukrainian officials said their forces had destroyed an ammunition depot in Nova Kakhovka. Mr Serhiy Bratchuk, Odesa administration spokesperson, wrote on his Telegram channel that Nova Kakhovka was now minus its ammunition warehouse.
The conflict in Ukraine began in 2014: after a pro-Russian president was toppled in Ukraines Maidan Revolution and Russia annexed Crimea, fighting was triggered between Russian-backed forces and Ukraines soldiers in eastern Ukraine.
There are already seven dead for sure and about 60 wounded, TASS quoted Mr Vladimir Leontyev, head of Russia-installed Kakhovka District military-civilian administration in the Kherson region.
