Britain says Russia has increased its use of air defence missiles for ground targets
20220722
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/britain-says-russia-has-increased-its-use-of-air-defence-missiles-for-ground-targets
On July 6, just days after the first HIMARS arrived in Ukraine, Russias defence ministry said it had destroyed two of them, releasing a video of the alleged strike.
Russia has almost certainly deployed S-300 and S-400 strategic air defence systems, designed to shoot down aircraft and missiles at long ranges, near Ukraine from the start of the invasion, the Ministry of Defence said in an intelligence update.
The weapons which have relatively small warheads are designed to destroy aircraft, it said, adding that they could pose a significant threat against troops in open and light buildings but are unlikely to penetrate hardened structures.
Kyiv has hailed the arrival of eight HIMARS in Ukraine as a possible gamechanger for the course of the war. The advanced weapons are more precise and offer a longer range than other artillery systems, allowing Kyiv to strike Russian targets and weapons depots further behind the front lines.
Ukraine rejected those claims and said it was using the U.S.-supplied arms to inflict devastating blows on Russian forces.
Meanwhile, Russias defence ministry said on Friday its forces had destroyed four U.S.-supplied high mobility artillery rocket systems HIMARS between July 5-20.
LONDON REUTERS - Russia has increased its use of air defence missiles in a secondary ground attack mode because of critical shortages of dedicated ground-attack missiles, British military intelligence said on Friday July 22.
The United States said on Wednesday it will send four more HIMARS to Ukraine in its latest package of military support.
Moscow has accused the West of dragging out the conflict by supplying Kyiv with more arms, and said the supply of longer-range weapons justifies Russias attempts to exert control over a swathe of Ukrainian territory in the south of the country, beyond the eastern Donbas region, for its own protection.
There is a high chance of these weapons missing their intended targets and causing civilian casualties because the missiles are not optimised for this role and their crews will have little training for such missions, the Defence Ministry said.
This week Kyiv has used HIMARS to strike a crucial bridge across the Dnipro river in Russian-controlled parts of the southern Kherson region, putting huge holes in the asphalt and prompting local Russian-installed officials to warn it could be completely destroyed if the attacks continue.
Four launchers and one reloading vehicle for the U.S.-made multiple launch rocket systems HIMARS were destroyed, it said in a daily briefing. Reuters could not verify battlefield reports.
