Britain to offer Nato major military deployment in Europe
20220130
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/uk-to-offer-nato-major-military-deployment-in-europe
"This package would send a clear message to the Kremlin - we will not tolerate their destabilising activity, and we will always stand with our Nato allies in the face of Russian hostility," Mr Johnson said in a statement late on Saturday.
Relations between Russia and the West are at their lowest point since the Cold War after Moscow deployed tens of thousands of troops on the border of Ukraine.
Britain's chief of defence staff Tony Radakin, the head of the armed forces, will brief the Cabinet on the situation in Ukraine the following day.
Britain already has more than 900 military personnel based in Estonia, and more than 100 are currently in Ukraine as part of a training mission started in 2015.
"I have ordered our armed forces to prepare to deploy across Europe next week, ensuring we are able to support our Nato allies on land, at sea and in the air," he added.
On the diplomatic front, British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss and Defence Secretary Ben Wallace are preparing to visit Moscow for talks with their counterparts in the coming days, it added.
Mr Wallace is also set to travel to meet allies in Hungary, Slovenia, and Croatia next week.
The British leader said if Russian President Vladimir Putin chose "bloodshed and destruction" in Ukraine, it would be "a tragedy for Europe".
The offer, set to be made to Nato military chiefs next week, could see London double the approximately 1,150 British troops currently in eastern European countries and "defensive weapons" sent to Estonia, his office said.
Mr Johnson, who has been under intense political pressure for weeks following a series of scandals, said on Friday he will speak to Mr Putin in the coming days to urge de-escalation over Ukraine.
"They will be asked to improve relationships with President Putin's government and encourage de-escalation," Mr Johnson's office said.
The warship HMS Prince of Wales - currently in the so-called "High North" European Arctic region, leading the Nato's Maritime High Readiness Force - is on standby "to move within hours should tensions rise further", Downing Street said.
Meanwhile, British officials will be dispatched to Brussels, home to Nato headquarters, to finalise details of the military offer after ministers discuss the differing options also on Monday.
LONDON AFP - Britain is preparing to offer Nato a "major" deployment of troops, weapons, warships and jets in Europe, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced on Saturday Jan 29, in responseto rising "Russian hostility" towards Ukraine.
The possible deployment of aircraft, warships and military specialists as well as troops and weaponry will reinforce Nato's defences and "underpin the UK's support for Nordic and Baltic partners", according to Mr Johnson's office.
Britain's Foreign Ministry is expected to announce the toughening of its sanctions regime on Russia in Parliament on Monday, to target strategic and financial interests.
