Family members mourn 4yearold Ukrainian girl killed in Russian missile attack
20220718
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/family-members-mourn-4-year-old-ukrainian-girl-killed-in-russian-missile-attack
She had been on a walk with her mother, pushing her own baby carriage through a park last Thursday when a flash of fire and metallic shrapnel erupted near them in Vinnytsia, a central Ukrainian town far from the front lines where some sense of normalcy had still seemed possible.
Photos of Liza's body, slumped beside the overturned carriage and her mother's severed foot, have swirled around the world since they were shared online by Ukraine's State Emergency Service. The visceral nature of the images punched through the too-familiar stream of daily violence directed against civilians by the Russian military.
As the priest, Vitalii Holoskevych, began to speak, he held a cross in one hand and wiped tears from his cheek with the other.
By her grave, dozens gathered around the open coffin, where Liza's plush toys lay in her lap: a white bunny, a grey bear, a crisscrossed moose. Mr Dmitriev knelt and cried.
"Elizaveta," he began, "stands and looks near God." His voice broke as he looked towards the coffin holding the body of the girl whose portrait showed her in pigtails long enough to touch her fuzzy purple coat.
The strike killed 22 others, including two more children, and wounded 140 people. Liza's mother, Iryna Dmytriyeva, lost a leg and remains unconscious.
As a string band played music, Liza's grandmother, Larysa Dmytryshyna, cried out to her granddaughter: The song, she said, was playing "for you to hear it." Then the workers closed the coffin and lowered it into the grave.
The death of Liza, a 4-year-old with Down syndrome whose family nicknamed her Sunny Flower, encapsulated the brutality of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
On Sunday, the men carrying Liza's coffin to the cemetery wore pink armbands, as her father, Artem Dmitriev, staggered behind them, his eyes closed as two men held him up by the shoulders.
On Sunday, the family of Liza, who had just learned her first words and took pride in organising toys, looked on as the coffin made its way into the cathedral, according to video from The Associated Press.
KYIV NYTIMES - The family and friends of Liza Dmytriyeva brushed away tears on Sunday July 17 as four men carried her coffin into the cathedral, where a photo of the smiling girl was nestled between roses and teddy bears three days after she was killed by a Russian cruise missile strike.
