Fighting rages around Ukraine as Russia invades from three sides
20220224
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/ukraine-says-at-least-8-people-killed-by-russian-shelling-9-wounded
Unconfirmed reports of casualties included Ukrainian civilians killed by Russian bombardment and border guards defending the frontier, while Russia said three civilians had been wounded by Ukrainian shelling near the border.
Biden called the Russian action an unprovoked and unjustified attack. EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said the bloc would impose a severe new round of sanctions.
Authorities in the southwesterly Odessa region said 18 people had been killed in a missile attack. At least six people were killed in Brovary, a town near Kyiv, authorities there said.
Russia is one of the worlds biggest energy producers, and both it and Ukraine are among the top exporters of grain. War and sanctions will disrupt economies around the world already facing a supply crisis as they emerge from the coronavirus pandemic.
What we have heard today are not just missile blasts, fighting and the rumble of aircraft. This is the sound of a new Iron Curtain, which has come down and is closing Russia off from the civilised world, Zelenskiy said. Our national task is to make sure this curtain does not fall across our land.
Ukraines military said it had destroyed four Russian tanks near Kharkiv, killed 50 troops near a town in Luhansk region, and downed six Russian warplanes in the east.
In his address, Putin said he had ordered a special military operation to protect people, including Russian citizens, subjected to genocide in Ukraine  an accusation the West calls baseless propaganda.
I think we must fight all those who invade our country so strongly, said one man stuck in traffic trying to leave Kyiv. I would hang every single one of them from bridges.
Russia denied that any of its aircraft or armoured vehicles had been destroyed. Russian-backed separatists said they had downed two Ukrainian planes.
Missiles rained down on Ukrainian targets and authorities reported columns of troops pouring across Ukraines borders from Russia and Belarus to the north and east, and landing on the southern coasts from the Black Sea and Azov Sea.
In Kyiv, queues of people waited to withdraw money and buy supplies of food and water. Cars stretched for dozens of kilometres miles on the highway leading west towards Poland, where Western countries have prepared to receive hundreds of thousands of refugees.
A senior USdefence official said Washington believed the invasion was intended to decapitate Zelenskiys government.
At least three major buyers of Russian oil said they had been denied letters of credit from Western banks, needed for shipments to go ahead.
Ukrainian military authorities said 20 Russian helicopters and Mi-8 aircraft had landed paratroopers at Hostomel airport in the Kyiv region, where forces from both sides were fighting for control.
Fierce fighting was taking place in the regions of Sumy and Kharkiv in the northeast, Kherson and Odessa in the south, and at a military airport near the capital Kyiv, an adviser to the Ukrainian presidential office said.
Putin, who denied for months that he was planning an invasion, has called Ukraine an artificial construct carved from Russia by its enemies  a characterisation Ukrainians see as an attempt to erase their more than 1,000-year-old history.
And for this we will strive for the demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine, Putin said.
Stocks plunged and bond prices leapt the dollar and gold soared. Brent oil surged past US$100barrel for the first time since 2014.
Blasts could be heard in the southeasterly port of Mariupol, near a front line held by Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. Civilians in Mariupol packed bags We are going into hiding, a woman said.
Even with a full-blown invasion under way, Putins ultimate aim is obscure. He said he did not plan a military occupation, only to disarm Ukraine and purge it of nationalists.
After Russian President Vladimir Putin declared war in a pre-dawn televised address, explosions and gunfire were heard throughout the morning in Kyiv, a city of three million people.
The highway heading west out of Kyiv was choked with traffic across five lanes as residents fled.
The outright annexation of such a vast, hostile country could be beyond even Russias military capabilities.
KYIVMARIUPOL, UKRAINEREUTERS  Ukrainian forces battled Russian invaders on three sides on Thursday Feb 24 after Moscow mounted an assault by land, sea and air in the biggest attack on a European state since World War II.
A resident of Kharkiv, Ukraines second biggest city and close to the Russian border, said windows in apartment blocks were shaking from constant blasts.
Zelenskiy said troops were trying to fend off Russians attempting to capture the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, just 90km north of the capital. Regional officials said Ukrainian authorities had lost control of some territory in the Kherson region near Russian-occupied Crimea.
A democratic nation of 44 million people, Ukraine is Europes biggest country by area after Russia itself. It voted for independence at the fall of the Soviet Union and aims to join Natoand the European Union, aspirations that infuriate Moscow.
EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell said: These are among the darkest hours of Europe since the Second World War.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy called on Ukrainians to defend their country and said arms would be given to anyone prepared to fight.
Were afraid of bombardments, said Oxana, stuck in her car with her three-year-old daughter on the backseat. This is so scary.
The assault brought a calamitous end to weeks of fruitless diplomatic efforts by Western leaders to avert war. US President Joe Biden met his Group of Seven counterparts virtually on Thursday to discuss harsh sanctions, and was due to speak on Ukraine at 2.30pm1.30am on Friday, Singapore time.
While many Ukrainians, particularly in the east, speak Russian as a native language, virtually all identify themselves as Ukrainian.
Biden has ruled out sending UStroops to defend Ukraine, but Washington has reinforced its Nato allies in the region with extra troops and planes.
