Global companies that are cutting ties with Russia over Ukraine
20220309
https://www.straitstimes.com/business/companies-markets/global-companies-that-are-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine
Amazon.com Inc.s cloud-computing unit announced in a blog post it will stop accepting new customers in Russia or Belarus. The company said its Amazon Web Services unit had no data centers, infrastructure or offices in Russia, and we have a long-standing policy of not doing business with the Russian government. We have also stopped allowing new sign-ups for AWS in Russia and Belarus.
Meanwhile other platforms, including TikTok, are suspending or closing services because of Russias new fake news law aimed at silencing dissent and limiting information about the invasion of Ukraine. The company, owned by China-based ByteDance Ltd., said its in-app messaging service would not be affected.
Some companies withdrawal makes it easier for others to do the same, said Gene Grabowski, a partner at communications firm KGlobal. Coca-Cola, for example, is a supplier for McDonalds, so McDonalds action deprives it of a major client in the country.
SINGAPORE BLOOMBERG  McDonalds Corp., Coca-Cola Co. and PayPal Holdings Inc. are temporarily halting operations in Russia, joining a lengthening list of businesses that are cutting ties with the country or suspending business there because of the fallout over the invasion of Ukraine nearly two weeks ago.
On March 4, the Russian government said it was blocking access to Meta Platforms Inc.s Facebook as part of the crackdown. Hours after the announcement, Meta said it would pause all advertising in the nation and would stop selling ads to Russian businesses. The companys Instagram platform will start to label posts from Russian state media with a warning, ranking them lower and making them harder to find on the app worldwide.
PayPal said on Tuesday its also suspending services. The company said it cant reasonably estimate the total potential financial impact that may ultimately result from this situation. Fitch Group and Moodys Corp. both said they are suspending operations in Russia. The two ratings companies have both slashed Russias ratings to junk.
Levi Strauss  Co. whose jeans were a coveted black-market item in the Soviet Union, also suspended commercial operations in Russia, where it gets about 2 per cent of its sales. The enormous disruption occurring in the region has made it untenable to conduct business as normal, the company said Monday. Any business considerations are clearly secondary to the human suffering experienced by so many.
Follow ST on LinkedIn and stay updated on the latest career news, insights and more.
London-based Linklaters said in a statement it was reviewing all of the firms Russia-related work. The big four auditors, EY, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, KPMG LLP and Deloitte all said they are pulling out of Russia. Between them, the four have more than 15,000 staff in Russia and Belarus.
Some critics argued that the steps arent enough. While the companies said any transactions initiated with their cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside the country and cards issued outside of Russia wont work at Russian merchants or ATMs, consumers inside Russia who have a locally issued card can still pay for goods and services there.
Hollywood studios including Walt Disney Co., Paramount Pictures, Sony Corp., and ATT Inc.s WarnerMedia and Comcast Corp.s Universal Pictures have also halted or postponed the release of movies in Russia.
Netflix Inc. is shutting its operations in Russia and said no new customers will be able to sign up, though its unclear what will happen with existing accounts.
Baker McKenzie said last week it was reviewing its operations in Russia and will sever ties with several Russian clients in order to comply with sanctions. The Chicago-headquartered firms clients include Russias finance ministry and VTB, Russias second largest bank.
Shell Plc followed, citing Russias senseless act of military aggression. The company said it would end partnerships with state-controlled Gazprom, including the Sakhalin-II liquefied natural gas facility, and its involvement in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project, which Germany has blocked. Both projects are worth about US$3 billion. Exxon Mobil Corp. said it would discontinue its Sakhalin-I operations.
McKinsey  Co. said Thursday it wont undertake new client work in Russia and will halt all client service in the country after its remaining engagements conclude, though its office will remain open to support staff. Earlier, the consultancy condemned the invasion and said the firm wont do business with any Russian government entity.
In the space of a week, most of the worlds biggest carmakers including General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co., Volkswagen AG, and Toyota Motor Corp. announced they would halt shipments to Russia or idle plants in the country. Truckmakers Volvo AB and Daimler Truck Holding AG also stopped business activities there.
Spanish fashion retailer Inditex SA, which has 502 stores in Russia, including 86 Zara outlets, is also temporarily closing all its shops there and halting online sales, saying it cannot guarantee the continuity of operations and trading conditions.
Samsung Electronics Co., the leading smartphone seller in Russia with more than 30 per cent of the market, suspended exports to Russia of all its products. Samsung said it will donate US$6 million to humanitarian efforts in the region, including US$1 million in consumer electronics products.
The rout reverses three decades of investment there by foreign businesses after the Soviet Union broke apart in 1991, especially in energy.
Here are some of the biggest companies that have begun to unravel their connections or halted business dealings.
Wall Street law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen  Hamilton said Tuesday its exiting its engagements with Russian government and state-owned entities, as well as shuttering its Moscow office. The firm is representing the Russian government in a long-running dispute with Ukraine over a US$3 billion bond default. The case is awaiting a ruling in the UK Supreme Court.
Russias largest foreign investor, BP Plc, led the way with its surprise announcement on Feb 27 that it would exit its 20 per cent stake in state-controlled Rosneft, a move that could result in a US$25 billion S$34 billion write-off and cut the companys global oil and gas production by a third.
McDonalds, Coca-Cola and Starbucks Corp. announced they would temporarily halt operations in Russia in a flurry of announcements on Tuesday afternoon. PepsiCo Inc. said it would suspend soft-drink sales in the country but would continue to sell daily essentials such as milk and baby formula.
Microsoft on March 4 condemned the unjustified, unprovoked and unlawful invasion of Ukraine and said its suspending all new sales of products and services in Russia. Apple Inc. halted sales of iPhones and started limiting Apple Pay services and other products in Russia, and removed the RT News and Sputnik News applications from App Stores outside the country. HP Inc., the largest supplier of PCs to Russia, has stopped exports to the country, as has Intel Corp.
Nike Inc. is one of several consumer goods companies that have cited logistical problems as a reason for suspending sales in Russia.
Visa Inc. and Mastercard Inc. said on March 5 they are suspending operations in Russia. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had called on the companies to halt all business in Russia during a video call with US lawmakers. Each of the firms gets about 4 per cent of its net revenue from business linked to the country. American Express followed the next day.
International sanctions, the closure of airspace and transport links due to the war, and the financial restrictions on Swift and capital controls have made it difficult if not impossible for many companies to supply parts, make payments and deliver goods in Russia.
Equinor ASA, Norways state-owned energy giant, said it will start withdrawing from its joint ventures in Russia, worth about US$1.2 billion. In parallel, Norways sovereign wealth fund, the worlds largest, is freezing Russian assets worth about US$2.8 billion and said it will come up with a plan to exit by March 15.
Others have so far taken limited steps to halt business. Danone SAs General Secretary Laurent Sacchi said the worlds largest yogurt maker would suspend investment in Russia, but will continue to sell dairy and baby food.
Netflix has fewer than one million customers in Russia and has been operating in the country through a partnership with National Media Group. The streaming giant said previously it wont be carrying required Russian news channels on its local-language service in the country and has paused all projects and acquisitions from Russia, including four programs in production.
The French companys majority control of AvtoVaz, the Soviet-era maker of Ladas, and reliance on Russia for about 12 per cent of its revenue have unnerved investors and Renault has lost more than a third of its market value in two weeks. Renault has promised to abide by sanctions, Gabriel Attal, the French government spokesman, said on March 3 on France Info radio.
