Macron warns Russia will pay very high price if Ukraine attacked
20220126
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/macron-warns-russia-will-pay-very-high-price-if-ukraine-attacked
But he added: "It also means we should have a dialogue of clarification with Russia because I think that this dialogue is necessary to try to remove the ambiguities."
Mr Macron accused Russia of behaving as a "power of disequilibrium" through its behaviour not just in Ukraine but also Belarus, the Caucasus and Moldova.
But Mr Macron also insisted that a demanding dialogue needed to continue with Russia and revealed that he would hold telephone talks with Mr Putin on Friday.
These talks would provide the chance for Mr Putin to give clarification over what Russia is planning for Ukraine, Mr Macron said.
Senior representatives of Germany, Russia, and Ukraine are also due in Paris on Wednesday to discuss Ukraine along with French officials in the so-called four-way Normandy Format meeting.
"We are preparing in parallel a joint reaction and the response in case of aggression," he said, adding that Western powers were totally united.
"If there is an attack, there will be retaliation and the price for Russia will be very high," Mr Macron said alongside German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on a visit to Berlin on Tuesday Jan 25.
Several analysts predict that Russia is considering some kind of intervention in Ukraine, although Moscow has insisted it is not planning a new attack on its neighbour following the annexation of Crimea in 2014.
The build-up of Russian troops on the border with Ukraine has raised fears of a conflict over Moscow's pro-European Union neighbour but it remains unclear what the Kremlin's intentions are.
He also stressed that Moscow would have a very high price to pay if it violated Ukraine's territorial integrity.
"We call for a de-escalation of tensions and I want to also say how united Germany and France are on this subject," he added, following speculation that Berlin could be promoting a softer line regarding Russia.
Mr Scholz said: "We expect from Russia clear steps that contribute to a de-escalation of the situation. We are all in agreement that a military aggression will trigger heavy consequences."
BERLIN AFP - French President Emmanuel Macron has warned that Russia would face tough consequences if it attacked Ukraine but said he planned talks this week with Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to keep dialogue going with Moscow.
He said that the situation was worrying, and required Europe to stay united and to prepare a joint response.
