Oil prices drop 2 amid RussiaUkraine peace talks China lockdowns
20220330
https://www.straitstimes.com/business/companies-markets/oil-drops-2-amid-russia-ukraine-peace-talks-china-lockdowns
Lockdowns have dampened consumption of transportation fuels in China to a point where some independent refiners are trying to resell crude purchased for delivery over the next twomonths, traders and analysts said.
Weakness in global oil demand is expected to persist through April and May, said Rystad Energysenior vice-president of analysisClaudio Galimberti, citing the Russia-Ukraine tensions, high oil prices and China's Covid-19 situation.
US crude stocks fell by three million barrels last week, according to market sources, citing American Petroleum Institute figures, steeper than the one million draw that analysts polled by Reuters had estimated. Government inventory data is due on Wednesday.
Further weighing on oil futures, new lockdowns in China to curb the spread of the coronavirus prompted concerns that fuel demand could take a hit.
Ukrainian and Russian negotiators met in Turkey for the first face-to-face discussions in nearly three weeks. The top Russian negotiator said the talks were "constructive". Russia promised to reduce its military operations around Kyiv and northern Ukraine Ukraine proposed adoption of a neutral status but with international guarantees that it would be protected from attack.
Oil came off session lows when Moscow's lead negotiator cautioned that Russia's promise to decrease military operations did not represent a ceasefire and a formal agreement with Kyiv had a long way to go.
The Opec producer group is expected to stick to its plan for a modest output rise in May despite high prices and calls from the United States and other consumers for more supply.
Follow ST on LinkedIn and stay updated on the latest career news, insights and more.
Early in the session, oil prices rose almost US$2 on continued disruption of Kazakhstan's supplies and as major producers showed no sign of rushing to boost output significantly.
The energy ministers of key members Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emiratessaid Opec should not engage in politics as pressure mounted on them to take action against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.
New lockdowns in Shanghai to curb rising coronavirus cases also pressured prices on Tuesday as the market worried about a fall-off in Chinese demand. Shanghai accounts for about 4 per cent of China's oil consumption, ANZ Research analysts said.
Kazakhstan is set to lose at least a fifth of its oil production for a month after storm damage to mooring points used to export crude from the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, the energy ministry said.
HOUSTON REUTERS - Oil prices ended 2 per cent lower on Tuesday March 29 as talks progressed between Russia and Ukraine to end their weeks-long conflict, though Moscow negotiators said a promise to scale down some military operations did not represent a ceasefire.
Sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine had disrupted oil supplies and driven prices to nearly US$140 a barrel, its highest in about 14 years.
Both benchmarks fell 7 per cent on Monday, and dropped as much as 7 per cent again early on Tuesday before bouncing off session lows.
"Maybe therearereasons to be a bit more optimistic than we were this time yesterday, but I don't think this whole situation with Ukraine is going to go away in the next 15 minutes," cautioned Mr Robert Yawger, executive director of energy futures at Mizuho.
Brent crude settled down US$2.25 or 2 per cent at US$110.23 a barrel, while US West Texas Intermediate crude was down US$1.72 or 1.6 per cent at US$104.24.
