On edge of war Russian missiles chip away at Kyivs southern flank
20220308
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/on-edge-of-war-russian-missiles-chip-away-at-kyivs-southern-flank
The worry in Bila Tserkva is that Russian tanks now on the western edge of Kyiv may soon swoop down and head their way.
"This is a warning: turn off your electricity and gas, get your first aid kit, documents, supply of food and water, and go to your nearest bomb shelter," the voice intoned over the wail of air raid sirens.
"If the Russians ever come here, they will never get past us," college student Bogdan Martynenko said while smoking in a parking lot with his friends.
The 39-year-old was helping clear the rubble from one of the three houses destroyed by the mysterious weekend attack.
Russia's attempts to besiege Kyiv have seen the city of three million cut off from the rest of the country on three sides.
"The shelves are empty, they are bombing, rockets are falling from the sky," the 45-year-old complained.
And it only added to the dour mood of mother-of-two Yulia Ivashchyuk as she walked empty-handed out of the city's main shopping centre.
But a contingent of tanks rolled down the highway leading from the city toward the capital.
"Everyone is worried. They hear the air raid sirens several times a day," said carpenter Andriy Zaleznyak.
Bila Tserkva has the air of a city finely balanced on the edge of war.
The roads running east are cut off by Russian tanks and minefields after an hour's drive.
"They've already hit us nearly a dozen times. It's hard to count all the explosions. All the days are blurring into one."
"We have territorial defence units, our police, our guys. We all know each other - they wouldn't dare," he said with a grin.
This slightly surreal state of neither peace nor all-out war lends the city some of the optimism and bravado Kyiv enjoyed before the Russians seized its western outskirts.
"There is no lactose-free milk that my little one needs. What else can go wrong? I am not sure I want to know."
A few of them smashed into Bila Tserkva's strategic airfield and some factories when Russia launched its assault on Ukraine on Feb 24.
It was the second alarm to sound in under an hour over the snow-covered central Ukrainian city of Bila Tserkva.
But the city of 200,000 now has the unfortunate distinction of being on the direct path of cruise missiles that Russia is launching at Kyiv from the Black Sea.
The south represents Kyiv's main escape route as well as the only way it can be supplied with food and fuel.
BILA TSERKVA, UKRAINE AFP - The tinny Ukrainian voice in the supermarket's loudspeaker urged exiting shoppers to rush home and switch off the gas.
Bila Tserkva's location 75km south-west of Kyiv once made it a perfect commuter spot for people working in the Ukrainian capital.
"His behaviour is unbalanced and people are afraid that he might press the nuclear button," the 63-year-old entrepreneur said.
People on the streets share images on their phones of cruise missiles they have filmed flying toward Kyiv a few hundred metres above ground.
Bila Tserkva still lacks Kyiv's myriad of sandbagged checkpoints or men with assault rifles policing traffic at intersections.
A cluster of fancy new homes being built near the city's Ros River were torn apart over the weekend by either a stray missile or Russian bombs.
Zaleznyak said a family of six that lived in one of the destroyed houses was fortunate to be out of town on the night of the air strike.
"They could have all been killed," fellow handyman Bogdan Remmenniy said next to the charred remains of the family's garden shed.
Alcohol sales were banned across Ukraine when the government decided to give everyone access to firearms in order to build a new volunteer army in the first days of war.
