Party or not Couples in Ukraine face wedding quandary
20220526
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/party-or-not-couples-in-ukraine-face-wedding-quandary
She returned only when Russian troops withdrew and began focusing their attacks on the south and east of the country.
"First of all, a lot of people who evacuated at the start of the war have not come back... also people might tell us that now is not the time.
"These families that are being created will bring a new generation that will revive Ukraine," she said.
There were no guests or witnesses present, the couple wore jeans and trainers and Wednesday's May 25 ceremony conducted by a registrar was over in minutes - just time for a kiss after signing the registry.
Mr Khvatov and Ms Khvatova, who met at a glassware factory where they work, had been due to marry on March 17.
"Despite the war, we want to keep on living. We feel full of joy but we're trying to hide it."
"When I came back, I cried. So many people lost their lives!" Mr Dewberry said. "But God has said that after the darkness, there is light."
Irpin found itself on the front line in the weeks after Russia invaded on February 24 and lived under Russian occupation for a month.
Unlike in Kyiv, which has seen 3,800 weddings during the war, registry offices in the surrounding region shut down as Russian tanks advanced and many future brides fled across Europe.
"Morally it was hard after what the town went through," said Ms Liana Samoylenko, head of the Irpin department of registration of civil status acts, which deals with both weddings and death notices.
The newly-weds also decided to pose for wedding photos in front of some charred ruins in Bucha, a town close to Irpin that has become synonymous with the alleged war crimes carried out by Russian troops.
But they decided to have a much larger celebration with over 40 loved ones present.
Mr Mykhaylo Dewberry, 26, and his bride Anastasia, 20, also fled during the Russian occupation of the area.
As the couple posed, she in a long white dress and veil, he in a bright blue suit, passing drivers honked their horns to congratulate them.
"Many people, including our friends, lost their homes. They might not understand," Mr Khvatov said.
"There have been many tragedies in this place, and we wanted to show that there can also be renewal... That life has not stopped," said Mr Dewberry, the adopted son of US evangelists.
IRPIN, UKRAINE AFP - As wedding season gets under way in Ukraine despite months of war, couples are faced with a difficult choice - celebrate their unions in style or stay discreet so as not to upset anyone.
At the wedding registry in Irpin, a town close to Kyiv that has been devastated by Russia's invasion, Mr Ivan Khvatov, 39, and Ms Olesya Khvatova, 41, celebrated their nuptials in restrained fashion.
"Life is returning. And the weddings resuming bring back the hope that everything will be fine.
Mr Dewberry and Anastasia met at a Christian camp two years ago and he asked her to marry him a year ago. The invasion forced the couple to put their preparations on hold.
Men aged between 18 and 60 were eligible for military service and not allowed to leave.
