Putin lays out conditions as Russians shell Ukrainian city
20220228
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/putin-lays-out-conditions-as-russians-shell-ukrainian-city
More than 350 civilians, including 14 children, have been killed during the invasion, Ukraine says, while more than a half a million people have fled the country.
Moscow claimed it had gained air superiority over the entire territory of Ukraine, while accusing Ukrainian troops of using civilians as human shields.
Mr Putins ultimatum came as Moscow and Kyiv held their first talks since the outbreak of warlast Thursday, which shocked the world and provoked a massive diplomatic, economic, cultural and sporting backlash.
The trip was really hard, the 31-year-old told AFP. Its calmer here, but the drive was really scary.
Mr Putin also announced emergency measures intended to prop up the rouble,including banning residents from transferring money abroad.
Laboratory worker Katerina Zaporojets from the central city of Cherkassysaid it took her 24 hours to arrive at the western Shegyni border post  and she will likely wait another 48 hours before crossing.
We will greet them with Molotov cocktails and bullets to the head, bank employee Viktor Rudnichenko told AFP. The only flowers they might get from us will be for their grave.
Long queues for groceries snaked through the streets of Kyiv on Monday after a strict 36-hour military curfew was lifted and volunteer militias learnt how to make homemade explosives.
ICC prosecutor Karim Khan said he is satisfied that there is a reasonable basis to believe that both alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity have been committed in Ukraine since 2014.
An aide to Mr Macron added that the EU and its allies were preparing new sanctions to raise the cost of the war for MrPutin and change his calculations.
Also on Monday,an emergency special session of the UN General Assembly just the 11th held in the United Nations 77-year history  debated a resolution condemning Moscows unprovoked armed aggression.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said it was gravely concerned as Russian forces advanced towards Ukraines largest nuclear plant, strongly warning against any military action that could threaten the Zaporizhzhia facility.
If Ukraine does not survive, the United Nations will not survive. Have no illusions, Ukrainian Ambassador to the UN Sergiy Kyslytsya said. A vote on the non-binding resolution is expected on Wednesday.
Turkey said it would implement an international treaty to limit ships passing through the Dardanelles and Bosphorus straits, a move requested by Ukraine to block the transit of Russian warships.
Tycoon Oleg Deripaska said Russia needs real crisis managers and not fantasists, while billionaire banker Oleg Tinkov said innocent people are dying every day, this is unthinkable and unacceptable.
Western defence officials and the Kyiv government say Ukrainian troops have so far kept the countrys major cities  out of Russian hands despite incursions in the capital and Kharkiv over the weekend.
On Monday, the EU said it would add Russian oligarchs and the Kremlins spokesman to its sanctions blacklist, whiletraditionally neutral Switzerland said it would adopt the blocs sanctions.
However, security analyst Olivier Kempf at the Foundation for Strategic Research think-tanksaid that Russian forces were not bogged down.
However, the EU poured cold water on Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys request for immediate membership to the bloc, saying the process to join takes years.
Shortly before the talks ended, agreeing merely to hold a second round of negotiations soon, MrPutin laid  out his prerequisites for ending the war in a phone call with French President Emmanuel Macron.
Fighting continued to rage during the dialogue, with at least 11 people killed by Russian attacksin Ukraines second largest city of Kharkiv, near the Russian border.
Retired soldier Edward Sysoyev, 51, fidgeted impatiently while in line at a bank in Moscow.
The Russian army urged Ukrainians to leave Kyiv freely on one highway  out ahead of what is an expected Russian offensive to capture the capital.
The Kremlin said: Putin stressed that a settlement is possible only if Russias legitimate security interests are unconditionally taken into account, including the recognition of Russian sovereignty over Crimea, the demilitarisation and denazification of the Ukrainian state and ensuring its neutral status.
In Russia, there were more signs of rare dissent among the usually ultra-loyal oligarchs who surround the Russian leader  in addition to anti-war demonstrations that saw an estimated 2,100 people arrested on Sunday.
In Kyiv, many were preparing for a fresh assault, with makeshift barricades dotting the streets.
An AFP photographer in the city inspected damage caused by fighting on Sunday, finding a destroyed school and several burntout Russian infantry vehicles.
Moscows UN ambassador, meanwhile, said that 12 members of Russias diplomatic mission to the UNhave been ordered to leave the United Statesby the end of March.In further reaction to the Russian invasion, the International Criminal Court ICC announced thatit was launching an investigation.
Ninety per cent of Russians are going to rush to withdraw their roubles and change them into dollars, property or even gold... itll be ordinary people who pay for this military bunfight, he said.
The response from the world of sports also gathered steamas Russia was expelled from the World Cup and the countrys clubs and national teams were suspended from all international football competitions until further notice, Fifa and Uefa said.
Mr Oleg Sinegubov, the governor of the region that includes Kharkiv, said the Russian enemy is bombing residential areas of Kharkiv, where there is no critical infrastructure, where there are no positions of the armed forces.
The Russian rouble crashed to a record low as sanctions imposed by the West over the weekend had an immediate impact in Moscow, forcing the central bank to more than double its key interest rate to 20 per cent.
This is war, so there are difficulties. They may have logistics issues. But regardless of what were told, they are making progress, he told AFP. Only in video games do you conquer a country in two days.
Poland has taken in more than half of the 500,000 people who have fled Ukraine, according to the UN.
The weekend featured a momentous series of announcements from Europe, with Germany unveiling a historic change to its defence policies, and the European Union saying it would buy and supply arms to Ukraine, the first such move in its history.
KHARKIV, UKRAINE AFP - Russian President Vladimir  Putin laid  out  conditions on Monday Feb 28 for ending his invasion of Ukraine, as Moscows forces shelled the countrys second city and Western nations prepared even more sanctions.
