Russian forces enter Kharkiv Ukraines second city gas pipelines explode
20220227
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/ukrainian-oil-and-gas-facilities-burn-as-west-prepares-new-sanctions
Ukraines Western allies ratcheted up their response to Russias land, sea and air invasion late on Saturday with sanctions to banish major Russian banks from the main global payments system and other measures aimed at limiting Moscows use of a US$630 million S$853 million war chest of central bank reserves.
Russian soldiers and armoured vehicles were seen in different parts of the northeastern city of Kharkiv and firing could be heard, a witness said. A burning tank was visible in a video posted by the government.
The Kremlin sent a diplomatic delegation to neighbouring Belarus offering talks, but  Ukraine rejected the offer, saying Belarus had been complicit in the invasion.  Ukraine was happy to hold talks elsewhere, Mr Zelensky said.
Ukraines gas pipeline operator said the transit of Russian gas via  Ukraine, vital for Europes energy needs, was going on as normal. Kremlin-controlled energy giant Gazprom also said gas exports via  Ukraine continued normally.
They also said they would impose restrictions on Russias central bank to limit its ability to support the rouble and finance Mr Putins war effort.
Sanctions on Russias central bank could limit Mr Putins use of his more than US$630 billion in international reserves, widely seen as insulating Russia from some economic harm.
A USdefence official on Saturday said  Ukraines forces were putting up viable resistance to Russias air, land and sea advance.
A United Nations relief agency said at least 64 civilians had been killed among 240 civilian casualties.
On Saturday, they moved to block certain Russian banks access to the SWIFT international payment system, making it harder for Russia to trade and for its companies to do business.
Judo black-belt Mr Putin was suspended as honorary president of the International Judo Federation IJF on Sunday, in response to the war.
Witnesses in Kyiv reported occasional blasts and gunfire through the night, then three blasts after air raid sirens went off shortly before 9am0600 GMT.
Ukrainian forces were holding off Russian troops advancing on the capital Kyiv, President Volodymyr Zelensky said. But shelling hit civilian infrastructure and targets including ambulances, he said.
More than 368,000 refugees, mainly women and children, have poured into neighbouring countries, clogging railways, roads and borders since Russian President Vladimir Putin, 69, unleashed what he called a special military operation on Thursday.
The Kremlin said its troops were advancing again in all directions and Mr Putin thanked Russias special forces, singling out those who are heroically fulfilling their military duty in  Ukraine.
Ukraine, a democratic nation of 44 million people, won independence from Moscow in 1991 at the fall of the Soviet Union and has pushed to join Nato and the EU, goals Russia opposes.
The United States and its allies have authorized more weapons transfers to help  Ukraine fight and imposed a range of sanctions on Russia in response to the assault, which threatens to upend Europes post-Cold War order.
Russian troops blew up a natural gas pipeline in Kharkiv before daybreak, a Ukrainian state agency said, sending a burning cloud up into the darkness.
We have withstood and are successfully repelling enemy attacks. The fighting goes on, Mr Zelensky said in a video message from the streets of Kyiv posted on his social media.
A United Nations agency reported 64 civilian deaths and  Ukraine claimed to have killed more than 4,000 Russian soldiers.
Russian missiles found their mark overnight, including a strike that set an oil terminal ablaze in Vasylkiv, southwest of Kyiv, the towns mayor said. Blasts sent huge flames and billowing black smoke into the night sky, online posts showed.
Google barred Russias state-owned media outlet RT and other channels from receiving money for ads on their websites, apps and YouTube videos, similar to a move by Facebook.
Ignoring weeks of frantic diplomacy and sanctions threats by Western nations seeking to avoid war, Mr Putin has justified the invasion saying neo-Nazis rule  Ukraine and threaten Russias security  a charge Kyiv and Western governments say is baseless propaganda.
A Ukrainian presidential adviser said about 3,500 Russian soldiers had been killed or wounded. Western officials have said intelligence showed Russia suffering higher casualties than expected.Russia has not released casualty figures.
Finland and Sweden became the latest European countries to close their airspace to Russian flights, and EU could follow suit with a coordinated European-wide ban, an official said.
We will hold Russia to account and collectively ensure that this war is a strategic failure for Putin, the leaders of the European Commission, France,  Germany, Italy, Britain, Canada and the United States wrote.
The Russian enemys light vehicles have broken into Kharkiv, including the city centre, regional Governor Oleh Sinegubov said. Ukraines armed forces are destroying the enemy. We ask civilians not to go out.
KYIV REUTERS -Russian military vehicles pushed into  Ukraines second-largest city on Sunday Feb 27 and explosions rocked oil and gas installations on a fourth day of fighting in the biggest assault on a European state since World War Two.
Russian-backed separatists in the eastern province of Luhansk said a Ukrainian missile had blown up an oil terminal in the town of Rovenky.
Mr Putin has said he must eliminate what he calls a serious threat to his country from its smaller neighbour, accusing it of genocide against Russian-speakers in eastern  Ukraine  something Kyiv and its Western allies reject as a lie.
They did not name the banks that would be expelled. An EU diplomat said some 70 per centof the Russian banking market would be affected.
