Russia plans to decapitate Ukraine government says US defence official
20220224
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/united-states/russia-plans-to-decapitate-ukraine-government-says-us-defence-official
After President Vladimir Putin declared war in a pre-dawn televised address, explosions and gunfire were heard throughout the morning in Kyiv, a city of threemillion people.
The official said this appeared to be only the first phase of a large-scale Russian invasion that so far has used a limited number of the more than 150,000 Russian troops arrayed around Ukraine.
The United States is sending 7,000 troops to Germany to help reassure Nato allies, some part of a larger contingent that had already been put on alert earlier this year, the official added.
"We dont believe he has committed anywhere near a large portion of the forces that he has available to him," the official said.
The indications weve seen thus far, in just these first, not even 12 hours, are in keeping with our assessment earlier, that would be his goal: to decapitate this government, the official told reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The USofficial detailed three main axes of the Russian attack: 1 a Russian advance south into the northern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, the site of the heaviest fighting so far 2 a push north out of Russian-controlled Crimea to the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson 3 Two lines of Russian assault southeast and southwest from Belarus toward the capital Kyiv.
The USofficial said the US had seen indications that Ukrainians were fighting back and the invasion had the potential for massive bloodshed.
There are already about 90,000 US troops in Europe and Biden has made clear they will not be going into Ukraine to fight Russian forces.
Previously, USofficials had told Reuters that a Russian invasion could last 10-15 days but this official declined to speculate on how long the Russian onslaught would last, saying putting a timetable on it would be a fools errand.
The Kremlins early push towards Kyiv supports the USview the Russians aim to install their own method of governance.
WASHINGTON REUTERS -The United States believes Russias invasion of Ukraine is designed to decapitate Ukraines government and one of the three main axes of assault is directed at the capital Kyiv, a senior USdefence official said on Thursday Feb 24.
The senior defence official said the UShad not yet seen an increased threat with regards to Russias nuclear forces.
There has been no indication of any amphibious assaults yet by Russian forces, despite early media reports, but they used about 75 military aircraft in the first phase of the invasion, the official added.
The Russian attack has included more than 160 missile launches by Russia so far, including primarily short-range ballistic missiles, as well as medium-range missiles, cruise missiles and surface-to-air missiles.
The targets, thus far... have been primarily focused on military and air defense. So barracks, ammunition warehouses, nearly 10 airfields targeted, the official said.
The assault brought a calamitous end to weeks of fruitless diplomatic efforts by Western leaders to avert war, their worst fears about Putins ambitions realised.
It has every potential to be very bloody, very costly and very impactful on European security writ large.
