Russia abandons Black Sea outpost of Snake Island in victory for Ukraine
20220701
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/russian-forces-withdraw-from-black-seas-strategic-snake-island
Russian forces have been trying to encircle Lysychansk since they captured Sievierodonetsk, on the opposite side of the Siverskyi Donets River, last week after weeks of heavy fighting.
USPresident Joe Biden, speaking after a Nato summit in Madrid, said Washington and its allies were united in standing up to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
In contrast, however, a Ukrainian official in the heavily fought eastern province of Luhansk described difficulties for Ukrainian forces in the city of Lysychansk on Thursday.
We do not prevent the export of Ukrainian grain. The Ukrainian military has mined the approaches to their ports no one prevents them from clearing those mines and we guarantee the safety of shipping grain out of there, Putin said on Thursday.
Putin said during a visit to Russias foreign intelligence agency SVR on Thursday that one of SVRs main tasks is obtaining information in a timely manner on foreign military and geostrategic plans that may threaten Russia, according to the Interfax news agency.
Does that mean that suddenly the grain flows? No it doesnt really, said Marcus Faulkner, a lecturer of War Studies at Kings College London.
Russia has focused its firepower on capturing cities and towns in the Donbas region, which comprises Donetsk and Luhansk provinces on the border with Russia.
New weapons sent by the West made the Russian garrison even more vulnerable, especially HIMARS, a rocket system supplied by the United States which Ukraine began fielding last week.
Russia said it had decided to withdraw from the outcrop off Ukraines southwestern coast as a gesture of goodwill to show Moscow was not obstructing UNattempts to open a humanitarian corridor allowing grains to be shipped from Ukraine.
USSecretary of State Antony Blinken has accused Russia of deliberately causing world hunger as blackmail.
Russias abandonment of the island was likely a tangible result of Nato arms deliveries to Ukraine, said Rob Lee of the US-based Foreign Policy Research Institute.
Snake Island was retaken by Ukraine after weeks in which momentum in the four-month-old conflict appeared to be shifting in favour of Russia.
Russian artillery shelled from different directions while the Russian army was approaching from different sides, regional governor Serhiy Gaidai said on Ukrainian television.
Ukraine said it had driven the Russian forces out after an artillery and missile assault overnight.
Several military experts said that driving the Russians from Snake Island would not by itself be enough to unblock the ports.
The enemy hurriedly evacuated the remains of the garrison with two speed boats and probably left the island. Currently, Snake island is consumed by fire, explosions are bursting, it said.
In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky commented on bothSnakeIsland and the Donbas region, which comprises Donetsk and Luhansk provinces on the border with Russia.
The recovery ofSnakeIsland was significant for the Black Sea situation but it does not yet guarantee security. It does not yet ensure that the enemy will not come back, he said.
Russia had defended the island since February despite Ukraine claiming to inflict severe damage, sinking supply vessels and destroying Russian fortifications.
Ukrainian Brigadier General Oleksii Hromov said Ukrainian forces were not yet occupying the island but would do so.
Snake Island captured world attention after Russia seized it on the wars first day. A Ukrainian guard, ordered by Russias flagship cruiser Moskva to surrender, radioed back Russian warship: go fk yourself.
Gaidai mentioned Russias overwhelming advantage in equipment and artillery in the battle for Lysychansk. Ukraines Western allies have been sending weapons and the Kyiv government was given another boost with the United States saying it would provide a further US$800 million S$1.1 billion in weapons and military aid.
KYIV REUTERS  Russian forces abandoned the strategic Black Sea outpost of Snake Island on Thursday June 30 in a victory for Ukraine that could loosen the grip of Russias blockade on Ukrainian ports.
Moscow denies blocking the ports and blames food shortages on Western sanctions it says limit its own exports.
The Ukrainian military posted an image on Facebook of what appeared to be the island, seen from the air, with several columns of black smoke rising above it.
Residents have been told to remain in underground shelters indefinitely as it is very dangerous, Gaidai said.
I dont know how its going to end, but it will not end with Russia defeating Ukraine, Biden told a news conference. We are going to support Ukraine for as long as it takes.
In Luhansk and Donetsk, the Russians have simply brought in all their reserves to hit us, Zelensky said.
The rocky outcrop overlooks sea lanes to Odesa, Ukraines main Black Sea port, where Russia is blocking food cargos from one of the worlds leading grain suppliers.
KABOOM! tweeted Andriy Yermak, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskys chief of staff. No Russian troops on the Snake Island anymore. Our Armed Forces did a great job.
An official from the pro-Russian separatist administration in Luhansk province told RIA news agency the Lysychansk oil refinery was now fully controlled by Russian and pro-Russian forces, and all roads to Lysychansk were also under their control. Ukraine says the main road out is largely impassable because of fighting, but the city is not yet fully cut off.
Despite yielding ground and taking punishing losses in the Donbas in recent weeks, Ukraine hopes to inflict enough damage to exhaust Russias advancing army. Ukrainian forces have been mounting a counter-attack in the south of the region.
