Russian leaders compare Europe attacks on Russian culture to Nazi Germany
20220325
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/kremlin-says-biden-diverting-attention-from-us-chemical-biological-weapons-programme
This term  used by Nazi Germany  is now used by many European politicians when they say what they want to do with Russia.
"We see this as an attempt to divert attention to some kind of ephemeral, allegedly existing threat against the backdrop of a scandal that is flaring up in the world involving chemical and biological weapons programmes that the United States has been carrying out in various countries, including Ukraine," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
Mr Putin on Friday slammed the West for discriminating against Russian culture, which he likened to Nazi supporters burning books in the 1930s.
I am talking about the progressive discrimination against everything connected with Russia, about this trend that is unfolding in a number of Western states, with the full connivance and sometimes with the encouragement of Western elites, MrPutin added.
He also denied that the United States was holding chemical and biological weapons in Europe.
The Soviet Unions role in defeating Hitlers Germany in 1945 remains a huge point of pride in Russia and lies at the centre of Mr Putins patriotic discourse.
"Simply not true. I guarantee you," he told a gathering of US business leaders in Washington.
MOSCOW AFP - Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Friday March 25 compared Europes tactics to those of Nazi Germany, slamming historic sanctions against Moscow and saying the term total war has been borrowed from Hitlers playbook.
The last time such a mass campaign to destroy unwanted literature was carried out was by the Nazis in Germany almost 90 years ago... books were burned right on the squares.
Today they are trying to cancel a thousand-year-old country, hesaid during a televised meeting with Russian winners of culture-related prizes.
He has also accused the West of working to weaken Russia with the help of national traitors.
Mr Putin has denounced the Wests economic blitzkrieg and compared the sanctions to anti-Semitic pogroms carried out by Nazis.
Since Russian President Vladimir Putin sent troops toUkraine on Feb 24, the West has pummelled Moscow with unprecedented measures, making Russia the most sanctioned country in the world.
"There are many people in the world who are worried about what the Americans were doing, what we still don't know and what could have happened because of all this research and what could potentially happen in the future," he said.
Earlier, the Kremlin alsoaccused US President Joe Biden of seeking to divert attention from his country's chemical and biological weapons programme after he said Russia could use such weapons in Ukraine.
He said European officials were making no secret of their goals  to destroy, break, annihilate and suffocate the economy and Russia as a whole.
They have declared a true hybrid war, a total war against us, Mr Lavrov said at a meeting in Moscow.
On Monday, the US President said it was "clear" Russia was considering using chemical and biological weapons in Ukraine and warned of a "severe" Western response if it chose to do so.
The proverbial cancel culture has become a cancellation of culture, the Russian presidentsaid, adding that works by Russian composers were being excluded from concerts and books by Russian authors banned.
The Russian Defence Ministry this week accused Mr Biden's son, Mr Hunter Biden, of funding biological weapons labs in Ukraine through his investment fund Rosemont Seneca.
