Russias Gazprom halts gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria in what Ukraine condemns as gas blackmail
20220427
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/ukraine-accuses-russia-of-blackmail-with-plan-to-halt-gas-to-poland
The Kremlin said on Tuesday Gazprom was implementing Mr Putins decree on enforcing payment for  gas supplies in roubles.
Bulgaria Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov said the country had paid for Russian  gas deliveries for April and halting  gas supplies would be a breach of its current contract with Gazprom.
Bulgaria, heavily reliant on Russian  gas, has also said it would not hold talks with Gazprom to renew its natural  gas purchase deal, which also runs until the end of the year.
The benchmark Dutch front-month  gas contract at the TTF hub jumped by more than 19 per centon the day on Wednesday morning to 117 S$172per megawatt hour.
Gazprom, which supplies around 40 per centof European  gas, also warned that transit via  Poland and  Bulgaria  which host pipelines supplying Germany, Hungary and Serbia  would be cut if  gas was siphoned off illegally.
Because all trade and legal obligations are being observed, it is clear that at the moment the natural  gas is being used more as a political and economic weapon in the current war, Mr Nikolov said.
Mr Putin demanded that unfriendly countries agree to a scheme under which they would open accounts at Gazprombank and make payments for Russian  gas imports in euros or dollars that would be converted into roubles. Most European companies had initially rejected the rouble payment scheme.
Only a few Russian  gas buyers, such as Hungary and Germanys Uniper, the countrys main importer of Russian  gas, have said it would be possible to pay for future supplies under the scheme announced by Moscow without breaching European Union sanctions.
The war in Ukraine has changed assumptions about Europes post-Cold War relationship with  Russia  including over oil and  gas supplies.
Warsaw has also said it had enough alternative sources of  gas, including seaborne liquefied natural  gas.
Poland, for centuries a rival of Moscow, has repeatedly said it will not pay for Russian  gas in roubles and has planned not to extend its  gas contract with Gazprom after it expires in the end of this year.
Poland and  Bulgaria are the first countries to have their  gas cut off by Europes main supplier since the Feb24 invasion of Ukraine that has killed thousands of people, displaced millions more and raised fears of a broader conflict.
Despite objections from the United States that Europes biggest economies were making themselves too dependent on Soviet  and then Russian   gas, Moscow sought for five decades to cast itself as a reliable energy supplier for Germanys economy.
Payments for  gas supplied from April 1 must be made in roubles using the new payments details, about which the counterparties were informed in a timely manner, Gazprom said.
The EU said on Wednesday it was prepared for Moscow to suspend  gas supplies to the 27-nation bloc and is planning a coordinated response.
Mr Putin casts the sanctions as an act of economic war but cutting off supplies to  Poland and  Bulgaria is one of Moscows most significant steps in the  gas market since the Soviets built  gas pipelines to Europe from Siberia in the early 1970s.
Bulgaria, where annual  gas consumption is about 3 bcm, has sealed a deal to receive 1 bcm of Azeri  gas but can only fully tap the contract after a new  gas pipeline with Greece becomes operational later this year.
Europeans can trust that we stand united and in solidarity with the member states impacted.
Ms Von der Leyen added that ameeting of the  gas coordination group is taking place right now andslammed the unilateral move by  Russia as unjustified and unacceptable.
Polands  gas supply contract with Gazprom is for 10.2 billion cubic meters bcm per year, and covers about 50 per cent of national consumption.
In the past 15 years,  Russia and Ukraine have bickered over pricing resulting in disruptions to supply. In the winter of 20082009, Russian supply disruptions rippled across Europe.
Mr Volodin said the leaders of the West would have to explain to their own citizens why their energy bills were soaring because of sanctions on  Russia.
Russian President Vladimir Putins demand for rouble payments for  gas is the centrepiece of  Russias response to the Wests sanctions which include the freezing of hundreds of billions of dollars of Russian assets.
SOFIAWARSAWREUTERS, AFP -Russian energy giant Gazprom on Wednesday April 27 halted  gas supplies to  Poland and  Bulgaria for failing to pay for  gas in roubles, the Kremlins toughest response yet to the crippling sanctions imposed by the West for the invasion of Ukraine.
Gazprom has completely suspended  gas supplies to Bulgargaz Bulgaria and PGNiG Poland due to absence of payments in roubles, Gazprom said in a statement.
Warsaw and Sofia said the halt to supplies was a breach of contract by Gazprom, the worlds biggest natural  gas company.
In a sign that Gazproms halt to supply could soon be expanded to other countries, one of the Kremlins most loyal lawmakers lauded the move and said other unfriendly countries should be cut off too.
Gazproms announcement is another attempt by  Russia to blackmail us with  gas. We are prepared for this scenario. We are mapping out our coordinated EU response, European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said on Twitter.
The same should be done with regard to other countries that are unfriendly to us, said Mr Vyacheslav Volodin, the Speaker of  Russias Lower House of Parliament, the Duma.
The Yamal-Europe pipeline across  Poland supplies Russian  gas to Germany, although it has mostly been working in a reverse mode this year, supplying  gas eastward from Germany.  Bulgaria is a transit country for  gas supplies to Serbia and Hungary.
