Sanctioning Russia now over Ukraine would undercut deterrence Blinken
20220123
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/sanctioning-russia-now-over-ukraine-would-undercut-deterrence-blinken
At the same time, we have to consider the consequences this will have for us, Mr Scholz added, saying that nobody should think there was a measure available without consequences for Germany.
I can tell you that the Germans very much share our concerns and are resolute and being determined to respond  and to respond swiftly, effectively, and in a united way, Mr Blinken said on NBC talk show Meet the Press.
But that would risk exacerbating a gas supply crunch in Europe that has caused energy prices to soar.
Prudence dictates choosing measures that will have the greatest effect on those who violate the jointly agreed principles, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz Scholz was quoted as saying by the Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper on Sunday.
WASHINGTON REUTERS, AFP - United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday Jan 23 rebuffed the idea of imposing economic sanctions on Russia now, saying that doing so would undercut the West's ability to deter potential Russian aggression against Ukraine.
The European Union has threatened massive sanctions and US Senate Democrats have unveiled a bill to potentially punish Russian officials, military leaders and banking institutions.
But he did say that Nato membership of other nations in eastern Europe was currently not on the agenda at all.
Mr Blinken on Sunday said he has no doubts that Germany is maintaining a united front with Nato on the Ukraine crisis.
According to a pre-release of the interview, Mr Scholz also countered any impression that the US and Europe could not agree on a joint set of sanctions.
Among a range of possible Western sanctions against President Vladmir Putins government, Germany could halt the Nord Stream 2 pipeline from Russia if it invades Ukraine.
Mr Blinken said if one more Russian force entered Ukraine in an aggressive manner, that would trigger a significant response.
Meanwhile, Germanys leader has urged Europe and the US to think carefully when considering sanctions against Russia for any aggression against Ukraine in a crisis pitting Berlins main gas supplier against its biggest security allies.
"When it comes to sanctions, the purpose of those sanctions is to deter Russian aggression. And so if they are triggered now, you lose the deterrent effect," Mr Blinken told CNN's State Of The Unionprogramme in an interview.
In the circle of allies, we agree on possible measures. Its good. We have to be able to act in case of an emergency, he said.
Russia is already subject to some sanctions since its 2014 annexation of Crimea from its neighbour.
Mr Scholz rejected a demand by Russia to rule out once and for all Ukraines membership of the Nato transatlantic military alliance.
Asked if US hands were tied over Ukraine because of its need for Russian support in separate talks on reining in Iran's nuclear programme, Mr Blinken, speaking to CBS' Face The Nationprogramme, replied: "Not in the least."
Russia's massing of troops near its border with Ukraine has sparked Western concerns that it may invade. If Russia does make an incursion, the West has threatened sanctions with far-reaching economic effects.
