Ukraines Zelensky eyes inflection point in war as Russia tightens grip on key target
20220602
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/russia-controls-about-20-percent-of-ukraine-president-zelensky
His administration said it had Ukraines assurances it would not use the rocket systems to hit targets inside Russia.
Russia and Ukraine together account for nearly a third of global wheat supplies, while Russia is also a key fertiliser exporter and Ukraine a major supplier of corn and sunflower oil.
The issue will come up when Biden hosts NatoSecretary-General Jens Stoltenberg at the White House on Thursday.
Russian forces, backed by heavy artillery, control most of the eastern industrial city of Sievierodonetsk  now largely in ruins  after days of fierce fighting, Britains defence ministry said in its daily intelligence report.
While Moscow denies targeting civilians it says it regards Ukrainian infrastructure used to bring in Western arms as a legitimate target. Still, it insisted those supplies would not change the course of what it calls a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of ultra-nationalists the Kremlin says threaten Russian security.
Its goals will be achieved, but this will bring more suffering to Ukraine, Peskov said when asked whether USplans to sell Ukraine drones that can be armed with missiles could change the nature of the conflict.
USPresident Joe Biden hopes extending Ukraines artillery reach will help push Moscow to negotiate an end to a war in which thousands have been killed, cities and towns flattened and more than sixmillion people forced to flee the country.
As the invasion approaches its 100th day on Friday, Russia says Washington is adding fuel to the fire with a new US$700 million S$960 million weapons package for Ukraine that will include advanced rocket systems with a range of up to 80km.
Interfax news agency quoted Russias defence ministry on Thursday as saying that vessels carrying grain could leave Ukraines Black Sea ports via humanitarian corridors with Moscow ready to guarantee their safety.
But separately addressing a forum in Slovakia, Zelensky said more weapons supplies would ensure an inflection point in this confrontation, in Ukraines favour.
In another sign of the economic stress, Ukraines central bank jacked up its benchmark interest rate to a seven-year high to tackle soaring inflation and shield the hryvnia currency, while its boss called for talks with the International Monetary fund about a new funding programme.
Four Russian missiles hit railway infrastructure targets in two places in the western Lviv region bordering Poland late on Wednesday, injuring five people and causing significant damage, its governor said.
Moscows forces were also attempting to advance south towards the Ukraine-held cities of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk in Donetsk province, provincial governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said.
Ukraines armed forces general staff said that besides its assault on the city, Russian troops were also attacking other parts of the east and north-east.
Zelenskiy told Luxembourgs parliament via videolink on Thursday June 2 that Russian forces now occupied about a fifth of Ukrainian territory, with battle lines stretching more than 1,000km.
The conflict has also prompted Finland and Sweden to seek Nato membership, though alliance member Turkey has been blocking that move, accusing Stockholm and Helsinki of harbouring people linked to Kurdish militants.
As Washington blacklisted more individuals and entities with ties to the Kremlin, including a major steel producer and a cellist it called Putins middleman, the European Union gave final approval to a sanctions package that includes a 90 per cent cut in Russian oil imports by the end of the year. Moscow called the move self-destructive, saying it could destabilise global energy markets.
Ukraines foreign ministry spokesman said earlier Kyiv was working with international partners on a United Nations-backed solution that would restore shipping routes there.
The war and Western sanctions imposed in response to it are taking a toll on the world economy. With its control of some of Ukraines biggest seaports and critical Black Sea shipping routes, Russia has been blocking Ukrainian farm exports and deepening a global food crisis.
Pumping Western weapons into Ukraine does not change all the parameters of the special operation, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
KYIV REUTERS  Russia tightened its grip on a key target in a battle for control of Ukraines eastern Donbas region while President Volodymir Zelensky pleaded for more Western arms to help Ukraine reach an inflection point and prevail in the war.
Ukraine is fighting an exclusively defensive war, and we always state this, the countrys deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar told a briefing when asked whether Kyiv made such a promise.
Seizing Luhansk would accomplish one of Russian President Vladimir Putins stated aims and shift battlefield momentum further in Russias favour after its forces were pushed back from the capital Kyiv and from northern Ukraine.
The capture of Sievierodonetsk and its smaller twin Lysychansk would give Russia control of all of Luhansk, one of two provinces along with Donetsk in the Donbas claimed by Moscow on behalf of separatists.
