US to announce US3b in new military aid for Ukraine says official
20220823
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/us-to-announce-us3b-in-new-military-aid-for-ukraine-says-official
The package uses funds from the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative USAI appropriated by Congress to allow the Biden administration to procure weapons from industry rather than taking weapons from existing USweapons stocks.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, the official said the new weapons did not appear to include types of arms that had not been provided previously to the Ukrainian military.
Under the USAI, the weapons could take months to arrive in Europe given that companies have to procure them.
Moscow is trying to gain control of the largely Russian-speaking Donbas region, comprised of Luhansk and Donetsk provinces, where pro-Moscow separatists seized territory after the Kremlin annexed Crimea to the south in 2014.
But the official said it would focus on ammunition and more medium-term objectives like defence systems.
Ukraine accuses Moscow of an imperial-style war to retake a pro-Western neighbor that shook off Russian domination when the Soviet Union broke up in 1991.
In Ukraine, a sense of an eerie calm before the storm grew on Tuesday as the US Embassy told its citizens to leave Ukraine because of fears of possible Russian missile strikes as the country celebrates its 31 years of independence on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON REUTERS -The United States will announce a new security assistance package for Ukraine of about US$3 billion S$4 billion as early as Wednesday, a USofficial said on Tuesday Aug 23, in what would be the single largest tranche to Kyiv since Russias invasion six months ago.
Germany plans to deliver further arms, including air-defencesystems, rocket launchers and precision munitions, to Ukraine worth over 500 million euros S$700 million in 2023, a source told Reuters.
The official said the amount and mix of weapons could change before the formal announcement.
Since Russian troops invaded on Feb24 in what Russian President Vladimir Putin termed a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine, the conflict has settled into a war of attrition fought primarily in eastern and southern Ukraine.
Washington has provided US$10.6 billion in military assistance to President Volodymyr Zelenskys government since Feb24.
