White House says US Poland working on warplanes for Ukraine
20220305
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/putin-says-western-sanctions-are-akin-to-declaration-of-war
Russians, reeling from a 30 per centfall in the roubles value in the past 10 days, money transfer curbs and the exit of Western companies from IKEA to Microsoft, expressed fear for their economic future.
Mr Zelensky addressed thelawmakers as they consider President Joe Bidens request for an extra US$10 billion S$13.6 billionin funding to respond to the Russian invasion and while the administration weighs a ban on Russian oil imports.
Blinken also met refugees staying in a disused shopping mall in Poland, which has taken in the vast majority of the Ukrainians forced to flee their country.
Ukraines Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said 66,224 Ukrainian men had returned from abroad to join the fight against Russias invasion.
Earlier, the International Committee of the Red Cross had said planned civilian evacuations from Mariupol and Volnovakha were unlikely to start on Saturday. The city council in Mariupol had accused Russia of not observing a ceasefire, while Moscow said Ukrainian nationalists were preventing civilians from leaving.
Meanwhile,Russian President Vladimir Putin said Western sanctions were akin to war as his forces pressed their assault on Ukraine on Saturday for a 10th day and the IMF warned the conflict would have a severe impact on the global economy.
LVIVKYIV, UKRAINE REUTERS, BLOOMBERG - The United States is working with Poland and consulting with other North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Nato allies on possibly having those countries supply warplanes to Ukraine for use against Russian forces, a White House spokesman said.
With almost 300 members of the Senate and House on the video call, Mr Zelensky won pledges of support for more weaponry while facing reluctance on his appeal for Natopowers to enforce an exclusion zone for Russias air force. Natoand the USsay that declaring a no-fly zone would risk a getting into a war with Russia.
Russias Defence Ministry said its forces were carrying out a wide-ranging offensive in Ukraine and had taken several towns and villages, Interfax news agency reported.
Russia also warned the EU and Natoagain to stop the pumping of state-of-the-art weapons systems into Kyiv, citing the risk to aviation and other transport communications, ministry spokesmanMaria Zakharova said, according to RIA.
The discussion involves the possibility of sending the countries, including  Poland and Slovakia, F-16 fighter jets to replace what they send Ukraine, a person familiar with the matter said.
The port of Mariupol has endured heavy bombardment, a sign of its strategic value to Moscow due to its position between Russian-backed separatist-held eastern Ukraine and the Black Sea Crimean peninsula, which Moscow seized from Kyiv in 2014.
My heart is breaking, said one shopper, Viktoriya Voloshina, in the town of Rostov on Saturday.
The Bidenadministration is considering finding replacements for any fighter jets  Poland might send from its fleet to Ukraine, the spokesmansaid.
Eyewitnesses cited by Interfax said Russian troops fired automatic rifles into the air in an unsuccessful attempt to disperse the crowd. The soldiers later left the city centre, the eyewitnesses said.
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett met with Putin at the Kremlin on Saturday to discuss the crisis before then speaking to Mr Zelensky,Mr Bennetts spokesman said.
The decision is  Polands to make, the spokesmansaid, adding that there are logistical and other challenges, including how to transfer aircraft from  Poland to Ukraine.
Ive barely slept for 10 days, said Anna Filatova, arriving in Lviv with her two daughters from heavily bombed Kharkiv, Ukraines second city near its eastern border with Russia.
But the F-16 process would be time-consuming and involve bidding for and awarding a contract, as well as building planes specific to that country and providing training.
The International Monetary Fund said in a statement that the conflict was driving world energy and grain prices higher.
In aerial combat near Zhytomyr, about 100kmwest of Kyiv, it said, four Ukrainian Su-27 fighter jets had been shot down. Reuters could not independently confirm the report.
Women and children, often numb with exhaustion, continued to pour into Poland and other neighbouring countries as well as into western Ukrainian cities such as Lviv.
The ongoing war and associated sanctions will also have a severe impact on the global economy, it said, adding that it would bring Kyivs request for US$1.4 billion in emergency financing to its board for approval as early as next week.
Britain said the proposed ceasefire in Mariupol  which has been without power, water and heating for days  was likely an attempt by Russia to deflect international condemnation while it resets its forces.
Mr Putin said he wanted a neutral Ukraine that had been demilitarised and denazified, adding: These sanctions that are being imposed are akin to a declaration of war but thank God it has not come to that.
USSecretary of State Antony Blinken, on a visit to Poland, met with Mr Kuleba at the border amid tight security to discuss the provision of weapons and efforts to isolate Russia and cripple its economy.
In Kherson, southern Ukraine, the only regional capital to have changed hands during the invasion so far, several thousand people demonstrated on its main square on Saturday.
Its no secret that the highest demand that we have is in fighting jets, attack aircrafts and air defence systems, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told reporters during a meeting with USSecretary of State Antony Blinken at the Polish-Ukrainian border on Saturday.
Israel has offered to mediate in the conflict, though officials have downplayed expectations for a breakthrough.
The number of refugees could rise to 1.5 million by Sunday night from 1.3 million now, the UNrefugee agency chief said.
Together we will all rebuild our state, Mr Zelensky told Ukrainians in a televised address Saturday evening.
A United Nations monitoring mission said at least 351 civilians had been confirmed killed and 707 injured in Ukraine since the start of the invasion on Feb24, adding that the real figures were likely to be considerably higher.
Several said afterward that they support an aircraft transfer, which could involve Russian-made planes on which Ukrainian pilots are trained.
The idea was rejected by several eastern European members of the alliance this week but Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky made a desperate plea for eastern Europe to provide Russian-made aircraft to his country during a video call with US lawmakers on Saturday March 5.
Mr Putin, in one of several decrees signed on Saturday, gave his government two days to draw up a list of nations engaged in unfriendly acts towards Russia, its news agencies reported.
Moscow and Kyiv traded blame over failed plans for a brief ceasefire to enable civilians to evacuate two cities besieged by Russian forces. Russias invasion has already driven nearly 1.5 million refugees westward into the European Union.
Ukraines military said armed forces are fighting fiercely to liberate Ukrainian cities from Russian occupiers, counter-attacking in some areas and disrupting communications.
Ukraine and Western countries have rejected Mr Putins arguments as a baseless pretext for invading and have sought to squeeze Russia hard with swift and severe economic sanctions on its banks, oligarchs and others.
Ukrainian negotiators said a third round of talks with Russia on a ceasefire would go ahead on Monday, although Moscow was less definitive. Two previous rounds were unsuccessful and Mr Zelensky has said Russia must first stop bombing.
