Xi tells Putin China will keep backing Russia on sovereignty security
20220615
https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/xi-tells-putin-china-will-keep-backing-russia-on-sovereignty-security
In the eyes of Chinese officials, the Europeans have allowed themselves to be sucked into backing Ukraine, at Washington's initiative, in a move contrary to their interests as Russian gas consumers.
China has refused to condemn Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and has been accused of providing diplomatic cover for Russia by blasting Western sanctions and arms sales to Kyiv.
China is "willing to continue to offer mutual support to Russia on issues concerning core interests and major concerns such as sovereignty and security", Chinese state broadcaster CCTV reported Mr Xi as saying.
According to CCTV, Mr Xi praised the "good momentum of development" in bilateral relations since the start of the year "in the face of global turmoil and changes".
China was ready to "strengthen communication and coordination" with Russia in international organisations and "push the international order and global governance towards more just and reasonable development", he added.
Once bitter Cold War enemies, Beijing and Moscow have stepped up cooperation in recent years as a counterbalance to what they see as US global dominance.
Beijing is Moscow's largest trading partner, with trade volumes last year hitting US$147 billion S$205 billion, according to Chinese Customs data, up more than 30 per cent on 2019.
The two countries have drawn closer in the political, trade and military spheres as part of what they call a "no limits" relationship.
It was the second reported call between the two leaders since Mr Putin launched his invasion of Ukraine on Feb 24.
Mr Xi, who has described Mr Putin as an "old friend", also invited his Russian counterpart to the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics in early February.
The two sides last week unveiled the first road bridge linking the two countries, connecting the far eastern Russian city of Blagoveshchensk with the northern Chinese city of Heihe.
Wednesday's call between the two leaders fell on Mr Xi's 69th birthday and was their first reported communication since the day after Russia launched its invasion of its European neighbour.
China as well as India are two major economies that have not taken part in retaliatory measures against Moscow over its invasion.
The European Union and the United States have warned that any backing from Beijing for Russia's war in Ukraine, or help for Moscow to dodge Western sanctions, would damage ties with China.
BEIJING AFP - Chinese President Xi Jinping told his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in a call on Wednesday June 15 that Beijing would keep backing Moscow on "sovereignty and security", according to state media.
