Russian Foreign Ministry rejects NATO attempts to accuse Russia of aggression over Ukrainian events
20220226
https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/74533/
"Representatives of the alliance hypocritically said that 'peace on the European continent has been fundamentally shattered.' But who did that? Were not that NATO countries that silently looked at how the United States was destroying the ABM Treaty? They stood idle when Washington unilaterally withdrew from the INF Treaty. They allowed the Americans to refuse from taking part in the Treaty on Open Skies, which depreciated it as an effective tool of control over military activity. Were not that NATO allies that took part in the bombardments of Yugoslavia, the attack on Libya, and the invasion of Iraq? They led the situation in Afghanistan to complete degradation in 20 years, and running from there they left weapons worth billions of dollars," Zakharova said.
"The alliance has been building up its group and infrastructure near our borders. It explores militarily the states neighboring us, using their resources for elaborating plans to deter Russia. We cannot leave without attention this confrontational course regarding our country, especially when our key concerns in security sphere are left unanswered," she said.
MOSCOW. Feb 27 Interfax - Moscow believes NATO attempts to accuse Russia of aggression are groundless.
"Western countries watched indifferently at the murders and derisions of thousands peaceful people of southeastern Ukraine for eight years. In fact, they became accomplices in the many-year genocide of the people of LPR and DPR. NATO's intention to pump Ukraine with weapons, including air defense systems, proves one thing, the U.S. and its allies are not interested in resolving this crisis," she said.
"Given that no agreement can be reached with NATO member states and that they lack the aspiration to really strengthen security in Europe based on the principle of equal and indivisible security, we consider their attempts to accuse us of aggression groundless," Russian Foreign Ministry's spokesperson Maria Zakharova said in a statement in the wake of the NATO summit on February 25.
Moreover, at the virtual summit the leaders of NATO member states "in every possible way showed their support for 'independent, peaceful and democratic' Ukraine, which with the connivance of the West turned into a hotbed of the Nazi ideology," she said.
"Prior to calling on Russia to account for the demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine, NATO countries should answer for their military adventures, as well as inaction in calling the Kyiv regime to the peaceful settlement of the Donbas problem," Zakharova said.
