Ship carrying Ukrainian wheat arrives in Istanbul  media
20220815
https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/82208/
Two bulkers carrying 70,000 tonnes of grain left Chornomorsk on August 9. The MV Ocean Lion, flying the flag of Liberia, is carrying about 64,700 tonnes of corn on its way to the Suez Canal. The other ship, the MV Rahmi Yagci is delivering 5,300 tonnes of sunflower meal to the Turkish port of Aliaga, according to the Marine Traffic web portal.
Four more ships with grain left Odesa and Chornomorsk on the morning of August 7. The MV Mustafa Necati, Star Helena and Glory left Chornomorsk through the grain corridor, while the MV Riva Wind departed from Odesa. According to the Marine Traffic web portal, MV Riva Wind is headed to the Turkish port of Iskenderun, while MV Star Helena is on its way to the Greek port of Piraeus. MV Mustafa Necati is headed to Italy, and MV Glory has arrived in Port Said, Egypt.
Two more ships left Chornomorsk on August 13. MV Fulmar S, flying the flag of Barbados, is carrying 12,000 tonnes of corn to the Turkish port of Iskenderun, while MV Thoe under the flag of the Marshall Islands is destined for the port of Tekirdag in northwestern Turkey with 3,000 tonnes of sunflower seeds onboard.
ISTANBUL. Aug 15 Interfax - The first ship carrying Ukrainian wheat, which departed from Chornomorsk consistent with the grain exportation initiative, arrived in Istanbul on Sunday, the TRT World television channel said with the reference to the Joint Coordination Center JCC.
MV Star Laura carrying 60,000 tonnes of corn departed from Ukraine for Iran on August 12. Meanwhile, the Marine Traffic web portal shows that the bulker is now headed to the Greek port of Piraeus.
MV Razoni, which was the first to depart from a Ukrainian port under the grain exportation initiative and headed to the Lebanese port of Tripoli, stopped at the Turkish port of Mersin after the Lebanese client refused to accept the goods. According to the Marine Traffic web portal, the bulker is currently on its way to Egypt.
The Arizona and Sacura bulkers departed from Chornomorsk and Yuzhny on August 8. The Sacura is destined for Ravenna from Yuzhny with 11,000 tonnes of soybeans. According to the Marine Traffic web portal, the Arizona is headed from Chornomorsk to Bodrum, Turkey, with 50,000 tonnes of corn onboard.
According to the JCC website, three more bulkers, namely, the Brave Commander, the Petrel S and the Osprey S, had arrived in Ukrainian ports to take out grain through the designated corridor.
According to the JCC, MV Sormovskiy under the flag of Belize was the first to transport Ukrainian wheat through the grain corridor. The ship loaded with about 3,000 tonnes of wheat departed from Chornomorsk on August 12.
Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Nations signed two documents to open a grain corridor from three Ukrainian ports, namely, Odesa, Chornomorsk and Yuzhny Pivdennyi, on July 22.
In all, over 438,000 tonnes of agricultural products have been shipped out of Ukraine through the grain corridor, the JCC said. Publicly available information indicates that corn, soybeans and sunflower seeds have been transported from Ukraine under the initiative approved in Istanbul.
The JCC has cleared 19 bulkers loaded with food to leave Ukrainian ports under the grain exportation deal. Sixteen of them have departed from the ports, and some have reached their destinations.
In particular, the MV Polarnet brought about 12,000 tonnes of corn to its destination, the Derince port in the Gulf of Izmit, on August 8. According to the Marine Traffic web portal, the Rojen bulker departed from Chornomorsk on August 5 and reached Ravenna in Italy's Emilia-Romagna on August 12.
Besides the Polarnet and the Rojen, MV Navi Star sailed out of Ukraine on August 5. It is destined for the Irish port of Foynes.
