Tsargrad TV channel declines amicable settlement with Google over shutting down its YouTube channel
20210816
https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/72466/
Due to the court-mandated penalty formula, the cumulative amount will exceed Google's annual profit in 2020 85.46 billion rubles and will reach 91.75 billion rubles on the 17th week of non-fulfillment of the court order. According to the legal firm Baker  McKenzie that represented Google in court, the forfeit will reach 94 trillion rubles seven months after the court order takes effect and will practically reach the capitalization amount of Google's parent company, Alphabet, Forbes said in early May.
The money Google might pay as forfeit will be spent on creating a Russian alternative to YouTube, Malofeyev said. "Not a single kopeck of the fine to be paid by Google if it fails to meet the court order will be taken by me as dividends. If a fine is paid to our benefit, we will invest the entire sum in the creation of an alternative video hosting service to YouTube. So that there will be no need to use the hostile platform any more. I make this statement now to prevent any speculations on the subject," the channel quoted Malofeyev as saying.
On July 28, 2020, Tsargrad TV reported the blocking of its channel on YouTube that had 1 million subscribers. The Google press service told Interfax that the channel was blocked in fulfillment of the law on sanctions. The United States blacklisted the channel's founder Malofeyev at the end of 2014 in connection with the events in eastern Ukraine. He filed an application with the Moscow Arbitration Court at the end of August 2020 for restoring his YouTube account and being reimbursed for the missed profit from content monetization.
"The management of the Tsargrad television channel has decided not to engage in any negotiations with representatives of the Google company regarding an amicable settlement of the legal dispute. If this company wants to continue to work in Russia, Google will have to either comply with the laws of our state and unblock the Tsargrad-TV channel or pay a huge fine. Either variant will suit Tsargrad," the channel said in a statement obtained by Interfax.
On April 13, the Moscow Arbitration Court fully met the Tsargrad Media lawsuit vs. Google. The court ruled that, unless the valid order is fulfilled, the respondents will pay a progressive penalty at the initial amount of 100,000 rubles per day, which will double every week. This is the first ruling on case merit based on the new legal norm - Article 248.1 of the Russian Administrative Procedure Code the exclusive jurisdiction of Russian arbitration courts in disputes involving parties under restrictions, which took effect on June 8, 2020, consistent with the law.
Google challenged the ruling in an appeal court. The appeals were filed by each of the three respondents: Google LLC, Google Ireland Limited Ireland and Google LLC the United States.
"All this time, the Tsargrad television channel has been offering Google to comply with the lower-tier court's order without waiting for this order to take effect and without being compelled to pay a fine. However, lawyers of the Internet giant have been stalling the negotiations under far-fetched pretexts. Instead of engaging in a constructive dialogue, Google representatives kept setting various sorts of conditions for negotiations that could allegedly help address the issue. In the end, there was an impression that Google was delaying and stalling any kind of negotiating process on purpose," the statement said.
On July 12, the Ninth Appeal Arbitration Court upheld an appeal from a Google LLC representative who asked to delay the hearing until August 16 in order to agree on an amicable settlement with Tsargrad.
Google "ignores state sovereignty everywhere," Malofeyev said. "That happens until the state makes them pay attention to it. I am glad that Russia is becoming sovereign in the digital space. China did so in the past. And the EU is doing this now and imposing multimillion fines on IT giants," he said.
MOSCOW. Aug 16 Interfax - The Tsargrad television channel has declined an amicable settlement with Google as part of considering Google appeal against the court order that imposed a progressive penalty in case of Google's refusal to restore the channel's account blocked over the U.S. sanctions against channel founder Konstantin Malofeyev.
