Are nuclear power plants safe
20220323
http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/opinion/2022/03/162_326003.html
President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol pledged to raise the proportion of nuclear power in Korea's electricity generation from the current level of 25-29 percent to 30-35 percent by 2030. He also said that he would restart building Sin Hanul reactors 3 and 4 whose construction has been suspended. But is it safe to use nuclear power?
In particular, Korea is not free from this risk. The country is surrounded by strong nations: China, Russia and Japan. Furthermore, South and North Korea did not end the Korean War formally. Given the circumstances, South Korea cannot ensure the safety of its nuclear power plants.
In addition to natural disasters, war is another factor which threatens the safety of nuclear power plants. Recently Russia seized control of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. This situation and the continuing tragic war, which Russia must stop, show the high risk associated with nuclear power plants all over the world in the event of a military aggression.
Even if no accident occurs during the operation of nuclear power plants, radioactive substances in spent nuclear fuel can have a half-life of as high as 24,000 years. When we think of the future of our children, our nieces and nephews and our grandchildren, what will be the right decision?
President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol pledged to raise the proportion of nuclear power in Korea's electricity generation from the current level of 25-29 percent to 30-35 percent by 2030. He also said that he would restart building Sin Hanul reactors 3 and 4 whose construction has been suspended. But is it safe to use nuclear power?On March 4, when a wildfire occurred in Uljin, North Gyeongsang Province, the fire spread close to the fences of Hanul Nuclear Power Plant. If the fire had damaged the power plant, it could have become an even more tragic situation than now.Scientists predict that climate change will increase the frequency of wildfires and typhoons, both of which can damage nuclear power plants. According to climate scientists, global warming raises the number of lightning strikes. Warming causes more water vapor in the atmosphere, and water vapor is the fuel for thunderstorms. So the warmer it gets, the more lightning strikes are expected. Increased lightning strikes would lead to more wildfires.Also, nuclear power plants are not safe in the case of other natural disasters including earthquakes. Think of the Fukushima nuclear accident caused by the great earthquake and tsunami in 2011. Although 11 years have passed, the problem is still ongoing. Water has been irradiated constantly from the nuclear power plant, and about 70 percent of people who evacuated their homes after the accident could not return yet.Moreover, a strong earthquake occurred again in Fukushima this March. The disaster temporarily stopped the operation of part of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant facilities for cooling spent nuclear fuel. These accidents show that nuclear power plants are vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes.In addition to natural disasters, war is another factor which threatens the safety of nuclear power plants. Recently Russia seized control of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. This situation and the continuing tragic war, which Russia must stop, show the high risk associated with nuclear power plants all over the world in the event of a military aggression. In particular, Korea is not free from this risk. The country is surrounded by strong nations: China, Russia and Japan. Furthermore, South and North Korea did not end the Korean War formally. Given the circumstances, South Korea cannot ensure the safety of its nuclear power plants.If one of the power plants happens to be attacked, it will be a complete catastrophe. In this small country, we have too many nuclear power plants. In the case of a nuclear accident, no one will be safe. Thus, it is wise not to build new nuclear power plants.Even if no accident occurs during the operation of nuclear power plants, radioactive substances in spent nuclear fuel can have a half-life of as high as 24,000 years. When we think of the future of our children, our nieces and nephews and our grandchildren, what will be the right decision?Kim Sun-ae blog.naver.comdancinglf is a writer and translator.
Moreover, a strong earthquake occurred again in Fukushima this March. The disaster temporarily stopped the operation of part of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant facilities for cooling spent nuclear fuel. These accidents show that nuclear power plants are vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes.
Also, nuclear power plants are not safe in the case of other natural disasters including earthquakes. Think of the Fukushima nuclear accident caused by the great earthquake and tsunami in 2011. Although 11 years have passed, the problem is still ongoing. Water has been irradiated constantly from the nuclear power plant, and about 70 percent of people who evacuated their homes after the accident could not return yet.
Scientists predict that climate change will increase the frequency of wildfires and typhoons, both of which can damage nuclear power plants. According to climate scientists, global warming raises the number of lightning strikes. Warming causes more water vapor in the atmosphere, and water vapor is the fuel for thunderstorms. So the warmer it gets, the more lightning strikes are expected. Increased lightning strikes would lead to more wildfires.
If one of the power plants happens to be attacked, it will be a complete catastrophe. In this small country, we have too many nuclear power plants. In the case of a nuclear accident, no one will be safe. Thus, it is wise not to build new nuclear power plants.
On March 4, when a wildfire occurred in Uljin, North Gyeongsang Province, the fire spread close to the fences of Hanul Nuclear Power Plant. If the fire had damaged the power plant, it could have become an even more tragic situation than now.
