Germany France seek EU backing on Putin summit bid
20210625
http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/world/2021/06/685_311088.html
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said he was not against the presidents of the European Commission and Council meeting with Putin, but refused to participate himself over Russia's failure to cooperate on the investigation into downed Malaysian airliner MH17.
Non-EU member Ukraine's foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, blasted the German-French effort as a "dangerous deviation from EU sanctions policy" after talks in Brussels with the bloc's foreign policy chief.
Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda warned that Europe had to be "extremely cautious" over talking to Russia as it lacked Washington's muscle, but predicted that leaders would "find some solutions" over the proposals.
Moscow has been at loggerheads more recently with a number of Western capitals after a Russian troop build-up on Ukraine's borders and a series of espionage scandals that have resulted in diplomatic expulsions.
Merkel, who could be attending her last EU summit before German elections set for September, insisted that the 27-member bloc should meanwhile put up "a united front against the provocations" by Russia.
The Merkel-Macron plan insists the EU has to stand firm and united on Moscow, but should look to engage with the Kremlin on issues of mutual interest such as climate change, health, the Iran nuclear deal and conflicts in Syria and Libya.
"It is not enough for the American president to talk to the Russian president," she said, stressing that the European Union too "must also create different formats for talks".
French President Emmanuel Macron said that talking with Putin was "necessary for the stability of the European continent" but underscored that the bloc would be "demanding because we will not give up any of our values".
Ties between the EU and Russia have been in the doldrums since the Kremlin annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March 2014.
The last summit between EU chiefs in Brussels and Putin took place in early 2014, but the Kremlin strongman has always preferred to deal bilaterally with individual nations. AFP
Germany and France faced resistance from wary EU leaders on Thursday over a push to relaunch meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin despite concerns Moscow has not stopped its aggressive actions.
"The way it's proposed is that Russia annexes Crimea, Russia wages war in Donbass east Ukraine, and Europe shrugs its shoulders and continues to try to speak a dialogue."
"In my opinion, we as the European Union must also seek direct contact with Russia and the Russian president," Chancellor Angela Merkel told Germany's parliament ahead of the gathering of EU leaders in Brussels.
"The Kremlin understands power politics, the Kremlin does not understand free concessions as a sign of strength," Latvian Prime minister Krisjanis Karins said.
But they also laid out that leaders will ask the European Commission "to present options for additional restrictive measures, including economic sanctions" to push back against "any further malign, illegal and disruptive activity by Russia".
The EU is looking to revamp its strategy on keeping its vast eastern neighbor in check as Brussels admits that relations with the Kremlin look set to deteriorate further despite having already reached their "lowest level".
Polish President Mateusz Morawiecki opposed high-level talks until Russia ends its "aggressive" approach and complained the issues proposed for dialogue were only of interest to some member states.
Proposed draft conclusions put forward by Berlin and Paris for the EU summit said the bloc "will review the existing formats of dialogue with Russia, including at Leaders' level".
Germany and France faced resistance from wary EU leaders on Thursday over a push to relaunch meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin despite concerns Moscow has not stopped its aggressive actions.Berlin and Paris have put forward a last-minute proposal for the bloc to hold summits again with Putin in the wake of US President Joe Biden's sit-down with him in Geneva last week. Moscow said Putin was a "supporter" of the idea, which would potentially revive a regular fixture that was frozen in 2014 after the takeover of Crimea by Russia."In my opinion, we as the European Union must also seek direct contact with Russia and the Russian president," Chancellor Angela Merkel told Germany's parliament ahead of the gathering of EU leaders in Brussels."It is not enough for the American president to talk to the Russian president," she said, stressing that the European Union too "must also create different formats for talks".Merkel, who could be attending her last EU summit before German elections set for September, insisted that the 27-member bloc should meanwhile put up "a united front against the provocations" by Russia.French President Emmanuel Macron said that talking with Putin was "necessary for the stability of the European continent" but underscored that the bloc would be "demanding because we will not give up any of our values".Dangerous deviationBut there is serious opposition from numerous EU member states  especially in eastern Europe  who were blindsided by the push and remain deeply wary of rewarding the Kremlin with talks before it changes course. "The Kremlin understands power politics, the Kremlin does not understand free concessions as a sign of strength," Latvian Prime minister Krisjanis Karins said. "The way it's proposed is that Russia annexes Crimea, Russia wages war in Donbass east Ukraine, and Europe shrugs its shoulders and continues to try to speak a dialogue."Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda warned that Europe had to be "extremely cautious" over talking to Russia as it lacked Washington's muscle, but predicted that leaders would "find some solutions" over the proposals.Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said he was not against the presidents of the European Commission and Council meeting with Putin, but refused to participate himself over Russia's failure to cooperate on the investigation into downed Malaysian airliner MH17. Non-EU member Ukraine's foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, blasted the German-French effort as a "dangerous deviation from EU sanctions policy" after talks in Brussels with the bloc's foreign policy chief. The EU is looking to revamp its strategy on keeping its vast eastern neighbor in check as Brussels admits that relations with the Kremlin look set to deteriorate further despite having already reached their "lowest level".Moscow has been at loggerheads more recently with a number of Western capitals after a Russian troop build-up on Ukraine's borders and a series of espionage scandals that have resulted in diplomatic expulsions.
Moscow said Putin was a "supporter" of the idea, which would potentially revive a regular fixture that was frozen in 2014 after the takeover of Crimea by Russia.
The bloc has slapped waves of sanctions on Moscow, and Russia has responded with its own countermeasures.
Berlin and Paris have put forward a last-minute proposal for the bloc to hold summits again with Putin in the wake of US President Joe Biden's sit-down with him in Geneva last week.
Disruptive activityThe Merkel-Macron plan insists the EU has to stand firm and united on Moscow, but should look to engage with the Kremlin on issues of mutual interest such as climate change, health, the Iran nuclear deal and conflicts in Syria and Libya.Polish President Mateusz Morawiecki opposed high-level talks until Russia ends its "aggressive" approach and complained the issues proposed for dialogue were only of interest to some member states. Proposed draft conclusions put forward by Berlin and Paris for the EU summit said the bloc "will review the existing formats of dialogue with Russia, including at Leaders' level".But they also laid out that leaders will ask the European Commission "to present options for additional restrictive measures, including economic sanctions" to push back against "any further malign, illegal and disruptive activity by Russia".Ties between the EU and Russia have been in the doldrums since the Kremlin annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March 2014.The bloc has slapped waves of sanctions on Moscow, and Russia has responded with its own countermeasures.The last summit between EU chiefs in Brussels and Putin took place in early 2014, but the Kremlin strongman has always preferred to deal bilaterally with individual nations. AFP
But there is serious opposition from numerous EU member states  especially in eastern Europe  who were blindsided by the push and remain deeply wary of rewarding the Kremlin with talks before it changes course.
