Koreas Ukrainian residents condemn Russias invasion
20220227
http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/nation/2022/02/177_324615.html
"We desperately urge Korean society to support Ukraine, which is struggling desperately to protect democracy. If the Korean government imposes active economic sanctions on Russia quickly, it will be a great help to Ukraine."
In addition to Ukrainians living in Korea, Korean citizens who oppose the war also attended the rally.
"Just like Korea, which has transformed into an advanced country today, Ukraine has protected its national sovereignty by overcoming numerous invasions by neighboring powers. We appeal to the Korean government and presidential candidates to help Ukraine by imposing economic sanctions on Russia," they said. In addition to Ukrainians living in Korea, Korean citizens who oppose the war also attended the rally.Olena Shchegel, a professor of Ukrainian language at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, who reported the rally to the local police station in Jung District on Thursday, stated that it is a rally held voluntarily by Ukrainians living in Korea, not by a specific group.Participants held up signs that read "Putin, hands off Ukraine," "Sanctions against Russia," and "Help Ukraine," in addition, protesters could be heard singing their national anthem.They also chanted slogans in Korean, English and Ukrainian, such as, "Stop Putin's War," "Stop Murdering Our People," as they marched along the Deoksugung Stonewall Road to the Russian Embassy.
They also chanted slogans in Korean, English and Ukrainian, such as, "Stop Putin's War," "Stop Murdering Our People," as they marched along the Deoksugung Stonewall Road to the Russian Embassy.
Olena Shchegel, a professor of Ukrainian language at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, who reported the rally to the local police station in Jung District on Thursday, stated that it is a rally held voluntarily by Ukrainians living in Korea, not by a specific group.
Ukrainians residing in Korea condemned Russia's invasion of their country and appealed for active support from the Korean government and people, Sunday.
By Bahk Eun-jiUkrainians residing in Korea condemned Russia's invasion of their country and appealed for active support from the Korean government and people, Sunday. About 200 Ukrainians held a rally near the Russian Embassy in Seoul and said that the Ukrainian community in Korea strongly condemns Russia's attack on Ukraine and is deeply concerned about the threats to civilians."It has been four days since Russia's outrageous invasion on Ukraine took place in the heart of Europe in the 21st century. Since Nazi Germany's assault in 1941, the most horrific thing has been happening in the capital," a Ukrainian protester said.
"Just like Korea, which has transformed into an advanced country today, Ukraine has protected its national sovereignty by overcoming numerous invasions by neighboring powers. We appeal to the Korean government and presidential candidates to help Ukraine by imposing economic sanctions on Russia," they said.
"It has been four days since Russia's outrageous invasion on Ukraine took place in the heart of Europe in the 21st century. Since Nazi Germany's assault in 1941, the most horrific thing has been happening in the capital," a Ukrainian protester said.
Participants held up signs that read "Putin, hands off Ukraine," "Sanctions against Russia," and "Help Ukraine," in addition, protesters could be heard singing their national anthem.
About 200 Ukrainians held a rally near the Russian Embassy in Seoul and said that the Ukrainian community in Korea strongly condemns Russia's attack on Ukraine and is deeply concerned about the threats to civilians.
