Kremlin says Ukraines EU candidacy is a domestic European issue
20220624
http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/world/2022/06/501_331625.html
EU leaders on Thursday granted candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova but said Georgia  which also applied for membership  could obtain this status only once outstanding issues are addressed.
Russia's relations with the West have been in tatters since President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine, triggering a barrage of sanctions.
Also on Friday, Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Ukraine and Moldova joining the 27-nation bloc presented "no risks" for Russia, because the EU is not a military alliance.
"These are domestic European affairs. It is very important for us that all these processes do not bring more problems to us and more problems in the relations of these countries with us," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
"Today the EU and NATO are bringing together such a contemporary coalition to fight and, to a large extent, wage war against Russia."
However, he accused the EU and NATO of wanting to wage war on Russia, comparing them to the Axis powers in World War II.
Speaking of Moscow's relations with the European Union, he said that it would be "very difficult to spoil them further."
The Kremlin said Friday that the European Union's decision to grant official EU candidate status to Ukraine, where Russia is conducting a military campaign, and neighboring Moldova was a "domestic" matter.
Later on Friday, Georgians were set to stage a rally in favor of joining the EU in the Caucasus nation's capital Tbilisi. AFP
"Hitler under his banner had brought together a large part of European countries to wage war against the Soviet Union," Lavrov said during a working visit to Azerbaijan.
"Hitler under his banner had brought together a large part of European countries to wage war against the Soviet Union," Lavrov said during a working visit to Azerbaijan."Today the EU and NATO are bringing together such a contemporary coalition to fight and, to a large extent, wage war against Russia."Russia's relations with the West have been in tatters since President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine, triggering a barrage of sanctions. EU leaders on Thursday granted candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova but said Georgia  which also applied for membership  could obtain this status only once outstanding issues are addressed.Later on Friday, Georgians were set to stage a rally in favor of joining the EU in the Caucasus nation's capital Tbilisi. AFP
