Russia continues shelling as US imposes more sanctions and Ukraine calls for decisive help
20220407
http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/world/2022/04/501_326911.html
"We're going to keep raising the economic costs and ratchet up the pain for Putin, and further increase Russia's economic isolation," U.S. President Joe Biden said.
Despite the sanctions, the Russian ruble extended recovery gains on Wednesday, returning to levels seen before the invasion, shrugging off fears of a potential default on international debt as it paid dollar bondholders in rubles. Reuters
"The only thing that we are lacking is the principled approach of some leaders  political leaders, business leaders  who still think that war and war crimes are not something as horrific as financial losses," he told Irish lawmakers.
Ukrainian authorities said late Wednesday they cannot help people evacuate from the eastern front line town of Izyum or send humanitarian aid because it is completely under Russian control as the east sees the worst fighting.
But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiyy was critical of some in the West and said he could not tolerate "any indecisiveness."
Russian forces bombarded cities in Ukraine as the United States imposed more sanctions Wednesday after civilian killings widely condemned as war crimes, and Ukraine's President urged a decisive Western response amid divisions in Europe.
Western policymakers have denounced the killings in Bucha as war crimes, and Ukrainian officials say a mass grave by a church there contained between 150 and 300 bodies.
Moscow denied targeting civilians there or elsewhere. Russia's foreign ministry said that images of bodies in Bucha were staged to justify more sanctions against Moscow and derail peace talks with Kyiv.
A siege of the southern port of Mariupol has trapped tens of thousands of residents without food, water or power.
But Europe is walking a tightrope as Russia supplies around 40 of the EU's natural gas consumption and the bloc also gets a third of its oil imports from Russia, about $700 million per day.
Britain also froze Sberbank's assets, and said it would ban imports of Russian coal by the end of the year.
European Union diplomats failed to approve new sanctions Wednesday, as technical issues needed to be addressed, including on whether a ban on coal would affect existing contracts, sources said.
The new measures announced by Washington included sanctions on President Vladimir Putin's two adult daughters, days after the grim discovery of civilians shot dead at close range in Bucha, north of Kyiv, when it was retaken from Russian forces.
"We'll go wherever there are no explosions, where the children won't have to hear them," he said, hugging his young son and struggling to hold back the tears.
Russia's 42-day-long invasion has forced more than 4 million people to flee abroad, killed or injured thousands, left a quarter of the population homeless, turned entire cities into rubble and prompted a slew of Western restrictions on Russia's elite and its economy.
Many in the eastern town of Derhachi, just north of Kharkiv and near the border with Russia, have decided to leave while they can.
Germany, Europe's largest economy which relies on Russian gas for much of its energy needs, warned that while it supported ending Russian energy imports as soon as possible it could not do it overnight.
Ukrainian authorities said late Wednesday they cannot help people evacuate from the eastern front line town of Izyum or send humanitarian aid because it is completely under Russian control as the east sees the worst fighting.A siege of the southern port of Mariupol has trapped tens of thousands of residents without food, water or power.State-owned Ukrainian Railways said there were a number of casualties after three rockets hit a station in eastern Ukraine. It did not give a precise location.Many in the eastern town of Derhachi, just north of Kharkiv and near the border with Russia, have decided to leave while they can.Buildings have been badly damaged by Russian artillery. Kharkiv itself has been hammered by air and rocket strikes from the start.Mykola, a father of two in Derhachi who declined to give his surname, said he could hear the thud of bombardments every night, and had been hunkering down with his family in a corridor in their home."We'll go wherever there are no explosions, where the children won't have to hear them," he said, hugging his young son and struggling to hold back the tears.Ukraine's military said Russian forces were continuing preparations for an eastern offensive in order to take full control of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. It said the main focus of current hostilities was Donetsk, where Russian troops were still trying to seize all of Mariupol.Ten high-rise buildings were on fire in the eastern town of Sievierodonetsk after Russian shelling, the region's governor said in an online post.                      A Ukrainian sapper holds the remains of a shell as he works near a burned column of military vehicles on a highway in the Kyiv region of Ukraine, April 5, as Russia's attack on the country continues. Reuters-Yonhap              New sanctions The new U.S. sanctions include a ban on Americans from investing in Russia.The sanctions hit Russia's Sberbank, which holds one-third of Russia's total banking assets, and Alfabank, the country's fourth-largest financial institution, but energy transactions were exempted, U.S. officials said.Britain also froze Sberbank's assets, and said it would ban imports of Russian coal by the end of the year.But Europe is walking a tightrope as Russia supplies around 40 of the EU's natural gas consumption and the bloc also gets a third of its oil imports from Russia, about $700 million per day.Germany, Europe's largest economy which relies on Russian gas for much of its energy needs, warned that while it supported ending Russian energy imports as soon as possible it could not do it overnight.Despite the sanctions, the Russian ruble extended recovery gains on Wednesday, returning to levels seen before the invasion, shrugging off fears of a potential default on international debt as it paid dollar bondholders in rubles. Reuters
The sanctions hit Russia's Sberbank, which holds one-third of Russia's total banking assets, and Alfabank, the country's fourth-largest financial institution, but energy transactions were exempted, U.S. officials said.
Russia says it is engaged in a "special military operation" designed to demilitarize and "denazify" Ukraine. Ukraine and Western governments reject that as a false pretext for its invasion.
Reflecting such fears, the EU executive said it had begun a stockpiling operation to boost its defenses against chemical, nuclear and biological threats.
Ukraine's military said Russian forces were continuing preparations for an eastern offensive in order to take full control of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. It said the main focus of current hostilities was Donetsk, where Russian troops were still trying to seize all of Mariupol.
Buildings have been badly damaged by Russian artillery. Kharkiv itself has been hammered by air and rocket strikes from the start.
Mykola, a father of two in Derhachi who declined to give his surname, said he could hear the thud of bombardments every night, and had been hunkering down with his family in a corridor in their home.
The United States wants Russia expelled from the Group of 20 major economies forum, and will boycott a number of meetings at the G20 in Indonesia if Russian officials show up, according to Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen.
State-owned Ukrainian Railways said there were a number of casualties after three rockets hit a station in eastern Ukraine. It did not give a precise location.
EU member Hungary said it was prepared to meet a Russian request to pay rubbles for its gas, breaking ranks with the rest of the bloc and highlighting the continent's reliance on imports that have held it back from a tougher response on the Kremlin.
Ten high-rise buildings were on fire in the eastern town of Sievierodonetsk after Russian shelling, the region's governor said in an online post.
