UN General Assembly to vote on demand for Russia to withdraw from Ukraine
20220302
http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/world/2022/03/501_324824.html
Putin launched the full-scale invasion of Ukraine Feb. 24, with Moscow pleading "self-defense" under Article 51 of the U.N. Charter.
Nearly every General Assembly speaker Monday and Tuesday unreservedly condemned the war and the risks of military escalation.
Amid fears of a domino effect should Ukraine fall to Russia, Colombia rejected any return to "empire," while Albania wondered: "Who will be next?"
From the Arab world it was Kuwait, itself the victim of an invasion by Iraq in 1990, whose denunciation of Moscow was the most explicit, with the rest of the Middle East remaining in the background.
"He rejected efforts at diplomacy. He thought the West and NATO wouldn't respond. And, he thought he could divide us here at home," Biden said.
But Russia was not entirely friendless, as Syria, Nicaragua, Cuba and North Korea all sided with Moscow and blasted what they saw as the double standards of Western nations who have invaded countries including Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan in recent years.
The resolution is non-binding, but  if it passes  will serve as a powerful rebuke to Russia on the world stage and a marker of its isolation. The vote must reach a two-thirds threshold to pass.
It also makes clear the United Nations is "condemning" Putin's decision to put his nuclear forces on alert, a move that ignited an immediate outcry from the West.
'Putin was wrong'Several countries are left to speak before Wednesday's expected vote, among them Moscow's ally Belarus  which allowed Russia to use its territory as a launchpad for part of the invasion  and the United States.Washington, like Europe, has adopted a barrage of sanctions aimed at isolating Russia and stifling its economy so that it cannot finance the war. On the General Assembly sidelines, Washington has taken aim at Russians working at the United Nations, leveling accusations of espionage and demanding expulsions Tuesday for the second day running.U.S. President Joe Biden asserted Tuesday in his first State of the Union address that Putin had underestimated the West's response to the invasion."He rejected efforts at diplomacy. He thought the West and NATO wouldn't respond. And, he thought he could divide us here at home," Biden said."Putin was wrong. We were ready." AFP
The text of the resolution  led by European countries in coordination with Ukraine  has undergone numerous changes in recent days.
On the General Assembly sidelines, Washington has taken aim at Russians working at the United Nations, leveling accusations of espionage and demanding expulsions Tuesday for the second day running.
It no longer "condemns" the invasion as initially expected, but instead "deplores in the strongest terms the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine."
After more than 100 countries spoke during two days of extraordinary debate, the U.N. General Assembly was poised to vote Wednesday on whether it will vigorously deplore Russia's invasion of Ukraine and demand Moscow withdraw its troops immediately.
Japan and New Zealand led condemnation from Asia, while India  close to Moscow militarily  remained cautious and China stressed the world had "nothing to gain" from a new Cold War.
'Empire'Nearly every General Assembly speaker Monday and Tuesday unreservedly condemned the war and the risks of military escalation.Amid fears of a domino effect should Ukraine fall to Russia, Colombia rejected any return to "empire," while Albania wondered: "Who will be next?"From the Arab world it was Kuwait, itself the victim of an invasion by Iraq in 1990, whose denunciation of Moscow was the most explicit, with the rest of the Middle East remaining in the background.Japan and New Zealand led condemnation from Asia, while India  close to Moscow militarily  remained cautious and China stressed the world had "nothing to gain" from a new Cold War.But Russia was not entirely friendless, as Syria, Nicaragua, Cuba and North Korea all sided with Moscow and blasted what they saw as the double standards of Western nations who have invaded countries including Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan in recent years.
The vote on the draft resolution is being touted by diplomats as a bellwether of democracy in a world where autocracy is on the rise in countries from Myanmar to Venezuela, and comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces bear down on Kyiv while terrified Ukrainians flee.
But that has been roundly rejected by Western countries who accuse Moscow of violating Article 2 of the Charter, requiring U.N. members to refrain from the threat or use of force to resolve a crisis.
Several countries are left to speak before Wednesday's expected vote, among them Moscow's ally Belarus  which allowed Russia to use its territory as a launchpad for part of the invasion  and the United States.
U.S. President Joe Biden asserted Tuesday in his first State of the Union address that Putin had underestimated the West's response to the invasion.
After more than 100 countries spoke during two days of extraordinary debate, the U.N. General Assembly was poised to vote Wednesday on whether it will vigorously deplore Russia's invasion of Ukraine and demand Moscow withdraw its troops immediately.The vote on the draft resolution is being touted by diplomats as a bellwether of democracy in a world where autocracy is on the rise in countries from Myanmar to Venezuela, and comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces bear down on Kyiv while terrified Ukrainians flee.The resolution is non-binding, but  if it passes  will serve as a powerful rebuke to Russia on the world stage and a marker of its isolation. The vote must reach a two-thirds threshold to pass.Putin launched the full-scale invasion of Ukraine Feb. 24, with Moscow pleading "self-defense" under Article 51 of the U.N. Charter.But that has been roundly rejected by Western countries who accuse Moscow of violating Article 2 of the Charter, requiring U.N. members to refrain from the threat or use of force to resolve a crisis.The text of the resolution  led by European countries in coordination with Ukraine  has undergone numerous changes in recent days.It no longer "condemns" the invasion as initially expected, but instead "deplores in the strongest terms the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine."It also makes clear the United Nations is "condemning" Putin's decision to put his nuclear forces on alert, a move that ignited an immediate outcry from the West.
Washington, like Europe, has adopted a barrage of sanctions aimed at isolating Russia and stifling its economy so that it cannot finance the war.
