Market Rotates as Russia Assault Rages On
20220304
https://realmoney.thestreet.com/investing/stocks/market-rotates-as-russia-assault-rages-on-15929433
I suspect that there are quite a few traders that would like to buy another gap lower on negative Ukraine news. That could easily happen on Monday, but in the meantime, we have to contend with this difficult news flow and the Ukraine situation that is not going to be resolved for quite some time.
Many of these names were technically extended and in need of a rest, but the pullback was more aggressive than many traders expected.
We're seeing how price action drives the market narrative rather than the other way around, as some question whether inflation and a hawkish Fed will be as big a danger as bears believe.
There were two primary issues Thursday. The first was that nearly everyone was expecting the Russian assault on Ukraine to intensify and for some ugly news about the fall of Kyiv to occur soon. Although the market seems to anticipate the news, there wasn't any real rush to sell until some weakness started.
Here's why I'm a fan of stock buybacks when done correctly. Hint: Don't look at Bed Bath  Beyond.
Despite the constant flow of news about the war in Ukraine, growth stocks, small caps, biotechnology, and other lagging groups have enjoyed a strong bounce over the last week.
The second issue on Thursday was that there was some strong rotational action to intensify the selling in the stocks that have performed best over the past week. Breadth wasn't bad at around two to one negative, but all the FATMAAN names were lower, the Ark Investment exchange-traded fund ARKK fell 6.3, and the Russell 2000 Growth ETF IWO was the laggard with a loss of 2.
The stock market says it's a bad time to run an emerging company, but it is far from a fire sale moment in small stocks. Here's what I learned from good management teams of three companies.
A third issue that may just be a coincidence is that it is Thursday. Eleven of the last 13 Thursdays have been losers, and some of them have been major losers.
