EU leaders divided over Russia oil embargo
20220530
https://www.gazetteherald.co.uk/news/national/20176056.eu-leaders-divided-russia-oil-embargo/
Mr Orban said the pipeline solution is not bad. Its a good approach. But we need the guarantee that in the case of an accident with the pipeline rushing through Ukraine, we have to have the right to get Russian oil from other sources.
A sixth package of sanctions against Russia was announced on May 4, but the hold-up over oil is embarrassing the bloc, which has been forced to scale down its ambitions.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
European Union leaders gathered on Monday in a new show of solidarity with Ukraine, but divisions over whether to target Russian oil in a new series of sanctions are exposing the limits of how far the bloc can go to help the war-torn country.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban was adamant upon his arrival in Brussels that a deal was not in sight, while Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala suggested that delaying oil sanctions on Russia could be a solution.
According to an EU diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the negotiations, leaders will aim to reach a political agreement today for an embargo on Russian oil that would cover more than two-third of oil imports from Russia, i.e. all seaborne oil from Russia.
The EU gets about 40 of its natural gas and 25 of its oil from Russia, and Ukraine says those energy imports are funding Russias war on its neighbour.
The EU has already imposed five rounds of sanctions on Russia over its war in Ukraine. The bloc has targeted more than 1,000 people, including Russian President Vladimir Putin and top government officials, as well as pro-Kremlin oligarchs, banks, the coal sector and more.
We have one key to success and this is solidarity with Ukraine and unity of the European Union".
Ms Von der Leyen all but ruled out the prospect of a breakthrough at this weeks summit, saying as she arrived my expectations are low that it will be solved in the next 48 hours.
Mr Orban said he is ready to support the sixth round of sanctions if Hungarys security of oil supplies is guaranteed. Hungary and Slovakia depend on Russian oil that comes through the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline.
But Hungary is leading a group of EU countries  along with Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria  that rely on Russian oil and cannot afford to take such steps. Hungary gets more than 60 of its oil from Russia and 85 of its natural gas.
The two-day summit will also focus on continued EU financial support to Ukraine  probably the endorsement of a nine billion-euro 7.6 billion tranche of assistance  and on military help and war crimes investigations.
The EU has already banned several smaller Russian banks from Swift. Three big Russian state-owned broadcasters will also be prevented from distributing their content in the EU.
Were ready to get rid of our dependence on Russias energy sources  but were not able to do it in a short term, Mr Fiala said.
Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins urged his EU counterparts to get over their differences on oil, saying that member countries are getting a little bogged down in all of the details and were forgetting the big picture.
A meeting of ambassadors just before the summit spurred some hope that a compromise could be reached.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who will address the blocs 27 leaders by video in the evening, has repeatedly demanded that the EU target Russias lucrative energy sector and deprive Moscow of billions of dollars each day in supply payments.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz left open the possibility of an EU agreement being struck at the summit, calling talks on the matter good and constructive and saying the bloc is determined to remain united.
The issue of food security will be on the table on Tuesday, with the leaders set to encourage their governments to speed up work on solidarity lanes to help Ukraine export grain and other produce.
If leaders manage to adopt the sanctions, the package will also include an asset freeze and travel ban on individuals while Russias biggest bank, Sberbank, will be excluded from the major global system for financial transfers.
Everything that I hear makes it sound as if a consensus could be reached and, sooner or later, it will be, Mr Scholz told reporters.
Its only money, and Ukrainians are paying with their lives, he said. Only when Russia is defeated can we in Europe feel safe.
A small group of protesters gathered outside EU buildings on Monday before the summit, with some holding signs like No to Russian oil and gas.
When European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen proposed the package, the initial aim was to phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year.
The problem with hitting sea-transported oil is that countries  like Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands  that are most reliant on that form would suffer a surge in oil prices, distorting competition because Hungary would still be purchasing cheaper Russian oil.
