After Canada UK mulls seizure of Russian assets to give to Ukraine
20220604
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/07/04/685019/UK-Russia-Ukraine-Truss-Assets-Freeze-Seizure
I am supportive of the concept. We are looking at it very closely. The Canadians have in fact just passed legislation. This is an issue that we are working on jointly with the Home Office and the Treasury, but I certainly agree with the concept. We just need to get the specifics of it right, she said, noting that the government would most probably need new legislation to launch the anti-Russia initiative.
Truss is due to give a speech on Monday at a Ukraine reconstruction conference in Lugano, Switzerland, which will see physical or virtual attendanceby most of Ukraines senior political leadership.
Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine in late February, following Kievs failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements and Moscows recognition of the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.
The United Kingdom has been reviewing a plan to seize Russian assets, and allocate the country's wealth to either Ukrainian victims of the war or the Ukrainian government, according to reports.
British media reported on Sunday that the UK foreign secretary was in favor of following Canada's example in the appropriation of Russian assets and handing them over to Ukraine to either give to Ukrainian victims of the war or to swell the coffers of the Ukrainian state.
Last month, Canada decided to seize the assets of sanctioned Russian individuals and companies and use them to compensate victims of the Ukraine war.
Following the Russian military campaign in Ukraine, the US, Britain and other Western countries announceda slew of sanctions targeting Moscow's elites, and key industries, cutting the country'saccess to the international financial system.
At the time, Russian President Vladimir Putin said one of the goals of what he called a special military operation was to de-Nazify Ukraine.
Russians have warned that they would take retaliatory measures against countries engaged in hostility against Moscow.
The UK is resolute in its support of Ukraines territorial integrity and will remain at Ukraines side as it emerges as a strong, thriving, and cutting-edge democracy. We have led on support for Ukraine during the war and will continue to lead in supporting the Ukrainian governments reconstruction and development plan," she is likely to say in her speech, according to British media reports.
The UK wants to follow the example of Canada and seize the assets of Russians in the UK in order to give them to Ukraine, Truss told MPs last week.
Liz Truss wassupportive of the idea that frozen Russian assets be redistributed to the victims of Russias war in Ukraine, the report said.
