Biden meets top Ukrainian ministers in Poland
20220326
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/03/26/679186/US-Biden-Blinken-Austin-Ukraine-Kuleba-Reznikov-Warsaw-
Biden, who is on a visit to Europe to take part in several summits, met in Warsaw on Saturday with Kiev's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
For his part, the US President updated the two Ukrainian ministers on US efforts to rally the world in support of Kiev's conflict with Moscow, "including through the Presidents meetings this week in Belgium, and the significant military and humanitarian assistance the United States is providing to Ukraine."
The US and Washington's European allies have been taking actions to put pressure on Russia.
The two Ukrainian ministers were in a meeting with their American counterparts, US Secretary of StateAntony Blinken and US Defense SecretaryLloyd Austin, when Biden dropped in.
In a statement about the meeting, the White House said Kuleba and Reznikov updated the American side on Ukraines military, diplomatic, and humanitarian situation.
This is the first official face-to-face between the US president and top Ukrainian ministers since Russia launched its operations in the East European country.
US President Joe Biden has met with Ukrainian ministers in the Polish capital city amid Washington's efforts to ramp up support against Russia.
Biden, who arrived in Europe 3 days ago, has met with European leaders, and attended EUandNATO emergency meetings, as well as the Group of Seven G7 summit.
"They discussed further efforts to help Ukraine defend its territory. They also discussed the United States ongoing actions to hold President Vladimir Putin accountable for Russias brutal aggression, in coordination with our allies and partners, including through the new sanctions actions announced by the President in Brussels on March 24, White House added in its statement.
On Feb. 24, Russia launched operations in Ukraine to counter NATO and the West's military advancements towards its borders despite Moscow's repeated warning of the Kremlin's security concerns.
Biden and Kuleba had met at the White House on Feb. 22, two days before Russia's operations in Ukraine.
US national security adviserJake Sullivan, US Charg d'affaires ad interim to Ukraine Kristina Kvien, NSC, State, and Defense officials, as well as several Ukrainian security officials, were also present at the meeting.
Kuleba told reporters that Ukraine had received additional security pledges from the United States on developing defense co-operation.
