Biden NATORussia clash would risk World War III
20220311
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/03/11/678400/NATO-Russia-clash-would-risk-World-War-III
Biden also banned imports of Russian seafood, vodka and diamonds, which White House officials said collectively totaled more than $1 billion.
This statement from the White House, assuming Biden understood it or saw it before Jen Psaki made it, has to be viewed as a warning that the US plans to use chemical weapons in Ukraine, and to then try to blame it on Russia, he pointed out.
Treasury continues to hold Russian officials to account for enabling Putins unjustified and unprovoked war, Treasury SecretaryJanet Yellensaid in a statement. Todays actions also further isolate the severely damaged Russian economy by prohibiting trade in products that are key to the economic and financial interests of all Russian elites.
But, in an interview with Press TV on Thursday, DeBar warned that they'll be making a severe miscalculation.
"We will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine. Direct conflict between NATO and Russia is World War III, something we must strive to prevent, he added.
In addition, Biden said that the G-7 would deny Russia the ability to borrow from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
He also warned that any attempt to impose a no-fly zone in Ukraine would lead to catastrophic consequences for the world.
Russian President Vladimir Putin last week said that Western sanctions on Russia were akin to a declaration of war.
The White Houses warning of the potential for Russia to use chemical weapons in Ukraine has to be viewed as a warning that the US plans to use chemical weapons in Ukraine, and to then try to blame it on Russia, according to American journalist and political analyst Don DeBar.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has asked the US to establish "no-fly zones" to protect Ukraine from Russian airstrikes and stop buying Russian oil and gas. Some US lawmakers have also pushed for establishing the no-fly zone over Ukraine, something Biden has dismissed the notion of no-fly zones because of the risk of a potential direct war with Russia.
Wait a minute--did he say NATO territory? said American writer and political commentator Daniel Patrick Welch. He added that NATO is a Frankenstein waging war after war.
Biden said the coordinated move would deal another crushing blow to the Russian economy." He made the remarks at a White House event to announce coordinated action with Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United Kingdom as well as the European Union.
So NATO has territory now? That is an amazing statement all in itself. Not only is it some sort of country now--should we call it Westeros? United Rules-Based International States of Order?" Welch added.
The US president claimed that the only other alternative to the sanctions would be to start a Third World War.
Biden said Friday Russia would pay a "severe price" if it carries out a chemical weapons attack.
The other magic trick is how it appears to be fighting and not fighting at exactly the same time. The decades and billions spent to destabilize Ukraine and 'bait and bleed' Russia mysteriously never took place. The NATO emblems on seized Ukrainian Army laptops just vanish, like the disappearing poster girl on the NATO twitter with that cute little Black Sun patch, Welch commented to Press TV.
Putin must pay the price, Biden said. He cannot pursue a war that threatens the very foundations  which he is doing  the very foundations of international peace and stability and then ask for financial help from the international community.
Biden said the US has no intention of sending American forces into Ukraine to fight Russia, warning that doing so would likely lead to a protracted and potentially global war with another nuclear power.
The Biden administration has imposed harsh economic and banking sanctions on Russia in response to Russia's military actions in Ukraine.
Revoking PNTR for Russia is going to make it harder for Russia to do business with the United States and doing it in unison with other nations that make up half of the global economy will be another crushing blow to the Russian economy. Its already suffering very badly from our sanctions, Biden said.
The United States on Friday imposed sanctions on more Russian oligarchs, leaders and elites, targeting members of the lower house of parliament, including billionaire Viktor Vekselberg.
If they do that, DeBar added, they'll be making a severe miscalculation. No one in the world - except perhaps half, or less, of the American people - will believe it. And I'm not referring to that measure of public opinion which theNew York Timesor CNN orReuterspolls will show. I'm talking about what the actual people here will be willing to believe in the midst of their own suffering, with $5 to $10 a gallon gas and bread that's about to triple or quadruple in price.
But it also appears to have magical powers: it floats blissfully above the world map, managing to be contiguous to every potential war zone and threat to its security. Libya, Syria, Yugoslavia, Ukraine--it borders them all! he noted.
Biden said the sanctions would limit Russia's ability to do business in dollars, euros, pounds and yen.
Putin said his country is defending Russian-speaking communities through the "demilitarisation and de-Nazification" of Ukraine so that their neighbor became neutral and no longer threatened Russia.
US President Joe Biden has reiterated that the United States and its NATO allies would not fight Russia in Ukraine, saying such a scenario will kick start "World War III."
He warned that any attempt by another power to impose a no-fly zone in Ukraine would be considered by Russia to be a step into the military conflict.
"Were going to continue to stand together with our allies in Europe and send an unmistakable message. We will defend every single inch of NATO territory with the full might of the united and galvanized NATO," Biden said on Friday after announcing additional sanctions on Russia.
"The President and our NATO partners have not changed their assessment about their plans to send US troops in," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Thursday after warning Russia could be setting up a pretext for a chemical weapons attack.
The US Treasury Department said in a statement that those who were sanctioned include 10 people comprising VTB Bank's board, 12 members of the Duma and family members of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, according to Reuters.
Biden said on Friday he is working with the US Congress and other Group of Seven G-7 nations to revoke the most favored nation trade status for Russia, as part of a new tranche of penalties in response to Russias military actions in Ukraine.
The latest move in an escalating series of economic measures the White House has taken against Russia would return trade relations between the United States and Russia to Cold War-era status.
"These sanctions that are being imposed are akin to a declaration of war but thank God it has not come to that," Putin said.
"Besides, they're a bit late to the party, aren't they? Experts have been warning them for 30 years that an aggressive NATO came with the threat of World War III. Now they have to pretend they are somehow not involved in this, because the whole thing is their doing. This really has little to do with Ukraine or Russia. NATO, the UN veto-proof army of the US' coalition of the willing of the week, is a Frankenstein waging war after war. It has to be stopped, he said.
