Day 26 Russia gives Ukraine ultimatum to surrender Mariupol
20220321
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/03/21/678913/Russia-Ukraine-ultimatum-Mariupol
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Irina Vereshchuk, however, rejected the ultimatum. There can be no talk of any surrender, laying down of arms. We have already informed the Russian side about this, she told the news outlet Ukrainian Pravda.
If theres just 1 chance for us to stop this war, I think that we need to take this chance, said Zelensky.
On Tuesday, Zelensky indicated a willingness to concede on a key Russian demand, saying Ukraine must accept it will not be able to join NATO, though Ukraine has maintained it wont agree to Russias demand of Ukraine becoming a neutral country like Austria and Sweden.
Moscow accused Ukraines army of firing a Tochka-U missile at a residential area in Donetsk, in one of the most serious attacks on the city since the start of the Russian operation.
I am happy to confirm that the first units in charge of deploying the Patriot air defense system are gradually arriving to Slovakia, Slovakias Defense Minister JaroslavNad wrote in a Facebook post.
Speaking to CNNs Fareed Zakaria, Zelensky said hes ready to meet with Putin, saying negotiations between the two leaders are crucial to ending the war that began on February 24.
The system will be operated by German and Dutch troops and will initially be deployed at the Sliac airport in central Slovakia.
Moscow has, on numerous occasions, warned NATO against taking such measures, saying undue militarization would never help the situation on the ground.
Russia has given Ukraine an ultimatum to surrender Mariupol, warning that the southeastern port city is experiencing a terrible humanitarian catastrophe.
"We are working on a fifth round of sanctions and many new names are being proposed," a senior EU diplomat told Reuters.
Ukrainian President VolodymyrZelensky again pleaded to negotiate directly with Russian President Vladimir Putin in an interview with CNN, warning a third World War may come if peace isnt reached between the two countries soon.
Russia said Monday an attack by Ukrainian forces on Donetsk left 23 people dead, with the military accusing Kiev of committing a war crime.
EU governments said they are planning to discuss whether to impose an oil embargo on Russia as they gather this week with US President Joe Biden for a series of summits.
Lay down your arms, Colonel-General Mikhail Mizintsev, director of the Russian National Defense Management Center, said in a briefing. A terrible humanitarian catastrophe has developed, he said, adding that all who lay down their arms are guaranteed safe passage out of Mariupol.
Russian and Ukrainian delegations have held multiple rounds of peace talks without any major progress thus far.
