FM Iran supports any diplomatic effort to settle Ukraine conflict ready to mediate
20220519
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/19/682383/Iran-Hossein-AmirAbdollahian-Ukraine-war-Russia-Sergei-Lavrov
Expounding on Irans positionagainst the use of war and sanctions as tools of diplomacy, Amir-Abdollahian underlined Tehran's support for a ceasefire in Ukraine and a return to the negotiating table.
Lavrov, for his part, underscored Russia's continuedsupport for the the 2015 Iran deal and Moscow's efforts to reach a fair agreement in line with the interests and demands of the Iranian side.
Ukraine and Russia have held intermittent peace talks since late February, but there has been little communication between them in recent weeks.
Stressing Irans firm resolve to reach a good, strong and lasting agreement, which would also respect the country's red lines, the top Iranian diplomat lauded Russia's positive stance in supportinga deal that is approved by Tehran.
The Untied States and its allies have stepped up military support for Ukraine, sending an array of sophisticated weapons meant to hold off Russias rapid advances. The operation has also drawn unprecedented sanctions from the US and its European allies.
Amir-Abdollahian made the remarks in a phone call with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, on Thursday, during which the two sides discussed bilateral, regional and international issues as well as the latest situation of negotiations between Iran and other signatories to the 2015 deal in the Austrian capital.
Several rounds of negotiations between Iran and the P41 group of countries  Britain, France, Germany, China and Russia  have been held in the Austrian capital since April 2021 to bring Washington back into the deal. The Vienna talks, however, exclude American diplomats due to their countrys withdrawal from theaccord in 2018.
Irans Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian has described Tehran's relations with Moscow as excellent, saying the Islamic Republic supports any effort aimed at finding a diplomatic solution to the Ukraine military conflict.
The previous rounds of talks had failed to produce a breakthrough, as both the warring sides had refused to compromise on their respective red lines.
The talks have been on hold since March as the US insists on its refusal to undo its past wrongs, including the removal of Irans Islamic Revolution Guards Corps IRGC from its foreign terrorist organization list.
Blasting the unconstructive positions of the United States and the West, the Russian foreign minister briefedhis Iranian counterpart on the latest developments in Ukraine and welcomed any initiative that would push Ukraine towards negotiations He also described Iran's role as constructive in this regard.
The Joe Biden administration disagrees, even though it has admitted on countless occasions that Trumps maximum pressure policy has been a disastrous failure. It has been maintaining the IRGCs designation and the economic sanctions as leverage in the talks.
Elsewhere in his remarks, pointing to the talks on the removal of anti-Iran sanctions in the Austrian capital of Vienna, Amir-Abdollahian said, If the Americans act reasonably, a nuclear deal will be within reach."
Based on its excellent ties with Russia, the Islamic Republic of Iran supports any effort to settle the Ukraine conflict through diplomatic means and is ready to mediate and help resolve this crisis, Irans foreign minister said.
Moscow has repeatedly warned that such a flow of weapons to Kiev will prolong Russias operations.
Iran maintains that IRGCs designation in 2019 was part of former president Donald Trump administrations so-called maximum pressure campaign against Tehran, and therefore, it has to be reversed unconditionally.
