Kremlin European leaders should push Zelensky to be realistic
20220616
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/06/16/684013/Kremlin--European-leaders-should-push-Zelensky-be-realistic
The Russian government is set to blacklist 121 Australian citizens, including defense officials, businessmen and reporters and editors from media outlets, in response to the growing sanctions of the Australian government, which apply to an increasing number of Russian citizens, the foreign ministry said.
The Kremlin says it hopes European leaders willnot supply Ukraine with more lethal weapons and insteadwill push Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to be realistic toward the situation.
Responding to a question about potential Ukrainian hopes of reclaiming the Crimean peninsula, Peskov said: It's hard to expect anything constructive negotiations against this background or otherwise, because everything has stalled.
Russia says that the sanctioned individuals have been trying to promote a Russophobic agenda and that the blacklist willbe expanded in the future.
The Kremlin has repeatedly warned against Western military aid to Kiev, saying they fan the flames of war and complicate the search for a ceasefire.
Since the start of the Russian military operation in Ukraine, Moscow has announced hundreds of entry bans against the officials and diplomats of other countries in a tit-for-tat move for imposing sanctions on Russia or expelling its diplomats.
Bilateral negotiations between Ukrainian and Russian sides were held back in March, including a high-profile meeting of delegations in Istanbul, but they have since broken down.
The remarks came on the heels of a visit by four European officials from Ukraine.
Russian officials on Thursday said they were willing to continue peace talks with Kiev, but Ukrainian officials hadstalled the negotiations.
French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi visited Irpin on the outskirts of Kiev on Thursday.
The trio were joined byRomanian President Klaus Iohannis to meet the Ukrainian president anddiscuss matters such as Ukraines bid to join the EU and exporting more weapons.
Russia's lead negotiator Vladimir Medinsky also said on Thursday that Moscow had received no response to its proposals put to Kiev in previous rounds.
I would hope that the leaders would push President Zelensky to take a realistic look at the state of affairs,Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Thursday.
In a statement on Thursday, the ministry said that all the prominent officials in the list, including Defense Force Chief General Angus Campbell, AI researcher Toby Walsh and The Australian's editor-in-chief Christopher Dore, are barred from entering Russia indefinitely.
