Millions at risk in South Sudan as funding dries up due to Ukraine war WFP
20220614
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/06/14/683905/Millions-at-risk-in-South-Sudan-as-funding-dries-up-due-to-Ukraine-war-WFP
Due to the crisis in Ukraine, Awad said, Donors are no longer actively supporting South Sudan as a crisis.
The organization, however, had to prioritize 4.5 million of the most vulnerable people in order to stop them from starving during the lean seasonbetween April and July.
We had to decide who to keep assisting and who we can afford to suspend the assistance from  not because theyre not in need but because they can survive, she added.
South Sudan is among five countries where global food insecurity is putting 750,000 people at immediate risk of starvation, according to the WFP.
Ukraine, one of the world's biggest exporters of grain, has been at war with Russiasince Moscow launched a military campaign in the country on February24.
Raising concern about the 1.7 million insecure people in South Sudan, Awad said that, if aid is not given to support them, they will slide further down the scale of hunger and reach starvation level.
Its a drastic cut because its a third of the total of people that we know require food assistance, but we had to do a kind of triage, if you will, said Marwa Awad, WFP spokesperson in South Sudans capital, Juba.
The war inflamed tensions between Russia and the West, with the US and its NATO allies slapping unprecedented sanctions on Moscow, which sent the prices of grain, cooking oil, fertilizers, and energy skyrocketing.
If people are not nourished and are not reached regularly, they will get worse and worse and join the ranks of their brethren who are already looking death in the eye, she added.
Last month,Russian Ambassador to the United States Anatoly Antonov said difficulties in the global food market had been building up for a long time, but the crisis was further exacerbated due to the introduction by Washington and its satellites of illegitimate sanctions against Russia.
Experts warn that rising food prices and shortages in the fragile emerging markets in Africa and West Asia could lead to a humanitarian disaster.
The World Food Programme WFPsays 1.7 million people are at risk of starvation inSouth Sudan asit has tosuspend planned aid for the people of the worlds youngest countrydue to the current crisis in Ukraine.
The UNs emergency food assistance agency said on Tuesday it planned to deliver aid to more than six million acutely food-insecure people inSouth Sudanthis year.
