NATO allies to supply weapons to Ukraine as long as necessary vows Germany
20220629
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/06/29/684760/Germany-NATO-Scholz-Ukraine
The question is  who is next for Russia? Moldova? The Baltic States? Poland? The answer is all of them, Zelenskyy told the summit. We need to break the Russian artillery advantage  We need much more modern systems, modern artillery.
Pumping up Ukraine with Western weapons will only lead Russia to perform more missions on the ground, he said.
On Tuesday, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov warned the Western countries that continuing to supply Ukraine with advanced weaponry will only prolong the conflict.
The top Russian diplomat said the position of the West regarding Ukraine is absolutely counterproductive and harmful", adding that the more weapons are pumped into Ukraine, "the longer this conflict will last, the longer the agony of the Nazi regimewhich is supported by Western capitals will last."
Russia says it views the supply of weapons by the United States and its NATO allies toUkraine as legitimate military targets.
He made the remarks whilevirtually addressingthe NATO summit on Wednesday,dubbing the fight as a war for the right to dictate conditions in Europe  for what the future world order will be like.
I am saying it to emphasize the fact that the longer weapons are supplied, which are designed to prolong the conflict, prolong the suffering of civilians who constantly live under shelling by the Ukrainian neo-Nazi movement, the more missions we will perform on the ground, Lavrov said.
The United States and Ukraines other Western allies have been infusing Ukraines war machine with millions of dollars in modern weaponry since February, when Russia began what President Vladimir Putin labeled a special military operation.
Senior officials in Moscow say the Russian operation is aimed at demilitarizing the Donetsk and Lugansk regions in eastern Ukraine, which together form the Donbas region.
It came after Ukraine's embattled president Volodymyr Zelenskyy asked NATO leaders for modern weapons and funds to support the country's fight againstRussia, warning the fighting could spill beyond its borders and into their countries.
In 2014, the two regions declared themselves new republics, refusing to recognize Ukraines Western-backed government.
"The message is: We will continue to do so  and to do this intensively  for as long as it is necessary to enable Ukraine to defend itself."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says NATO will continue to supply Ukraine with weapons in the war against Russia for "as long as necessary".
Washington has pledged to provide Ukraine with precision rocket systems that are supposed to enable it to strike Russian positions from a longer range.
It is good that the countries that are gathered here but many others, too, make their contributions so Ukraine can defend itself - by providing financial means, humanitarian aid but also by providing the weapons that Ukraine urgently needs, Scholz said upon arrival in Madrid for the second day of a NATO summit.
