Press TVs news headlines
20220721
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/07/21/686015/Italy-PM-resigns--Moscow-won-t-change-course--Iraq-national-mourning
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has stepped down, paving the way for snap elections that could take place later this year. Draghi won the Wednesday vote of confidence in the senate. However, three coalition parties withdrew their support for his governmentand did not take part. Last week, the Italian prime minister tendered his resignation, too. He did so after the five-star movement refused to back him in a confidence vote on measures tackling the high cost of living. But President Sergio Mattarella rejected the resignation. He told Draghi to go before parliament to see if he could keep the broad coalition going. Draghi began his term in February last year. With his departure, the president can now dissolve parliament and trigger snap elections. Draghi is expected to act as caretaker until elections are held.
More protests are held in Iraq, after nine people were killed in the shelling of a Kurdish village that the government has blamed on neighboring Turkey. In Baghdad, demonstrators protested outside the Turkish visa office despite a heavy police presence. Anti-Turkey protests also took place in the central cities of Najaf and Karbala as well as the southern city of Nasiriyah. Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi has declared a day of national mourning. He has warned that Baghdad reserves the right to retaliate, calling the artillery fire a flagrant violation of Iraqs sovereignty. Baghdad says it is recalling its charge daffaires from Ankara and has summoned Turkeys ambassador. It has demanded an official apology from Ankara. Turkey says it is notresponsible for the deadly strike in northern Iraq that also left 23 people wounded.
Russia blames the US for hampering peace talks with Ukraine, saying that there has been no contact with Washington over the negotiations.On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said talks to reach a truce over Ukraine make no sense. Ukraine hit back, saying Russia is notseeking peace. The negotiations to put an end to the war have come to a halt since early April. Thats when the two sides held talks in the Turkish city of Istanbul. The Ukraine war began on February 24. The West, especially the US, has supplied Ukraine with arms and imposed sanctions on Russia, targeting its economy. Moscow, however, says that even the harshest sanctions would never make it change course.
