Putin says war on ethnic Russians in Ukraines east certainly looks like genocide
20211210
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2021/12/10/672384/Putin-says-war-on-ethnic-Russians-in-Ukraine-east-looks-like-genocide
Putins remarks, which came on Thursday amid rising tensions between Russia and West, were aimed at addressing the issue of discrimination against Russian speakers beyond Russias borders, many of whom live in the Donbass region of eastern Ukraine.
Ukraine claims that it has offered a series of peace proposals, including prisoner swaps, the reopening of a checkpoint, and theexpanding of a joint communications center, but Moscow has rejected them.
Meanwhile, Biden has threatened the Russian leader with crippling sanctions, including strong economic and other measures, if Russia takes any military action against Ukraine.
I have to say that Russophobia is a first step towardgenocide, the Russian leader said.
We see and know what is happening in the Donbass. It certainly looks like genocide, he added, referring to the conflict zone in the east of the country.
The comments came in the wake of US President Joe Bidens talks with Ukraines leader, Volodymyr Zelensky, and the heads of other countries on Russias borders concerned over a purported threat of Russian military action against Ukraine.
The Russian Foreign Ministry also accused Ukraine of moving heavy artillery towardthe front line of fighting with ethnic Russians in the east and failing to engage in a peace process.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has denounced the oppression against ethnic Russians in Ukraines east as certainly looking like genocide.
Ukraines military has been fighting ethnic Russians in the countrys east since 2014. The conflict has cost some 13,000 lives so far. Kiev accuses Russia of aiding the ethnic Russians, an allegation that Moscow has denied.
Tensions have been growing in recent monthsas Russia has amassedtroops on the border with Ukraine. Moscow says its posture is purely defensive and comes in response to increased NATO activity there.
Unfortunately, all initiatives of the Ukrainian side were rejected by the Russian Federation under contrived pretexts, reada statement by Ukraines delegation to the so-called Trilateral Contact Group TCG.
