Putin blasts West as empire of lies over sanctions against Moscow
20220228
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/02/28/677703/Russian-President-Vladimir-Putin-sweeping-sanctions-military-operation-Ukraine
Hailing "Ukrainian heroes," Zelensky claimed at least 16 children had died and another 45 sustained injuries during the first four days of Moscow's campaign.
Announcing the operation, the Russian leader said the mission was aimed at defending people who for eight years are suffering persecution and genocide by the Kiev regime.
"Mishustin and I discussed this topic, naturally bearing in mind the sanctions that the so-called Western community - as I called it in my speech, the 'empire of lies' - is now trying to implement against our country," a transcript of the meeting quoted the Russian leader as saying.
"We appeal to the European Union for the immediate accession of Ukraine via a new special procedure," the 44-year-old said in a new video address. "Our goal is to be together with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be on an equal footing. I'm sure it's fair. I'm sure it's possible."
Zelensky urged Russian soldiers to lay down their weapons, claiming that more than 4,500 Russian soldiers had already lost their lives over the past four days.
The flight bans are expected to hurt airlines that fly over the world's biggest country to get from Europe to Asia and they are likely to force them to find new routes.
Rosaviatsia said that flights from those countries could in exceptional circumstances be authorized if they secure special clearance from Russia's aviation authority or foreign ministry.
According to Reuters, some of the banned countries had already been identified, while others were named by the aviation authority Rosaviatsia for the first time on Monday following the punitive measures imposed over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The closure of European airspace caused airline shares to drop, with shares in European airlines and airport operators undergoing a decline of 3-6 per cent and Finland's largest carrier, Finnair, seeing its shares tumble by 21 per cent.
The order was issued a day after Germany and other European countries said they would send weapons and other military assistance to help Ukraine battle Russian forces.
Putin was quoted as making the comment in a meeting on Monday when he discussed the Russian economy with top Russian officials, including Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, in the aftermath of Western governments sanctions against Moscow over Ukraine.
Also on Monday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the European Union to grant his country "immediate" membership amid fierce fighting with Russia on a fifth day.
In a televised address on Thursday, Putin announced a special military operation aimed at demilitarization of the Donetsk and Lugansk Republics in eastern Ukraine. The regions broke away from Ukraine in 2014 after refusing to recognize a Western-backed Ukrainian government that had overthrown a democratically-elected Russia-friendly administration.
Russias Interfax news agency reported the Russian Defense Ministry as saying on Monday that its nuclear missile forces alongside Northern and Pacific fleets had been placed on enhanced combat duty in line with a presidential order the previous day.
For Finnair that could mean a loss of business as it uses a route across Russian skies from Europe to Asia via its hub in Helsinki.
Russian forces have been advancing towards Kiev and seizing control of a number of towns and cities along the way. Authorities in Moscow have fiercely denied claims made by Ukrainian and Western officials of civilian areas being targeted by the Russian military.
Without access to Russia's airspace amid the ongoing conflict, European carriers will have to divert flights south while also avoiding areas of tension in the West Asia.
The Russian leader on Sunday ordered his military command to put Russia's deterrence forces, which include nuclear arms, on high alert, citing what he referred to as aggressive statements by NATO leaders as well as Western economic sanctions against Moscow.
In another development on Monday, Russia barred airlines from 36 countries, including all 27 members of the European Union and Canada, from using its airspace in a retaliatory move after sweeping sanctions targeting its aviation sector.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has blasted the West as the empire of lies over plans to impose sweeping sanctions against Moscow to cripple the countrys economy, following its large-scale military operation in Ukraine.
Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu told Putin that "shifts on duty at the command posts of the Strategic Missile Forces, the Northern and Pacific Fleets, and the Long-Range Aviation Command began to carry out combat duty with reinforced personnel," Interfax quoted the ministry as saying.
Western governments have prepared new sanctions against Moscow, including banishing key Russian banks from SWIFT, the high-security network that connects financial institutions around the world. An EU diplomat has said some 70 of the Russian banking market would be affected.
