Putin No doubt special military operation in Ukraine will achieve result
20220509
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/09/681795/Russian-President-Vladimir-Putin-military-operation-Ukraine-
The United States and other NATO allies have been supplying heavy weapons to help Ukraine against the Russian military campaign.
Russia launched a military operation in Ukraine in late February, following Kievs failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements and Moscows recognition of the Peoples Republics of Donetsk and Luhansk.
We are warning that US-NATO weapons transports across Ukrainian territory will be considered by us as legal military targets, Russias Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkovsaid in an interview with TASS, warning that any attempts by the West to significantly damage Russias military or its separatist allies in Ukraine would be harshly suppressed.
Russias TASS news agency cited Putin as making the remark in a speech on Monday after overseeing the annual military parade on Moscow's Red Square to mark the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two.
The Soviet Union lost about 27 million people in World War II, more than any other country.
The conflict in Ukraine has killed thousands of people and displaced more than 13 million, creating the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
Ukraine and Russia have not held face-to-face peace talks since March 29, though they have met by video link.
Around 11,000 soldiers participatedin the parade on Moscow's Red Square. Military parades also took place in Vladivostok and Novosibirsk.
The Russian Defense Ministry said on Monday its forces had destroyed a US-made counter-battery radar station near the eastern Ukrainian town of Zolote.
Moscow has accused Kiev of stalling the peace talks and using reports of alleged atrocities committed by Russian troops in Ukraine to undermine negotiations. Russia has vehemently denied targeting civilians in its special military operation.
Western countries have responded to the Russian military campaign by backing Ukraine with cash and increasingly heavy weaponry while imposing sanctions against Moscow.
"If there had been at least one chance to solve this issue by other, peaceful means, we would have certainly used this chance. But we were not given this chance, simply not," the Russian president added.
Asked when in-person talks might be held with Ukrainian negotiators, Medinsky said, "We need more specifics on hand in order to meet in person."
"Russia would have used any opportunity to iron out the situation in Ukraine by peaceful means, but it had not been given any chance to do this," he said.
We are making the Americans and other Westerners understand that attempts to slow down our special operation, to inflict maximum damage on Russian contingents and formations of the DPR and LPR Donetsk and Luhansk People's republics will be harshly suppressed, Ryabkov noted.
"High-precision air-based missiles of the Russian Aerospace Forces have destroyed two command posts and one battery of Ukrainian Grad multiple rocket launchers near Popasna 18 military personnel and equipment concentration areas near Lysychansk one counter-battery radio detection station manufactured in the USnear Zolote," the ministry's spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed confidence the country's special military operation in Ukraine will achieve its intended result, as the campaign in the former Soviet state drags on for more than two months.
Meanwhile, the Interfax news agency reported Russian chief negotiator Vladimir Medinsky as saying on Monday that peace talks with Ukraine had not stopped and were being held remotely.
"All plans are being fulfilled. The result will be achieved - on that account there is no doubt," the Russian leader was quoted as saying.
Russia had warned in April thatit views the transport of weapons by the United States and NATO in Ukraine as legitimate military targets, warning of harsh response in case of any attempts by the West to threaten Russias military.
