Russia says US sparks off food crisis in Ukraine by depriving it of grain reserves
20220529
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/29/682958/Russia-Ukraine-grain-export-US-sanctions-Black-Sea-food-crisis
Russia says the United States is provoking a food crisis in Ukraine by depriving the ex-Soviet country of its grain reserves.
In fact, the US itself provokes food crisis in Ukraine, depriving it of grain reserves, Zakharova said, commenting on the situation with food security amid statements by official representatives of foreign countries regarding the purported blocking of the Black Sea.
Since the onset of Russias special military operation in Ukraine on February 24, waves of unprecedented sanctions from the United States and its European allies have been imposed on Moscow. They are also pouring advanced weapons in Ukraine, a move that Moscow has time and again warned would prolong the conflict.
Zakharova further stressed that the US and its European allies have already expressed intentions to export 20 million tons of grain from Ukraine within two and a half months, purportedly for their transportation to African and Middle Eastern countries in order to prevent a food crisis there.
However, in reality, grain is transported to warehouses in Europe. Rail, road, and river routes are organized for its delivery to destinations in Germany, Poland, Lithuania, Romania, and Bulgaria, the Russian diplomat added.
The pandemic has caused major disruptions to supply chains and significantly increased the price of food transportation services, Zakharova argued.
She also cited experts from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization as repeatedly saying that the prices of such products reached record-breaking figures before February, denouncing the Wests anti-Russian sanctions as the main catalyst of the existing negative trends.
The ongoing war, and its subsequent blockade on Ukraines Black Sea ports, has endangered the world food supply by preventing Ukraine from shipping its agricultural products.
The Wests attempts to pin all troubles on a special military operation and accuse Russia of blocking foreign ships in the ports of the Black and Azov Seas are absolutely groundless, Zakharova stressed.
US President Joe Biden's statement on May 10 about the need to look for opportunities to export 20 mln tones of grain from Ukraine coincided with the signing of the Lend-Lease law for Ukraine. Turns out, Kiev will pay for weapons with wheat, she said at a press conference.
Ukraine, one of the worlds biggest grain producers, is a major exporter of corn, barley, sunflower oil and rapeseed oil. However, it now cannot export its grain via its Black Sea ports due to the war, which has reduced its grain exports this month by more than half compared to a year ago.
Refuting claims that the ongoing war has caused a price surge in agricultural products around the world, she said prices for such products rose in 2020, which is by no means the result of Russias current operation in Ukraine.
The UNs World Food Programme WFP, which purchases almost 50 percent of its grain from Ukraine, feeds some 125 million people around the world.
On Saturday, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova warned that the US is triggering a food crisis in Ukraine by stripping the country from its grain reveres.
