Russia Wests flow of arms to Ukraine impedes quick end to war
20220505
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/05/681562/Russia-Ukraine-West-weapons-Mariupol-Azovstal-
The ill-fated city, in southeastern Ukraine, has been the scene ofsome of the heaviest fighting between the two sides. Last month, Moscow said that it had managed to fully seize the city except for Azovstal, a giant fortress-like steel plant.
It is estimated by Moscow that some 2,000 Ukrainian soldiers and fighters are holed up inside the steel plant. Hundreds of civilians are also reportedly sheltering with Ukrainian troops at the complex.
Those who are still inside Azovstals underground bunkers are believed to be running out of water, food, and medicine.
Asked what measures Moscow might take in response, he said: Of course, the Russian military is doing whatever is necessary in this situation.
Moscow has denounced the West for preventing a quick end to Russias military operation in neighboring Ukraine by providing Kievwith weapons.
Peskov stressed that the West's indirect involvement in the war isincapable of hindering the achievement of the goals of Russia's military operation.
The USand its European allies arebacking Ukrainewith cash and increasingly heavy and sophisticated weaponry andwaves of unprecedented sanctions on Moscow.
The corridors are functioning today, he said, adding that the steelworks remained blockaded by Russian forces.
He made the remarks when asked about a New York Times report a day earlier that US intelligence helped Ukraine kill a number of Russian generals.
Our military is well aware that the United States, Britain and NATO as a whole are constantly transmitting intelligence and other parameters to the Ukrainian armed forces, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Thursday.
Elsewhere in his remarks, Peskov said that humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians from Mariupol's Azovstal steel plant were functioning, after the Russian army declared a three-day ceasefire at the site to allow a civilian evacuation from the flashpoint industrial area.
Since the onset of the offensive, more than five million people have fledUkraine, and thousands have been killed. Russia is now pushing for complete control of the Donbas region, where pro-Russiaforces held parts of breakaway Luhansk and Donetsk provinces even before the military offensive.
Coupled with the flow of weapons that these countries are sending to Ukraine, these are all actions that do not contribute to the quick completion of the operation, Peskov said.
