Some Russian troops return from Ukraine border in a sign of deescalation
20220215
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/02/15/676879/Russian-troops-withdraw-border-drills-end
"Units of the southern and western military districts, having completed their tasks, have already begun loading onto rail and road transport and today they will begin moving to their military garrisons," said Igor Konashenkov, the ministry's chief spokesman.
Russia is pulling back troops from its southern and western military districts  the Ukrainian border, in other words  after completing exercises, the defense ministry says.
Western countries accused Russia of preparing for an invasion of Ukraine by amassing 100,000 troops and armaments near the border with that country.
It was not immediately clear how many units were being pulled out and what impact it would possibly have on tensions between Moscow and the West.
In December last year, Moscow asked NATO not to allow Ukraine and other former Soviet countries to join the Western military alliance. It also urged the alliance to stop its military deployments to Ukraine and to roll back it forces from Eastern Europe, demanding legally binding guarantees.
"February 15, 2022, will go down in history as the day Western war propaganda failed. Humiliated and destroyed without a single shot being fired," she wrote on social media.
The demands were flatly rejected, with the military bloc saying its membership will remain open to Ukraine.
"The responsibility for de-escalation is clearly withRussia, and it is for Moscow to withdraw its troops," she said in a statement.
However, Moscow has vehemently rejected the allegations, saying the military build-up is defensive in nature, slamming NATO over its increased military activity near Russian borders.
The ministry in a video published online announced that some units of the southern and western military districts had completed their exercises and begun to move toward their bases.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova in a statement said Tuesday's news would show it was the West that had been fanning tensions by accusing Russia of plans to invade Ukraine.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has already warned that the US is deliberately designing a scenario to lure Russia into a war over Ukraine.
Could this be de-escalation, as Putin hinted with Lavrov and Shoigu? Currency markets think so pic.twitter.comsGuNLSm7DT
Ahead of Tuesday's talks, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock warned that "the situation is particularly dangerous and can escalate at any moment."
It also released a footage showing some tanks and armored vehicles being loaded onto railway flatcars.
It came hours before German Chancellor Olaf Scholz was set to be the latest European leader to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Some Russian troops deployed in areas bordering Ukraine are returning to their bases following the completion of drills, Russia's defense ministry said Tuesday, in a major step toward de-escalation.
Meanwhile, Konashenkov said "large-scale" Russian military drills were continuing in many areas, including joint exercises in Belarus and naval exercises in the Black Sea and elsewhere.
