Terrorism must be fought with in all of its manifestations Raeisi
20220719
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/07/19/685893/Iran-Turkey-Raeisi-Erdogan
The Iranian chief executive made the remarks during a press conference with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Tehran on Tuesday. The Turkish president arrived in the Iranian capital on Monday evening for a two-day visit at the invitation of Raeisi, who received him during an official ceremony.
Terrorism might assume different names. However terrorism translates into endangerment of peoples security and must be fought with no matter its name, so that security can be provided for the borders, the Iranian president noted.
The Turkish president also noted that the coronavirus pandemic had come in the way of expansion of the countries trade ties, voicing hope that Tehran and Ankara would be able to help the current level of the ties reach the $30 billion benchmark.
Earlier during the trip, the two sides signed eight memoranda of cooperation concerning such issues as devising a comprehensive plan for long-term bilateral cooperation, provision of support for small economic agencies, cooperation in the area of radio and television, and cooperation between Irans Investment and Economic Assistance Organization and the Turkish Presidencys Investment Office.
The level of the countries trade ties could reach $30 billion, namely three times their current level, the Iranian president said.
Erdogans visit would undoubtedly, serve as a turning point in expansion of the bilateral ties, Raeisi said, adding that the countries were serious regarding the development of their relations.
The two powerful countries could play a very important role in reinforcement of regional and international security, he added.
Erdogan, for his part, underlined the importance that fighting terrorist organizations had for the countries, saying, We should confront terrorist organizations with all-out solidarity.
The Turkish head of state is expected to join Raeisi and Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has also arrived in Tehran on an official visit, for a summit focusing on Syria.
President Ebrahim Raeisi has underscoredthe importance of maintaining security on Irans common border with Turkey, sayingterrorism must be fought with in all of its manifestations.
Pointing to the countries cooperation on security issues, Raeisi said, the issue of border security was emphasized between Tehran and Ankara as well as the fight against terrorism, narcotics, and organized crime.
