UK to stop Russia selling sovereign debt in London Truss
20220223
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/02/23/677378/UK-Russia-selling-sovereign-debt-London-Truss-
This comes after US President Joe Biden said Tuesday that the US would sanction Russian sovereign debt and Russian elites as well as their family members.
"We've been very clear that we're going to limit Russian access to British markets," Truss told Sky. "We're going to stop the Russian government with raising sovereign debt in the United Kingdom."
Writing in The Times, Liz Truss said, London was willing to introduce measures to limit Russias ability to trade and prohibit a range of high-tech exports, degrading the development of its military industrial base for years.
Putin on Mondaysigned a decree,instructing Russia's Defense Ministry to deploy peacekeeping troops to Donetsk and Lugansk.
Truss also said on Tuesday the UK was contemplating sanctions for members of the Russian Duma and Federation Council.
The conflict worsened following a wave of protests in Ukraine that led to the overthrow of a democratically-elected pro-Russia government, which was later replaced with a pro-West administration.
Additional legislation would be needed in order to limit sovereign debt sales in London, according to Western officials. Clearing transactions would also be affected.
Truss said Wednesday if Putin went further and ordered a full-scale invasion of Ukraine then sanctions would be escalated.
Britain on Tuesday imposed sanctions on Gennady Timchenko and two other key Russian business leaders.
On Monday, Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics as independent and afterward ordered troops into the Donbas region.
The United Kingdom will stop Russia selling sovereign debt in London in response to its deployment of troops into two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss says.
Biden claimed that the sanctions on Russian sovereign debt would cut off the Russian government from Western financing.
The two regions were turned into self-proclaimed republics by its ethnic Russian residentsin 2014, which triggered a violent conflict between government forces and the secessionists.
"There will be even more tough sanctions on key oligarchs, on key organizations in Russia, limiting Russia's access to the financial markets, if there is a full scale invasion of Ukraine," Truss said.
Putin had earlier warned that the US was deliberately designing a scenario to lure Russia into a war over Ukraine.
