Ukraine orders troops holed up in Mariupols Azovstal to stop fighting
20220520
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/20/682429/Ukraine-orders-troops-holed-up-Mariupol-Azovstal-stop-fighting
Azov Regiment commanderDenys Prokopenko made the remarks in a video on Telegramon Friday, after hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers remained trapped in their last stronghold in Mariupol as the city fell to Russia.
Kiev has ordered the remaining Ukrainian soldiersstill holed up in the blockadedAzovstal steel plantin the southern port city of Mariupol to stop fighting, as Russia continues to make advances in its military operation in eastern Ukraine.
The conflict in Ukraine has killed thousands of people and displaced more than 13 million, creating the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.
The blockade of the Azovstal plant continues, Shoigu said at a ministry meeting on Friday.
Western countries have responded to the Russian military campaign by backing Ukraine with cash and providing the country with increasingly heavy weaponry while imposing sanctions against Russia.
He went on to say that civilians who were held in the plant by Ukrainian forces were evacuated from the area, noting that 177 people were saved, including 85 women and 47 children.
Prokopenko also noted that civilians and heavily wounded soldiers have been evacuated from the underground tunnels of the plant and that the injured have received the necessary assistance to be later exchanged and delivered to territory controlled by Ukraine.
Qualified medical and psychological assistance was provided to everyone. Nationalists blocked at the plant began to surrender. At the moment, 1,908 people have laid down their arms, Shoigu said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the military operationagainst Ukraine on February 24, following Kievs failure to implement the terms of the Minsk agreements and Moscows recognition of the Peoples Republics of Donetsk and Luhansk.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said Kiev is determined to reclaim control over the countrys southern cities that have been captured by Russia.
Mariupol is the biggest city Russia has managed to capture since beginning its offensive against Ukraine in late February.
The development comes as RussianDefense Minister Sergei Shoigu says the 1,908 Ukrainian troops who had been trapped in Azovstal for the past weeks have surrendered since Monday.
The higher military command has given the order to save the lives of the soldiers of our garrison and to stop defending the city, he said, adding that there is an ongoing process to remove killed soldiers from theflashpoint industrial area.
Earlier, Russias Defense Ministry said a total of 1,730 Ukrainian fighters had surrendered from Azovstal since Monday. It also said those in need of inpatient treatment receive assistance in medical institutions in Novoazovsk and Donetsk.
Moscow has repeatedly warned that such a flow of weapons to Kiev will only prolong Russias operations.
He further stressed that the priority was now to transfer the fallen from the plant, saying We have always insisted on three of the most important conditions for us: civilians, wounded, and the dead.
