US giving Ukraine more weapons than announced Report
20220823
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/08/23/687907/US-Weapons-Arms-Ukraine-Kiev-Secret
The high availability of weapons during the current conflict will result in the proliferation in illicit arms in the post-conflict phase, Secretary General of the International Criminal Police Organization Juergen Stockwarned.
One possibility, per Weiss and Rushton, is that the US has secretly provided Kiev with the Army Tactical Missile System, or ATACMS. If that is the truth of the matter, it would be against what the US announced publicly. In July, theUS National Security Advisorto PresidentJoe Biden told the Aspen Security Forum that sending such missiles would further provoke Russia and potentially instigate World War III.
Earlier this week, Yahoo! Newspublished a story that argued the recent attacks on Russian targets in Crimea werent the result of special operations teams carrying explosives, as Ukraine suggests. Instead, the blasts were the result of long-range missile strikes, according to former US Special Forcesoperators Michael Weiss and James Rushton. However, officially Ukraine doesnt have any missiles with the range to strike Saki air base in Crimea, they noted, at least not with the missiles America and its partners publicly say they provided.
A senior Pentagon official revealed on Friday that the US military had quietly been supplying the Ukrainian forces with High-speed Anti-Radiation Missiles HARM for some time to target Russian radar systems, Politico reported.
Meanwhile, Interpol raised concern that many of the arms sent to Kiev will be sold, ending up in the hands of criminals.
US media have published news about Washington providing Ukraine with more weapons than the Biden administration had publicly announced.
When we first announced the initial provision of HARM missiles, the way that we characterized it in the announcement was not specific. We described that we were providing a counter-radar capability,the official was quoted as saying.
"Rumors are swirling around Washington that the United States" military provided Ukraine with more weapons than announced, Politico reported on Monday.
Ukraine is using HARM missiles to take out Russian weapons systems, according to a report published this month by The Hill.
Stock urged western countries providing arms to Kiev to act responsibly by activating arms-tracking databases.
