US pauses selling large armable drones to Ukraine due to security reasons Report
20220618
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/06/18/684126/Russia-Ukraine-US-MQ-1C-Gray-Eagle-drone-security
The sale faced technical objection fromthe Pentagon's Defense Technology Security Administration, which is charged with keeping high value technology awayfrom enemy hands, after it conducted a deeper review of the plan, the sources said.
One of the unnamed sources, who is a US official, further told Reuters that it was still uncertain when the top chain of command at the Pentagon might decide whether to scrape the plan for good or to continue with the deal.
Reuters further cited people familiar with the process as saying that the four General Atomics-made Gray Eagle drones, each of which costs $10 million, were originally slated to go to the US Army.
Technology security reviews are a standard practice for the transfer of US defense articles to all international partners. All cases are reviewed individually on their own merit. Through the established process, national security concerns are elevated to the appropriate approving authority, said a Pentagon spokeswoman, Sue Gough.
The controversial plan, which has been under discussionsince March.Russia responded by saying that the potential salewould not change the parameters of Moscows military operation in the ex-Soviet country.
According to another source, the sale could still go through if the existing radar and sensor package of MQ-1C Gray Eagle drones can be swapped for something less sophisticated, but that can take months to complete.
Russia has time and again warned that the Wests flood of weapons will not force Moscow to end the operation before achieving its objectives. The Kremlin says the unprecedented sanctions against Russia, plus the flow of arms into Ukraine, would only prolong the war.
Congress has a chance to blockthe transaction if the White House decides to press ahead with the deal, though that is seen as unlikely.
They added that the plan was abandoned due to concerns the radar and surveillance equipment on the advanced drones could cause a security risk for the US if it fell into Russian hands, adding that such consideration had been overlooked in the initial review of the plan.
In early June, it was revealed that Washington planned to sell Ukraine at least four MQ-1C Gray Eagle drones that can be armed with Hellfire missiles for battlefield use against Russia.
Ukraine, however, hopes to outmaneuverthe Russians through obtainingmore advanced weapons. Kiev heavily relies on its Western allies to support and fulfill their promises to regain the Donbas, composed of two breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk that Moscow has vowed to liberate.
On Friday, two sources familiar with the matter, told Reuters that the White House had shelved the plan - at least temporarily - on the fear that its sophisticated surveillance equipment might fall into enemy hands, in an apparent reference to Russia.
The administration of US President Joe Biden has scraped aplan tosellfour large, armable drones to Ukraine due to security concerns, a new report says.
Since the onset of Russias special military operation in Ukraine, the US and its European allies have been pouringadvanced weapons into the ex-Soviet country.
