US sanctions on Russia worsened global food crisis Russias US envoy
20220528
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/28/682896/Russian-ambassador-to-the-US-says-Washington
Russia has come undera new raftof sanctions from the US and its Western allies after President Vladimir Putin launched an offensive against Ukraine on February 24.
The ongoing conflict has reduced Ukraine'sgrain exports this month by more than half compared to a year ago.
The Russian ambassador to the United States says Washingtons illegitimate sanctions against Moscowhave worsened the unfolding global food crisis.
The Russian diplomat said that Moscow is committed to its export obligations and is ready for negotiations to resolve this most serious problem, including through the UN."
The ongoing war, and thesubsequent blockade on Ukraines Black Sea ports, has endangered the world food supply by preventing Ukraine from shipping its agricultural products.
Since the war in Ukraine, wheat and corn prices have jumped 41 percent and 28 percent respectively,
Experts warn that rising food prices and shortages in the fragile emerging markets in Africa and the Middle East could lead to a humanitarian disaster.
"Despite the references of US officials to exemptions from the restrictions, which allegedly provide for the opportunity for our country to trade in farm goods, Antonov added.
The Russian envoy also warned the US against shifting the blame on Moscow, after the Pentagon on Thursday accused Russia of weaponizing food.
"They face blocked payments, denials of loans and insurance, problems with booking freight ships, purchase of farm equipment and even seeds," he added.
Unprecedented waves of sanctions against Russia have sent the prices of grain, cooking oil, fertilizer and energy skyrocketing, hurting global growth.
Ukraine, which is a major exporter of corn, barley, sunflower oil and rapeseed oil, used to export most of its goods through its main ports on the Black and Azov seas. Butit has been forced to export by train or via its small Danube River ports since the Russian campaign began.
Ambassador Anatoly Antonov said on Friday that difficulties in the global food market have been building up for a long time, but the crisis was further exacerbated due to the introduction by Washington and its satellites of illegitimate sanctions against Russia."
He also said that Russias domestic exporters often dont have a chance to make shipments."
Russia said on Wednesday that it would open a safe corridor for foreign ships to leave Ukraines Black Sea ports, and the port in Mariupol.
