US set to announce 1billion arms package for Ukraine Report
20220806
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/08/06/686904/US-President-Joe-Biden-package-Ukraine
According to sources, Biden has not signed the weapons package, yet. The sources cautioned the weapons packages can change in value and content before they are signed.
The package, one of the largest so far, is expected to be announced as early as Monday, the report said Friday.
HIMARSis a long-range, mobile rocket systemthat can hit targets with precision. Its manufacturer, Lockheed Martin,says the systems have a "recognized and proven range" of up to 300 kilometers.
Since President Vladimir Putin of Russia declared the campaign in Ukraine on February 24, the United Stateshas been providingKiev with military aid, including at least 16 HIMARS systems.
If signed in its current form, the new package would be valued at $1 billion.
The new aid package follows a separate security assistance package by the Department of Defense, which also includes additional ammunition for HIMARS.
The new arms package, expected to be worth $1 billion, will reportedly include ammunition forHigh Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems HIMARS, and National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems NASAMS as well as some 50 M113 armored medical vehicles, Reuters cited three sources with knowledge of the matter.
The administration of US President Joe Biden is planning to announce yet another military aid package for Ukrainetoaddto about $8.8 billion in assistanceWashingtonhas given Kiev since Russialaunched the campaign five months ago.
Russia said on Tuesday its forces have destroyed six HIMARS in Ukrainesince the start of the war. Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu ordered Russian generals last month to prioritizedestroying the long-range missiles and artillery weapons.The ministry said at the time that the US-madeweapons were being used to strike residential areas of the Russian-held Donbass and to intentionally set fire to wheat fields and grain storage silos.
