World must take immediate steps to unblock Ukrainian ports prevent global food crisis Ukraine president
20220502
https://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2022/05/09/681804/Ukraine-Russia-President-Volodymyr-Zelenskiy-wheat-food-security-Odesa-Charles-Michel-Agriculture-Minister-Mykola-Solskyi-
According to International Grains Council data, Ukraine was the world's fourth largest exporter of maize corn in the 202021 season and the number six wheat exporter. However, a UN food agency official said on Friday that nearly 25 million tonnes of grains are now stuck in Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has accused Russia of blocking his country's ports, saying the international community should take immediate steps to end the move in order to allow wheat exports and prevent a global food crisis.
Russia has been accused of blocking Ukrainian ports after Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the launch of the special military operation on February 24.
"It is important to prevent a food crisis in the world caused by Russia's aggressive actions," Zelenskiy claimed on the Telegram messaging app.
Michel, who chairs summits of the European Union's national leaders, also tweeted that he had seen silos full of grain, wheat and corn in Odesa that was ready for export but blocked.
Solskyi added that Ukraine had exported 1.090 million tonnes of grain in April, but that the sowing was not of the same quality as last year and the sowing area for corn was smaller.
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres warned last week against the emergence of the global food insecurity which cannot be solved without restoring Ukrainian agricultural production to the world market.
"Immediate measures must be taken to unblock Ukrainian ports for wheat exports," he added, without specifying the types of measures he would like.
Zelenskiy made his comments in an online post on Monday after speaking to European Council President Charles Michel, who was visiting the city of Odesa, a major Black Sea port for exporting agricultural products.
Ukrainian Agriculture Minister Mykola Solskyi said earlier on Monday that the country has sown about 7 million hectares of spring crops so far this year, or 25-30 less than in the corresponding period of 2021.
The agriculture minister underlined the importance of exports of Ukrainian grain via Romania, where they are being taken by rail, but said those exports could be complicated in two months by exports of the new wheat crop in Romania and Bulgaria.
The exportable surplus, as Ukrainian agriculture officials say, is around 12 million tonnes and the country's stocks are so high that there will not be enough room to store the new harvest when it comes.
The conflict has provoked a unanimous response from Western countries, which have imposed a long list of sanctions on Moscow.
"This badly needed food is stranded because of the Russian war and blockade of Black sea ports. Causing dramatic consequences for vulnerable countries. We need a global response," the European Council official wrote.
The UN chief in March warned of the "hurricane of hunger and a meltdown of the global food system" in the wake of a simmering crisis in Ukraine.
