CBS Detects Transphobia Amid RussiaUkraine War
20220302
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/01/cbs-detects-transphobia-amid-russia-ukraine-war/
Video of a reported Russian Missile Strike on The Kharkiv Regional Administration Building about 30 minutes ago at 8am, there was Heavy Damage to the Building and Multiple Civilian Casualties are being reported. pic.twitter.com2HHawQQBnZ
Transgender acceptance in Ukraine is not widespread, and changing legal documents to match gender requires a long process with psychiatric examinations. CBS News spoke with one woman in Kyiv who is now battling a "war within a war" amid Russia's invasion https:t.coDJ6vFwmLuR pic.twitter.com7Qp4eTCGMt
Russia is bombarding Ukraine and its population of 40 million, but CBSNews.com has detected transphobia amid the artillery explosions.
So what are you going to do? I just prefer to dance in the kitchen, to be honest. Because if this is the last moment of my life, I just want to celebrate. I just want to dance.
Zi Famelu was born and raised in Crimea, an area of Ukraine that was invaded and taken over by Russia in 2014, CBSNes.com reported on March 1. The article continues:
A war within a war: Transgender woman says transphobia and discriminatory laws keeping her hostage in Kyiv during Russian invasion
The transgender ideology says the government must determine each persons legal sex only by their inner sense of gender identity, not by their male-or-female body. If made law, the ideology would allow all men to switch their declared sex whenever they wish.
Russian MLRS and Cluster Munitions Strikes continue to fall on the city of Kharkiv tonight, the City is now Surrounded by Russian Ground Forces from every direction except for the Southeast towards Chuhuiv. pic.twitter.comvOYq0jHjGb
Hi! My name is Zi Famelu. I'm a Ukrainian transgender woman currently stuck in Kyiv. My life's in danger. I'm not allowed to leave the country because of a presidential decree passport related issue. Trans women feel hopeless and desperate. Please raise awareness! Thank you!
Theres no way Ukrainian border people can let me through, Famelu told CBS.If you have a male gender in your passport, they will not let you go abroad. They will not let you through.
The CBSNews headline downplays Ukraines drafting of men and instead blames discriminatory laws and insanity  transphobia  for Famelus inability to dodge the draft during a war:
Ukrainian border guards are drafting men who try escape to safety in Poland. That is a problem for Famelu, who is widely known to be male because of prior appearances on Ukrainian TV, and who is recognized as a man on his passport.
Now the 31-year-old lives in Kyiv, the capital city that has been under Russian siege for nearly a week. She is running out of food and hasnt left her house for days as gunfire erupts outside.
