China Denies Report Xi Asked Putin Not to Invade Ukraine During Genocide Olympics
20220126
https://www.breitbart.com/national-security/2022/01/25/china-denies-report-xi-asked-putin-not-to-invade-ukraine-during-genocide-olympics/
It seeks not only to smear and drive a wedge in China-Russia relations, but also to deliberately disrupt and undermine the Beijing Winter Olympics, he said.
Beijing, Chinas national capital, is set to host the 2022 Winter Olympics from February 4 to February 20. Western media outlets, especially those based in the U.S., such as Bloomberg, have in recent days published embellished or anonymously sourced articles claiming a Russian invasion of Ukraine is imminent. The claims run counter to official statements issued by Ukraines government this week assuring the public that such an act remains unlikely based on physical evidence, such as the number and formations of Russian troops on the ground in and near Ukraine.
Chinas state-run Global Times on January 24 described the Bloomberg piece as disinformation reflecting the ill intention of the Western forces trying to instigate divergences between Beijing and Moscow.
TASS, Russias state-owned news agency, asked Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian about the Bloomberg article, published on January 21, during a regular press conference on January 24.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova denounced the Bloomberg article as a special information operation by US respective agencies in statements shared by her Telegram channel on January 22.
As of today, there are no grounds to believe that Russia is preparing to invade imminently, Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov told the Ukrainian parliament on January 25, according to the Associated Press.
But we have never invaded. By their logic, it is the perfect moment  the Olympics in China, which the US media have been smearing for months at Washingtons behest. Bloomberg mixes the two topics and shoots, but misses, she opined.
Reznikov noted that Russian troops have not formed what he called a battle group that could force its way through the Ukraine border.
I understand that, in the US medias version, Russia should have invaded Ukraine a long time ago, Zakharova wrote.
We dont see any grounds for allegations of an imminent offensive against our country today. It would be impossible to pull this out, even physically, Oleksiy Danilov, the secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, told Ukrinform at a press briefing on January 24. Ukrinform is a state-run Ukrainian news agency.
Chinas Foreign Ministry on Monday denied a recent report by Bloomberg alleging Chinese dictator Xi Jinping asked Russian leader Vladimir Putin not to invade Ukraine during the 2022 Winter Olympics, saying the U.S.-based media company fabricated the claim out of thin air in an attempt to smear and drive a wedge in China-Russia relations.
The Chinese Embassy in Russia also refuted Bloombergs report on January 23, labeling it a hoax and provocation.
