EU FastTracked Candidate Status For Ukraine Decision Expected Today
20220617
https://www.breitbart.com:443/europe/2022/06/17/eu-fast-tracked-candidate-status-for-ukraine-decision-expected-today/
This is a dreadful mistake by Russia. Russia will never take control of Ukraine, said Tony Radakin, the countrys highest-ranking military officer, adding it would emerge a more diminished power.
Later joined by Romanias President Klaus Iohannis, they met Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky, who has been lobbying allies for more and faster weapons deliveries and the promise of a European future.
We are seeing a political use of gas, just as we have seen a political use of wheat, he said in reference to the millions of tons of wheat currently stuck in Ukrainian ports.
Regional governor Sergiy Gaiday said Thursday around 10,000 civilians remain trapped there, out of a pre-war population of some 100,000.
AFP  The European Commission will meet Friday to give its fast-tracked opinion on Ukraines bid for EU candidacy, a step closer to membership for the country a day after the blocs most powerful leaders visited Kyiv as it battles Russias invasion.
EU countries are rushing to reduce dependency on Russian energy but are divided about imposing a natural gas embargo as several member states are heavily reliant on Moscow.
Fighting in eastern Ukraine remained focused on the industrial city of Severodonetsk, where Russian forces edge closer to control after weeks of battle.
The State Department also said a third American was believed to be missing, in addition to two military veterans who were reportedly seized by Russian forces last week.
France, Germany, Italy and Romania are all in favour of Ukraine receiving immediate candidate status, French President Emmanuel Macron said in Kyiv Thursday.
Draghi and Zelensky both accused Russia of intentionally limiting supply, with the Italian leader accusing Gazprom of lies and of using its energy dominace for political ends.
Also on Thursday, Washington urged Russia to treat any American volunteers captured while fighting alongside Ukrainian troops as prisoners of war guaranteed humane treatment.
With global grain prices soaring and importers in the Middle East and Africa facing supply shortfalls, Moscow has demanded that economic sanctions on it be lifted in exchange for allowing the exports.
Never before has an opinion been given so quickly on EU candidacy, which must be approved by all 27 member states.
Also on Thursday, the European Court of Human Rights ECHR told Russia to prevent the execution of a Moroccan man sentenced to death along with two British men for fighting on behalf of Ukrainian forces.
L-R Romanian President Romanian President Klaus Iohannis, Prime minister of Italy Mario Draghi, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, President of France Emmanuel Macron and Chancellor of Germany Olaf Scholz hold a press-conference following their meeting in Mariinsky Palace, in Kyiv, on June 16, 2022.  The European Unions most powerful leaders on June 16 embraced Ukraines bid to be accepted as a candidate for EU membership, in a powerful symbol of support in Kyivs battle against Russias invasion. Photo by Sergei SUPINSKY  AFP Photo by SERGEI SUPINSKYAFP via Getty Images
After meeting the visiting leaders, Zelensky said he explained to our essential needs in the field of defence.
He spoke as the United States also called on Moscow to open the ports and allow the grain to be exported.
The admiral said Russian President Vladimir Putin may achieve tactical successes in the weeks to come, but had sacrificed a quarter of his countrys army power for tiny gains and was running out of troops and high-tech missiles.
The Jacques Delors Institute think tank director said he expects a positive opinion on Ukraines EU status, but with conditions and a deadline.
Russia has already strategically lost its war with Ukraine, suffering heavy losses and strengthening NATO, the UKs chief of defence staff said in an interview published Friday.
Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian premier Mario Draghi arrived in Ukraine by train and headed to the Kyiv suburb of Irpin, scene of fierce battles early in the brutal war.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller said that the state-run company will play by its own rules after cutting daily gas supplies to Germany and Italy.
Moscow is stepping up energy pressure on Europe, with Russian gas giant Gazprom on Thursday defending cuts while prices soared.
We shouldnt be using food as a weapon, US Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack told reporters at the United Nations.
We are expecting new deliveries, above all heavy weapons, modern artillery, anti-aircraft defence systems, he said, even as Macron said France would send six Caesar self-propelled howitzers to add to the 12 already deployed on Ukraines eastern front.
The opinion will serve as a basis for discussion at next weeks EU summit, where leaders are expected to approve Ukraines candidate status, but with stern conditions attached, and membership may take years or even decades.
Zelensky promised Ukraine was ready to put in the work to become an EU member.
Ukraine has gotten the closest to EU it has ever been in the history of its independence, he said in his nightly address.
Timing is Everything: France to Push for UK, Ukraine to Join European Political Community https:t.co81GKWihovF
This is a very delicate exercise for the Commission because it cannot be less demanding for Ukraine than for other countries for which it has given a favorable opinion in the past. Its credibility requires the maintenance of high standards, Sebastien Maillard said.
Scholz said Ukraine belongs in the European family and that Berlin would continue to send Kyiv weapons for as long as it is needed.
The most important message of our visit is that Italy wants Ukraine in the EU, Draghi said at a joint press conference.
