Google Suspends All Ad Sales in Russia
20220304
https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2022/03/04/google-suspends-all-ad-sales-in-russia/
The decision comes shortly after Google received criticism from Russian government communications watchdogRoskomnadzor for running anti-Russian ads about the war in Ukraine.Roskomnadzor claimed that the ads on Googles platforms were targeted towards Russian viewers andaimed at creating a distorted perception of current events. The communications watchdog accused Google of allowing the ads to spread false political information that could incite protests in the country.
A Google logo is seen through windows of Moscone Center in San Francisco during Googles annual developer conference. KIMIHIRO HOSHINOAFPGettyImages
Roskomnadzor has been blocking access to any media contradicting the official state narrative on Russias invasion of Ukraine. Recently, the BBC News website was blocked after the UK broadcaster began using WWII-era radio bulletins to spread information and news to citizens in Russan and Ukraine.
Tech companies across the world have been limiting Russias ability to distribute state-approved news and information as the invasion of Ukraine continues. The moves come as the European Commission considers a ban on the state news agencies entirely due to fears that they are spreading misinformation about the war in Ukraine.
The Verge reportsthat Google has paused all ad sales in Russia as the country continues its invasion of Ukraine. A Google spokesperson told the Verge:In light of the extraordinary circumstances, were pausing Google ads in Russia. The situation is evolving quickly, and we will continue to share updates when appropriate.
Servicemen of the Russian National Guard patrol along the Red Square in Moscow, on December 30, 2019. Photo by DIMITAR DILKOFFAFP via Getty Images
The Masters of the Universe at Google have paused all ad sales in Russia in response to the countrys invasion of Ukraine. The internet giant said the extraordinary circumstances of the war led to its decision after it faced criticism from the Russian government over ads aimed at creating a distorted perception of current events.
Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart News covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on TwitterLucasNolanor contact via secure email at the addresslucasnolanprotonmail.com
Google, which has prevented Russian state media from generating revenue on YouTube and Google, announced similar plans stating: Due to the ongoing war in Ukraine, were blocking YouTube channels connected to RT and Sputnik across Europe, effective immediately.
A number oftech giants havetaken actionagainst Russian state media, with multiple platforms banning Russian media across the EU. Facebook including Instagram, YouTube, and TikTok have completely banned Russian media outlets like Russia Today and Sputnik throughout the European Union.
Breitbart News recently reported that Googleblocked the mobile apps of Rusia Today and Sputnik from its Play Store. The move comes shortly after Googles decision to remove Russian state media from its news-related features.
