High Alert  Vladimir Putin Warns of Nuclear Deterrent Readiness as Ukraine Tensions Rise
20220227
https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2022/02/27/high-alert-vladimir-putin-warns-of-nuclear-deterrent-readiness-as-ukraine-tensions-rise/
UPDATE  1:09 PM EST: German media reports that Russians are limed up at ATMs around the country to take out foreign currency due to the Wests sanction on Russia. The sanctions have prompted concerns of a run on Russian banks, according to The Telegraph UK.
Two Russian billionaires, Mikhail Fridman and Oleg Deripaska, called for an end to the conflict triggered by President Vladimir Putin's assault on Ukraine, with Fridman calling it a tragedy for both countries' people.   https:t.coBnfgD3sdXr
Western countries arent only taking unfriendly actions against our country in the economic sphere, but top officials from leading NATO members made aggressive statements regarding our country, Putin said in televised comments, AP reports.
UPDATE  11:49 AM EST: The European Union will finance and deliver weapons to Ukraine as the country battles back against a sustained invasion by Russias military, top officials announced Sunday.
Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko's response when asked by AP's FrancescaEbel if there are plans to evacuate civilians from the city after a few seconds silence."We can't do that, because all ways are blocked," he finally said. "Right now we are encircled."
Putin told defense chiefshigh alert status is imperative as the West was accused by Moscow of taking unfriendly steps against his country.
President VladimirPutin on Sunday ordered his militarys nuclear deterrent forces to be on alert as Russias invasion of Ukraine met increasing resistance as it enters its fourth day.
President Putin is continuing to escalate this war in a manner that is totally unacceptable, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said. And we have to continue to condemn his actions in the most strong, strongest possible way.
Russia, like the United States, has thousands of nuclear warheads that it maintains as a deterrent to an attack.
An Ukrainian Territorial Defence fighter examines a destroyed Russian infantry mobility vehicle GAZ Tigr after the fight in Kharkiv on February 27, 2022.SERGEY BOBOKAFP via Getty Images
Russians rush for Dollar: Lined up at ATMs around the country to withdraw foreign currency as new sanctions to punish the Kremlin for its invasion of Ukraine sparked fear the ruble could collapse. Tinkoff saying 153 for Ruble, Alpha 110 per Dollar! https:t.coF07kbF83Uv pic.twitter.comCFkTRtZhzE
NBC News reportsthe move was in direct response to leading NATO powers making what he called aggressive statements, according to Tass, the state-owned Russian news agency.
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations responded to the news from Moscow while appearing on a Sunday news program.
The move is also a reaction to the West announcing hard-hitting financial sanctions against Russian businesses and key individuals, including Putin himself, the president said in televised comments.
Putin, in giving the nuclear alert directive, cited not only the alleged statements by NATO members but the hard-hitting financial sanctions imposed by the West against Russia, including the Russian leader himself.
The Russian defense minister, Sergey Shoygu, and the chief of the militarys general staff have been ordered to put the nuclear deterrent forces on high alert status in what was defined as a special regime of combat duty.
UPDATE  2:47 PM EST:A pair of Russian billionaires Mikhail Fridman and Oleg Deripaska  are calling for peace between Russia and Ukraine amid Russian President VladimirPutins invasion of Ukraine.
