ICANN Russia Wont Be Banned from Internet Despite Ukraines Demands
20220305
https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2022/03/04/icann-russia-wont-be-banned-from-internet-despite-ukraines-demand/
With wide responsibility over some of the core architecture of the internet, including the Domain Name System DNS, ICANN wields power over access to the internet itself.
In a letter sent to Ukrainian officials, ICANN expressed sympathy with Ukraines position in the war, but said it was both technically infeasible and against the principles of the decentralized internet to cut off an entire nation.
According to CNN, Ukraines request called on ICANN to revoke access to the .RU domain name, which would have forced a wide swathe of Russian websites offline.
The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN, the nonprofit that coordinates management of the global internet, has said it will not act on Ukraines demand to cut Russia off from the internet.
Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.He is the author ofDELETED: Big Techs Battle to Erase the Trump Movement and Steal The Election.
Essentially, ICANN has been built to ensure that the Internet works, not for its coordination role to be used to stop it from working.
A growing number of companies and organizations are blacklisting Russia and Russian users. Airbnb has shut down operations in Russia and Belarus, while Google had blocked Russian state media from its app store and paused all ad sales in Russia.
We are not going to unilaterally freeze millions of innocent users accounts,a Binance spokesperson told CNBC.
As you know, the Internet is a decentralized system. No one actor has the ability to control it or shut it down, wroteICANN CEO Gran Marby.
Some companies are bucking the trend. Binance, the worlds largest centralized cryptocurrency exchange, rejected calls from Ukrainian officials to blacklist ordinary Russian users.
Our mission does not extend to taking punitive actions, issuing sanctions, or restricting access against segments of the Internetregardless of the provocations.
