Joe Biden Warns Russia Invasion Still Possible in Aggressive Speech Against Vladimir Putin
20220215
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/02/15/joe-biden-warns-russia-invasion-still-possible-in-aggressive-speech-against-vladimir-putin/
Biden also spoke directly to the people of Russia, repeating that the United States and NATO were not a threat.
The president recalled that the United States fought with Russia in World War II in a war of necessity but warned them against choosing to pick a fight with a neighboring country.
If Russia attacks Ukraine, it will be a war of choice or a war without cause or a reason, Biden said.
I will not pretend this will be painless. There could be impact on our energy prices, he said.
Biden promised not to send armed servicemen into Ukraine but said he would supply them with military equipment and supplies to help them defend themselves and bolster neighboring NATO countries.
If we do not stand for freedom, where it is at risk today, we will certainly pay a steeper price tomorrow, Biden said.
He warned Putin of widespread condemnation from Western countries of any decision on his part to attack.
That would be good, but we have not yet verified that, Biden said during a speech at the White House.
But he warned Russia not to hurt American citizens in Ukraine, promising to react if they did.
Biden acknowledged messaging from the Russian defense minister that they would send troops home from the border of Ukraine but said he remained skeptical.
Biden said the United States and the West had a responsibility to defend Ukraines borders and freedoms from a more aggressive Russia.
Its about standing what we believe in and the future we want for our world, he said.
To the citizens of Russia: you are not our enemy, and I dont believe you want a bloody, destructive war against Ukraine, Biden said, noting the deep ties of family history and culture between the two nations.
President Joe Biden on Tuesday delivered an aggressive speech against Russian President Vladimir Putin, warning him again not to invade Ukraine.
