Kyiv Bombarded by Rockets Overnight Reports of Fighting In Citys Suburbs
20220226
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/02/25/kyiv-bombarded-by-rockets-overnight-reports-of-fighting-in-citys-suburbs/
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba described the rocket strikes on the capital as horrific, saying the city had not suffered such an ordeal since 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky made similar remarks when he addressed the nation early on Friday morning, saying Russia was operating military aircraft treacherously over residential areas and had bombed Kyiv.
On Thursday, CNN broadcast footage of Russian airborne forces at an airport close by to Kyiv, which they had apparently seized in order to establish a bridgehead for further troops, engaged in a firefight with Ukrainian counter-attackers.
UPDATE  11:26 A.M. EST:CNN reports: As Russian troops advance, U.S. intelligence officials are concerned that Kyiv could fall under Russian control within days, according to two sources familiar with the latest intelligence. Axios added: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told EU leaders this might be the last time you see me alive during a video conference on Thursday night, two European sources briefed on the call tell Axios. Zelensky is also to have said that he is Russias number one target but has vowed to remain in Ukraines capital, according to the Washington Post.
Horrific Russian rocket strikes on Kyiv. Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany. Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties. Kick Russia out of everywhete.
Ukraine defeated that evil and it will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Sever all ties. Kick Russia out of everything, he implored.
While details of the fighting in Ukraine are often confused and unclear, Western foreign correspondents reports and footage aired by news outlets appear to show clear evidence of bombardment.
Ukraines Ministry of Defence, according to The New York Times, has taken toits official Facebook page to confirm fighting is underway in a district of northern Kyiv, and told residents to stay home and prepare Molotov cocktails.
Patrick Reevell, a reporter on the ground in Kyiv for ABC, has described hearing the sound of fighting, loud gunfire and explosions Just a few miles north of Maidan Square in the city centre, sharing video footage to corroborate his claims.
Reevell had earlier described seeing Ukrainian troops in very heart of Kyiv hurriedly moving with ammunition to set up defensive positions an account matching that of CNNs Tim Lister, who is said to have witnessedUkrainian security forces leaveing the city police headquarters with weapons  ammunition  apparently heading towards the northern district of Obolon, where fighting has been reported.
Ukraines Ministry of Defence claimed later the same day that the airport had been recaptured and theRussian airborne force eliminated  likely the same engagement Wallace referred to above  but the capital was evidently still under pressure as of Friday morning, with multiple reports indicating explosions and gunfire in its suburbs as of the time of publication.
UPDATE  11:46 A.M. EST: The New York Times reports:The U.S. met with China over three months to present intelligence showing Russias troop buildup near Ukraine and to urge Beijing to help avert war, U.S. officials said. Chinese officials rebuffed the U.S. and shared the information with Moscow.
President Zelensky has said he remains in the capital, and that the enemy has marked me as target number one.
Bodies of Russian servicemen wearing Ukrainian service uniforms lie inside and beside a vehicle after their raiding party was shot during a skirmish in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on February 25th, 2022. Photo by SERGEI SUPINSKYAFP via Getty Images
Noting that it was the belief of Britains Ministry of Defence that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine, the nonsense they were spouting about Donbas were not honest claims, Wallace suggested that Russia is behind its hoped-for timetable theyve lost over 450 personnel one of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetznaz has failed to be taken.
The Ukrainian capital of Kyiv Kiev was hit by rocket strikes overnight, with reports of fighting in its suburbs claimed on Friday morning.
He told Ukrainians in his address: Terrible explosions in the morning sky over Kyiv, bombing, hitting a house, fire  all this reminds of the first such attack on our capital, which took place in 1941.
Britains Secretary of State for Defence, Ben Wallace, said Friday morning in comments to a British television network that Our assessment, as of this morning, is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives.
Despite the dramatic and tragic progress of Russias invasion, an intelligence assessment of their actual military achievements so far by the British government claimed their successes have been limited.
CNN's mchancecnn describes the intense firefight he witnessed at an airport outside Ukraine's capital, Kyiv. pic.twitter.comv2I2ULOVEO
