Nolte 70 Want Increased Domestic Oil Production Only 18 Oppose
20220307
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/07/nolte-70-want-increased-domestic-oil-production-18-oppose/
You see, thats what I love about reality. While the left  Democrats, the corporate media, environmental activists  try to exist in a Woke World that attempts to ignore human nature and realpolitik, the beauty of the Real World is that certain things cannot be ignored. To wit
The real world has arrived in the form of Vladimir Putins war in Ukraine, and now Woke World is being exposed as the hellscape it was always meant to be.
First off, it was Woke Worlds enviro-loons who made Putins war in Ukraine possible by insisting the Western world spend trillions of dollars purchasing Putins energy instead of drilling, fracking, and digging for our own.
When asked how important the price of energy will be during the rapidly approaching 2022 midterm elections, 60 percent said very important, and 28 percent said somewhat important. Thats 88 percent, folks.
When asked if Bidens energy policies were better or worse than Trumps, only 33 percent said better, while 52 percent said worse.
The latest from Rasmussen Reports informs us that a whopping 70 of Likely U.S. Voters believe the U.S. government should encourage increased oil and gas production to reduce Americas dependence on foreign sources of oil and gas.
Get this Since Putin launched this obscene war about ten days ago, Joe Bidens America has paid Putin close to three-quarters of a billion dollars for his oil. No joke, Joe Biden is sanctioning Putin with one hand and paying him $70 million per day! with the other.
Oh, and guess what By a margin of 55 to 27 percent, Democrats  Democrats!  want to see domestic energy production encouraged.
The most insane thing of all is that were still burning the same amount of oil. Yet, the green freaks tell us they want to reduce carbon emissions. Well, how exactly are we reducing carbon emissions when were burning Russian, Venezuelan, and Middle Eastern oil instead of our own?
The war that wouldnt have been possible without the enviro-loon policies that send trillions of dollars to Putin will, this very week, deliver the highest gas prices in the history of ever.
That was Woke World when we could still pretend that President Trumps low gas prices were an aberration and Bidens high gas prices are simply a return to norm.
Even before Russia invaded Ukraine, Bidens cruelty and stupidity had doubled the price of gas, which, of course, exploded the price of everything. Every product in the world is affected by energy prices because every product in the world is produced andor shipped using energy. What this self-inflicted and unnecessary explosion in energy costs has done to decimate Americas working class and poor just doesnt matter to the sociopathic green loons.
His Fraudulency Joe Biden was handed an America that was an energy EXPORTER. But immediately after being wheeled into office, Biden reversed all that by making it more cumbersome and expensive to drill domestically. Worst of all, Biden killed our Keystone XL Pipeline and approved one of Vladimir Putins pipelines.
Woke Worlds bubble just popped, and if the GOP manages to avoid catching the war fever and focuses instead on the kind of domestic energy production that will 1 bring relief to gas prices, 2 not fund wars launched by tyrants, and 3 keep us out of foreign wars, the 2022 brass ring is theirs for the asking.
Americans are getting murdered at the pump, and we have had enough In fact, we are so fed up that this 5050 country is now 7018 on the issue of domestic drilling.
