Ohio Senate Candidates Gibbons Mandel Support Ukraine NoFly Zone
20220322
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/22/ohio-senate-candidates-gibbons-mandel-support-ukraine-no-fly-zone/
These 2 neocons want to blunder us into WW3, he tweeted. What happens when Russia shoots down the plane of a European ally? America will be forced to respond with our blood  treasure. Mandel  Gibbons are either too dumb to realize this, or they know  are ok with it. Absolutely reckless.
Given that NATO would be behind the no-fly zone, it would therefore mean NATO allies of the U.S. would be actively shooting down Russian planes, potentially pulling the country into World War III. Referring to Gibbons and Mandel as neo-cons, Republican Ohio U.S. Senate Candidate J.D. Vance called the suggestion absolutely reckless on Twitter shortly after the debate.
It's insane how little Republican politicians have learned from the last 20 years. But no one who claims they're "America First" should be repeating the same conventional wisdom that has destroyed our country's wealth and lost a generation's worth of wars.
When asked by the moderator if they would support a no-fly zone in the skies over Ukraine, both Mandel and Gibbons said that they would if the Europeans orchestrated it.
Vance concluded that Republican politicians have learned little since the failures in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya.
Youre dealing with the wrong guy, Mandel says to Gibbons before calling him a pussy. pic.twitter.comAbbyQpwXvu
Are these people unaware of who our leaders are? Do we want General Mark Milley to lecture the Russians about white rage after they blow up one of our planes? Do we trust Biden and Kamala to lead our nation in a war with a major power? he added.The answer is of course not.'
Josh Mandel and Mike Gibbons, Republican candidates for the U.S. Senate in Ohio, expressed support for a no-fly zone in Ukraine during the debate on Monday night.
I cant overstate how alarming it is that Josh Mandel and Mike Gibbons support a no fly zone in Ukraine if the EU does it first.
Gibbons and Mandel expressing support for a no-fly zone in Ukraine comes days after the two got into a heated exchange during another debate when Mandel called Gibbons a pussy.
Meanwhile, both he and Mandel are effectively proposing a pathway that would lead us to war, he said. Its insane how little Republican politicians have learned from the last 20 years. But no one who claims theyre America First should be repeating the same conventional wisdom that has destroyed our countrys wealth and lost a generations worth of wars.
