PICS Cities Across Ukraine Rocked by Missile Strikes Shelling
20220318
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/18/pics-cities-across-ukraine-rocked-missile-strikes-shelling/
Another horrendous war crime in Mariupol. Massive Russian attack on the Drama Theater where hundreds of innocent civilians were hiding. The building is now fully ruined. Russians could not have not known this was a civilian shelter. Save Mariupol! Stop Russian war criminals! pic.twitter.combIQLxe7mli
We hope and we think that some people who stayed in the shelter under the theatre could survive, Petro Andrushchenko, an official with the mayors office, told The Associated Press Thursday. He said the building had a relatively modern basement bomb shelter designed to withstand airstrikes. Other officials said earlier that some people had gotten out.
Lviv lies not far from the Polish border and well behind the front lines, but it and the surrounding area have not been spared Russias attacks. In the worst, nearly three dozen people were killed last weekend in a strike on a training facility near the city. Lvivs population has swelled by some 200,000 as people from elsewhere in Ukraine have sought shelter there.
Working more in silence than on television, radio or on Facebook, Zelensky said. I consider it the right way.
Hundreds of civilians were said to have taken shelter in a grand, columned theatre in Mariupols centre when it was hit Wednesday by a Russian airstrike. On Friday, their fate was still uncertain, with conflicting reports on whether anyone had emerged from the rubble. Communications are disrupted across the city and movement is difficult because of shelling and fighting.
A cloud of smoke rises after an explosion in Lviv, western Ukraine, Friday, March 18th, 2022. The mayor of Lviv says missiles struck near the citys airport early Friday. AP Photo
Video and photos provided by the Ukrainian military showed the at least three-storey building had been reduced to a roofless shell, with some exterior walls collapsed. Satellite imagery on Monday from Maxar Technologies showed huge white letters on the pavement outside the theatre spelling out CHILDREN in Russian  DETI  to alert warplanes to the vulnerable people hiding inside.
LVIV, Ukraine AP  Russian forces pressed their assault on Ukrainian cities Friday, with new missile strikes and shelling on the capital Kyiv and the outskirts of the western city of Lviv, as world leaders pushed for an investigation of the Kremlins repeated attacks on civilian targets, including schools, hospitals and residential areas.
Instead, he said, Ukraine had much stronger defences than expected, and Russia didnt know what we had for defence or how we prepared to meet the blow.
In Chernihiv, at least 53 people were brought to morgues over 24 hours, killed amid heavy Russian air attacks and ground fire, the local governor, Viacheslav Chaus, told Ukrainian TV Thursday.
The United Nations political chief, Undersecretary-General Rosemary DiCarlo, also called for an investigation into civilian casualties, reminding the U.N. Security Council that international humanitarian law bans direct attacks on civilians.
Associated Press writer Yuras Karmanau in Lviv, Ukraine, and other AP journalists around the world contributed to this report
Russia has demanded that NATO pledge never to admit Ukraine to the alliance or station forces there.
The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive talks, said Ukraine was insisting on the inclusion of one or more Western nuclear powers in the negotiations and on legally binding security guarantees for Ukraine.
Smoke rises after an explosion in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on March 18th, 2022. Russian forces on March 18th destroyed an aircraft repair plant in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv. Lviv is the largest city in western Ukraine and a popular tourist destination known for its picturesque views. Located 70 kilometres 45 miles from the border with EU member Poland, the city had largely been spared since Russian forces invaded on February 24th. Photo by YURIY DYACHYSHYNAFP via Getty Images
The World Health Organization said it has verified 43 attacks on hospitals and health facilities, with 12 people killed and 34 injured.
While details of Thursdays talks were unknown, an official in Zelenskys office told the AP that on Wednesday, the main subject discussed was whether Russian troops would remain in separatist regions in eastern Ukraine after the war and where the borders would be.
Russian army tanks move down a street on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, March 11th, 2022. AP PhotoEvgeniy Maloletka, File
Two others were killed when strikes hit residential and administrative buildings in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, according to the regional governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko.
She said many of the daily attacks battering Ukrainian cities are reportedly indiscriminate and involve the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area. DiCarlo said the devastation in Mariupol and Kharkiv raises grave fears about the fate of millions of residents of Kyiv and other cities facing intensifying attacks.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Thursday that American officials were evaluating potential war crimes and that if the intentional targeting of civilians by Russia is confirmed, there will be massive consequences.
Putin spoke by phone Friday with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who urged the Russian president to agree to an immediate cease-fire and called for an improvement to the humanitarian situation, a spokesman for Scholz said.
Ukraines emergency services said a mother, father and three of their children, including 3-year-old twins, were killed when a Chernihiv hostel was shelled. Civilians were hiding in basements and shelters across the embattled city of 280,000.
Early morning barrages also hit a residential building in the Podil neighbourhood of Kyiv, killing at least one person, according to emergency services, who said 98 people were evacuated from the building. Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said 19 were wounded in the shelling.
The fighting has led more than 3 million people to flee Ukraine, the UN estimates. The death toll remains unknown, though Ukraine has said thousands of civilians have died.
Black smoke billowed for hours after the explosions, which hit a facility for repairing military aircraft near the citys international airport, only six kilometres four miles from the centre. One person was wounded, the regional governor, Maksym Kozytskyy, said.
In city after city around Ukraine, hospitals, schools and buildings where people sought safety have been attacked. Rescue workers searched for survivors in the ruins of a theatre that served as a shelter when it was blown apart by a Russian airstrike in the besieged southern city of Mariupol Wednesday.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky said early Friday he was thankful to President Joe Biden for additional military aid, but he would not get into specifics about the new package, saying he did not want Russia to know what to expect. He said when the invasion began on Feb. 24, Russia expected to find Ukraine much as it did in 2014, when Russia seized Crimea without a fight and backed separatists as they took control of the eastern Donbas region.
Ukrainian policemen secure the area by a five-storey residential building that partially collapsed after a shelling in Kyiv on March 18th, 2022, as Russian troops try to encircle the Ukrainian capital as part of their slow-moving offensive. Authorities in Kyiv said one person was killed early today when a downed Russian rocket struck a residential building in the capitals northern suburbs. They said a school and playground were also hit. Photo by SERGEI SUPINSKYAFP via Getty Images
Both Ukraine and Russia this week reported some progress in negotiations. Zelensky said he would not reveal Ukraines negotiating tactics.
The early morning barrage of missiles on the outskirts of Lviv were the closest strike yet to the centre of the city, which has become a crossroads for people fleeing from other parts of Ukraine and for others entering to deliver aid or fight.
Multiple blasts hit in quick succession around 6 a.m., shaking nearby buildings, witnesses said. The missiles were launched from the Black Sea, but the Ukrainian air forces western command said it had shot down two of six missiles in the volley. A bus repair facility was also damaged, Lvivs mayor Andriy Sadovyi said.
In a statement about the call, the Kremlin said Putin told the German chancellor that Ukraine had unrealistic proposals and was dragging out negotiations. The Kremlin also said it was evacuating civilians, and accused Ukraine of committing war crimes by shelling cities in the east.
In a joint statement, the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven G7 leading economies accused Russias President Vladimir Putin of conducting an unprovoked and shameful war, and called on Russia to comply with the International Court of Justices order to stop its attack and withdraw its forces.
In Kharkiv, a massive fire raged through a local market after shelling Thursday. One firefighter was killed and another injured when new shelling hit as emergency workers fought the blaze, emergency services said.
Damaged vehicles sit among debris and in Kharkiv city centre in Ukraine, Wednesday, March 16th, 2022. AP PhotoPavel Dorogoy
