Poll 58 Percent Hold Joe BidenResponsible if Russian Conflict Increases Gas Prices
20220223
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/02/23/poll-58-percent-hold-joe-biden-responsible-russian-conflict-increases-gas-prices/
Bidens overall approval rating on UkraineRussiais 40 approval to 45 disapproval, including three in 10 who say they strongly disapprove, Politicosaid in theiranalysis ofthe poll.
On Wednesday, Biden hinted at releasing more strategic oil reserves over the fear of gas price hikes. Biden already released reserves in January will little impact.
A majority 58 vs. 28 percent of voters would find President Biden responsible if the RussianUkrainian conflict increases American gas prices, a Wednesday PoliticoMorningConsult poll found.
There is no doubt that the sanctions imposed against us will hurt the global financial and energy markets, Antonov said. The United States will not be left out, where ordinary citizens will feel the full consequences of rising prices.
Whether or not Russia further invades Ukraine, Americans will bear the brunt of Bidens management of the Russian aggression, Biden has indicated. Moscows ambassador to the United States, Anatoly Antonov, said on Tuesday that Bidens sanctions will hurt energy markets and American consumers but will have little impact on Russia.
I dont believe the sanctions will stop them from doing what their plan is but I do think that if you dont pay a price for doing this, hes going to do more of it, Rubio told CBS on Tuesday.I think Ukrainians are gonna fight back, but this is gonna have an impact on Americans even though it seems to be really far away.
With gas prices expected to increase, Wednesdays poll revealed Biden holds a negative approval rating on the topic of American energy. Only 40 percent approved of Bidens management of American energy, while 48 percent disapproved.
The national average price of gasincreasedovernight by four cents, according to AAA, and has gone up nearly 20 cents since last month. The current national average is $3.535. Last year, a gallon of gas cost $2.645.
Sen. Marco Rubio R-FL suggested Bidens management of the conflict could increase the price of oil. Rubio believes the price of a barrel of oil will surpass $100 and perhaps reach $115. Gas prices are already at their highest level since 2014 $3.535.
On Tuesday, Biden announced the beginning of aRussian invasion. Russia on Monday reportedly moved forces into eastern Ukraine under a so-called peace-keeping mission. After Russias troop move, Biden implemented proportional sanctions on Russia. The sanctions along with regional conflict will likely dramatically increase the price at the pump.
Fifty percent of respondents alsosaidthey hold Biden responsible forRussias invasion ofUkraine, the poll revealed. Just 33 percentdonot hold Biden responsible for the invasion.
With regard to Moscow, new U.S. sanctions will not solve anything Russia has learned to work and develop under restrictions, he added.
