President Zelensky Asks for Support in Surprise Grammys Speech Tell the Truth About This War
20220404
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/04/03/zelensky-asks-for-support-in-surprise-grammys-speech-tell-the-truth-about-this-war/
.johnlegend and company preached tonight. May God bless and protect the Ukrainian people. Please support those agencies you know and trust in providing relief. GRAMMYs pic.twitter.comOEeNuTkAHl
During the pre-recorded message that aired on the show Sunday, he likened the invasion to a deadly silence threatening to extinguish the dreams and lives of the Ukrainian people, including children.
Following Zelenskys message, John Legend performed his song Free with Ukrainian musicians Siuzanna Iglidan and Mika Newton, and poet Lyuba Yakimchuk, as images from the war were shown on screens behind them.
The Recording Academy, with its partner Global Citizen, prior to the ceremony highlighted a social media campaign called Stand Up For Ukraine to raise money and support during the humanitarian crisis.
Fill the silence with your music. Fill it today to tell our story. Tell the truth about the war on your social networks, on TV, support us in any way you can any, but not silence. And then peace will come to all our cities, Zelensky said.
LAS VEGAS AP  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky appeared in a video message at the Grammy Awards to ask for support in telling the story of Ukraines invasion by Russia.
Our musicians wear body armor instead of tuxedos. They sing to the wounded in hospitals, even to those who cant hear them, he said in English. But the music will break through anyway.
The war in Ukraine had taken a particularly gruesome turn Sunday when Ukrainian forces entering the town of Bucha, recently held by Russian soldiers, found bodies of people who had been shot, some after being bound and tortured. Ukrainian authorities accused the Russians of war crimes, and European leaders called for tougher sanctions against Moscow. Russia said the atrocities had been committed by Ukrainians.
