Russian Forces Press Kyivs Last Stronghold in Luhansk Province
20220702
https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2022/07/02/russian-forces-press-kyivs-last-stronghold-in-luhansk-province/
Fmr Commander of U.S. Army Europe: 'The Russians Are Humiliating the Leaders of the West' https:t.cofBYK8634gW
In Slovyansk, a major Donetsk city still under Ukrainian control, four people died when Russian forces fired cluster munitions late Friday, Mayor Vadym Lyakh said on Facebook. He said the neighbourhoods that were hit did not contain any potential military targets.
Over the last day, the occupiers opened fire from all available kinds of weapons, Haidai said Saturday on the Telegram messaging app.
The British Ministry of Defence said Saturday that air-launched anti-ship missiles generally do not have precision accuracy against ground targets. It said Russia likely was using such missiles because of a shortage of more accurate weapons.
Ukrainian Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova said the investigators were recovering fragments from missiles that struck an apartment building in the small coastal town of Serhiivka. They also were taking measurements to determine the trajectory of the weapons, she said.
The Kremlin has repeatedly claimed that the Russian military is targeting fuel storage sites and military facilities, not residential areas.
Toxic Masculinity  Boris Claims Putin Wouldnt Have Invaded Ukraine if He Was a Womanhttps:t.co8NQGa7G8kX
Elsewhere, investigators combed through the wreckage from a Russian airstrike early Friday on residential areas near the Ukrainian port of Odesa that killed 21 people.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said three anti-ship missiles struck an ordinary residential building, a nine-story building housing about 160 people. The victims of Fridays attack also included four members of a family staying at a typical seaside campsite, he said.
I emphasize: this is a deliberate direct Russian terror, and not some mistake or an accidental missile strike, Zelensky said.
Pro-Russia separatists have held portions of both provinces since 2014, and Moscow recognizes all of Luhansk and Donetsk as sovereign republics. Syrias government said Wednesday that it would also recognize the independence and sovereignty of the two areas and work to establish diplomatic relations with the separatists.
Moscow portrayed their departure from Snake Island as a goodwill gesture to help unblock exports of grain.
We are taking all the necessary investigative measures to determine the specific people guilty of this terrible war crime, Venediktova said.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Russian forces are pounding the city of Lysychansk and its surroundings in an all-out attempt to seize the last stronghold of resistance in eastern Ukraines Luhansk province, the governor said Saturday.
Ukrainian fighters have spent weeks trying to defend the city and to keep it from falling to Russia, as neighbouring Sievierodonetsk did a week ago. The Russian Defence Ministry said its forces took control of an oil refinery on Lysychansks edge in recent days, but Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai reported Friday that fighting for the facility continued.
Luhansk and neighbouring Donetsk are the two provinces that make up the Donbas region, where Russia has focused its offensive since pulling back from northern Ukraine and the capital, Kyiv, in the spring.
Ukrainian authorities interpreted the missile attack as payback for the withdrawal of Russian troops from a nearby Black Sea island with both symbolic and strategic significance in the war that started with Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
