Russia Says Ready to Resume Ukraine Talks as Invasion Continues
20220302
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/02/russia-says-ready-to-resume-ukraine-talks-as-invasion-continues/
AP reportsSpokesman Dmitry Peskov made the disclosure to reporters, saying the timeline has been set in the second half of the day, closer to evening, our delegation will be in place to await Ukrainian negotiators.
A girl from Ukraine holds a dog as she arrives at the border crossing in Medyka, southeastern Poland, Wednesday, March 2, 2022. The U.N. refugee agency said Tuesday that about 660,000 people have fled Ukraine for neighboring countries since the invasion began. AP PhotoVisar Kryeziu
The scene of a fire at the Economy Department building of Karazin Kharkiv National University, allegedly hit during recent shelling by Russia, on March 2, 2022. SERGEY BOBOKAFP via Getty Images
The possibility of talks came as the conflict entered its seventh day and videos circulated online of an apparent attack on the regional police and intelligence headquarters in Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city. It shows a building with its roof blown off and its top floor on fire.
Firefighters work to contain a fire in the complex of buildings housing the Kharkiv regional SBU security service and the regional police, allegedly hit during recent shelling by Russia, in Kharkiv on March 2, 2022. SERGEY BOBOKAFP via Getty Images
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of trying to force him into concessions by continuing to press its bloody invasion of his country.
They produced no breakthrough between the warring neighbors, though the two sides agreed to meet again.
A Russian delegation is prepared to resume talks with Ukrainian officials about the war in Ukraine within hours, a Kremlin spokesman told reporters Wednesday.
The first round of talks on resolving the Russia-Ukraine war were held near the Belarus-Ukraine border last Sunday, as Breitbart News reported.
There was no immediate word from Ukrainian authorities about their response to the proposal, howeverUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Tuesday that Russia must stop bombing Ukrainian cities before more talks could take place on Russias invasion of his country.
First we can try to predict whether Ukrainian negotiators will show up or not. Lets hope this happens. Our negotiators will be there and ready, Peskov added.
