Russian Gas Pipeline Shut Down for Annual Maintenance Germany Wonders Whether it Will Ever Turn on Again
20220711
https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2022/07/11/gas-pipe-closes-for-maintainance-but-will-russia-permit-it-to-reopen/
BERLIN AP  A major gas pipeline from Russia to Germany was shutting down for annual maintenance on Monday amid German concern that Russia may not resume the flow of gas as scheduled.
Last month, Habeck activated the second phase of Germanys three-stage emergency plan for natural gas supplies, warning that Europes biggest economy faced a crisis and storage targets for the winter were at risk.
The Nord Stream 1 pipeline, Germanys main source of Russian gas, is scheduled to be out of action until July 21 for routine work that the operator says includes testing of mechanical elements and automation systems. The operator said the gas flow was reduced progressively starting at 6 a.m., German news agency dpa reported.
Trump Vindicated: Germany Braces for 'Chaotic Conditions' Ahead of Feared Loss of Russian Gas https:t.coCV9t5KSp6t
German politicians have dismissed Russias technical explanation for last months reduction in gas flows through Nord Stream 1, saying the decision was a political gambit to sow uncertainty and push up prices.
German Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck has said he suspects that Russia may cite some little technical detail as a reason not to resume gas deliveries through the pipeline after maintenance.
Canada said over the weekend that it would allow the part to be delivered to Germany, citing the very significant hardship that the German economy would suffer without a sufficient gas supply.
German officials are suspicious about Russias intentions, particularly after Russias Gazprom last month reduced the gas flow through Nord Stream 1 by 60. Gazprom cited technical problems involving a gas turbine powering a compressor station that partner Siemens Energy sent to Canada for maintenance and couldnt be returned because of sanctions imposed over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Germany and the rest of Europe are scrambling to reduce their dependence on Russian energy imports. Germany, which has Europes biggest economy, has been getting about 35 of its gas to power industry and generate electricity from Russia.
