Russia fine tunes Victory Day parade amid Ukraine campaign
20220507
https://www.breitbart.com:443/news/russia-fine-tunes-victory-day-parade-amid-ukraine-campaign/
The term is loaded in Russia, the successor of the Soviet Union, which lost 20 million people in the war against Nazi Germany.
The Kremlin said no foreign leaders were invited to attend the parade as it was not a jubilee year.
Like every year, Putin is expected to deliver a speech at the parade. Some Western officials say he may declare all-out war on Ukraine or announce mobilisation across the country.
The parade became an annual event after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and has gained prominence during President Vladimir Putins two decades in power as a display of military muscle.
Also on May 9, parades take place on a smaller scale in dozens of cities across the nation as well as the so-called Immortal Regiment march, which involves people carrying photos of veterans or family members who died in the war.
Russia on Saturday held its final rehearsal for an annual parade marking the Soviet victory in World War II, where its military might will be showcased amid Moscows campaign in Ukraine.
To mark the 77th anniversary since victory in what Russia calls the Great Patriotic War, thousands of soldiers will march across the Red Square in Moscow followed by tanks, armoured vehicles and missile launchers.
On the ground, Russia will be displaying its nuclear-capable hardware, including the Yars intercontinental nuclear missiles and Iskander short-range ballistic missile systems.
Mondays Victory Day parade comes on the third month of Russias military operation in Ukraine despite predictions of a swift victory.
This year, participants of the processions are also encouraged to bring photos of those who died fighting in Ukraine.
Troops who participated in the operation took part in Saturdays practice, indicating that theyll participate in Mondays parade, the state TASS agency reported.
Eight Mig-29 fighter jets will fly over Red Square forming the letter Z  a symbol of Russias military campaign in Ukraine.
Since sending troops into Ukraine on February 24, Russia has said it is carrying out a special military operation to de-Nazify the country.
According to Russias defence ministry, 77 aircraft will participate in the flypast, including the rarely-seen Il-80 Doomsday plane that is capable of withstanding a nuclear attack.
