Russians Blast Base Training Foreign Volunteers Near Polish Border 35 Dead
20220313
https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2022/03/13/russians-blast-base-training-foreign-volunteers-near-polish-border-35-dead/
Russian fighters also fired at the airport in the western city of Ivano-Frankivsk, which is less than 150 kilometres 94 miles north of Romania and 250 kilometres 155 miles from Hungary, countries that also are NATO allies. The airport, which includes a military airfield as well as a runway for civilian flights, also was targeted Friday.
Russian soldiers pillaged a humanitarian convoy that was trying to reach the battered and encircled port city of Mariupol, where more than 1,500 people have died, a Ukrainian official said. Ukraines military said Russian forces captured Mariupols eastern outskirts, tightening their siege of the strategic port. Taking Mariupol and other ports on the Azov Sea could allow Russia to establish a land corridor to Crimea, which it seized from Ukraine in 2014.
Zelensky again deplored NATOs refusal to declare a no-fly zone over Ukraine and said Ukraine has sought ways to procure air defence assets, though he didnt elaborate. U.S. President Joe Biden announced another $200 million in aid to Ukraine, with an additional $13 billion included in a bill that has passed the House and should pass the Senate within days. NATO has said that imposing a no-fly zone could lead to a wider war with Russia.
Thousands of soldiers on both sides are believed to have been killed along with many civilians, including at least 79 Ukrainian children, the government said.
Putin accused Ukraine of "extrajudicial killings of dissenters, hostage taking and the use of civilians as human shields, deployment of heavy weaponry in residential areas in proximity to hospitals, schools, kindergartens". Macron accused Russia of "lies". https:t.coJVpTvjVDcP
We have nowhere to go back to, said Yurchuk, 44, a widow who hopes to find work in Germany. Nothing left.
Fighting also raged in multiple areas of the country overnight. Ukrainian authorities said Russian airstrikes on a monastery and a childrens resort in the eastern Donetsk region hit spots where monks and refugees were sheltering, wounding 32 people.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine, Lviv had largely been spared the scale of destruction unfolding further east and become a destination for residents escaping bombarded cities and for many of the nearly 2.6 million refugees who have fled the country.
To the north, in the city of Chernihiv, one person was killed and another injured in a Russian airstrike that destroyed a residential block, emergency services said.
Around the capital, Kyiv, a major political and strategic target for the invasion, fighting also intensified, with overnight shelling in the northwestern suburbs and a missile strike Sunday that destroyed a warehouse to the east.
When I woke up in the morning, everything was covered in smoke, everything was dark. We dont know who is shooting and where, resident Serhy Protsenko said as he walked through his neighbourhood. Explosions sounded in the distance. We dont have any radio or information.
The Russian invaders appear to have struggled more than expected against determined Ukrainian fighters. Still, Russias stronger military threatens to grind down Ukrainian forces. The United Nations has said the fighting has displaced millions of Ukrainians within the country on top of the millions who have left.
The training centre in Yavoriv appears to be the most westward target struck so far in the 18-day invasion. The facility, also known as the International Peacekeeping and Security Center, has long been used to train Ukrainian military personnel, often with instructors from the United States and other NATO countries.
Chief regional administrator Oleksiy Kuleba said Russian forces appeared to be trying to blockade and paralyze the capital with day and night shelling of the suburbs. Kuleba said Russian agents were in the capital and its suburbs, marking out possible future targets.
LVIV, Ukraine AP  Waves of Russian missiles pounded a military training base close to Ukraines western border with NATO member Poland, killing 35 people. The strike followed Russian threats to target foreign weapon shipments that are helping Ukrainian fighters defend their country against Russias grinding invasion.
About Yavoriv. US  other NATO forces had been there for years training Ukraines army. Until Feb, when they pulled out. Most recently Yavoriv became staging ground for Ukraines new foreign legion. Some foreigners Ive been in contact with havent responded to texts this morn.
"All the people who will die starting from this day will also die because of you. Because of your weakness. Because of your disunity," Zelensky railed at NATO https:t.co6QYys1ae0l
Another airstrike hit a westward-bound train evacuating people from the east, killing one person and injuring another, Donetsks chief regional administrator said.
He vowed that any all-out assault would meet stiff resistance, saying: Were getting ready to defend Kyiv, and were prepared to fight for ourselves.
Talks aimed at reaching a cease-fire again failed Saturday, and the U.S. announced plans to provide another $200 million to Ukraine for weapons. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov warned other nations that sending equipment to bolster Ukraines military was an action that makes those convoys legitimate targets.
Zelensky reported that 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers had died since the Russian invasion began Feb. 24.
Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said just nine of 14 agreed-upon corridors were open on Saturday, and that about 13,000 people had used them to evacuate around the country.
Moscow has said it would establish humanitarian corridors out of conflict zones, but Ukrainian officials have accused Russia of disrupting those paths and firing on civilians. Russian forces have hit at least two dozen hospitals and medical facilities, according to the World Health Organization.
It has also hosted international NATO drills. As such, the site symbolizes what has long been a Russian complaint: That the NATO alliance of 30 member countries is moving ever closer to Russias borders. Russia has demanded that Ukraine drop its ambitions to join NATO.
More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the sprawling training facility that is less than 25 kilometres 15 miles from the closest border point with Poland, according to the governor of Ukraines western Lviv region. Poland is a key location for routing Western military aid to Ukraine.
Elena Yurchuk, a nurse from the northern city of Chernihiv, was in a Romanian train station Saturday with her teenage son, Nikita, unsure whether their home was still standing.
Lviv governor Maksym Kozytskyi said most of the missiles fired Sunday were shot down because the air defence system worked. The ones that got through killed at least 35 people and wounded 134, he said.
Zelensky said the Russians could take Kyiv "only if they kill us all. If that is their goal, let them come. If they carry out carpet bombings and wipe away the history of Kyivan Rus they could enter Kyiv, but they will have to live on that land alone" https:t.codfmZ6SlQtZ
The first major city to fall, earlier this month, was Kherson, a vital Black Sea port of 290,000 residents. Zelensky said Saturday that Russians were using blackmail and bribery in an attempt to force local officials to form a pseudo-republic in the southern Kherson region, much like those in Donetsk and Luhansk, two eastern regions where pro-Russian separatists began fighting Ukrainian forces in 2014. One of the pretexts Russia used to invade was that it had to protect the separatist regions.
These images have emerged of the Yavoriv military training base in western Ukraine. A Russian airstrike hit the base  which is just 25 km from the Polish border.At least 35people have been killed and 134 wounded UkraineWar pic.twitter.comh4rxrEANmk
Ukraine will stand this test. We need time and strength to break the war machine that has come to our land, Zelensky said during his nightly address to the nation Saturday.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russia of trying to break his country apart, as well as starting a new stage of terror with the alleged detention of a mayor from a city west of Mariupol.
In Irpin, a suburb about 12 miles 20 kilometres northwest of central Kyiv, bodies lay out in the open Saturday on streets and in a park.
The leaders of France and Germany spoke Saturday with Russian President Vladimir Putin in a failed attempt to reach a cease-fire. To end the war, Moscow has demanded that Ukraine drop its bid to join NATO and adopt a neutral status acknowledge the Russian sovereignty over Crimea, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014 recognize the independence of separatist regions in the countrys east and agree to demilitarize.
