Vladimir Putin Accuses Ukraine of Genocide in Packed Stadium Rally
20220319
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/18/vladimir-putin-accuses-ukraine-genocide-packed-stadium-rally/
He then referenced an alleged coup dtat Moscow claims was carried out in Ukraine in early 2014 with support from the U.S. government. The development saw Ukraines Russian-backed president at the time, Viktor Yanukovych, fleethe country after months of protests in the heart of Kyiv objecting to his attempts to distance Ukraine from Europe and the greater West. The president who succeeded Yanukovych, Petro Poroshenko, lost to Zelensky in a free and fair election in 2019, but the Russian government insists on branding Zelenskys administration an illegitimate extension of the alleged coup.
Putin detailed Moscows reasoning for annexing Crimea  a peninsula connected to southern Ukraine along the Black Seas northern coast  in 2014. He reiterated previous claims by the Kremlin that the peninsulas Russian population suffered from anti-Russian persecution by extreme Ukrainian nationalists and neo-Nazis. Russia claims that Crimeans chose to become part of Russia through a referendum much of the free world rejected the referendum as occurring under duress and illegitimate.
Putin addressed the massive crowd from a platform in the stadiums center, explaining he organized the gathering to coincide withRussias annexation of Crimea from Ukraine on March 18, 2014.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a concert marking the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea at the Luzhniki stadium in Moscow on March 18, 2022. Photo by RAMIL SITDIKOVPOOLAFP via Getty Images
People who lived and live in the Donbas also did not agree with this coup dtat, Putin recalled on March 18 during his stadium rally in Moscow.
Putin referenced Russias latest war with Ukraine, which he describes as a special military operation. Moscow launched an air and ground offensive in neighboring Ukraineon February 24. The conflict began just 72 hours after the Kremlin announced plans to formally recognize the independence of two Russian-backed separatist states in eastern Ukraines Donbas region known as the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics DPR and LPR.
The fact is that the Crimeans and Sevastopol residents did the right thing when they put a hard barrier in the way of neo-Nazis and extreme nationalists. Because what happened in other territories and is still happening is the best confirmation of this, the Russian president said. Putin has repeatedly claimed since the military escalation in February that Ukraines government  whose president, Volodymyr Zelensky, is Jewish  is run by Nazis.
Punitive military operations were immediately organized against them, and not one, they were immediately plunged into a blockade, subjected to systematic shelling from cannons, air strikes  this is all what is called genocide,' he said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin hosted a rally at Moscows Luzhniki Stadium on Friday to mark the eighth anniversary of Russias annexation of Crimea, Ukraine, the Kremlins official presidential press service reported.
Russia invaded Ukraine in 2014, seizing the Crimean Peninsula and occupying it for the past eight years. That year also marked the beginning of a conflict between Ukrainian forces and pro-Russian separatists in the Donbas region that escalated into a full-scale invasion of Ukraine by Russia in February.
It is to save people from this suffering, from this genocide  this is the main, main reason, motive and goal of the military operation that we launched in the Donbass and Ukraine, this is precisely the goal, the Russian president acknowledged.
Video footage of the March 18 event showed what appeared to be a packed venue, meaning tens of thousands of people attended the rally asLuzhniki Stadium has a capacity of 81,000.
The optics of Putins event, which appears to indicate widespread support for his actions in Ukraine, follow weeks of nationwide protests against the war. Russian security forces have reportedlyarrested over 14,000 people for protesting since February 24 after assemblies occurred in Russias largest cities, Moscow and St. Petersburg. Russias parliament adopted and put into force two new laws on March 4 thatcriminalize independent war reporting and protesting the war with Ukraine, with penalties of up to 15 years in prison, Human Rights Watch reported on March 7.
On our land, united by a common destiny  this is what people probably thought and were guided by when they went to the referendum in Crimea and Sevastopol on March 18, 2014. They lived and live on their own land and wanted to live a common destiny with their historical homeland  with Russia. They had every right to do so and achieved their goal, he said.
