White House Clarifies Joe Bidens Claim US Troops Training Ukrainians in Poland
20220329
https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2022/03/29/white-house-clarifies-joe-biden-claim-u-s-troops-training-ukrainians-poland/
I was referring to being with and talking with the Ukrainian troops that are in Poland, he added later in his remarks.
The White House on Monday attempted to clarify what President Joe Biden said to reporters about Americans training Ukrainian troops in Poland.
But the White House had to walk that back, after Politico reported on the exchange.
In December, Politico reported that Biden turned down a plan from the United States military to send in special operations personnel to Ukraine to advise and train the Ukrainians.
Youre going to see, when youre there, and some of you have been there, youre going to see women, young people, standing in front of a damn tank he said.
If the United States is actually training the Ukrainian people, it would be a major development for the United States in the ongoing conflict between Poland and Russia.
There are Ukrainian soldiers in Poland interacting on a regular basis with U.S. troops, and thats what the President was referring to, a White House official said, clarifying Bidens remarks.
Biden has repeatedly discussed American troops being deployed to Poland, but only to bolster NATO defenses, not to take an active role in Ukraines defense against Russia.
But when asked Monday to explain what he meant, Biden said he was only talking with American troops about training the Ukrainians in Poland.
I was talking to the troops. We are talking about helping train the troops in  that are in  the Ukrainian troops that are in Poland, Biden said. Thats what the context was.
During a question and answer session with members of the media at the White House, Biden responded to a question concerning his remark last week about what U.S. service members would see in Ukraine, when youre there.
In February, before Russia escalated its war, the Pentagon announced its decision towithdraw 160 members of the Florida National Guard who were in Ukraine training their military.
