Swindon MPs tell Russia to back down
20220202
https://www.thisiswiltshire.co.uk/news/19891297.swindon-mp-tells-russia-back/
Mr Putins government accuses Nato of escalating tensions and wants legal guarantees that the alliance will not expand eastwards into countries such as Ukraine.
In a statement, Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned the Russians that invading Ukraine would be "disastrous" and a "painful, violent and bloody business".
At present, Russia has well over 100,000 troops stationed on its border with its neighbour and Belarus in the North.
"We need to make it very clear to the Kremlin, to Russia, that that would be a disastrous step."
Now, Mr Tomlinson has backed his boss remarks, saying: The UK fully supports Ukraine's sovereignty and its territorial integrity.
Speaking to the BBC, Mr Johnson, said: "The intelligence is very clear that there are 60 Russian battle groups on the borders of Ukraine, the plan for a lightning war that could take out Kyiv is one that everybody can see.
Moreover, the British Army leads the NATO Battlegroup in Estonia and, as the Prime Minister recently said, if Russia invades Ukraine, we would look to contribute to any new NATO deployments to protect our allies in Europe.
"The economic gains made by the people of Ukraine do not deserve to be sacrificed by Russian menaces.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Sir Robert Buckland, the former justice secreatary, said:The United Kingdom is steadfast in its support for Ukraines sovereignty and territorial integrity and I welcome the Government making its absolutely clear that any Russian military incursion into Ukraine would be a massive strategic mistake and met with severe consequences.
Swindon MPs Sir Robert Buckland andJustin Tomlinson havecalled forthe Russians to back down over the crisis in Ukraine.
As such, the government has called on Russia to honour its international commitments, end its threatening and destabilising behaviour, and de-escalate tensions."
The former Minister of State for disabled people added: Ministers have assured me that they are under no illusions to the fact that Russia remains the most an acute threat to our national security and to stability in Europe.
Western intelligence suggests that the Russians are planning to invade the former Soviet state at any moment, although president Vladimir Putin denies this accusation.
