9YearOld Girl Writes Letter To Mother Killed In Russian Invasion
20220412
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/9-year-old-ukrainian-girl-s-heart-breaking-letter-to-mother-killed-in-russian-invasion-2881990
Well that just made a 55 yr old man ... choke on his food.. and made his eyes well up. I sincerely hope she gets to enjoy her life as best she can.
One user felt that people must do all they can to help this child. It help should not be limited with a tweet, just do whatever you can do for her education and all, read the post.
According to a report in The Sun, in the letter, the girl also thanked her mother for the best nine years of my life. She said she owed her mother a debt of gratitude for her childhood.
For every child mother is everything,I'm feeling her pain right now,how difficult she might have felt when she lost her mother.There were so many children like her who faced the situation.why do countries fight?Can't they live peacefully let others live too.
Mr Gerashchenko captioned the tweet, Here's the letter from a 9-year-old girl to her mom who died in Borodianka. "Mom! You're the best mom in the whole world. I'll never forget you. I wish you'll get to Heaven and be happy there. I'll do my best to be a good person and get into Heaven too. See you in Heaven! Galia xx.
The girl  wrote the letter after her mother was killed in the Russian invasion.
Targeting Russian President Vladimir Putin, one user wrote, This poor baby. I wish her the very best. God be with her. Very heartbreaking. The results of how many families and lives are destroyed for one man's desire.
Please save this child, have great will power to do good, without mother it is very difficult to do. She is not hopeless after loosing her mother, the world of a child. It should not be limited with tweet, just do whatever you can do for her education and all. Best of luck beta????
This poor baby. I wish her the very best. God be with her. Very heartbreaking. The results of how many families and lives are destroyed for one man's desire.
In a heart-breaking letter to her dead mother, a nine-year-old Ukrainian girl has promised to be good so she can meet her in heaven. Galia, from Borodyanka in Ukraine, wrote the letter after her mother was killed in the Russian invasion. A photo of the letter was shared on Twitter by Anton Gerashchenko, the adviser to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine.
The invasion, described by President Putin as a special military operation to demilitarise Ukraine, has sparked outrage and criticism worldwide. The West has imposed a slew of sanctions to pinch Russia's economy.
Here's the letter from 9-old girl to her mom who died in Borodianka."Mom!You're the best mom in the whole world. I'll never forget you. I wish you'll get in Heaven and be happy there. I'll do my best to be a good person and get in Heaven too. See you in Heaven!Galia xx". pic.twitter.com07l7vfQxM4
Nie jestem w stanie spokojnie czyta tego listu bo we mnie targaja jednoczenie dwie niewyobraalne ucxucia: ogromnego alu i empatii wobec tego dziecka straszliwie dowiadczonego oraz bezdenn nienawici wobec sprawcw,cwibec ktrych nie znalazbym cienia ludzkich uczu by ich .
I am not able to read this letter calmly, because I am torn by two unimaginable feelings at the same time: enormous regret and empathy towards this terribly experienced child and a bottomless hatred towards the perpetrators, whom I would not find a shadow of human feelings for, a person wrote in Russian.
