Amid Ukraine Crisis YouTube Blocks Monetisation For Some Russian Channels
20220227
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/amid-ukraine-crisis-youtube-blocks-monetization-for-some-russian-channels-2792358
At the beginning of February, Germany banned RT, which prompted Russia to close the Moscow bureau of German media outlet Deutsche-Welle.
Facebook also announced on Friday it would ban Russian state media from running ads and monetizing through its platform.
Nations around the globe issued broad sanctions against Russian businesses, banks and officials after Moscow invaded Ukraine on Thursday.
YouTube announced on Saturday it would block certain Russian channels from monetizing their videos, among other restrictions, due to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
"As always, our teams are continuing to monitor closely for new developments, including evaluating what any new sanctions and export controls may mean for YouTube," the platform's spokesperson said.
YouTube noted that over the past few days it has removed hundreds of channels, including some for "coordinated deceptive practices," the term the company uses for disinformation.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
"In light of extraordinary circumstances in Ukraine, we're taking a number of actions," a spokesperson for the Google subsidiary said in a statement Saturday.
In addition to restricting monetization, YouTube added it would limit recommendations to the same channels and is "continuing to actively surface authoritative news content" in Russia- and Ukraine-related search results.
RT, created in 2005 under the name "Russia Today," is regularly accused by Western authorities of contributing to disinformation.
"Our teams have started to pause the ability for certain channels to monetize on YouTube, including RT's YouTube channels globally," the spokesperson said, referring to the Russian state-funded news outlet.
Videos from RT and a number of other channels will also be "restricted" by YouTube, the company said.
