EU Dampens Ukraine Plea For Immediate Membership Amid War
20220228
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/russia-ukraine-war-eu-dampens-ukraine-plea-for-immediate-membership-amid-war-2795760
The last country to join the EU was Croatia, which was admitted in 2013 -- after nearly a decade of negotiations and reforms.
"There are different opinions and sensitivities within the EU on enlargement," he told a group of journalists.
The EU on Monday poured cold water on a plea from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky for "immediate" membership to the bloc for his country as Kyiv battled a Russian invasion.
Aspirants wanting to join the bloc typically face a long and complex process that often requires major reforms to reach EU standards.
The European Union, created by six nations under a different name in 1957, has expanded in four waves over the past three decades. After Britain's exit from the bloc in 2020, it counts 27 member states.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmygal tweeted that "the time to put it down on paper has come. Ukraine is applying for EU membership under a special procedure."
They also have to prove that their finances are heading in a direction that will allow them to adopt the euro.
Von der Leyen's spokesman, Eric Mamer, walked back her comments, telling journalists that the EU chief meant that Ukraine "is a European country and we want them in, meaning Europe in general".
Several officials walked back a comment by European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen that appeared to hold out the prospect of Ukraine being admitted.
The European Commission said that, in any case, it can only negotiate with hopeful candidate countries on the basis of a mandate from the EU's 27 member states -- something it has not received for Ukraine.
There are currently five countries that are candidates to join -- Turkey, Serbia, North Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania -- but their bids have been stuck in limbo for years.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
"Our goal is to be together with all Europeans and, most importantly, to be on an equal footing. I'm sure it's fair. I'm sure it's possible."
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said that any bid for membership could take "a lot of years".
"She then also specified that there is a process for joining the EU. And I think that this is the important point," he added.
Zelensky seized upon that on Monday to appeal to the European Union "for the immediate accession of Ukraine via a new special procedure".
Ukraine War: EU foreign policy chief said that any bid for membership could take "a lot of years". File
"At the end of the day, this is a debate at the highest political level, for the European Council," where the member states take decisions, said a commission spokeswoman, Ana Pisonero.
"They are one of us and we want them in," she told Euronews in an interview on Sunday, after emphasising existing EU-Ukraine cooperation.
He said Kyiv would have to submit an official request to join before member states -- which would have to greenlight membership unanimously -- could come up with a position.
EU officials stressed that the adherence procedure takes years, dampening Ukraine's hopes that suddenly becoming part of the European club could help it better weather the Russian onslaught and speed up military, financial and political support.
The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, told a group of journalists that there were already longstanding disagreements among EU countries on enlarging the bloc.
