From Missiles To Helicopters US Says 20 Countries Offer New Arms For Ukraine
20220523
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/from-missiles-to-helicopters-us-says-20-countries-offer-new-arms-for-ukraine-3003132
The Danish battery would add a layer of protection to Ukraine's Black Sea port of Odessa, which is believed to be under threat of Russian invasion from the sea.
Ukraine has asked the United States for mobile batteries of long-range rockets, the M270 MLRS and the M142 Himars.
He said Ukraine's needs have not changed much since the previous meeting and the war continues to be driven by artillery, supported by tanks, drones and other equipment.
Harpoons are cruise missiles that can skim the surface of the sea to target ships as far as 187 miles 300 kilometers offshore, depending on the type.
"The fight is really shaped by artillery in this phase, and we've seen serious exchanges of artillery fires over the last several weeks," Austin said.
"Today, together with Minister Reznikov and his team, we've gained a sharper and shared sense of Ukraine's priority requirements and the situation on the battlefield," Austin said.
They can launch multiple rockets at the same time with a range of up to 187 miles, eight times or more the distance of artillery in the field.
"Many countries are donating critically needed artillery ammunition, coastal defence systems and tanks and other armoured vehicles," he said.
Austin would not provide details of what is included in a new $40 billion US assistance package for Ukraine, amid speculation that it could include high-precision, long-distance rockets that could be used to hit Russian territory.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
US Secretary of Defense said 20 nations pledged arms, ammunition and other supplies to support Kyiv.
He said that Denmark committed to send a Harpoon anti-ship missile system, and the Czech Republic was offering attack helicopters, tanks and rocket systems.
Since the first meeting of the weapons donor group at a US base in Germany four weeks ago, Austin said, "the momentum of donations and deliveries has been outstanding."
That could give Ukrainian forces the ability to reach, with great precision, targets far behind Russian lines.
"Everyone here understands the stakes of this war and they stretch far beyond Europe," he added.
The Ukraine Defense Contact Group is due to meet next in person on June 15 during the NATO ministerial meeting in Brussels, Austin said.
Usually Harpoons are mounted aboard ships or aircraft, but Denmark is the only country that acquired land-based systems for coastal protection.
The group was briefed by Ukraine Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov on the current situation of the three-month-old war, in which the two sides are fighting along a long front line over territory Russia has seized in Ukraine's east and south.
They could also potentially reach the port of Sevastopol, where some of the Russian Black Sea fleet is based.
It could also allow them to hit targets well inside Russia, though it is unclear if that is their intent.
Some 20 countries offered new security assistance packages for Ukraine to battle invading Russian forces in a meeting of allies on Monday, US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin announced.
In their second gathering, nearly four dozen countries and organizations forming the Ukraine Defense Contact Group met online to discuss helping Ukraine, and 20 nations pledged arms, ammunition and other supplies to support Kyiv.
