Germany Inks Agreement With East Europe To Supply Weapons To Ukraine
20220421
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/russia-ukraine-war-german-aid-to-ukraine-germany-inks-agreement-with-east-eurpoe-to-supply-weapons-to-ukraine-2907403
Lambrecht also said Germany would train Ukrainian soldiers to use German-made Panzerhaubitze 2000 tanks -- reportedly due to be sent by the Netherlands.
The deliveries must happen quickly because "military experts agree that the next two weeks will be decisive in Ukraine's fight against Russia", she said.
"In the future, we must be much better equipped. We must no longer allow the Bundeswehr to be cut down to the point where we are in the situation we are in at the moment," she said.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Tuesday raised the possibility of eastern European partners sending older, Russia-made "weapons systems" to Ukraine.
"It's about tanks, armoured vehicles, or other options individual countries are able to give," Lambrecht told the NTV broadcaster.
Germany has reached an agreement with eastern European partners to supply Ukraine with a new batch of heavy weapons "in the next few days", Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht said on Thursday.
Germany cannot send Panzerhaubitze 2000 tanks itself because its army "does not have the stocks", Lambrecht said. "But where we can provide training, we will do that."
Russia-Ukraine War: The tanks will include T-72 models from Slovenia, according to German media reports.
But the government has said that after decades of chronic underinvestment, the Bundeswehr German army is simply not in a position to send the weapons Ukraine wants.
Germany has come under fire for refusing to send heavy weapons to Ukraine, even as allies such as the United States, Britain, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands up their deliveries.
Asked whether Germany really could not deliver heavy weapons from Bundeswehr stocks, Lambrecht said this was impossible "if I want to continue to guarantee national and allied defence".
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
