High Treason Ukraines Volodymyr Zelensky Moves Against Spies
20220720
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/high-treason-ukraines-volodymyr-zelensky-moves-against-spies-3176984
The decision was announced Sunday and approved by parliament on Tuesday, with Zelensky berating the pair for their failure to counter the activities of Russian spies and collaborators in Ukraine.
"Everyone was expecting... more tangible results" from Bakanov and Venediktova in "fighting collaborators and traitors", said Andriy Smyrnov, deputy head of the presidential administration.
Ukraine's army is putting up fierce frontline resistance against Russian troops, but President Volodymyr Zelensky's shock dismissal of two top law enforcement officials has revealed another front in the war closer to home -- against spies and Kremlin sympathisers.
His dismissal of SBU security chief Ivan Bakanov, a childhood friend of President Zelensky, and of prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova, is unprecedented since the start of the invasion.
Situated close to the Crimean peninsula which was annexed by Moscow in 2014, the region was quickly taken over by Russian troops at the start of the invasion -- a significant setback for which the government was heavily criticised.
Another SBU official is suspected of having shared with Russian troops top secret maps of minefields intended to hamper their advance.
One of them, Oleg Kulinich, who was sacked in March and was arrested on Sunday, had been based in the southern region of Kherson.
In his daily video address, he said there were over 650 cases involving officials suspected of treason and aiding Russia, including 60 "working against our state" in Russian-held areas of the country.
The interim replacements of both Bakanov and Venediktova -- their respective deputies -- are considered to be more politically docile.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
In the last few months, at least three top SBU officials have been accused of high treason.
Venediktova was heading up the high-profile investigations into atrocities committed by Russian forces, particularly in the town of Bucha, which became a symbol of the alleged Russian war crimes.
"This man was collaborating with Russian secret services. It is a very serious blow. In my view, it was the last straw for Zelensky," Fesenko said.
Zelensky on Monday said there would be a "review" within the SBU, pointing out that 28 agents could be sacked for "unsatisfactory" work.
According to the report, the trials angered Moscow and made negotiations over prisoner swaps -- a priority for Zelensky -- more difficult.
"It is clear" that these men "will execute all the political orders" of the presidency, said Tetyana Shevchuk, an expert from the Centre for Action Against Corruption, a non-governmental organisation, cited by Forbes Ukraine.
"The president and his cabinet were not pleased with the work of Bakanov and Venediktova" even before the Russian invasion, Ukrainian political analyst Volodymyr Fesenko told AFP.
According to the influential news site Ukrainska Pravda, she incurred the wrath of the presidency by attracting excessive media attention and for rushing through trials of captured Russian soldiers.
For many observers in Ukraine, the reshuffle appears to have been a move to reinforce presidential control over law enforcement.
