NATOs Historic Deployment To Defend Eastern Europe Amid Ukraine War
20220226
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/russia-ukraine-crisis-natos-historic-deployment-to-defend-eastern-europe-amid-ukraine-war-2791864
It's main brigade of about 5,000 troops now consists of a joint Franco-German unit based in Lille, France with contributions from Spain, Portugal, and Poland.
The 40,000 troop-strong NATO Response Force is designed to be ready 365 days-a-year to respond within two or three days when a security crisis emerges.
In 2014, in the wake of Russia's annexation of Crimea and conflicts in the Middle East, a special "spearhead" force was attached to the detachment and is considered NATO's highest-readiness element.
The Allied Joint Force Command based in Brunssum, the Netherlands, currently commands the entire NATO Response Force.
Ukraine war: The NATO Force will not be deployed to Ukraine which is not a member of the alliance.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO alliance is deploying its rapid response force for the first time ever to bolster its eastern flank in the face of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
In August 2021, elements of the force also supported the evacuation and relocation of Afghans who worked alongside NATO and their families.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
Created in 2002 to accelerate NATO's response capability, the force consists of land, air, sea and special operation forces and is intended to respond to a wide gamut of challenges, including disaster relief and evacuations.
Known as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, leadership of these 20,000 strong forces rotates annually and is currently held by France, to be followed by Germany in 2023.
In addition to exercises, the Response Force has so far carried out security missions, such as to the Olympic Games in Athens in 2004, and contributed to disaster relief, including after Hurricane Katrina in the United States and a devastating earthquake in Pakistan.
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg on Friday did not give any details on where the response forces were being sent, saying it was up to NATO's top military commander.
Member states contribute forces annually on a rotating basis, with overall command held by the Supreme Allied Commander Europe, currently US General Tod D. Wolters.
All 30 members of NATO must agree to activate the force, which they did on Thursday, though it will not be deployed to Ukraine, which is not a member of the alliance.
