ProRussian Leaders In Ukraine Ask Putin For Military Against Kyiv
20220223
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/pro-russian-leaders-in-ukraine-ask-putin-for-military-against-kyiv-2785807
Rebel leaders in eastern Ukraine have asked Moscow for military help against Kyiv, the Kremlin announced late Wednesday, in a move that opens the door for massed Russian troops to move in.
Russia said it had established diplomatic relations "at the level of embassies" with the separatist statelets, which broke away from Kyiv in 2014 in a conflict that has cost more than 14,000 lives.
On Tuesday, Russian lawmakers gave Putin permission to use force abroad, while the next day Ukraine mobilised reservists as eastern Europe slid ever closer towards a potentially catastrophic conflict.
In a Russian village around 50 kilometres 30 miles from the border, AFP reporters saw military equipment including rocket launchers, howitzers and fuel tanks mounted on trains stretching for hundreds of metres.
Western capitals say Russia has amassed 150,000 troops in combat formations on Ukraine's borders with Russia, Belarus and Russian-occupied Crimea and on warships in the Black Sea.
Their appeals came after Putin recognised their independence and signed friendship treaties with them that include defence deals.
"Ukraine needs security guarantees. Clear, specific, and immediate," Zelensky said, adding: "I believe that Russia must be among those countries giving clear security guarantees."
The Russian foreign ministry has said it is preparing a "strong response" to US sanctions.
Ukraine's parliament has also imposed a state of emergency giving regional authorities and emergency services sweeping powers to step-up controls including ID checks and roadblocks.
"We are united in believing that the future of European security is being decided right now, here in our home, in Ukraine," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said during a joint media appearance with the visiting leaders of Poland and Lithuania.
Russia has demanded that Ukraine be forbidden from ever joining the NATO alliance and that US troops pull out from Eastern Europe.
"She said: 'Have you heard the news?'. How could I have known? There's no electricity, never mind internet. I don't know what is going to happen next, but to be honest, I'm afraid," he said.
The separatist leaders of Donetsk and Lugansk sent separate letters to Russian President Vladimir Putin, asking him to "help them repel Ukraine's aggression," Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
Washington Wednesday announced sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which Germany had earlier effectively suspended by halting certification.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
Tens of thousands of Russian troops are stationed near Ukraine's borders, with the West saying they could be used for an attack at any moment.
The US ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, warned that an all-out Russian invasion could displace five million people, triggering a new European refugee crisis.
On Tuesday, the Federation Council, Russia's upper house, gave him unanimous approval to deploy troops to the two breakaway Ukrainian regions.
Putin has defied a barrage of international criticism over the crisis, with some Western leaders saying he was no longer rational.
Ukraine has around 200,000 military personnel and Wednesday's call up could see up to 250,000 reservists aged between 18 and 60 receive their mobilisation papers.
The two letters were published by Russian state media and were both dated February 22.
Washington and Britain say Russia's force is poised to strike Ukraine and trigger the most serious war in Europe for decades, but Putin says he is open to negotiation -- within limits.
Moscow's total forces are much larger -- around a million active-duty personnel -- and have been modernised and re-armed in recent years.
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned the body that "our world is facing a moment of peril" and that "the world could see a scale and severity of need unseen for many years".
Speaking to journalists, Putin on Tuesday set out a number of stringent conditions if the West wanted to de-escalate the crisis, saying Ukraine should drop its NATO ambition and become neutral.
Dmitry Maksimenko, a 27-year-old coal miner from government-held Krasnogorivka, told AFP that he was shocked when his wife came to tell him that Putin had recognised the two Russian-backed separatist enclaves.
Western diplomatic efforts to halt the march to war have so far proved fruitless, but European Union leaders announced one more last-ditch summit in Brussels on Thursday to address the crisis.
Shelling has intensified in recent days between Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists -- a Ukrainian soldier was killed on Wednesday, the sixth in four days -- and civilians living near the front are fearful.
But Ukraine has received advanced anti-tank weapons and some drones from NATO members. More have been promised as the allies try to deter a Russian attack or at least make it costly.
