Russia Ukraine War Live Ukraine Says Application Signed For EU Membership Amid Russia Attack
20220228
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-ukraine-vows-no-capitulation-at-talks-putin-orders-nuclear-alert-2793635
The Russian army said Monday that Ukrainian civilians could "freely" leave the country's capital Kyiv and stressed it had air superiority over Ukraine as its invasion went into its fifth day.
President ZelenskyyUa has signed application for the membership of Ukraine in the European Union.This is a historic moment! pic.twitter.comrmzdgIwArc
Earlier in the day, talks were held between Ukraine and Russian representatives at the Belarussian border.
"Russian aviation has gained air superiority over the entire territory of Ukraine," he added, accusing Ukrainian troops of using civilians as human shields.
Fighting has claimed dozens of civilian lives, forced hundreds and thousands of Ukrainians to flee west and could, according to the EU, eventually displace up to seven million people.
Discussed the Ukraine developments with RauZbigniew of Poland.Appreciate Poland's facilitation of evacuation of Indian students from Ukraine. His words of support in that regard are very welcome.
The Ukrainian president has signed an applicationfor the country's membership in European Union, tweeted the handle of the country's parliament, with the move coming in the midst of an invasion by Russian forces.
Russia has become an international pariah as its forces do battle on the streets of Ukraine's cities, facing a barrage of sanctions including a ban from Western airspace and key financial networks.
Ukraine has vowed not to give ground at talks with Moscow and said their goal for the talks was an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukraine.
"All civilians in the city can freely leave the Ukrainian capital along the Kyiv-Vasylkiv highway. This direction is open and safe," Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in televised remarks.
OperationGanga advances to its seventh flight. 182 Indian nationals have started the journey to Delhi from Bucharest. https:t.coxVegRMY5xN
