Ukraine Presidents Appeal To Russian Mothers Check Where Your Son Is
20220312
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/ukraines-volodymyr-zelensky-appeal-to-russian-mothers-check-where-your-son-is-2818645
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday called on the mothers of Russian soldiers to prevent their sons being sent to war in Ukraine.
"Ukraine never wanted this terrible war. And Ukraine does not want it. But it will defend itself as much as necessary," he added.
"I want to say this once again to Russian mothers, especially mothers of conscripts. Do not send your children to war in a foreign country," Zelensky said in a video address released on Telegram.
Kyiv last week invited mothers of Russian soldiers captured on its territory to come and pick their children up.
The Ukrainian defence ministry published phone numbers and an email through which they could obtain information about them.
During the conflict between Moscow and Chechen separatists in the 1990s and 2000s, many young Russian conscripts were sent to the front, and some were taken prisoner.
"Check where your son is. And if you have the slightest suspicion that your son could be sent to war against Ukraine, act immediately" to prevent him being killed or captured, he said.
Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky called on Russian soldiers' mothers to prevent their sons from going to war.
Kyiv claims to have taken dozens of prisoners since the start of the Russian invasion.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
The announcement came as posts from mothers without news of their sons sent to Ukraine multiplied on social networks.
In a movement that fuelled anti-war protests in Russia at the time, women mobilised to try and bring their sons back alive or bring their bodies back -- even going to Chechnya themselves.
On Wednesday, Russia for the first time acknowledged the presence of conscripts in Ukraine and announced that a number of them had been taken prisoner.
