Ukrainian Brewery Switches From Beer To Molotov Cocktails
20220227
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/ukrainian-brewery-switches-from-beer-to-molotov-cocktails-2793599
In an industrial part of western Ukraine's main city Lviv, employees at the Pravda brewery have responded to the Russian invasion by switching from producing beer to Molotov cocktails.
With a cap on his head, he pushed the cloth deep into a beer bottle filled with a mixture of oil and petrol.
They have a few dozen Molotov cocktails ready for use already, placed neatly on tables so as to protect them from the light snowfall.
The brewery began producing the cocktails for the Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces on Saturday -- made up of reservists who responded to President Volodymyr Zelensky's call to take up arms.
One of their favourite beers is called "Putin khuylo" -- an insult directed at Russian President Vladimir Putin.
At checkpoints erected on the outskirts of the city of 720,000, police and soldiers who control each vehicle are already equipped with them.
"You have to wait for the cloth to be well soaked. When it is, that means the Molotov cocktail is ready," said one smiling employee.
He said the idea came from one of his employees, many of whom took part in the 2014 revolution.
This story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.
"We do this because someone has to. We have the skills, we went through a street revolution in 2014," said Zastavny, referring to Kyiv's pro-Western uprising that ousted a Kremlin-backed regime.
While these Molotov cocktails might seem ridiculous in the face of tanks and rockets, the switch could not be more serious for Yuriy Zastavny, the owner of the brewery.
Lviv -- a bastion of Ukrainian identity -- lies near the Polish border and fears Russian tanks will at some point roll into the historic city.
A volunteer demonstrates the preparation of Molotov cocktails at the Pravda - Truth brewery in Lviv
It is not the first time that Pravda became a kind of institution in Lviv.
