Ukraine Crisis Live Russia Says First Day Successful After Declaring War On Ukraine
20220224
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/ukraine-crisis-live-updates-un-to-hold-emergency-meeting-on-ukraine-russia-standoff-today-2785839
Russian air strikes hit military installations across the country as ground forces moved in from the north, south and east, forcing many Ukrainians to flee their homes to the sounds of bombing.
"We will launch the full package with the  most massive sanctions against Russia and we will strengthen our  security and our allies," Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said.
"I have decided to proceed with a special military operation," Putin said in a surprise statement on television shortly before 6 am.
"According to the Joint Forces Command, today, February 24,  in the area of the Joint Forces operation, five planes and a helicopter  of the aggressors were shot down," the army general staff said.
The city has turned into the  temporary base of several Western embassies, including the United States  and Britain, which evacuated their diplomats from the capital Kyiv in  the days preceding Russia's attack on Ukraine.
Weeks of intense diplomacy failed to deter Putin, who amassed over 150,000 troops on Ukraine's borders in what the West said was the biggest military build-up in Europe since World War II.
Russia on Thursday said it closed shipping in the Azov Sea, which lies between Russia and Ukraine, after President Vladimir Putin launched an attack on Ukraine, agencies reported.
Putin  appealed to Ukrainian soldiers to lay down their arms and go home in a  nationally televised address ahead of the offensive. He said Russia  doesn't plan to "occupy" its southern neighbor, but that Russia must  "defend itself from those who took Ukraine hostage," accusing the U.S.  and its allies of crossing Russia's "red line" by expanding the NATO  alliance.
Poland's ambassador in Brussels, where NATO is based, "submitted a request to the NATO secretary general, together with a group of allies," Polish government spokesman Piotr Mueller said.
Biden, who spoke with Ukrainian  President Volodymyr Zelenskiy late on Wednesday, said the United States  and its allies will respond in "a united and decisive way" to what he  called "an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces"  on Ukraine.
Ukraine is not a NATO member, but the alliance has repeatedly condemned Russia's aggressions against its neighbour.
"Dear  Indians in Ukraine, the present situation in Ukraine is highly  uncertain. Please maintain calm and remain safe wherever you are, be it  in your homes, hostels, accommodations or in transit," India's embassy  in Ukraine said in the advisory.
"The UK and our allies will respond decisively," he tweeted, adding he had spoken to Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky.
"We are building an anti-Putin coalition," Zelensky wrote on  Twitter, after talks with the leaders of the US, EU, Britain, Germany  and Poland.
"The Italian Government  condemns Russia's attack on Ukraine. It is unjustified and  unjustifiable. Italy is close to the Ukrainian people and institutions  in this dramatic moment. We are working with European and NATO allies to  respond immediately, with unity and determination," Draghi said in a  statement.
"In connection with the conduct of anti-terrorist activities, shipping in the Azov Sea is suspended from 4.00 am 0100 GMT on February 24 until further notice," a representative of the Federal Agency for Maritime Transport Rosmorrechflot told Russian agencies.
The  gathering of the council, headed by Macron and featuring a small number  of key ministers, is to start at 9:00 am 0800 GMT, the Elysee said.
"The latest Russian invasion shakes  the foundation of the international order, which does not permit  unilateral attempts to change the status quo," he told reporters after a  meeting of the country's security council.
Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Thursday, unleashing air strikes and ordering ground troops across the border in fighting that Ukrainian authorities said left dozens of people dead.
Zelensky also  called for "many interventions" to aid Ukraine, while Macron assured  Ukraine of France's "support and solidarity," it said.
"The supreme commander the Armed Forces of Ukraine gave  orders to inflict maximum losses against the aggressor,"  Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Major General Valeriy  Zaluzhny said.
The attack triggered Western warnings of unprecedented sanctions against Russia as NATO, EU and G7 leaders condemned the invasion and vowed to hold Moscow accountable.
Shortly afterwards, the first bombardments were heard in Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, and several other cities.
Russia's Defence Ministry said its first day of the Ukraine invasion was "successful" hours after announcing it had destroyed 74 above-ground military infrastructure facilities, including 11 aerodromes. Ukrainian police said Russia had carried out 203 attacks since the beginning of the day.
Ukraine's army is also  better trained and equipped than in 2014, when Russia captured the  Crimea peninsula from Ukraine without a fight, and is widely seen as  highly motivated to defend the country's heartland.
Team from Embassy of India in Hungary has been despatched to the border post Zohanyi to coordinate and provide assistance to facilitate exit of Indians from Ukraine. Mission is working with with Govt of Hungary to provide all possible assistance. IndiainUkraineMEAIndia contd.
Sergiy Kyslytsya implored the council, chaired by Russia, to "do everything possible to stop the war" against his country.
The  Russian armed forces were trying to invade Ukraine from several  directions, using rocket systems and helicopters to attack Ukrainian  position in the south, the border guard service said.
"The Prime Minister will chair a COBR at 0730 local  and GMT to discuss the response to the horrific attacks in Ukraine this  morning," a Downing Street spokesperson said.
The statement was issued as  a Ukrainian interior ministry official reported the Ukrainian  government-held town of Shchastya had fallen to Russian-backed eastern  insurgents.
Ukraine's armed forces are heavily outnumbered and outgunned by  Russia's, but as Russia begins what may be a large-scale invasion,  military experts say they would be capable of mounting significant  resistance and inflicting heavy casualties.
Sources  said high-level meetings are going on at the Ministry of External  Affairs, or MEA, to work out contingency plans and find alternate  evacuation routes for thousands of Indian citizens living in Ukraine.
"Russia must immediately put an end to its military  operations," Macron wrote on Twitter, saying Russia had made the  decision to "wage war" on Ukraine.
The comments were made by foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying at a regular daily briefing.
Poland on Thursday asked NATO to activate Article 4, which calls for emergency consultations if a member is threatened, after Russia launched an attack on Ukraine.
PM Modi spoke to Putin today regarding the crisis and called for an immediate end to violence.
Flight trackers on the internet show no commercial flights in Ukrainian airspace as of now.
"It  is the responsibility of these bodies to stop the war," Kyslytsya told  the meeting of the 15-member council, which began shortly after Russian  President Vladimir Putin announced a military operation in Ukraine.
"This is  not a question of blocs. This is not a question of diplomatic power  games. It's a matter of life and death. It is about the future of our  global community," he said in a broadcast statement.
Kyslytsya  urged UN ambassador Vassily Nebenzia of Russia, which currently holds  the rotating presidency of the council, to "call Putin, call Foreign  Minister Sergey Lavrov to stop the aggression."
Fighting was also seen raging inChernobyl near the nuclear facilitywhere the 1986 reactor blast leaked radiation, after which Ukraine reported that Russian troops captured the Chernobyl power plant.
"Our armed forces are not taking part in this operation,"  Lukashenko, an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, said. Moscow  has stationed tens of thousands of troops in Belarus.
