Ukraine Condemns Russian Terror After Damage To Nuclear Plant
20220807
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/ukraine-condems-russian-terror-after-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-attack-3232695
"If you don't live in a country invaded by occupiers who are tearing it to pieces, you probably don't understand what it's like to condemn an army of defenders," Oksana Pokalchuk said on social media late Friday.
Another five cargo ships are due to leave the Ukrainian ports of Odessa and Chernomorsk on Sunday, said a statement from the Joint Coordination Centre of the Black Sea Grain Initiative -- the organisation coordinating the operation agreed between Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Nations.
Referring to the strikes on the Zaporizhzhia plant, he said that although they represented "one of the most dangerous crimes against Ukrainians and all Europeans... for some reason, there's still no report or even just a simple message from Amnesty International about it.
Kyiv and Moscow have blamed each other for the attacks on the Zaporizhzhia plant, Europe's largest atomic power complex.
The European Union's top diplomat Josep Borrell condemned the attack "as a serious and irresponsible breach of nuclear safety rules and another example of Russia's disregard for international norms".
"And there are no words in any language that can convey this to someone who has not experienced this pain."
"Any military firepower directed at or from the facility would amount to playing with fire, with potentially catastrophic consequences," he added.
Amnesty secretary general Agnes Callamard expressed regret at her departure and paid tribute to her work. But the organisation stands by its report.
Vitalii Hura, "the deputy head of the Novaya Kakhovka administration in charge of the housing and utility sector, died from his wounds", Yekaterina Gubareva, the deputy head of Russia's civil-military administration in Kherson, wrote on Telegram, according to TASS.
As hostilities raged on in the east and south of Ukraine, pro-Moscow authorities in the Russian-occupied Kherson region reported the assassination of a senior official.
In his address Saturday, Zelensky hit out at Amnesty International, comparing the rights group's accusations against Ukraine's military with its silence on Russia's actions.
On Friday, Ukrainian officials said three grain ships left Ukraine after the first in months sailed on Monday as part of a deal to avert widespread food shortages.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
Amnesty sparked outrage in Ukraine with the report published Thursday that accused the military of endangering civilians by establishing bases in schools and hospitals, and launching counterattacks from heavily populated areas.
Friday's strikes had damaged a station containing nitrogen and oxygen and an auxiliary building, Energoatom said on the Telegram messaging service.
Energoatom, operator of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in the south of the country, said Saturday that parts of the facility had been "seriously damaged" by military strikes and one of its reactors was forced to shut down.
"It's a very eloquent silence, which points out, once more, a manipulative selectivity of this organisation," he added.
There has been a spate of reported assassination attempts and attacks against pro-Kremlin officials in Ukrainian regions controlled by Russia.
Although Russia has seized a large swath of the Kherson region and part of nearby Zaporizhzhia in recent months, Ukraine's forces have reclaimed some territory.
And the head of Amnesty International's Ukraine office announced she had resigned from the organisation over the group's publication of a controversial report that accused the country's military of endangering civilians.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday accused Russia of using the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant "for terror" after the operator of the facility reported major damage at the site.
The head of the UN's nuclear watchdog expressed alarm over the shelling at the plant. The strikes underline "the very real risk of a nuclear disaster", said Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA.
An official with the Russian occupying authorities in Kherson died in hospital after being shot on Saturday, Russian state media reported.
Pokalchuk said she had tried to warn Amnesty's senior leadership that the report was one-sided and failed to properly take into account the Ukrainian position but had been ignored.
Ukraine claims that Russian rockets have damaged part of a giant Russian-controlled nuclear power plant.
Zelensky, in his nightly address on Saturday, once again accused Moscow of terrorism, saying, "Russian terrorists became the first in the world to use the power plant... for terror."
Another Moscow-appointed official was killed in the same region in June, reportedly by a bomb planted in his car.
