US Troops Land In Poland In 1st Reinforcement Amid Russia Ukraine Crisis
20220205
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/us-troops-land-in-poland-in-1st-reinforcement-amid-russia-ukraine-crisis-2751215
"As announced, the first elements of the brigade battle group from the 82nd Airborne Division of the United States Army have arrived in Poland," a Polish military spokesman said.
Russia has denied plans to invade Ukraine but has deployed more than 100,000 troops near Ukraine's borders and says it could take unspecified military measures if its demands are not met, including a promise by NATO never to admit Kyiv.
About 1,700 service members, mainly paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division, will deploy from Fort Bragg, North Carolina, to Poland "over the next days", USArmy sources have said.
A small plane carrying what a Polish military source said were USchain of command personnel landed in the morning at Rzeszow-Jasionka airport as preparations continued at the base, which is near Poland's border with Ukraine.
On Wednesday, USPresident Joe Biden ordered nearly 3,000 extra troops to Poland and Romania to shield Eastern Europe from a potential spillover from the Ukraine crisis.
According to the Pentagon, a Stryker squadron of around 1,000 USservice members based in the German town of Vilseck will be sent to Romania.
TV footage showed temporary accommodation being prepared at the G2A Arena in the nearby town of Jasionka, while workers could be seen building a fence around the venue.
The first UStroops reinforcing NATO allies in Eastern Europe amid a Russian military build-up on Ukraine's border arrived on Saturday at Rzeszow military base in southeastern Poland.
The new plan goes above and beyond the 8,500 troops the Pentagon put on alert last month to deploy to Europe if needed. NATO defence ministers are expected to discuss further reinforcements at their next meeting on February16-17.
A small US plane landed in the morning as preparations continued at the base near Ukraine border File
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
