You See And Touch The War With Fingers Ukraine War Shown In Museum
20220607
https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/ukraine-war-ukraine-war-museum-russia-ukraine-war-ukraine-war-exhibition-3046303
Missiles, food rations, helmets and other objects abandoned in the region north of Kyiv are being shown in an exhibition at a World War II museum -- known as the "Great Patriotic War" in Ukraine.
Glass cases display personal notes and the credit cards of Russian soldiers killed on the front line in a vital early record of the bloodshed.
Burnt-out candles beneath a war-torn painting of Christ pay tribute to the dead, as well as to Ukraine's damaged religious heritage.
There is also a broken World War II memorial from Hostomel, drawing a powerful parallel between the two conflicts. Today's invaders are the descendants of yesterday's heroes.
"It's a good thing I didn't live in one of those villages when the Russians were there."
In the museum's cellars, there's a reconstruction of a makeshift shelter from the town of Hostomel, close to Kyiv's airport. The original housed dozens of people for 37 days -- among them children and a six-month-old baby. Two people died in the humid, unsanitary conditions.
A grenade hidden under a toy in a sandpit recalls that the childhoods millions of young Ukrainians have lost.
On the first floor, a church gate ripped open by shrapnel opens to reveal a room displaying artwork inspired by the conflict.
There are also jars of halal borscht soup supplied to Muslim Chechen fighters enlisted by their leader Ramzan Kadyrov, a fierce Vladimir Putin loyalist.
The exhibition, titled "Ukraine -- Crucifixion", is housed in the National Museum of the History of Ukraine in the Second World War.
Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
The artefacts were collected between April 4 and May 5 -- and the show's rapid opening on May 8 came with help from the Ukrainian army and government.
Curator Yuriy Savchuk said he wanted "to respond to Russian propaganda", adding that Moscow has set up its own show "on the so-called fascism that should be fought in Ukraine.
Their passports reveal how young they were. A smashed Siberian licence plate proves some came from far away.
The dust has hardly settled. Not long ago Russian troops were bearing down on Ukraine's capital -- now the story of this chapter of the invasion is already being told in a museum.
Russia has set up its own show on the "fascism that should be fought in Ukraine."
Even as the war rages elsewhere in the country, Ukrainians are flocking to a new exhibition in Kyiv displaying artefacts recovered after the Russian army was forced to withdraw from areas it occupied around the capital.
It might seem strange that Ukrainians should want a reminder of a war they are still living through. But not everyone in Ukraine witnessed the fighting first-hand -- and many want to understand what took place.
