Lets wait and  see impact on Govt revenue
20220321
https://trinidadexpress.com/business/local/let-s-wait-and-see-impact-on-govt-revenue/article_1425ae1e-a8ae-11ec-a8d0-4f2495149029.html
The ITC produced a preliminary ruling seven months ago that UAN produced by that both Russia and TT, was being dumped in the US, affecting that countrys producers of the commodity.
The war in Eastern Europe has pushed fertiliser prices even higher as Russia is a major exporter of potash-, phosphate- and nitrogen-based fertilisers. According to the International Food Policy Research Institute, Russia accounts for 15 per cent of global trade in nitrogenous fertilisers, 17 per cent of global potash fertiliser exports and 20 per cent of the global natural gas trade, a key component in manufacturing fertilisers.
Thousands of small business owners can now get free training to expand their mom-and-pop businesses through the 2023 Growing Together Small Business Training Programme.
A joint effort of the Coca-Cola Company and Caribbean Bottlers Trinidad and Tobago Ltd CBTTL and The UWI School of Business and Applied Studies Ltd UWI-Roytec backed by Government, the digital initiative is geared toward customers of CBTTL with the aim of strengthening traditional retail business and supporting their economic growth.
The global market for fertilisers has been in turmoil recently as a result of higher global prices for natural gas, which is used to make ammonia.
After a two-year hiatus of Carnival due to the Covid-19 pandemic, San Fernando Mayor Junia Regrello said it still played a part in 2023 Carnival, negatively affecting celebrations.
Citizens will have to be prepared to continue facing shortages of foreign exchange for some time to come admits Central Bank Governor Dr Alvin Hilaire.
Speaking at the Hyatt Regency Hotel at the seminar, Global Economic Update and Probable Impact on Trinidad and Tobago hosted by the United Nations Office on Thursday, Hilaire said the situation will persist until as a country we can achieve market equilibrium based on improved macro-economic conditions.
Irish billionaire Denis OBrien is set to lose control of telecoms giant Digicel following a
I have been saying repeatedly that global ammonia prices have been high for the past three quarters and this should be reflected in an increase in revenue from petrochemicals in Trinidad and Tobago. But we wait to see in the revenue collection for 2022 provided prices remain high.
Responding to a question about the impact of higher ammonia prices on the Governments revenue, Young said: The current geopolitical landscape has led to serious global concerns about food supply including food supply that depends on fertilisers. The rising cost of critical agricultural products is a global concern.
TT has ten operational ammonia plants, including two ammonia complexes on the Point Lisas Industrial Estate, with a total annual nameplate capacity of about five million metric tonnes. Most of the ammonia produced at the Point Lisas Industrial Estate is exported.
This matter is of concern as there is certainly no subsidy being provided by the Government of Trinidad and Tobago with respect to the natural gas feedstock.
Yesterday, the Sunday Express reported exclusively that a bipartisan group of US congressmen and senators is calling on the US International Trade Commission ITC to suspend the imposition of new duties on UAN from TT.
MHTL has legal representation in the US who are dealing with this matter on their part and the Government will certainly assist, as we have been doing, with the provision of accurate information that reflects the reality of the situation that is that there is no subsidy on gas etc.
As the letter notes, fertilisers play a critical role in global agricultural production and food security. We are continuing to co-operate fully with the US Department of Commerce and the US International Trade Commission regarding the ongoing anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations on imports of urea ammonium nitrate solutions UAN from Trinidad and Tobago.
The financial year 2022 was one of significant recovery for Prestige Holdings, compared to the two previous years, when the Covid-19 pandemic had a severe negative impact on our business, chairman Christian Mouttet said yesterday in the companys consolidated audited results fro the 12 months ended November 30, 2022.
Young also expressed concern about the investigation by the US trade authorities into the possibility that Urea Ammonium Nitrate UAN produced at Point Lisas could be subsidised.
THE issues that affected large Carnival bands in securing materials from China to finish mas
Young was reacting to recent news that Russias invasion of Ukraine has contributed to higher prices for all kinds of fertilisers, including those that are based on ammonia.
ENERGY Minister Stuart Young said yesterday that higher global ammonia prices should result in more revenue for the Government in the current fiscal year.
Young denied that UAN, which is produced by the Proman group of companies at Point Lisas, is being subsidised.
We are aware of the recent letter led by representatives Axne, Mann and Senator Moran to the US International Trade Commission ITC regarding duties on fertiliser products imported to the United States.
Regrello said while there was mention on the economics, the lack of promotion and marketing and the quality of mas, the impact of Covid-19 was not being discussed.
We are monitoring all developments and keeping our stakeholders in the Ministry of Trade and Industry, Ministry of Energy and Energy Industries and other key partners in Trinidad and Tobago closely informed. Given the ongoing nature of these proceedings, it would be inappropriate to comment any further.
