Ukraine No invasion
20211210
https://trinidadexpress.com/opinion/columnists/ukraine-no-invasion/article_f737e82a-5949-11ec-b5f6-37a46e0897cd.html
That is such a good gesture, knowing the tremendous contribution of so many women in effecting change for the better throughout the world over the decades.
When some of the former Soviet satellites in eastern Europe joined Nato in 1999, that brought Nato forces to within 800 kilometres of Russias western frontier. Then the western-backed non-violent overthrow of Ukraines pro-Russian president for a second time in 2014 created the possibility that Ukraine itself might also join Nato.
Scenes of doors being broken down, personal belongings being thrown out, families including children and the elderly begging and screaming, even cursing, present a gut-wrenching tableau of human desperation.
So, Dr Paul, the post-graduate student said, when are we going to stop seeing extra-sick post-Covid-pandemic patients presenting to the emergency departments?
The United Nations declared March 8 International Womens Day, where the achievements of women across the globe are acknowledged and celebrated.
Putin, like any educated Russian, therefore feels uneasy about the way that Nato has crept closer and closer to Russia. The military frontier with Nato was a safe 1,500 kilometres west of Moscow during the Cold War, but afterwards it moved.
On Saturday, when a contingent of over 50 police officers descended on the Housing Development Corporations apartment building on Independence Square, all these scenes were played out as residents were evicted.
There were mutterings of agreement from the rest of the students. They wanted to discuss the relatively higher sickness level and sickness complexity of the patients they were seeing in the emergency departments, who would subsequently be admitted to the hospital. They acquiesced that a few factors were contributing.
Stop focusing on the troop numbers. If an invasion were really scheduled for January, the forces could be anywhere in Russias vast expanse right now and still show up in time for the party next month. Any extra Russian troops near Ukraine now are there as a symbolic gesture, not as part of a military plan.
All male aspirantswhether PNM, UNC or belonging to window-dressing third political partiesare equally guilty of loving up trafficked females. No need to mince words. This has been going on for so many years in TT.
That is the best possible guarantee that this nonsense will not end badly. If you want another, it is that the Western sanctions which would follow really would cripple the Russian economy. They might even undermine Putins still significant popularity in Russia itself. There may be all kinds of threatening gestures, but Russia will not invade Ukraine.
This story about Russian forces massing on Ukraines borders for an invasion first emerged from US intelligence circles in mid-November. Ukraines President, Volodymyr Zelensky, realised that it could mean more American arms for Ukraine, and soon he and his people were singing from the same song-sheet.
Yet there is certainly something weird going on. In only two weeks a full-scale panic about Russia invading Ukraine has been sold to the Western media, and normally sensible journalists and analysts are talking about warwith Russia, of all places.
The importance of literary skills and the creation of good writers should never be undervalued, as they are representative of progressive nations.
All right, if you read the small print they are really saying that the Russians are going to invade Ukraine, and that the United States and its Nato allies WONT fight to stop them. Ukraine is not part of Nato and theyll sadly have to watch it go under.
So Putin wants a written promise that Ukraine will never join the Western alliance. Nato countries would never allow it anyway, precisely because there is some risk that it could drag them into a war with Russia, but Biden is unwilling to put it in writing.
I must admit that I googled the plot of the 1997 film Wag the Dog before starting to write this. Its a dark comedy about a US president facing a sex scandal whose staff invent a completely fictional war in the Balkans to draw the medias attention elsewhere. But sex scandals are not the Biden administrations style.
Today, I want to congratulate the Ministry of Education MoE on successfully executing a project which started several months ago, involving primary and secondary schools throughout our nation.
Both men are of an age where a fundamental change of mind is unlikely. On the other hand, as veterans of the Cold War they both understand that Russia and the United States must never do anything that risks bringing them into a direct military conflict.
The 92,000 Russian troops who are allegedly now near the Ukrainian border is really not a very impressive a number, given that the Ukrainian army is 255,000 strong, but the same US intelligence sources say the Russians plan to raise the number on Ukraines border to 175,000 troops in January and go for broke. How do they know that? Sorry, its a secret.
Moscow is only a six-hour drive up highway E101 from Ukraines northern border although tanks would take a little longer. Nato has been alert enough to Russian sensitivity on this topic not to invite Ukraine to join, but the prospect does weigh heavily on Putins mind.
On Crystal Stream Eastbetween the highway and Morne Coco Road, there are two deep and dangerous potholes that many motorists, including myself, have driven into.
But theyll be very, very cross, and theyll sanction the hell out of Russia. So there!
Symbolism and historical stereotypes are what this is all about, and the dominant stereotype in Putins mind is the fact that practically everybody on the A list of would-be world conquerors has invaded Russia, from the Golden Horde Mongols to Napoleon to Hitler. That sort of thing is bound to leave a mark.
