Pitts Apology should remind GOP of true allegiance
20220318
https://www.columbian.com/news/2022/mar/18/pitts-apology-should-remind-gop-of-true-allegiance/
Point being, the real question raised by Kinzingers apology is not whether Ukraine would have been better off had he done the right thing, but whether America would.
The bottom line, Donald Trump withheld lethal aid to Ukraine so he could use it as leverage for his campaign. This is a shameful and illegal act, directly hurting the Ukraine defense today. I wish I could go back in time and vote for it, but I cannot. What we can do now is to ensure that this NEVER happens again, and that we all put the interests of our nation above our party.
That implicit quid pro quo was deplorable in 2019. With Russian tanks knocking on Zelenskyys door, it feels obscene in 2022.
Yes, Trump was impeached by the House later acquitted in the Senate without Kinzinger or any other Republicans vote.
And if the seriousness of Trumps transgression is obvious now, well, it was no less obvious in 2019.
How could a man of such ostentatious honor not bring himself to do the right thing when doing the right thing might have mattered?
Because the best apology for what he did is to stop others from doing the same.
Two presidents were impeached before Trump: Andrew Johnson, who violated the Tenure of Office Act, barring him from firing a cabinet member, and Bill Clinton, who lied about a consensual liaison with an intern.
One is glad for Kinzingers apology. But an effective apology is restorative it repairs the broken thing.
In fairness, though, the Obama administration also resisted arming Ukraine. And Trump did send anti-tank missiles to Ukraine in 2017, albeit under the proviso that they be used only as a symbolic deterrent against Russian aggression.
He wrote that his biggest regret was his decision to vote against Donald Trumps first impeachment.
The only conceivable reason for Kinzingers inability to see it then, as he himself says, is that he forgot country supersedes party.
I would like you to do us a favor, though, oozed Trump, going on to press Zelenskyy to dig up dirt on Joe Biden.
Those crimes are laughably negligible by comparison with Trump using the power of his office for his own gain.
Indeed, Trumps gangsterism, appalling as it was, was less of a threat to this country than the moral destitution that emboldened and enabled it.
Thats a rather basic truth to lose sight of. But then, the GOP seems to do so quite a bit.
The reference, of course, is to the infamous phone call in which Trump sought to strong-arm Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who wanted him to release an already approved $400 million in military aid.
So one hopes Kinzinger finds creative ways of reminding his ideological soul mates of what it is they should be pledging allegiance to.
And it is possible to be impressed by Kinzingers integrity, yet also feel that that very probity makes the behavior hes apologizing for seem all the more tawdry and shameful.
But had Kinzinger broken with his party then, might it not have helped persuade other members in both houses to do the same? Might it not, at a minimum, have weakened the Republican canard that this was a partisan power grab?
Kinzinger, a Republican from Illinois, took to Twitter last Friday with a remarkable statement of contrition for failing to hold the last president accountable.
