Kremlin critic jailed over denouncing Ukraine war
20220422
https://www.abqjournal.com/2491776/kremlin-pursues-more-cases-against-critics-of-ukraine-war.html
Also Friday, veteran Russian human rights activist Lev Ponomaryov said in an online statement that he was temporarily leaving the country.
Russia adopted a law criminalizing spreading false information about its military shortly after its troops rolled into Ukraine in late February. The offense is punishable by up to 15 years in prison. Human rights advocates so far have counted 32 cases  targeting critics of the invasion.
Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey tweeted: Kara-Murzas brave opposition to Putin has inspired us all. Arizona will always stand for freedom. And we will support those like Kara-Murza who take a stand against oppression.
A court in Moscow ordered Vladimir Kara-Murza Jr. held in detention until June 12. Lawyer Vadim Prokhorov told reporters that the false information case against Kara-Murza cited a March 15 speech to the Arizona House of Representatives, in which he denounced the war in Ukraine, as the basis for the latest charges. The activist rejects the accusations.
FILE - Vladimir Kara-Murza, Russian opposition activist, arrives to lay flowers near the place where Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov was gunned down, in Moscow, Russia, on Feb. 27, 2021. Russian authorities have opened a criminal case against prominent opposition activist Vladimir Kara-Murza Jr. for allegedly spreading "false information" about the country's armed forces, his lawyer said Friday. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko, File
In a separate move Friday, the Russian justice ministry added Kara-Murza and several other prominent Kremlin critics to the registry of foreign agents. The designation implies additional government scrutiny and carries strong pejorative connotations that can discredit those on the list.
You cant recover after seeing the images from Bucha, the photo caption read. You feel that the army of this country of ours, its capable of anything  and so is the country. That were just an order away from mass executions.
The new additions to the registry included Leonid Volkov, top ally of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny, and Alexei Venediktov, former editor-in-chief of Russias oldest critical radio station, Ekho Moskvy. The station was taken off the airwaves shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine.
In his statement Friday, he claimed to be allowing himself to take a vacation to look after my health , but also think through the difficult situation in which we all find ourselves, and plan further campaigning activities, which we cannot stop by any means.
I am deeply disturbed over news reports regarding the arrest and political persecution of Russian opposition leader Vladimir Kara-Murza, Bowers said in a statement. Dont forget about these freedom fighters, like Vladimir Kara-Murza. We must remember names!
Kara-Murza is a journalist and a former associate of late Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, who was assassinated in 2015, and oligarch-turned-dissident Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who was jailed for years in Russia. Kara-Murza himself was hospitalized with poisoning symptoms twice, in 2015 and 2017.
Ponomaryov, a former State Duma lawmaker who had helped found Russias oldest human rights organization in the 1980s, has been a vocal opponent of Russias attack on Ukraine, and initiated multiple public petitions against it.
Russian authorities have opened a criminal case against a prominent opposition activist and remanded him in pre-trial detention Friday for allegedly spreading false information about the countrys armed forces.
Russian media reported that similar charges were being drawn up against outspoken tech executive Ilya Krasilshchik, the former publisher of Russias top independent news site, Meduza. The moves against the two Kremlin critics are part of a widening crackdown against individuals speaking out against Russias war in Ukraine.
Krasilshchik, the tech executive who left Russia in early March, told Meduza that he had learnt about the case against him from news reports, which by Friday evening remained unconfirmed. Russian media have linked the charges to an Instagram post, featuring what Krasilshchik said was the photo of charred human remains in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha.
