Live updates l Zelenskyy urges Russian troops not to fight
20220430
https://www.abqjournal.com/2494548/live-updates-l-ukraine-3-more-tortured-bodies-seen-in-bucha.html
In a statement Saturday, the Swedish Armed Forces said a Russian AN-30 propeller plane flew toward Swedish airspace and briefly entered it before leaving the area.
When asked about the risks of war spilling into neighboring Moldova after a series of explosions rattled a breakaway border region within the country, Lavrov struck an ominous tone.
He said the U.S. believes the Russians are at least several days behind where they wanted to be as they try to encircle Ukrainian troops in the east.
NEW YORK  Prices for Russian credit default swaps  insurance contracts that protect an investor against a default  plunged sharply overnight after Moscow used its precious foreign currency reserves to make a last-minute debt payment on Friday.
The major ratings agencies Standard  Poors and Moodys have declared Russia is in selective default on its obligations and earlier this week, the governing body over CDS contracts declared Russia in default.
On April 29, a pit with the bodies of three men was found in the Bucha district, regional police chief Andriy Nebytov wrote on Facebook. The victims were tortured for a lengthy period of time. Bullet wounds were found on the extremities of their bodies. In the end, each of the men was shot through the ear.
Lavrov in part blamed the bellicose rhetoric and inflammatory actions of Western supporters of the Kyiv regime for disrupting the talks. However, Russian state TV nightly has had guests who suggest that Moscow use nuclear weapons in the conflict.
Ukraine is also facing fuel shortages as Russia destroys its fuel infrastructure and blocks its ports, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Friday night.
The prime minister reiterated that he is more committed than ever to reinforcing Ukraine and ensuring Russian President Vladimir Putin fails, noting how hard the Ukrainians are fighting for their freedom, Johnsons Downing Street office said.
WASHINGTON  A senior U.S. defense official said Friday the Russian offensive is going much slower than planned in part because of the strength of the Ukrainian resistance.
Moldova should worry about their own future, he said. Because theyre being pulled into NATO.
Zelenskyy promised that officials would find a fuel supply system within a week or two to prevent a deficit but called it a difficult task after the refinery at Kremenchuk was hit by a Russian missile.
We know that the buses reached the town and then came under fire from an enemy sabotage and reconnaissance group, Khanatov said. There is no contact with people who were inside the vehicles and were organizing the evacuation.
The United Nations has been attempting to broker an evacuation in the port city where some 100,000 civilians remain. Up to 1,000 civilians are living beneath a Soviet-era steel plant in Mariupol, according to Ukrainian officials.
Fuel shortages have been reported in Kyiv, Dnipro and other cities. Vehicles can be seen lining up at gas stations and drivers in most places can purchase only 10 liters 2.6 gallons of fuel at a time.
There is no need. I know, I know, an irritated Lavrov said. There is no need for anybody to provide help to open humanitarian corridors. There is only one problem  humanitarian corridors are being ignored by Ukrainian ultra-nationals, he said.
It says Russia still faces considerable challenges in fighting. The British military believes Russian forces have been forced to merge and redeploy depleted and disparate units from the failed advances in northeast Ukraine.
Macron was re-elected president of France six days ago. During his first term, Macron held numerous conversations with both Zelenskyy and Russian leader Vladimir Putin since Russias invasion Feb. 24.
Zelenskyy said rescuers were still going through the rubble in Kyiv after Thursdays missile strikes. He expressed his condolences to the family of Vira Hyrych, who was killed in the bombardment. He said she was the 23rd journalist killed in the war.
He said Russian commanders fully understand that thousands of them will die and thousands more will be wounded in the coming weeks.
Zelenskyy said Mariupol, once one of the most developed cities in the region, was now a Russian concentration camp among the ruins.
Russian forces have embarked on a major military operation to seize significant parts of southern and eastern Ukraine, the countrys industrial heartland.
We appreciate the interest of the secretary-general to be helpful, he added. We have explained  what is the mechanism for them to monitor how the humanitarian corridors are announced.
It offered no information on how it arrived at this assessment. However, analysts believe Russian forces that failed to take Kyiv at the start of the war have been redeployed without the time needed to properly rearm and restaff.
Ukraine has not said how many fighters are also in the plant, but the Russians put the number at about 2,000.
Sweden and neighboring Finland are both considering NATO membership following Russias invasion of Ukraine. Moscow has warned that such a move would have consequences, without giving specifics.
PARIS  French President Emmanuel Macron has conveyed to Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy his wish to actively work to re-establish the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine during his second mandate, in coordination with allies, the presidential Elysee Palace says.
LVIV, Ukraine  Russias foreign minister says Moscow has evacuated over 1 million people from Ukraine since the war there began.
During the hourlong interview, Lavrov also accused the West of sabotaging Russias peace talks with Ukraine. He claimed that thorny negotiations in Istanbul last month had been progressing on issues of Russian territorial claims and security guarantees until Ukrainian diplomats backtracked at the behest of the West.
We are stuck because of their desire to play games all the time, Lavrov said. Because of the instructions they get Washington, from London, from some other capitals, not to accelerate the negotiations.
In a Telegram post, Ukraines Operational Command South said there was no way that the Odesa runway could be used as a result of the rocket attack.
Kharkiv Mayor Ihor Terekhov said about 20 of the citys residential buildings have been so badly damaged that it will be impossible to restore them.
The comments Saturday by Sergey Lavrov in an interview with Chinese state news agency Xinhua come as Ukraine has accused Moscow of forcefully sending Ukrainians out of the country. Lavrov said that figure included more than 300 Chinese civilians.
We also assess that because of this slow and uneven progress, again, without perfect knowledge of every aspect of the Russian plan, we do believe and assess that they are behind schedule in what they were trying to accomplish in the Donbas, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the U.S. militarys assessment.
In Kharkiv, a major city to the north, the situation was brutal but Ukrainian troops and intelligence agents have had important tactical successes, he said without elaborating.
A Russian rocket attack destroyed an airport runway in Odesa, Ukraines third-largest city and a key Black Sea port, the Ukrainian army said Saturday.
KYIV, Ukraine  Another mass grave has been found in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, the scene of alleged mass executions of civilians before its recapture by Ukrainian forces in early March, the head of Kyivs regional police force said Saturday.
LONDON  Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson discussed the progress of the U.N. effort to evacuate people from the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol and offered the U.K.s continued economic and humanitarian support during a talk Saturday with Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskky.
Despite the insurance contract plunge, investors remain largely convinced that Russia will eventually default on its debts for the first time since 1917.
The constant brutal bombardments, the constant Russian strikes on infrastructure and residential areas show that Russia wants to empty this territory of all people. Therefore, the defense of our land, the defense of our people, is literally a fight for life, he said late Friday in his nightly video address to the nation.
Odesas regional governor said that the rocket was fired from Russian-occupied Crimea. Maksym Marchenko said there were no reports of any injuries.
This is another mass burial made by the occupiers in the Bucha district, the long-suffering district where more than a thousand civilians have been killed and tortured, Nebytov added.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of trying to destroy the Donbas and all who live there.
Today, there are confirmed facts that several hundred thousand tons of grain in total were taken out of the Zaporizhzhia, Kherson, Donetsk and Luhansk regions, minister Taras Vysotsky told Ukrainian television on Saturday.
Were bringing home 14 of our people: seven military personnel and seven civilians,Vereshchuk wrote on Facebook and Telegram. To me, this exchange is special: one of the female soldiers is five months pregnant.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy switched into Russian in his nightly video address to urge Russian soldiers not to fight in Ukraine, saying even their generals expected that thousands of them would die.
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov appears to have dismissed the need for the United Nations to help secure humanitarian corridors out of Ukraines besieged cities, striking a tough line a day after the U.N. chief toured war-wracked Kyiv with that very aim.
He confirmed that the UK will continue to provide additional military aid to give the Ukrainians the equipment they needed to defend themselves, the statement said.
He said Russia has been recruiting new troops with little motivation and little combat experience for the units that were gutted during the early weeks of the war so these units can be thrown back into battle.
Ukraines deputy agriculture minister says Russian forces are seizing vast amounts of grain in territory they hold, while its president says the war-torn country is facing fuel shortages.
This support will continue to strengthen, the French president told Zelenskyy, according to the Elysee.
In the afternoon, the last necessary 330 kV power transmission line was put into operation, the state-owned Ukrenergo wrote in a Telegram post Saturday.
Those who remain say they are either too old, dont know where to go or dont want to leave their homes unattended. They seek shelter in their basements whenever the shelling starts.
Lavrov also said that negotiations continue between Russia and Ukraine almost every day. However, he cautioned that progress has not been easy.
Russian forces have embarked on a major military operation to seize significant parts of southern and eastern Ukraine, the countrys industrial heartland, and capture the countrys Black Sea and Sea of Azov coasts.
He said the cities and towns of the Donbas will survive only if Ukraine remains standing. If the Russian invaders are able to realize their plans even partially, then they have enough artillery and aircraft to turn the entire Donbas into stones. As they did with Mariupol.
LVIV, Ukraine  The British military believes Russian forces in Ukraine are likely suffering from weakened morale.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukraines national grid operator says it has has restored reliable power supply in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, around the site of the 1986 nuclear reactor disaster.
Local authorities urged residents of the area to shelter in place as Ukrainian news agency UNIAN, citing army sources, reported that several explosions were heard in Odesa.
Ukraine evacuated more people Saturday in the eastern town of Lyman in the fiercely fought-over region of Donetsk, where at least half the residents have fled Russian shelling since the start of the war.
In a similar incident in early March four Russian warplanes violated Swedish airspace over the Baltic Sea.
Yesterday we evacuated 31 people from Popasna. Many more people were waiting for that reason we dispatched two more buses to the evacuation point, Mayor Mykola Khanatov said in an interview posted on the Telegram channel of Serhiy Haidai, the Ukrainian governor of the eastern Luhansk region.
Ukraine is one of the worlds major grain producers and the Russian invasion has curtailed exports, pushing up world grain prices and raising concerns about severe grain shortages in importing countries.
As an interviewer at Saudi-owned Al-Arabiya TV tried to ask Lavrov about U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres proposals for humanitarian assistance and evacuation of civilians, Lavrov cut him off.
KYIV  The mayor of the eastern Ukrainian town of Popasna said in a video interview that two buses headed to the town to evacuate residents had been fired upon and that contact with the drivers had been lost.
Macron assured Zelenskyy in their hourlong conversation Saturday that military material and humanitarian assistance would keep flowing to Ukraine, the Elysee said.
Destroyed houses are photographed in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, April 30, 2022. AP PhotoEmilio Morenatti
The Russian commanders are lying to their soldiers when they tell them they can expect to be held seriously responsible for refusing to fight and then also dont tell them, for example, that the Russian army is preparing additional refrigerator trucks for storing the bodies. They dont tell them about the new losses the generals expect, Zelenskyy said late Saturday.
France has so far sent 615 tons of equipment and aid, including generators for hospitals, ambulances and food. France has been coy about its contribution in defensive weapons, but Macron recently mentioned Milan anti-tank missiles and a delivery of truck-mounted Caesar cannons among consequential equipment.
The British Defense Ministry made that assessment in a tweet Saturday as part of a daily report it provides on Russias war on Kyiv.
The ministry added: A lack of unit-level skills and inconsistent air support have left Russia unable to fully leverage its combat mass, despite localized improvements.
Meanwhile, in Dobropillya, further to the west, Russian shelling hit the town on Saturday, damaging buildings and slightly injuring seven people including three children, according to authorities.
About 20 mostly elderly people boarded a minivan amid the sounds of outgoing artillery and explosions in the distance. All the shops in the almost-empty town were closed and those who decided to remain rely on aid distributed by groups including the Ukrainian Red Cross.
Swedish Defense Minister Peter Hultqvist told Swedish public radio that the violation was unacceptable and unprofessional.
According to Nebytovs post, the burial site was found in the forest near the village of Myrotske, 10 kilometers 6 miles northwest of the town of Bucha. Nebytov said the three bodies were being sent for a forensic examination, following a preliminary inspection by the Kyiv regional police.
The cost for a five-year credit default swap on Russian debt was $5.84 million to protect $10 million in debt. That price was just about half the price on Thursday, which at roughly $11 million for $10 million in debt protection was a signal that investors were certain of a Russian default.
very Russian soldier can still save his own life. Its better for you to survive in Russia than to perish on our land, he said.
KYIV, Ukraine  Seven Ukrainian soldiers and seven civilians have been released in a prisoner swap Saturday with Russia, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on social media.
As the troops try to move north out of Mariupol so they can advance on Ukrainian forces from the south, their progress has been slow and uneven, and certainly not decisive, in any event, the official said.
According to the same post, Ukrenergo also restored another 330 kV line in the northern Kyiv region last night, helping stabilize the energy supply in the capital. It said the reconstruction of further transmission lines in and around Kyiv remains underway.
