Putin orders Russian military to beef up forces by 137000
20220825
https://www.abqjournal.com/2527200/putin-orders-russian-military-to-beef-up-forces-by-137000.html
The Kremlin has said that only volunteer contract soldiers take part in what it calls the special military operation in Ukraine, rejecting claims that it was pondering a mobilization.
In recent years, the Kremlin has emphasized increasing the share of volunteer contract soldiers as it sought to modernize the army and improve its capability. Before the Kremlin sent troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24, the Russian military had over 400,000 contract soldiers, including about 147,000 in the ground forces. The number of conscripts has been estimated at around 270,000, and officers and non-commissioned officers have accounted for the rest.
But many observers have warned that a broad mobilization or a sweeping increase in the number of draftees could fuel public discontent and destabilize the political situation in Russia. That happened during the separatist wars in Chechnya in the 1990s and the early 2000s, when poorly trained Russian conscripts were sent into combat and suffered heavy losses.
The presidential decree will boost the overall number of Russian military personnel to 2,039,758, including 1,150,628 troops. A previous order put the militarys numbers at 1,902,758 and 1,013,628 respectively at the start of 2018.
Regional authorities have also tried to help beef up the ranks, forming volunteer battalions to be deployed to Ukraine.
FILE - Russian army soldiers march during an action in support for the soldiers involved in the military operation in Ukraine, at the Mamaev Kurgan, a World War II memorial in Volgograd, Russia, July 11, 2022. Russian President Vladimir Putin has on Thursday, Aug. 25 ordered the Russian military to increase the size of the country's armed forces by 137,000 amid Moscow's military action in Ukraine. AP PhotoAlexandr Kulikov, file
In comments carried by the RBC online news outlet, he charged that the Kremlin would likely try to keep relying on volunteers and predicted that they would account for the bulk of the increase ordered by the Kremlin.
The Russian military rounds up draftees twice a year, starting April 1 and Oct. 1. Putin ordered the drafting of 134,500 conscripts during the latest spring draft earlier this year and 127,500 last fall.
All Russian men aged 18-27 must serve one year in the military, but a large share avoid the draft for health reasons or deferments granted to university students. The share of men who avoid the draft is particularly big in Moscow and other major cities.
Col. Retired Viktor Murakhovsky noted that Putins decree on Thursday reflected the pressure of filling the ranks amid the military action in Ukraine.
Another Russian military expert, Alexei Leonkov, also said the authorities wouldnt expand the draft and would increase the number of troops by hiring more contract soldiers.
Putins decree, which takes effect on Jan. 1, didnt specify whether the military will beef up its ranks by drafting a bigger number of conscripts, increasing the number of volunteer soldiers or using a combination of both. But some Russian military analysts predicted it would rely heavily on volunteers, a cautious stand reflecting the Kremlins concerns about a possible fallout from an attempt to increase the draft.
Military analysts say if the campaign in Ukraine drags on, those numbers could be clearly insufficient to sustain the operations in Ukraine, which has declared a goal of forming a 1-million-strong military.
Russian media and non-governmental organizations say Russian authorities have sought to bolster the number of troops involved in the military action in Ukraine by attracting more volunteers, engaging private military contractors and even offering amnesty to some prisoners in exchange for a tour of military duty.
The new military equipment has become more complex, and people operating it need training for at least three years, Leonkov was quoted as saying by the state RIA Novosti news agency. A draft wont help that, so there will be no increase in the number of draftees.
MOSCOW  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday ordered the Russian military to increase the number of troops by 137,000 to a total of 1.15 million amid Moscows military action in Ukraine.
