Ukrainians dig in as invading forces beef up firepower for eastern assault
20220411
https://www.abqjournal.com/2487619/ukrainians-dig-in-as-invading-forces-beef-up-firepower-for-eastern-assa.html
On Sunday night, Zelenskyy again called on Western countries to provide more assistance to Ukraine. During talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Zelenskyy said, he discussed how to strengthen sanctions against Russia and  force Russia to seek peace.
Sea-launched Russian cruise missiles destroyed the headquarters of a Ukrainian military unit stationed farther west in the Dnipro region, Konashenkov said. Neither the Ukrainian nor the Russian military claims could be independently verified.
In Washington, a senior U.S. official said that Russia has appointed Gen. Alexander Dvornikov, one of its most seasoned military chiefs, to oversee the invasion. The official was not authorized to be identified and spoke on condition of anonymity.
The airport in Dnipro, Ukraines fourth-largest city, was also hit by missiles twice on Sunday, according to the regional governor.
Yesterday, somebody told me: You know, when our soldiers are dying, I want them to know that their children will be free and be part of the European Union,' von der Leyen said.
Dvornikov, 60, gained prominence as head of the Russian forces deployed to Syria in 2015 to shore up President Bashar Assads government during the countrys devastating civil war. U.S. officials say he has a record of brutality against civilians in Syria and other war theaters.
To be honest, whether we will be able to survive depends on this, said Zelenskyy, speaking through a translator. I have 100 confidence in our people and in our armed forces. But unfortunately, I dont have the confidence that we will be receiving everything we need.
U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan, speaking Sunday on CNNs State of the Union, played down the significance of the appointment.
Ukrainian authorities have accused Russian forces of committing war crimes against civilians, including airstrikes on hospitals, a missile attack that killed at least 57 people at a train station and other violence discovered as Russian soldiers withdrew from the outskirts of Kyiv.
A Russian Defense Ministry spokesman, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, said Russias military used air-launched missiles to hit Ukraines S-300 air-defense missile systems in the southern Mykolaiv region and at an air base in Chuhuiv, a city not far from Kharkiv.
He has the list, Zelenskyy said. President Biden can enter history as the person who stood shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian people who won and chose the right to have their own country. This also depends on him.
Russian authorities do not generally confirm such appointments and have said nothing about a new role for Dvornikov, who received the Hero of Russia medal, one of the countrys highest awards, from President Vladimir Putin in 2016.
When people lack the courage to admit their mistakes, apologize, adapt to reality and learn, they turn into monsters. And when the world ignores it, the monsters decide that it is the world that has to adapt to them, Zelenskyy said.
KYIV, Ukraine  As Ukrainian forces dug in on Sunday, Russia lined up more firepower and tapped a decorated general to take centralized control of the war ahead of a potentially decisive showdown in eastern Ukraine that could start within days.
I am glad to note that the German position has recently changed in favor of Ukraine. I consider it absolutely logical, Zelenskyy said.
Western military analysts say Russias assault has increasingly focused on a sickle-shaped arc of eastern Ukraine  from Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, in the north to Kherson in the south.
Newly released Maxar Technologies satellite imagery showed an 8-mile convoy of military vehicles headed south through Ukraine to Donbas, recalling images of a convoy that got stalled on roads to Kyiv for weeks before Russia gave up on trying to take the capital.
The process normally takes years, but Ursula von der Leyen has said Ukraines application could take just weeks to consider.
The narrower effort could help Russias problem, earlier in the war, of spreading its offensive too widely over too great a geographic area.
The new battlefield leadership comes as the Russian military prepares for what is expected to be a large, focused push to expand control in Ukraines east. Russia-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces in the eastern Donbas region since 2014 and declared some territory there as independent.
What we have learned in the first several weeks of this war is that Ukraine will never be subjected to Russia, Sullivan said. It doesnt matter which general President Putin tries to appoint.
Just looking at it on a map, you can see that they will be able to bring to bear a lot more power in a lot more concentrated fashion, by focusing mainly on eastern Ukraine, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said Friday.
A day after meeting with Zelenskyy in Kyiv, Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer announced that he will meet Monday in Moscow with Putin. Austria, a member of the European Union, is militarily neutral and not a member of NATO.
Zelenskyy thanked President Joe Biden for U.S. military aide to date but added that he long ago forwarded a list of specific items Ukraine desperately needed and that history would judge Bidens response.
Experts have said that the next phase of the battle may begin with a full-scale offensive. The outcome could determine the course of the conflict, which has flattened cities, killed untold thousands and isolated Moscow economically and politically.
On Sunday, Russian forces shelled government-controlled Kharkiv and sent reinforcements toward Izyum to the southeast in a bid to break Ukraines defenses, the Ukrainian military command said. The Russians also kept up their siege of Mariupol, a key southern port that has been under attack and surrounded for nearly 1  months.
The day will come when they will have to admit everything. Accept the truth, he added.
The president of the European Commission said on CNNs State of the Union Sunday that Ukraines response to a questionnaire she recently handed to Zelenskyy will enable her to decide whether to recommend the nation as a candidate to join the EU.
In an interview that appeared on 60 Minutes Sunday night, Zelenskyy said Ukraines fate as the war shifts to the south and east depends on whether the United States will help match an expected surge in Russian weaponry in those regions.
Questions remain about the ability of Russias depleted and demoralized forces to conquer much ground after their advance on the capital, Kyiv, was repelled by determined Ukrainian defenders. Britains Defense Ministry reported Sunday that the Russian forces were trying to compensate for mounting casualties by recalling veterans discharged in the past decade.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned Sunday in his nightly address to the nation that the coming week would be as crucial as any in the war, saying Russian troops will move to even larger operations in the east of our state.
