Blinken Images of dead Ukrainians a punch to the gut
20220403
https://kvia.com/your-voice-your-vote/politics/cnn-us-politics/2022/04/03/blinken-images-of-dead-ukrainians-a-punch-to-the-gut-2/
Blinken on Sunday declined to confirm reporting from CNN and others that the US was helping facilitate the transfer of Soviet-era tanks to Ukraine, which was one of the weapons systems Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been seeking.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday that the State Department would help document any atrocities the Russian military committed against Ukrainian civilians, following new images from AFP out of a town northwest of Ukraines capital of Kyiv with the bodies at least 20 civilian men found lying strewn across the street.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg was also asked later Sunday by Bash if the Russian actions in Ukraine constituted genocide, but he opted instead to call it a brutality against civilians we havent seen in Europe for decades.
I think we are really looking at this with our eyes wide open and seeing very clearly the threat he poses, not just to Ukraine, as we can watch every night on our news, but really to Europe, to democracy and the global stability we thought we were building in the last 20 years, Clinton said.
Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told Fox on Sunday that he supports sending the Ukrainians anything that they can use and as fast as we can get it there.
Russia has accused Ukrainian helicopters of striking the fuel depot in Belgorod. CNN could not verify the Russian claims, and the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense has neither confirmed nor denied the attack.
Asked about the prospect of Ukraine maintaining neutrality between the West and Russia as part of a negotiated end to the war, Blinken said the Biden administration would support what the Ukrainians want to maintain their sovereignty.
Last month, the State Department formally accused Russian forces of war crimes in Ukraine. Asked Sunday whether Russian troops were committing genocide, Blinken said, We will look hard and document everything that we see, put it all together, make sure that the relevant institutions and organizations that are looking at this, including the State Department, have everything they need to assess exactly what took place in Ukraine, whos responsible and what it amounts to.
But Blinken said the US and NATO countries were helping to get Ukraine the weapons it needed, adding there would soon be 10 anti-tank weapons systems in the county for every one Russian tank thats in Ukrainian territory.
I think the most important thing is we cant become numb to this, we cant normalize this, Blinken added. This is the reality thats going on every day as long as Russias brutality against Ukraine continues. Thats why it needs to come to an end.
When it comes to the future, we and allies and partners are going to want to make sure to do everything we can to ensure that this cant happen again and that Ukraine has the means to defend itself, to deter further Russian aggression, he said. So we will look at anything we can do to back up that kind of outcome.
Also Sunday, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called for further action against Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin, telling NBCs Meet The Press that Now is the time to double down on the pressure.
Across the board, what were trying to do is make sure the Ukrainians have the systems they need that they can use and they can use right away, Blinken said.
We cant dither and worry about some of the niceties here when the Ukrainians are fighting for their very lives, and if they feel like they need to take out a fuel depot across Russian border, go for it, he added, referring to an alleged strike on a Russian fuel depot late last week.
You cant help but see these images as a punch to the gut, Blinken told CNNs Dana Bash on State of the Union on Sunday. Since the aggression, weve come out and said that we believe that Russian forces have committed war crimes, and weve been working to document that, to provide the information we have to the relevant instructions and organizations that will put all of this together. And there needs to be accountability for it.
It is a brutality against civilians we havent seen in Europe for decades. And its horrific and its absolutely unacceptable that civilians are targeted and killed. And it just underlines the importance that this war must end, Stoltenberg said on CNNs State of the Union.
