NFT backed by Pussy Riot member raises 67 million for Ukraine
20220303
https://kvia.com/news/2022/03/03/nft-backed-by-pussy-riot-member-raises-6-7-million-for-ukraine/
According to UkraineDAOs website, its members had considered creating unique artworks but decided that its choice of NFT should be a symbol of the Ukrainian people rather than focused on a particular artist or aesthetic.
Cryptocurrency has emerged as a major source of financial support for Ukraines government as Russia ramps up its assaults on key cities. Blockchain analytics firm Elliptic, which is tracking cryptocurrency donations made to both Ukraines government and NGOs supporting the countrys military, has recorded over 72,000 transactions worth around $47 million as of Wednesday.
NFTs, or non-fungible tokens, allow buyers to prove ownership of a virtual asset  in this case, a digital version of Ukraines blue and yellow flag. Although the NFT was produced as a single edition on the Ethereum blockchain, bidders were able to take shared ownership of the item, with contributions ranging from 0.00001 ether under $0.03 to 44 ether $128,000, according to a listing on NFT sale platform PartyBid.
Organized by UkraineDAO, an initiative backed by a member of the Russian activist group and feminist punk band Pussy Riot, the sale saw thousands of users bid for a share of the digital image.
We purposefully avoided adding our own art to this release in a way its our strong conceptual artistic statement, said Tolokonnikova, who is among Russian President Vladimir Putins most outspoken critics. People can have different aesthetics, but its not about what color we prefer, its about uniting to save lives.
The fundraiser comes just days after Ukraines government announced via Twitter that it is now accepting cryptocurrency donations. The countrys vice prime minister, Mykhailo Fedorov, has also called for online contributions while urging cryptocurrency exchanges to block Russian users.
Donors will receive tokens proportional to the size of their contribution. Like shareholders, they will be able to vote on future sales of the NFT, although UkraineDAO said it hoped to discourage people from trading shares and urged owners to keep them as a reminder of our worlds ongoing humanitarian needs.
An NFT of Ukraines flag has raised over $6.7 million for the countrys defenses as cryptocurrency donations continue to flood in following the Russian invasion.
On its website, UkraineDAO said that a revolution could not be achieved with conventional currencies, as there are too many ways for traditional funds to be intercepted or halted by traditional institutions, governments, and other factions with intent to control, harm, or simply shift funds without transparency.
Pussy Riots Nadya Tolokonnikova, who collaborated with NFT platform CXIP, digital art studio Trippy Labs and online collective PleasrDAO  said in a statement that the Ukrainian flag unites us.
The sale attracted over 3,200 individual contributions in 72 hours, amounting to just over 2,258 ether equivalent to about $6.7 million at the time the auction concluded on Wednesday. Organizers said all the funds will go towards Come Back Alive, a campaign supporting Ukraines military.
