Pence seeks to set himself apart from Trump by speaking out against Putin
20220309
https://kvia.com/news/2022/03/16/pence-seeks-to-set-himself-apart-from-trump-by-speaking-out-against-putin/
Speaking at the Federalist Society Florida Chapters conference near Orlando last month, Pence called Trumps efforts to challenge the results of the election un-American and warned against conservatives who continue to insist that the vice president can alter an election. He has periodically said that he and Trump will never see eye to eye on January 6.
Pence has been looking for opportunities to denounce what he perceives to be an alarming trend inside the GOP of Trump-aligned figures expressing adulation for the Kremlin leader, according to one person familiar with his thinking.
Though Pence declined to mention Trump by name in New Orleans, his sharp rebuke came on the heels of the former President calling Putin savvy and genius as the Russian leader launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Those comments have left Trump isolated from other Republican leaders  including many of his own allies  who have refused to echo his praise and instead unambiguously denounced Putins actions.
Mike Pence does have his own voice, his own opinions and his own views, said one of the people close to the former vice president.
When you are vice president, there is an obligation to support the presidents policies and when you disagree, to share those disagreements in private. Now, there isnt that same constraint, so Pence can be more vocal about his viewpoints, this person said.
Then, when Trump appeared to equate US actions with Putins authoritarian regime during a Fox interview early in his presidency, Pence assured Americans that Trump was not drawing a moral equivalency.
Afterward, Pence fielded calls from donors, Republican lawmakers and top conservative leaders eager to privately applaud him.
One person close to Pence, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private conversations, said his team felt the donor retreat in early March presented the right opportunity for him to address Trumps comments at a moment where the vast majority of Republicans disagree with his take on Putin. This person said Pence will continue to speak out against those who praise the Russian leader within the GOP to the extent that it continues to be an issue.
The days of Mike Pence defending Donald Trumps controversial praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin are over, sources close to the former vice president told CNN.
In the same speech to GOP donors, Pence accused President Joe Biden of squandering the deterrence that our administration put in place to keep Putin and Russia from even trying to redraw international boundaries by force. And like Trump, the former vice president has called on the Biden administration to sanction Russian oil exports.
Still, Pences recent comments mark a far cry from how he had typically weighed in as Trumps running mate and vice president when he would comment on Putin or Russia. For years, as Trump lavished praise on Putin, his fiercely loyal vice president would surface soon afterward to reframe Trumps comments to make them more palatable.
There are a lot of killers. You think our countrys so innocent? Trump said during the interview in response to a question about why he respects Putin even though the Russian leader is a killer.
Pence allies say he has always bristled at praise of Putin inside the GOP but is now in a place where he can share long-held opinions publicly without breaching decorum. So far, these allies said Pence hasnt received any blowback for crossing Trump on the Putin matter and noted that he has been in regular contact with a range of foreign policy and national security experts as he decides how and when to weigh in on the Ukraine-Russia crisis.
I do not think anythings savvy or genius with Putin, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who has remained close to Trump since the former President left office, told reporters last week. I think Putin is evil. He is a dictator. And I think hes murdering people right now.
Days after Pence condemned apologists for Putin in reference to Trump and other Republicans who have made positive comments about the Russian dictator amid his devastating invasion of Ukraine, the former vice presidents allies said he feels compelled to share his own long-held opinions on the matter, which he refrained from doing publicly during his time as Trumps second-in-command.
The nation has coalesced around the idea that Putin is a thug, that he is evil and that what he is doing is reprehensible, this person said.
Recent polling supports that assessment, including a CNN poll in late February that found overwhelming support among Americans for economic sanctions against Russia, including from 84 of Republicans. A Quinnipiac poll from the same time found that just 6 of Republicans have favorable views of Putin.
Although he has taken issue with Trumps recent positive comments about Putin, Pence has echoed the former Presidents criticism of his successor.
As Pence prepares for a possible White House bid in 2024, the Russian invasion has provided him with a new opportunity to distinguish himself from Trump and underscore the foreign policy chops hes developed over two decades in government. That separation is also coming at a time when Pence is ramping up his political activities through his Advancing American Freedom group  from raising money for Republican candidates in the 2022 midterm elections and launching TV ads targeting vulnerable Democrats to releasing a freedom agenda for conservatives to utilize in upcoming elections.
Those around Pence say his stepping out on Ukraine reflects that the Indiana Republican has his own voice and a distinct political brand from the former President he served.
And when the then-President sided with Putin over US intelligence officials during their 2018 joint news conference in Helsinki, Finland  suggesting at the time that he didnt see any reason why Russia would have interfered in the 2016 US presidential election despite widespread evidence to the contrary   Pence rushed to defend the historic trip and lauded Trumps commitment to put the prosperity and security of America first.
For instance, when Trump said during a 2016 campaign appearance that Putin had been a leader far more than then-President Barack Obama, Pence quickly insisted it wasnt an endorsement of the Russian autocrat. Addressing the matter during his vice presidential debate against Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, Pence recast Trumps comments as an indictment of the weak and feckless leadership of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, while describing Putin as small and bullying.
Its a smart move, because the former President is completely out of step with the party and the country when it comes to Putin, and its one of the few issues everyone is willing to push away from Trump on, said David Kochel, a veteran Republican strategist.
That was on display last week during his visit to the Ukraine-Poland border with Samaritans Purse, an evangelical international relief agency run by Franklin Graham. And his long-standing party loyalty gave Pence a prime speaking spot at this months Republican National Committee donor retreat in New Orleans, where he plainly declared, There is no room in this party for apologists for Putin. There is only room for champions of freedom.
Ukraine is not the first area where Pence has sought to draw a contrast with Trump. At the top of the list are their divergent views of the insurrection at the US Capitol on January 6, 2021, and Pences refusal to halt certification of the 2020 election. In recent weeks, Pence has been increasingly vocal in defending his refusal to delay the counting of electoral votes, as Trump and some of his top allies pressured him to do.
