Putin revives Stalinera Mother Heroine award for women with 10 children
20220818
https://kvia.com/news/2022/08/18/putin-revives-stalin-era-mother-heroine-award-for-women-with-10-children/
In addition Russia is suffering heavy losses among troops in Ukraine, but the true number of casualties has not been disclosed.
In an attempt to relieve the population crisis in the country, the Kremlin has also focused on promoting traditional values.
The Russian President also frequently brings up the importance of having a family and traditional values in his public speeches.
During a 30-day period in March, Australia, Turkey and Israel were some of the top trending destinations in search, alongside Russia-friendly Serbia and Armenia, as well as Georgia  which Russian troops invaded in 2008.
Once it comes back in existence, a payment of 1 million rubles $16,500 will be given to Russian mothers once their 10th child turns one, if all have survived.
The-CNN-Wire   2022 Cable News Network, Inc., a Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All rights reserved.
For example, Google searches for the term How to leave Russia? in the Russian language hit a 10-year high inside the country within a week of the invasion of Ukraine on February 24.
According to the latest Rosstat statistics published this summer, Russias population shrank by an average of 86,000 people per month between January and May, a record.
Despite offering financial aid to women with multiple children, the Russian state still does not have a law protecting victims of domestic violence, with the Russian Orthodox Church advocating that such laws go against Russias traditional values and that private family matters must remain private.
Meanwhile, an estimated 75,300 migrants have left Russia. Some citizens are fleeing the country in the light of the Ukrainian war and a domestic political crackdown, search data, immigration figures and flight information show.
Our historical responsibility is not only to get out of the demographic trap but also to ensure sustainable natural population growth by the middle of the coming decade, Putin said during his annual speech in 2020.
Putin has long been an advocate of driving up Russias birth rates through the implementation of policies which encourage large families through state financial aid.
Russians interest in the topic of emigration on Google also quadrupled between mid-February and early March. Searches around travel visa almost doubled, and for a Russian equivalent of political asylum they jumped more than five-fold.
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree on Monday that revived the Soviet-era Mother Heroine award for women with 10 children or more, in an apparent attempt to alleviate a demographic crisis in the country.
Originally, the honor was introduced by Joseph Stalin after World War II, when the Soviet population plunged by tens of millions.
