Explosions heard in Kyiv as Russia presses Ukraine assault
20220223
https://www.abc10.com/article/news/nation-world/russia-evacuating-embassy-in-ukraine/507-ea09d572-c051-4199-9f43-dd457031f7cc
The invasion began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014 and from Belarus to the north.
Hours after the invasion began, Russian forces seized control of the now-unused Chernobyl plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle, presidential adviser Myhailo Podolyak told The Associated Press.
It was always about naked aggression, about Putins desire for empire by any means necessary  by bullying Russias neighbors through coercion and corruption, by changing borders by force, and, ultimately, by choosing a war without a cause, Biden said.
The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.
Zelenskyy, who had earlier cut diplomatic ties with Moscow and declared martial law, appealed to global leaders, saying that if you dont help us now, if you fail to offer a powerful assistance to Ukraine, tomorrow the war will knock on your door.
Though Biden said he had no plans to speak with Putin, the Russian leader did have what the Kremlin described as a serious and frank exchange" with French President Emmanuel Macron.
After weeks of denying plans to invade, Putin launched the operation on a country the size of Texas that has increasingly tilted toward the democratic West and away from Moscows sway. The autocratic leader made clear earlier this week that he sees no reason for Ukraine to exist, raising fears of possible broader conflict in the vast space that the Soviet Union once ruled. Putin denied plans to occupy Ukraine, but his ultimate goals remain hazy.
The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense issued an update saying that though the plant was likely captured, the country's forces had halted Russia's advance toward Chernihiv and that it was unlikely that Russia had achieved its planned Day One military objectives.
Blinken said in television interviews that he was convinced that Russia was intent on overthrowing the Ukrainian government, telling CBS that Putin wants to reconstitute the Soviet empire."
In a reminder of Russias nuclear power, he warned that no one should have any doubts that a direct attack on our country will lead to the destruction and horrible consequences for any potential aggressor.
Russia has embarked on a path of evil, but Ukraine is defending itself and wont give up its freedom, Zelenskyy tweeted. His grasp on power increasingly tenuous, he pleaded Thursday for even more severe sanctions than the ones imposed by Western allies and ordered a full military mobilization that would last 90 days.
Russia and Ukraine made competing claims about damage they had inflicted. Russias Defense Ministry said it had destroyed scores of Ukrainian air bases, military facilities and drones. It confirmed the loss of one of its Su-25 attack jets, blaming pilot error, and said an An-26 transport plane had crashed because of technical failure, killing the entire crew. It did not say how many were aboard.
Alyona Shevtsova, adviser to the commander of Ukraines ground forces, wrote on Facebook that staff members at the Chernobyl plant had been taken hostage." The White House said it was outraged by reports of the detentions.
Condemnation came not only from the U.S. and Europe, but from South Korea, Australia and beyond  and many governments readied new sanctions. Even friendly leaders like Hungarys Viktor Orban sought to distance themselves from Putin.
Putin justified his actions in an overnight televised address, asserting the attack was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine  a false claim the U.S. predicted he would make as a pretext for invasion. He accused the U.S. and its allies of ignoring Russias demands to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and for security guarantees, saying the military action was a forced measure.
KYIV, Ukraine  Russia pressed its invasion of Ukraine to the outskirts of the capital Friday after unleashing airstrikes on cities and military bases and sending in troops and tanks from three sides in an attack that could rewrite the global post-Cold War security order.
U.S. President Joe Biden announced new sanctions against Russia, saying Putin chose this war and had exhibited a sinister view of the world in which nations take what they want by force. Other nations also announced sanctions, or said they would shortly.
Until the very last moment, I didnt believe it would happen. I just pushed away these thoughts, said a terrified Anna Dovnya in Kyiv, watching soldiers and police remove shrapnel from an exploded shell. We have lost all faith.
With social media amplifying a torrent of military claims and counter-claims, it was difficult to determine exactly what was happening on the ground.
Nobody believed that this war would start and that they would take Kyiv directly, said Anton Mironov, waiting out the night in one of the old Soviet metro stations. I feel mostly fatigue. None of it feels real.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told lawmakers on a phone call Thursday evening that Russian mechanized forces that entered from Belarus were about 20 miles from Kyiv, according to a person familiar with the call.
Now we see him for what he is  a bloodstained aggressor who believes in imperial conquest, Johnson said of Putin.
The assault, anticipated for weeks by the U.S. and Western allies and undertaken by Putin in the face of international condemnation and cascading sanctions, amounts to the largest ground war in Europe since World War II.
Fearing a Russian attack on the capital city, thousands of people went deep underground as night fell, jamming Kyiv's subway stations.
While some nervous Europeans speculated about a possible new world war, the U.S. and its NATO partners have shown no indication they would send troops into Ukraine, fearing a larger conflict. NATO reinforced its members in Eastern Europe as a precaution, and Biden said the U.S. was deploying additional forces to Germany to bolster NATO.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he aimed to cut off Russia from the U.K.s financial markets as he announced sanctions, freezing the assets of all large Russian banks and planning to bar Russian companies and the Kremlin from raising money on British markets.
Both sides claimed to have destroyed some of the other's aircraft and military hardware, though little of that could be confirmed.
The U.S. sanctions will target Russian banks, oligarchs, state-controlled companies and high-tech sectors, Biden said, but they were designed not to disrupt global energy markets. Russian oil and natural gas exports are vital energy sources for Europe.
Anticipating international condemnation and countermeasures, Putin issued a stark warning to other countries not to meddle.
At times it felt almost cheerful. Families ate dinner. Children played. Adults chatted. People brought sleeping bags or dogs or crossword puzzles  anything to alleviate the waiting and the long night ahead.
Isachenkov and Litvinova reported from Moscow. Angela Charlton in Paris Geir Moulson and Frank Jordans in Berlin Raf Casert and Lorne Cook in Brussels Nic Dumitrache in Mariupol, Ukraine, Inna Varennytsia in eastern Ukraine and Robert Burns, Matthew Lee, Aamer Madhani, Eric Tucker, Nomaan Merchant, Ellen Knickmeyer, Zeke Miller, Chris Megerian and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed.
Zelenskyy said in a video address that 137 heroes, including 10 military officers, had been killed and 316 people wounded. The dead included all border guards on the Zmiinyi Island in the Odesa region, which was taken over by Russians.
The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers 80 miles north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.
Explosions sounded before dawn in Kyiv as Western leaders scheduled an emergency meeting and Ukraine's president pleaded for international help. The nature of the explosions was not immediately clear, but the blasts came amid signs that the capital and largest Ukrainian city was increasingly threatened following a day of fighting that left more than 100 Ukrainians dead.
The chief of the NATO alliance, Jens Stoltenberg, said the brutal act of war" shattered peace in Europe, joining a chorus of world leaders decrying an attack that could cause massive casualties and topple Ukraines democratically elected government. The conflict shook global financial markets: Stocks plunged and oil prices soared amid concerns that heating bills and food prices would skyrocket.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the government had information that subversive groups were encroaching on the city, and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kyiv could well be under siege" in what U.S. officials believe is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.
Zelenskyy urged the U.S. and West to go further and cut the Russians from the SWIFT system, a key financial network that connects thousands of banks around the world. The White House has been reluctant to immediately cut Russia from SWIFT, worried it could cause enormous economic problems in Europe and elsewhere in the West.
Russian missiles bombarded cities and military bases in the first day of the attack, and Ukraine officials said they had lost control of the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear power plant, scene of the worlds worst nuclear disaster. Civilians piled into trains and cars to flee and patrons of a hotel were directed into a shelter as explosions sounded in Kyiv.
Russia said it was not targeting cities, but journalists saw destruction in many civilian areas.
He concluded an emotional speech by saying that the fate of the country depends fully on our army, security forces, all of our defenders. He also said the country had heard from Moscow that they want to talk about Ukraines neutral status."
