Putins antagonism toward Ukraine was never just about NATO  its about creating a new Russian empire
20220225
http://www.econotimes.com/Putins-antagonism-toward-Ukraine-was-never-just-about-NATO--its-about-creating-a-new-Russian-empire-1627779
Putin's antagonism toward Ukraine was never just about NATO  it's about creating a new Russian empire
Finally, as scholars of contemporary Ukraine and Russia, we have seen this tactic from Putin before. In response to the 2013-2014 pro-democracy, anti-corruption Euromaidan protests in Ukraine that ousted a Russian-backed leader, Putin annexed Crimea, a large peninsula in the south of Ukraine. When separatists declared autonomy in Donetsk and Luhansk in 2014, Russia supported them first with economic and military aid and later with Russian troops. While Putin claimed this was to protect Russian speakers in these regions, it is now clear that these moves were a precursor to this weeks territorial grabs.
However, wed argue that such concerns pale in comparison to the hardships that Ukrainians are facing.
Putins speech showed that he has concocted his own view of history and world affairs. In his view, Ukraines independence is an anomaly  its a state that should not exist. Putin sees his military moves as a way of correcting this divergence. Largely absent from his discussion was his earlier emphatic grievance that an eventual spread of NATO to Ukraine threatens Russias security.
First, Ukraine does not have a clear path toward NATO membership. Ukraine would need to implement substantial reforms  including, but not limited to, major reforms in its military  in order to qualify for NATO membership.
Second, Putin has lied many times about his plans for Ukraine. Any concession from NATO is no guarantee of peace or security for Ukraine.
In an attempt to thwart further violence and aggression, the European Union and the United States have imposed new, aggressive sanctions on Russia, targeting its politicians and members of the economic elite. The German government made the decision not to certify the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which would have brought Russian natural gas directly to Germany instead of transiting through Ukraine.
One of Putins most important ideas is that Ukrainians and Russians are the same, sharing history, cultural traditions and, in many cases, a language.
Many writers have debated how Putin has remained in power for over two decades. While his popular support in Russia has generally been high  especially during high-profile moves such as the annexation of Crimea  what may be more important in facilitating his longevity is this small circle of advisers who tell him what he wants to hear. After he served as prime minister, he returned to the presidency in 2012. From that point onward, Putin began to focus heavily on his narratives about Russia in the world, and he began to make moves on Ukraine.
Since he came to power in 1999, Putin has created an ever-shrinking group of advisers who reinforce his worldview. This allows Putin to ignore not only Ukrainian public opinion, which has turned strongly against Russia since 2014, but also global voices condemning his moves.
Even the Ukrainian citizens living in the occupied territories care increasingly less about how the conflict is resolved. They are less concerned about being part of Ukraine or Russia and more worried about their own economic well-being.
Ultimately, Russias actions are not caused by fears of NATO expansion. That is merely pretext. Rather, as Putin so clearly laid out on Feb. 21, they are motivated by an antagonism that refuses to recognize the reality of Ukrainian statehood.
Of course, taking these stands against Russia will have an economic impact in Europe. In a tweet responding to Germanys decision, Dmitry Medvedev, the former President of Russia, snidely noted that Europeans should be prepared for more expensive gas. The U.S., too, may see higher prices on certain goods such as fuel, and the conflict could impact global food security if Ukraines significant agricultural exports are affected.
Putins recognition of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics could have a spillover effect on other territorial disputes in the region. Some believe that Transnistria, located on the Moldovan-Ukrainian border, could be the next to receive recognition from Russia. The recognition of separatist claims in Ukraine could just be the start of a greater trend of Russian action to capture more former Soviet territories.
Putins anti-NATO rhetoric has also pushed Ukraines Western allies toward unity against Russia. These Western countries see a further Russian invasion of Ukraine as a European problem, and many support a NATO response to defend Ukraine.
The increasing hostilities threaten to exacerbate a crisis of internally displaced peoples and refugees. At least 1.5 million people have already been forced to leave their homes in Donetsk and Luhansk. Current estimates project that some 5 million Ukrainians might be forced to leave the country if Russia invades further.
Ukrainians also feel more negatively toward Russia than they have in the past, with a sharp drop in pro-Russian attitudes since 2014. Fully 88 of Ukrainians support their countrys independence from Russia. Survey data from February 2021 shows that 56 of people across Ukraine support the countrys path toward NATO membership. This number was 30 in 2014, just after the annexation of Crimea.
Putins echo chamber keeps him insulated from needing to respond to public opinion that might otherwise discourage him from trying to bring Ukraine back into Russias orbit by force. Military operations in Ukraine are unpopular among Russians, but Putins inner circle continues to protect the president and defend his decisions.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
As some Western observers have feared, Russian President Vladimir Putin has just proved that his aggression toward Ukraine was never really about NATO.
But wed argue that Putins claims that NATO threatens Russias security, and that the only way Russia will back down is if NATO promises never to admit Ukraine, is a bait and switch.
Putins claims on Ukraine have made Ukrainians more united in their views of their own country and its European future.
In a speech on Feb. 21, 2022, Putin recognized the occupied territories in Ukraine of Donetsk and Luhansk and moved Russian forces into them.
By                                    Emily Channell-Justice, Jacob Lassin
