RussiaUkraine conflict Tanker in Black Sea hit by Russian missiles says Ukraine
20220708
https://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Tanker-in-Black-Sea-hit-by-Russian-missiles-says-Ukraine-1637012
Russia-Ukraine conflict: Switzerland responds to Ukraine's call to use seized Russian assets to rebuild Ukraine
At the time, Ukraines southern military command said the tanker had over 500 tons of diesel, and since that time, it has been drifting in the waters without any crew on board.
The flag of Ukraine is on Snake Island. Ahead of us are many more such videos from Ukrainian cities that are currently under temporary occupation, Yermak tweeted.
Kyiv said Russias invasion has caused great environmental damage and plans to demand compensation in international courts. Ukraine cited the pollution of water basins as among the environmental threats that resulted from the invasion.
This also marks the second time the tanker was struck since Russia invaded Ukraine in February. The first time the tanker was hit was days after the invasion, with Moldova saying the tanker had a Russian crew and two people on board were injured from the strike.
Ukraine has been under bombardment from Russia for the fourth month as the war Moscow is waging on Kyiv continues. Ukraines military reported that a Russian missile had struck a tanker carrying gas in the Black Sea.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
The Ukrainian Interfax news outlet reported Thursday that Russian missiles struck a Moldova tanker Millenial Spirit that has been drifting in the Black Sea for months carrying diesel. The Ukrainian military called the tanker an ecological bomb.
Probably the remainder of the cargo is burning, said the Ukrainian military in a statement that confirmed that the tanker was hit for a second time. The military also called the ship a delayed-action ecological bomb and that it was drifting in the Black Sea due to the Russian blockade of Ukrainian ports.
Russian forces claimed that their withdrawal from Snake Island was a gesture of goodwill to show that it does not intend to obstruct a humanitarian corridor, loosening only a part of the Russian blockade of Ukraines ports.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyys chief of staff, Andriy Yermak, suggested that the flag-raising would be repeated across Ukraine in the coming months.
Russia-Ukraine conflict: Ukrainian flag will be raised on Snake Island after withdrawal of Russian forces
Meanwhile, Ukrainian forces hoisted their flag up on Snake Island Thursday after Russian forces withdrew from the land. In the midst of Kyivs defiant move, Moscow responded by shelling part of the Ukrainian detachment on the island.
