RussiaUkraine conflict Pope Francis says he has great desire to visit Kyiv
20220725
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Pope-Francis-says-he-has-great-desire-to-visit-Kyiv-1637998
The call between the Pontiff and Zelenskyy came a day after the Pope visited the Russian embassy to express his concerns over Moscows invasion of Ukraine, in an unprecedented break from protocol.
The Kremlin said it has yet to have substantive contact with the Vatican regarding a possible visit by the Pope. Ukraine, however, renewed its invitation to the Pontiff to come and visit.
Zelenskyy also thanked the Pontiff following their conversation for the religious leaders prayer for peace in Ukraine and a ceasefire.
Pope Francis is traveling to Canada in an effort to issue an apology for the role of the Roman Catholic Church in the abuse of indigenous children in residential schools. The week-long visit will include at least five meetings with native communities as he looks to atone for the churchs involvement in state-sanctioned schools that sought to erase the culture and identity of indigenous people.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
I have a great desire to go to Kyiv, said the Pontiff, who has accused Russia of waging a cruel and senseless war of aggression.
While the Pontiff has yet to travel to Ukraine, days after Russias invasion in February, he spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, expressing most profound pain for his countrys situation, according to the Ukrainian embassy to the Vatican.
The Holy Father expressed his most profound pain for the tragic events happening in our country, tweeted the embassy. The Vatican also confirmed the phone call.
Russia-Ukraine conflict: US says Putin's visit to Iran shows how isolated Russia is following invasion
Speaking to reporters aboard the plane on the way to Canada from Rome, the Pope was pressed on whether there was a possible trip to Ukraine. This follows the Pontiffs interview with Reuters, where he previously said he wants to travel to Ukraine and Russia in the hopes of putting an end to the war that Moscow continues to wage on Kyiv.
On the same day, the Pope also spoke with Ukraines Eastern-rite Catholic Archbishop Sviatoslav Shevchuk, who vowed not to leave Ukraine and has opened up his cathedral to those seeking shelter.
Pope Francis has repeatedly condemned the ongoing war in Ukraine, which is already in its fifth month. Over the weekend, the Pontiff said he has a great desire to travel to Kyiv as he seeks to put an end to the conflict.
