RussiaUkraine conflict UK says Russia continues assault in Bakhmut area
20220726
https://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-UK-says-Russia-continues-assault-in-Bakhmut-area-1638551
The UK added that Russia was likely adjusting the operational design of its offensive in the Donbas region and likely identified the Zaporizhzhia front as vulnerable and in need of reinforcements.
Of course, the Ukrainians cannot fire back lest there be a terrible accident involving the nuclear plant, said Blinken. Ukraine has previously accused Russia of basing its troops and storing its military equipment in the power plant.
The United Kingdoms defense ministry said this week that Russia has continued its assaults in the Bakhmut area in eastern Ukraine in the last four days. However, Russian forces apparently did not make quick progress in their offensive.
This comes as Russia seeks to capture Ukraines eastern and southern territories. The eastern territories of Luhansk and Donetsk in the Donbas region have pro-Russian separatists.
Ukraines deputy foreign affairs minister Mykola Tochytskyi said that robust joint actions are needed to prevent a major nuclear disaster from happening. Tochytskyi also called for the international community to close the skies over Ukraines nuclear power plants.
The Pentagon also said that it will be providing Ukraine with a new military assistance package worth up to $550 million. This would include additional ammunition for the previously provided HIMARS rocket systems.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
To meet its evolving battlefield requirements, the United States will continue to work with its allies and partners to provide Ukraine with key capabilities, said the Pentagon in a statement.
On the same day, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Russias actions around the largest nuclear power plant in Ukraine are the height of irresponsibility. Blinken also accused Moscow of trying to use the power plant as a nuclear shield in its attacks on Ukrainian troops.
Following nuclear nonproliferation discussions in the United Nations, Blinken said Washington was concerned that Moscow was using the plant as a military base and attacked Ukrainian forces from the area.
As briefed by the Ukrainian authorities last week, Russia is likely relocating a significant number of its forces from the northern Donbas sector to southern Ukraine, said the ministry.
The UKs defense ministry said in an intelligence update Monday that Russian forces are continuing their tactical assault in the Bakhmut area of eastern Ukraine.
