RussiaUkraine conflict G7 pledges solidarity with Ukraine
20220628
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-G7-pledges-solidarity-with-Ukraine-1636308
The leaders of the United States, Canada, the United Kindom, Japan, France, Germany, and Italy also pledged to continue sustaining and intensifying international economic and political pressure on Moscow, on the government of President Vladimir Putin, along with its enablers in Belarus, which has also received sanctions for Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The Group of 7, made up of the worlds richest democratic countries, issued a joint statement pledging to continue providing Ukraine with financial, humanitarian, military, and diplomatic support. The joint statement comes amidst the groups ongoing summit in Germany.
Around 18 people were killed in the attack, with 59 others wounded. Kyiv has since accused the Kremlin of targeting civilians in its invasion.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
In the statement, the G7 leaders also said they were looking for ways to further isolate Russia from participating in the global market while cracking down on evasions. This came after US President Joe Biden said the G7 was planning to place an embargo on Russian gold.
The statement was issued following a video address to the group by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. The French presidency said that Zelenskyy stressed that there is no time to negotiate with Russia.
Indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians constitute a war crime, said the leaders in a joint statement.
The G7 has also condemned the Russian attack on a shopping mall in the Ukrainian city of Kremenchuk Monday, describing the attack as abominable. The leaders also pledged that Putin and others who were involved in the attack would be held accountable for their actions.
As G7, we stand united on Ukraines side and will continue our support. For this, we all have to take tough but necessary decisions. Thank you ZelenskyyUA for your participation today. We will continue to increase pressure on Putin. This war has to come to an end, tweeted German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
The leaders of the G7 group of countries have reiterated their pledge to stand in support of Ukraine as it resists Russian aggression that is already in its fourth month. The G7 released a statement pledging a renewed solidarity with Ukraine during its summit that is currently taking place.
