RussiaUkraine conflict Ukraine accuses Russia of using nuclear plant to fire rockets killing 13
20220811
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Ukraine-accuses-Russia-of-using-nuclear-plant-to-fire-rockets-killing-13-1639191
China has also publicly endorsed Russias invasion of Ukraine in recent days, with the countrys ambassador to Russia, Zhang Hanhui, saying that the US is backing Russia into a corner with the expansions of the NATO alliance and the support for Ukraines bid to join the European Union.
Russia-Ukraine conflict: Kyiv calls for area around Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant to be demilitarized zone
The more losses the occupiers suffer, the sooner we will be able to liberate our land and ensure the safety of Ukraine, said Zelenskyy.
13 people were killed from the shelling at Marhanets, with 10 others injured from the attacks.
Ukraine accused Russia Wednesday of trying to use the nuclear power plant to launch their offensive, knowing that Ukrainian forces could not respond. The latest rocket attacks killed 13 people and wounded 10 others.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
Ukraine said Russia was targeting the town of Marhanets, an area Moscow says its enemies have previously used to strike Russian soldiers at the power plant, which has captured back in March.
The armed forces of Ukraine, our intelligence, and our law enforcement agencies will not leave todays Russian shelling of the Dnipropetrovsk region unanswered, Zelenskyy said in his nightly address, adding that the attack underlined the need for allies to provide more powerful weapons.
This is what everyone who defends our state and helps Ukraine should think about  how to inflict the greatest possible losses on the occupiers in order to shorten the war.
Ukraine and Russia have traded blame over the shelling at the power plant, which is the largest power plant in Europe. The UNs nuclear watchdog, the IAEA, said there would be a potential nuclear disaster, and the G7 countries issued a statement calling on Russia to return full control of the power plant back to Ukraine.
Ukraine alleged that Russia was using the captured area around the nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia to launch rockets with the knowledge that no response could be issued from Ukrainian forces.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces would respond to the shelling of Marhanets. The Ukrainian military also said Russia also bombarded several other areas around Zaporizhzhia, including the town of Vuhledar.
It remains to be seen if Russia would be swayed to return control of the power plant to Ukraine.
