RussiaUkraine conflict Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Ukraine will put up resistance in the east
20220418
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Volodymyr-Zelenskyy-says-Ukraine-will-put-up-resistance-in-the-east-1631599
Zelenskyy also said that he believes US President Joe Biden will be visiting Ukraine. White House officials have said that Biden will not be traveling to Ukraine and instead considered sending an envoy to Kyiv.
This is why it is important for us to not allow them, to stand our ground, because this battleit can influence the course of the whole war, said the Ukrainian leader.
Ukraines Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said in an interview on ABCs This Week that the remaining Ukrainian forces in the city of Mariupol are still fighting Russian forces, defying the urge to surrender. Shmyhal noted that Ukrainian forces are still in control of Mariupol.
Ukrainian forces are already bracing for a new attack by Russia from its eastern region. In a recent interview, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy stressed that Ukraine will not surrender any part of its territory.
Because I dont trust the Russian military and Russian leadership. That is why we understand that the fact that we fought them off and they left, and they were running away from Kyiv  from the north, from Chernihiv, and from that direction  it doesnt mean if they are able to capture Donbas, they wont come further towards Kyiv.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
We will not give up our territory, said Zelenskyy, who noted that Russia may try and seize control of Ukraines capital Kyiv again should it capture Donbas.
While Zelenskyy said that it would depend on the safety situation and whether or not Biden decides to come, the fact that he is the president of the United States is a reason why he should travel to Kyiv.
Shmyhal said that he and other Ukrainian finance officials are set to seek more financial assistance this week during meetings with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, in Washington.
In an exclusive interview with CNN, Zelenskyy vowed that Ukraine will not give up any part of its territory as Moscow plans to carry out another assault from the countrys eastern region. Zelenskyy also said that Ukraine is prepared to resist the anticipated offensive in the region, noting that the fight in the countrys Donbas region could shape the outcome of the war.
