RussiaUkraine conflict US warns of Russias lists of Ukrainians to be killed or sent into camps in case of further invasion
20220222
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-US-warns-of-Russias-lists-of-Ukrainians-to-be-killed-or-sent-into-camps-in-case-of-further-invasion-1627647
Moscow has deployed tens of thousands of troops at its border with Ukraine, even spilling out into Belarus. While Russia has previously denied planning an invasion, it has sought to demand that the US and NATO bar Ukraine from joining the alliance and prevent its eastward expansion.
In the last two meetings and the buildup of forces in Ukraine, they urged diplomacy be given a chance. Our cry was not heated and more importantly, the Charters demand to settle the dispute by peaceful means in such a manner are not in danger has been profoundly undermined. Today, the threat or use of force has been affected. Kenya is gravely concerned by the announcement made by the Russian Federation to recognize the regions of Ukraine as independent states, Kimani added.
Signed by US ambassador to the UN Bathsheba Nell Crocker, the letter also stated that a Russian invasion of Ukraine would also bring along human rights abuses such as kidnappings or torture, and may target political dissidents, religious minorities, and ethnic minorities to name a few.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
The recent move by Russian President Vladimir Putin to recognize the Ukrainian regions of Donbas and Luhansk as independent countries were met with international condemnation. With concerns of a further invasion of Ukraine, Washington has now warned that Russia has lists of Ukrainians that they are targeting in case an invasion happens.
Washington has reportedly learned that Russian forces are making lists of known Ukrainians that they look to target and punish by either killing them or sending them into camps. The letter also went on to state that Russias forces will likely resort to lethal means to break up peaceful protests or peaceful forms of resistance from the public.
The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine stands breached, said Kimani. The Charter of the United Nations continues to wilt under the relentless assault. In one moment it is invoked in reverence by the very same countries who then turned their backs on it in pursuit of objectives diametrically opposed to peace and security,
AFP has obtained a letter addressed to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet, saying that the US has information on what Russia plans to do should it make a further invasion into Ukraine. The US warned that Russia has lists of Ukrainians it plans to target in the event of such an incursion, to either kill them or intern them to camps.
Russia-Ukraine conflict: US warns of Russia's lists of Ukrainians 'to be killed or sent into camps' in case of further invasion
Following Putins decree to recognize Luhansk and Donbas as independent countries and sending in troops as so-called peacekeepers, the United Nations Security Council held an emergency meeting to condemn Putins move. Kenyas ambassador to the UN, Martin Kimani, condemned Russias invasion.
Russia-Ukraine conflict: Russians ready to engage in military conflict against Vladimir Putin in event of invasion
