RussiaUkraine conflict Kyiv appoints investigator to be new anticorruption prosecutor
20220720
https://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Kyiv-appoints-investigator-to-be-new-anti-corruption-prosecutor-1637727
The Kremlin previously said there is no timeframe for it to completely seize control of Ukraines eastern and southern territories. Ukraine and the West called Russias invasion an unprovoked attack.
Speaking with the Ukrainian magazine NV, Yermak also said he hoped the US arms lend-lease to Ukraine would provide a significant amount of weapons before the winter in order for Ukrainian forces to win the war that is already moving toward its fifth month.
This comes as one of Ukraines long-term commitments to its partners in the West is to make progress in rooting out corruption in its government. This also comes as the former head of the anti-corruption prosecutors office resigned nearly two years ago.
However, it remains to be seen how quickly Klymenko could be approved. This selection comes at a time when President Volodymyr Zelenskyy suspended Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova from her duties.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
In the midst of the ongoing assault on Ukraine by Russia, the Ukrainian government is going through major personnel changes. The Ukrainian parliament announced this week that it has appointed an investigator to become the new anti-corruption prosecutor.
Meanwhile, top presidential aide Andriy Yermak said Tuesday that Ukraine does not want the ongoing assault to last until the coming winter months. Yermak cited that this would allow Russian forces time to dig in and make any counterattack from Ukraine more difficult.
It is very important for us not to enter the winter. After winter, when the Russians will have more time to dig in, it will certainly be more difficult, said Yermak, adding that Moscow was trying to drag Ukraine into a protracted conflict.
Reuters reports that Ukraines parliament said Tuesday that it had appointed Oleksandr Klymenko to lead the anti-corruption prosecutors office. Klymenkos appointment is still subject to approval by the prosecutor-general.
Klymenko was selected by a special competition commission in a months-long process. Klymenko previously served in the national anti-corruption bureau, which is another state-run group that combated corruption.
There is only one step left before his appointment. This decision must be signed by the Prosecutor General, the legislative body said in a statement.
