RussiaUkraine conflict Zelenskyy vows to restore Ukrainian control of Crimea
20220824
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Zelenskyy-vows-to-restore-Ukrainian-control-of-Crimea-1639981
The Russian-annexed region of Crimea is a key part of Moscows continued invasion of Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed that Crimea would be brought back under Ukrainian control.
Speaking at the Crimea Platform, an international conference that aims to restore Ukraines territorial integrity and end Russias annexation of the region, Zelenskyy pledged to restore Ukrainian control over Crimea. Zelenskyy cited that regaining control of the peninsula that Russia seized in 2014 would be the biggest anti-war step that would help re-establish law and order.
Duda also urged his counterparts not to look the other way to Russian aggression and that there could not be a return to business as usual with Russia. Duda echoed that Crimea is a part of Ukraine, as many countries have by not recognizing Russias annexation of the region.
The new package would use funds from the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, which was approved by Congress, to allow the Biden administration to obtain weapons from the industry instead of taking weapons from its existing stockpile.
It is necessary to liberate Crimea from occupationThis will be the resuscitation of world law and order, said Zelenskyy.
The official said the new aid does not appear to include weapons that were previously already provided to the Ukrainian military. However, the official noted that the new aid package would be focused on ammunition and defense systems.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
There is no sign that Russia plans to abandon Crimea, where its Black Sea fleet is located. Russia has also used Crimea to launch missile strikes on Ukrainian targets. Moscow has also denied the allegations of human rights abuses in Crimea and claimed that a referendum showed that residents of Crimea want to be part of Russia.
A US official said Tuesday that Washington plans to announce a new security aid package for Ukraine of $3 billion as soon as Wednesday, in line with Ukraines independence day.
It all began with Crimea, and it will end with Crimea, said Zelenskyy in his opening remarks at the event that had representatives of over 60 countries and international organizations, including around 40 presidents and prime ministers. While nearly all were present online, Polish Prime Minister Andrzej Duda was at the event in person.
