RussiaUkraine conflict Vladimir Putin may face serious backlash should invasion happen
20220202
https://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Vladimir-Putin-may-face-serious-backlash-should-invasion-happen-1626250
With Russian troops remaining at the borders with Ukraine, NATO countries, including the US, have been warning that sanctions would be placed should an invasion occur. An analyst has suggested that Russian President Vladimir Putin will face serious backlash should he direct the troops to go on the offensive against Ukraine.
Putin accused the US and its allies of not taking Russias security concerns seriously. However, the Russian leader said he hoped that both parties would still be able to negotiate towards a solution in the midst of the ongoing tensions.
And you have to remember that Putin has a lot to lose and I think that the plans Liz Truss unveiled to say that Russian oligarchs in Putins close circle will be targeted have shown a very, very, strong resolve to explain to Putin that the consequences for him personally could be rather dramatic, De Bendern explained. De Bendern also noted that not all the Russian oligarchs are supportive of Putin.
Speaking on GB News, Chatham House associate fellow Samantha De Bendern warned that there is a lot at stake for the Russian leader, especially as the UK government would be targeting Russian oligarchs in possible sanctions on their assets in the country. This comes as UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is also set to travel to Kyiv this week to speak with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in a show of support.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
An invasion is avoidable. This morning I just read that the Russians have given original response to the Americans written proposals, said De Bendern. So the plan is continuing. Thats a good sign.
While Russia has denied planning an invasion on Ukraine, there are still thousands of troops stationed at the borders, leading to concerns of a possible invasion. Russia has also since accused the West of provocation, and recently, Putin accused the US and its allies of using Ukraine as a tool to contain Russia.
Truss, the UKs Foreign Secretary, warned that sanctions would be imposed on Russia in case it invades Ukraine.
De Bendern added that some of the Russian oligarchs may decide to turn on Putin if he decides to target Ukraine as they may have ties to Ukraine and will not forgive the Russian leader for making such a decision.
