RussiaUkraine conflict Rail link from Crimea to Kherson not operational following Ukrainian strike says UK
20220804
http://www.econotimes.com/Russia-Ukraine-conflict-Rail-link-from-Crimea-to-Kherson-not-operational-following-Ukrainian-strike-says-UK-1638726
Ukraines southern military command said the situation was tense and that Russia attacked the frontlines on the same day.
Ukraine war: first grain ship leaves Odesa, but EU should have seen food and energy crises coming
The update also said that there may be an increase in civilians attempting to flee from Kherson and surrounding areas, as Russia continues its offensive and Ukraine continues to hold its ground along with potential food shortages.
While Russia has occupied parts of southern Ukraine, Kyiv says it intends to launch a counterattack. Kyiv said Tuesday that its forces were able to recapture 53 villages in Kherson.
The Ukrainian military also issued a statement saying that Russian forces were scoping out basements in the region to turn them into bomb shelters to store its military hardware.
Russia-Ukraine conflict: Rail link from Crimea to Kherson not operational following Ukrainian strike, says UK
In his nightly address, Zelenskyy said the fighting in parts of the eastern frontline was just hell in the Donbas region.
The United Kingdom shared in an intelligence update on Twitter this week that the rail link that connected the Russian-annexed Crimea to the Russian-occupied city of Kherson was not operational, citing Ukraines strike on a Russian ammunition train.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
Ukraine said Wednesday that Russia was creating a military strike force that aimed to target the hometown of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Kryvyi Rih. Kyiv also warned that Moscow could also be gearing up for a new offensive operation in southern Ukraine.
In the fifth month of the war Russia is waging on Ukraine, Ukrainian forces have been making gains with their strikes using weapons provided by the West. The United Kingdom said Ukraines strike on a Russian ammunition train had rendered the rail link connecting Kherson to Crimea not operational.
Russia has begun creating a strike group in the Kryvyi Rih direction. Its also quite likely that the enemy is preparing a hostile counter-offensive with the subsequent plan of getting to the administrative boundary of Kherson region, said the Ukrainian southern military command.
The rail link would likely be repaired by Russian forces in the coming days. However, the rail link would remain a vulnerable point for Russian forces and their logistical resupply route from Crimea to Kherson.
