UPS FedEx suspend delivery services to Russia and Ukraine
20220228
http://www.econotimes.com/UPS-FedEx-suspend-delivery-services-to-Russia-and-Ukraine-1628113
UPS and FedEx's announcement of service suspension came after the Russian troops advanced to the second largest city of Ukraine. On top of this, President Vladimir Putin also ordered his nuclear forces to be on high alert, which prompted countries to hand down more sanctions against Moscow.
8 everyday foods you might not realise are ultra processed  and how to spot them
"Our focus is on the safety of our people, providing continued service and minimizing disruption to our customers," UPS' website's service alert notice reads. "UPS continues to closely monitor the situation and will re-establish service as soon as it is practical and safe to do so."
United Parcel Service Inc. and FedEx Corp. are two of the biggest parcel delivery companies in the United States and the world. Due to the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, they have halted their services in Russia and Ukraine.
South Korea establishing a $1.66 billion support program to aid businesses affected by the Russia-Ukraine crisis
Apparently, the shipping companies are taking steps and carrying out contingency plans for their business in the countries that are currently in crisis. The Wall Street Journal reported that all packages and shipments that are already on their way to Russia and Ukraine will be returned to the sender for free whenever possible.
With the latest developments in the escalating war and things are getting more dangerous, the shipping giants made the decision to stop their operations in the said countries. According to Reuters, UPS and FedEx's inbound and outbound services to Ukraine have been halted. The companies will also stop all deliveries to any locations in Russia.
FedEx also posted a similar notice about the service interruption and said that the company is "closely monitoring the situation and have contingency plans in place. Meanwhile, the United States and its EU allies are imposing sanctions in an attempt to stop Russia from its invasion attacks on Ukraine. The past weekend, they have pulled out some Russian banks from the international SWIFT messaging system, so they cannot carry out financial transactions.
As for DHL, a German logistics company that offers the same kind of services like FedEx and UPS, it was revealed to have also stopped shipments to and from Ukraine. But while it will not be servicing Ukraine for now, it was not mentioned if it also suspended its operations in Russia.
