Live UN Security Council to discuss Ukraine nuclear plant crisis
20220811
https://www.chinanationalnews.com/news/272649981/live-un-security-council-to-discuss-ukraine-nuclear-plant-crisis
Zakhvatov told the independent news site Meduza that the case is likely linked to a protest Ovsyannikova staged last month, holding a banner that said "Russian President Vladimir Putin is a killer, his soldiers are fascists."
Mykhailo Podolyak, asked by the Dozhd online television channel whether Kyiv was taking responsibility, replied: "Of course not. What do we have to do with this?"
The instructors will provide basic military training, including urban combat and tactical operations, to Ukrainian soldiers with zero to limited military experience.
Russia has "almost certainly" established a major new ground forces formation to support its operations in Ukraine, Britain said on Tuesday.
Moscow insisted Tuesday that major blasts at a key military airbase on the Russian-annexed Crimea peninsula were caused by exploding ammunition rather than Ukrainian fire.
Denmark will send military instructors to Britain to help train Ukrainian soldiers and also offer to train Ukrainian officers on its soil, the Danish defence ministry said on Wednesday.
The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting Thursday to address the crisis at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear complex, the power plant that Kyiv and Moscow accuse each other of having bombed, diplomatic sources said.
Ukraine is not taking responsibility for explosions at a Russian air base in Crimea on Tuesday, an advisor to President Volodymyr Zelensky said, suggesting partisans might have been involved.
Denmark has contributed to both British and Canadian training missions in Ukraine since 2015 and provided weapons and cyber security support to Ukraine since Russia invaded its neighbour in February.
Ukraine's overseas creditors have backed its request for a two-year freeze on payments on almost $20 billion in international bonds, according to a regulatory filing on Wednesday, a move that will allow the war-torn country to avoid a debt default.
Tuesday's explosions at a Russian military base in Crimea - whether due to Russian incompetence or not - will undeniably deal a blow to Russian morale as images of the powerful blasts are now seeping back to Russia via social media. Videos posted online shows sunbathers on nearby beaches fleeing as huge flames and pillars of smoke rose over the horizon from multiple points.
China, which Russia has sought as an ally since being cold-shouldered by the West over its invasion of Ukraine, has called the United States the "main instigator" of the crisis.
The Ukrainian army said Wednesday it struck and made unusable a bridge in the Russian-held Kherson region, after hitting another key bridge in the same area a few days before.
The first 12 ships to leave the three Black Sea ports designated by the agreement were carrying 370,000 tonnes of corn and foodstuffs, according to Frederick Kenney, interim UN coordinator at the joint centre in Istanbul overseeing the deal.
Russian shelling has killed 13 people in Ukraine's central Dnipropetrovsk region overnight, governor Valentyn Reznychenko said on Wednesday.
But that should change once the ships docked in Ukraine when Russian invaded its neighbour in February leave their ports and new ones come in to pick up wheat that has accumulated with this year's harvest, Kenney told reporters. "We are dealing with three ports that were essentially frozen in time," Kenney said. "The silos were full of corn and the ships that were there have been loaded with corn," he continued.
Another bridge in the same region, the Antonivskiy bridge - deemed to be strategic for Russian military logistics - was hit a few days earlier, the Ukrainian armed forces had reported on Monday.
Reznychenko initially put the casualties at 21, with 11 killed in the district of Nikopol, near Europe's largest nuclear power plant Zaporizhzhia, and 10 in the town of Marganets. But in a subsequent messages on the Telegram messaging app he revised the number, but without clarifying which initial details were incorrect.
The update also added that Russian commanders continued to face "competing operational priorities" of reinforcing its offensive in the eastern Donbas region, as well as strengthening its defence against Ukrainian counterattacks in south.
With no sign of peace or a ceasefire on the horizon nearly six months after Russia's invasion began on February 24, bondholders have agreed to postpone sovereign interest and capital payments for 13 Ukrainian sovereign bonds maturing between 2022 and 2033.
A source in the Security Council presidency, currently held by China, told AFP on Wednesday that the meeting would occur August 11 at 3:00 pm 1900 GMT.
"As the initiator and main instigator of the Ukrainian crisis, Washington, while imposing unprecedented comprehensive sanctions on Russia, continues to supply arms and military equipment to Ukraine," Zhang was quoted as saying.
Russian authorities on Wednesday raided the home of a former state TV journalist who quit after making an on-air protest against Moscow's war in Ukraine, and launched a criminal case against her on the charge of spreading false information about the Russian armed forces, her lawyer said on social media.
A second diplomatic source at United Nations headquarters in New York said the council's 15 member nations would gather at the request of Russia, one of the five permanent members of the Security Council -- along with Britain, China, France and the United States -- which hold veto power over UN resolutions.
A "precise and efficient strike" against a bridge near the Kakhovka hydropower plant made it "unusable", the Operational Command "South" said on Facebook.
The Zaporizhzhia plant was shelled over the weekend, prompting strong reactions from both the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA who warned of the dangers of a potential nuclear disaster. Kyiv and Moscow have traded blame over the attacks.
Witnesses said they had heard at least 12 explosions around 3:20 p.m. local time 1220 GMT on Tuesday from the Saky air base near Novofedorivka on the west coast of the peninsula, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014 and used in February as one of the launchpads for its invasion.
For young people in Ukraine, it's a compromise between summer music festivals and the massive rebuilding effort taking place.
"The word is of course getting back to Russia, despite the efforts of Russian television to try to calm people down and to persuade them that this is all Ukrainian propaganda," FRANCE 24's Chief Foreign Editor Rob Parsons explained. "There is no doubt that for Russian morale this is a bit of a blow."
In an interview with the Russian state news agency TASS published on Wednesday, China's ambassador to Moscow, Zhang Hanhui, accused Washington of backing Russia into a corner with repeated expansions of the NATO defence alliance and support for forces seeking to align Ukraine with the European Union rather than Moscow.
"Their ultimate goal is to exhaust and crush Russia with a protracted war and the cudgel of sanctions."
The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting Thursday to address the crisis at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear complex, the power plant that Kyiv and Moscow accuse each other of having bombed, diplomatic sources said. Follow our live updates for all the latest developments on the war in Ukraine. All times are Paris time GMT2.
The unit, called the 3rd Army Corps, is based out of the city of Mulino, east of Russia's capital Moscow, the British Defence Ministry said in its daily intelligence bulletin on Twitter.
"Denmark will support a British-led training project with 130 Danish soldiers and at the same time offer to train Ukrainian soldiers in Denmark," a ministry statement said.
The case against Marina Ovsyannikova was launched under a law, enacted after the February 24 invasion of Ukraine, that penalises statements against the military, lawyer Dmitry Zakhvatov said. A conviction is punishable by up to 15 years in prison.
The government in Kyiv launched a consent solicitation, which is a formal request to agree with creditors on changes to sovereign debt contracts, on July 20.
He said on Telegram that after the raid Ovsyannikova is expected to be brought into the Investigative Committee for questioning.
The first wartime wheat from Ukraine should ship next week under a landmark deal also signed by Russia aimed at tackling the global food crisis, a top UN official said on Wednesday.
Dramatic amateur footage shared on social media appeared to show panicked holidaymakers fleeing a Crimean beach with young children, as ballooning clouds of grey smoke rose over the horizon.
Local authorities said one person was killed on Tuesday in blasts at a Russian air base in the annexed Crimean peninsula. Moscow said the explosions were detonations of stored ammunition, not the result of any attack.
