Philippines appeals for end of violence in Ukraine
20220302
https://www.gmanetwork.com/news/topstories/nation/823635/philippines-appeals-for-end-of-violence-in-ukraine/story/
Russia's unprovoked assault on Ukraine has prompted the United States, Canada and the European Union countries to slap sanctions on Moscow involving freezing of bank deposits, suspension of Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project, halting of military exports, and banning Russian aircraft in airspace of various countries.
"The course of history and the fate of our world will be shaped by the decisions that will be made by its leaders," he added.
The Philippines on Wednesday appealed for an immediate stop in the violence in Ukraine following Russia's invasion and called on the parties involved to forge a peace accord.
The court, formally known as the International Court of Justice ICJ, is the United Nations' venue for resolving disputes between states.
The World Court on Tuesday said it will hold hearings on March 7-8 on whether to order "provisional measures" in a lawsuit brought by Ukraine against Russia seeking a halt to Moscow's military actions in Ukraine.
Ukraine's lawsuit filed on Sunday argues that Russia's claim it invaded Ukraine to prevent a genocide is false.
Russian President Vladimir Putin had repeatedly asserted that Ukraine committed "genocide" in the Donbass region of eastern Ukraine, without presenting evidence, and said the invasion, called a "special operation" by Russian officials, was therefore justified to end it. with ReutersKBK, GMA News
"We appeal for an immediate end to the unnecessary loss of life and call on the states involved to forge an accord that can help prevent a conflagration that could engulf a world still struggling to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic," acting presidential spokesperson Karlo Nograles said in a press briefing in Malacaang.
"We are one in prayer, together with all peace-loving citizens, that they be guided by wisdom and a genuine desire to save lives, establish harmony among neighboring nations and forge a just and lasting peace for humanity."
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that he had filed the lawsuit at the court over genocide accusations made by Moscow.
