Taiwan vows to join in economic sanctions over Russian invasion of Ukraine
20220226
https://www.gmanetwork.com/news/topstories/world/823178/taiwan-vows-to-join-in-economic-sanctions-over-russian-invasion-of-ukraine/story/
We hope that all sides can promptly resume peaceful dialogue and find a rational solution to this dispute. As a member of the international community, Taiwan is willing to take part in any effort that will benefit the peaceful resolution of this dispute. Taiwan is also joining international economic sanctions against Russia, Ing-wen said in a statement on Friday.
Ing-wen also assured the Taiwanese people that they were working to ensure the countrys security.
We are working to strengthen our civil defense as well as our ability to counter cognitive warfare, so that we can prevent external forces and their collaborators from using the situation in Ukraine to manufacture and spread disinformation in an attempt to undermine morale among the Taiwanese people, the Taiwan president said.
Dozens were reported killed on the first day of Russia's invasion that targeted multiple cities.
Meanwhile, Ukraine's military command said areas near the cities of Sumy, Poltava, and Mariupol were hit by airstrikes on Friday, with Russian Kalibr cruise missiles launched at the country from the Black Sea.  DVM, GMA News
Russian troops launched their attack on Ukraine on Thursday, drawing international condemnations, warnings, and sanctions from countries, led by the United States, with US President Joe Biden calling Moscow's move "unprovoked and unjustified."
Our national security agencies and military remain on guard around the clock, are staying on top of all developments in the Taiwan Strait and across the region, and are prepared to respond to any contingency, she added.
Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine, which had eroded peace and stability in the region and around the world.
Taiwan vowed to join in the international economic sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, adding that they were also willing to take part in any effort at a peaceful resolution of the crisis.
