Russia claims they are taking care of captured Shaun Pinner
20220422
https://www.watfordobserver.co.uk/news/20087365.russia-claims-taking-care-captured-shaun-pinner/
The British men have since featured in Russian state TV footage, in which they admitted they were captured by Russian troops.
It is understood that Mr Pinner moved to Ukraine with his wife in 2018 and later joined the nations armed forces.
They didnt drink champagne with you at Downing Street, and so they can wait for your protection till kingdom come.
Here is what we have to say in this respect. Dont pretend to be worried, You are utterly unconcerned about the fate of Britons in trouble.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
A screen grab of Shaun Pinner in the video released on Monday, as he directed a message to Boris Johnson
She also said: Boris Johnson has urged the Russian government to treat the Briton detained in Mariupol while fighting on the side of the Ukrainian government forces humanely and compassionately.
In a statement posted on social media, Russian Federation ministry of foreign affairs spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said: They are given food and drink, as well as any other assistance they may need, just as the other foreigners who have surrendered or have been detained.
A British fighter from Watford who was captured by Russian forces is being given any assistance needed, according to Russias foreign ministry.
In a video released on Monday April 18 Mr Pinner pleaded for Boris Johnson to help bring him and Mr Aslin home.
According to his family, his three-year contract was due to end later this year and he was planning to enter a humanitarian role within Ukraine.
Shaun Pinner, 48, from Watford, was captured last week along with Aiden Aslin from Nottinghamshire while the two were defending Mariupol in Ukraine.
However Mr Aslin appeared to have some marks on his face in one clip which sparked concern whether the Geneva Convention - which states Prisoners of War are protected against violence - was being respected.
The former waste manager from Watford said the two can be brought home in exchange for Ukraine releasing oligarch Mr Medvedchuk, a close friend of Vladimir Putin.
