Watford should support people of Ukraine
20220305
https://www.watfordobserver.co.uk/news/19971420.watford-support-people-ukraine/
We can all see the devastation that Putin has unleashed on the Ukrainians. It is utterly deplorable. We must do everything we can to support the Ukrainian people in their hour of need. Watfordians have a long tradition of welcoming refugees, wherever they are from.
As the tragic death toll rises, with more civilians being killed, soldiers on both sides losing their lives, with destruction of towns and cities, we must never forget the human tragedy of war. Many of us, will be praying for peace and that the fight for democracy and freedom prevails.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
For far too long, we have allowed Russian dirty money to pollute our politics. Surely the Conservative Party must now stop taking millions more from Russian oligarchs?
As Labours candidate for Mayor here, I can only imagine the stress, strains, and heavy burden of responsibility the Mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, is shouldering and that of President Zelensky.
I welcome the response of Watfords charities and local people in showing their generosity to the people of Ukraine.
At this time, our admiration, solidarity and support are with the Ukrainians who are bravely defending their homes and their democracy. Its a real David and Goliath situation showing us all how we must cherish and safeguard our freedoms, which many of us take for granted.
Although we are thousands of miles away in Watford, we have all been shocked and horrified by the war in Ukraine, where a democratic country has been attacked by the autocratic Vladimir Putin and the Russian army. To see fighting in Europe again has saddened many of us living here.
