Apple shareholders defy company approve civil rights audit plans
20220305
https://www.imore.com/apple-shareholders-defy-company-approve-civil-rights-audit-plans
RESOLVED that shareholders of Apple Inc. "Apple" urge the Board of Directors to oversee a third-party audit analyzing the adverse impact of Apple's policies and practices on the civil rights of company stakeholders, above and beyond legal and regulatory matters, and to provide recommendations for improving the company's civil rights impact. Input from civil rights organizations, employees, and customers should be considered in determining the specific matters to be analyzed. A report on the audit, prepared at reasonable cost and omitting confidential or proprietary information, should be publicly disclosed on Apple's website.
Back in December it was reported that Apple would face a vote on the matter amidst calls for the company to conduct a new civil rights audit. News at the time cited "employee controversies" and "slow progress in diversifying its workforce." From Apple's official shareholders' meeting proxy statement:
Before becoming a writer Stephen studied Ancient History at University and also worked at Apple for more than two years. Stephen is also a host on the iMore show, a weekly podcast recorded live that discusses the latest in breaking Apple news, as well as featuring fun trivia about all things Apple. Follow him on Twitter stephenwarwick9
Stephen Warwick has written about Apple for five years at iMore and previously elsewhere. He covers all of iMore's latest breaking news regarding all of Apple's products and services, both hardware and software. Stephen has interviewed industry experts in a range of fields including finance, litigation, security, and more. He also specializes in curating and reviewing audio hardware and has experience beyond journalism in sound engineering, production, and design.
Shareholders voted at the company's annual shareholders' meeting on March 4, passing the resolution by a narrow margin.
The proposal cited racial inequality, pay equity, privacy especially Apple's child safety measures and CSAM scanning, and more. Apple recommended voting against the move, at the time stating it was "committed to respecting human rights, including civil rights, and to ensuring everyone is treated with dignity and respect. We work every day to put people firstby being a force for equity and opportunity, creating an inclusive and diverse work environment, respecting the human rights, including the civil rights, of everyone whose lives we touch, and empowering them with accessible technology." The company had claimed it already fulfilled the objectives of the proposal in several ways.
Apple shareholders have defied the companies recommendations and voted to pass measures that could see Apple conduct a third-party audit pertaining to civil rights, as well as a measure to report on concealment clauses used by the company when dealing with disgruntled employees.
Shareholders heard our stories and believed us, and want Apple to be the company is portrays itself to be. I think breaking my NDA was crucial, and going public with the wage transparency survey issues and data, along with all of the participation of the AppleToo movement gave the public the same questions employees had.I believe that both of these proposals will improve working conditions, and reveal much needed improvement in if and how the company holds itself to its equity, inclusion, and diversity promises.Shareholders voted on a number of issues, including passing Apple's proposed executive compensation package for 2022 despite some opposition.
Founder of the AppleToo movement Cher Scarlett, who filed a labor complaint against the company, said the passing of both measure were "huge wins for past and present employees." "The shareholders voting this way proves that our voices matter, she said  "it's unusual that two proposals went against the direction of the board, and that is directly related to the advocacy around these issues." She continued:
