GMB fans react to Bernie Ecclestones praise of Vladimir Putin
20220630
https://www.dailyecho.co.uk/news/national/uk-today/20245905.gmb-fans-react-bernie-ecclestones-praise-vladimir-putin/
As reported by The Independent, in an interview on Good Morning Britain earlier today Thursday, June 30 the 91-year-old was asked whether he still stood by Mr Putin, who he is friends with.
What a strange interview. Bernie claiming its all on Zelensky to stop the war. Then says Putin didnt mean to start it.. Then claiming hed still take a bullet for Putin. Talk about backing the wrong horse 
Some viewers did question the necessity of interviewing Mr Ecclestone on the subject, with one posting: "Cant understand why you felt the need to interview Ecclestone on this subject. He has clearly lost the plot."
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Bernie Ecclestone says Ukrainian President Zelensky should have listened to Putin to avoid war because Putin 'is a sensible person'. pic.twitter.comjZ1hLnrYTU
When asked why he would take such action, Mr Ecclestone said: Because hes a first class person, and what hes doing is something that he believed was the right thing.
He said: Hes never done anything that isnt doing good things for people. I would like him running Europe. We havent got anybody, so it couldnt be any worse.
One viewer posted on Twitter: "So Mr Putin accidentally started a war with Ukraine.... but he's such a good guy and I'm sure if the right person were to have spoken with him he wouldn't have done it! What is Bernie on? I think he hasn't had his meds this morning".
Another put: "What a strange interview. Bernie claimingits all on Zelensky to stop the war. Then says Putin didnt mean to start it.. Then claiming hed still take a bullet for Putin. Talk about backing the wrong horse."
Bernie Ecclestone, the former Formula 1 Executive, has defended Russian President Vladimir Putin saying he would "take a bullet" for him.
Mr Ecclestone has defended Mr Putin in previous years, such as when he told The Times in 2019 that he felt the Russian President should be "running Europe".
I am not a supporter of democracy. You need a dictator. As a dictator, you say, This is what Im going to do. In a democracy, it gets watered down.
He replied:I would still take a bullet for him. Id rather it didnt hurt but I would still take a bullet.
Mr Ecclestone also made comments about Ukrainian presidentVolodymyr Zelensky, saying that he should have made more of an effort to speak to Putin to avoid conflict.
A spokesperson for F1 reacted to the interview, saying: The comments made by Bernie Ecclestone are his personal views and are in very stark contrast to position of the modern values of our sport.
Unfortunately hes like a lot of business people, certainly like me, we make mistakes from time to time. And when youve made a mistake you have to do your best to get out of it.
