Winchester Cathedral to host blue and yellow vigil in support of Ukraine
20220312
https://www.dailyecho.co.uk/news/19988036.winchester-cathedral-host-blue-yellow-vigil-support-ukraine/
The vigil, which will be held in person and also streamed online, will also include voices from Ukraine, music and readings, and resources will be provided for people to pray and take action. The Cathedral bells will toll in a call for peace in Ukraine amid the Russian military's continued assault on the country.
People are invited to bring a candle, or daffodil, which they can lay down in the cathedral to show that they 'stand in solidarity' with those who are effected by the devastation caused in the wake of the Russian invasion.
Hundreds of candles will be lit and laid out on the cathedral floor to create a large outline of the map of Ukraine - which cathedral bosses say will provide a symbol of hope that "even in the depths of darkness, light will prevail".
The vigil, which will take place at 11am on this morning, will consist of 'prayer, reflection and action' for the people of Ukraine and all who are caught up in the conflict of war.
Ukraine, which has been under Russian invasion since February 24 has seen daily missile attacks against its largest cities and mass evacuations, resulting in the fastest-growing refugee crisis since the Second World War.
The vigil will take place at Winchester Cathedral between 11.00am and 11.40am, with all welcome. To watch the vigil online, join the Winchester Cathedral Live Stream at winchester-cathedral.org.ukworshiplive-streaming.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Winchester Cathedral will host a blue and yellow themed vigil in a showing of support for Ukraine.
The Very Rev Catherine Ogle, Dean of Winchester said: There has been a national outpouring of grief and concern for the people of Ukraine following its invasion, and the Cathedral wants to offer a way of channelling that goodwill into both prayer and action. The vigil is for everyone, and anyone, who wants to come and express their support and concern. The Christian faith teaches love of thy neighbour and there is plenty of room in the cathedral for people of all faiths, and none, to come and stand for Ukraine."
As part of the vigil, a wide variety of guests will be invited to come and stand for Ukraine, including 'friends' from different faith communities so that everyone can join in a time of 'shared reflection and prayer'.
