hell on earth the US hegemonic administrations
20220423
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/43760
Ukraine will not be left alone if Russia uses tactical nuclear weapons, Victoria Nuland said
He then added, sarcastically, that "we all know that inside every member of the Azov Brigade there is a true democrat striving to emerge and embrace the United States."
Igor Kirillov, the head of Russias Radiation, Chemical and Biological Protection Troops, revealed the planned western provocations at a briefing on Saturday.
She refused to provide any details about the potential response from the West, saying instead that use of nuclear weapons would take the situation to a fundamentally new level where the price will be simply astronomical. RT
In an interview for the Ukrainian outlet European Pravda, Nuland was asked to assess the possibility of Russia using tactical nuclear weapons. She responded that she could not rule out such a catastrophic scenario. As Putin has already ordered what, she said, were brutal war crimes, the world must be prepared for the worst. At the same time, Nuland stressed, the consequences of such steps would be catastrophic for Russia and for Putin personally.
Russia will pay an astronomical price should its President Vladimir Putin order the use of tactical nuclear weapons in Ukraine, the US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland said on Friday, amid the ongoing Russian offensive.
According to the general, the rapid seizure of evidence at the scene of the planned incident collection of samples, interviewing witnesses, assembling photo and video documentation will be of fundamental importance.
Another chance for peace in Ukraine was lost when Biden failed to pronounce the word "neutrality" on any day prior to February 24 of this year, Lozansky stressed.
Kirillov noted at the MoD briefing on Saturday that since March Western countries had been regularly making provocative statements about the possibility of Russia using weapons of mass destruction.
The US is planning provocations to accuse Russian forces carrying out the special operation to demilitarise and de-nazify Ukraine of using WMDs, said the Russian Ministry of Defence.
On Thursday, US President Joe Biden said all American taxpayers and members of the military can feel proud of the Biden administration's efforts to supply Ukraine with weapons to fight against Russia. The comments coming after the US announced another $800 million in additional security assistance for Kiev as well as $500 million in direct economic aid.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
WASHINGTON Sputnik - US taxpayers should feel outrage at the billions of dollars their government is wasting to support Kiev in a conflict that could escalate into a nuclear war over a country in which America has no vital interests, analysts told Sputnik.
The western provocation is most likely in Kharkov, Kiev, possibly Zaporizhzhia power plant, he stated. Moreover, the US State Department has already determined the procedure for the subsequent investigation and appointed officials responsible for its conduct, said Igor Kirillov.
"Instead, the Obama administration facilitated the Maidan coup in February 2014 when then-Assistant Secretary of State for Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland worked with Biden to push the 'color revolution' that ousted democratically elected Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych in order to put Kiev on the fast track to NATO membership," he said.
Ukraine could only have benefited tremendously from enjoying secure, neutral status between Russia and the West, Lozansky observed.
Those talks could have produced a Washington-Moscow agreement similar to the Reagan - Gorbachev scenario which ended the first Cold War, Lozansky explained.
"American taxpayers should be outraged by the Biden administration's throwing billions of dollars to Ukraine in a quarrel in which we have no actual interests at stake and in a situation which can easily develop into a nuclear war if there are any miscalculations of Russian intentions," former CIA analyst and station chief Philip Giraldi told Sputnik when asked about Biden's remarks.
"This simply meant agreeing to neutrality for Ukraine. Keeping this country sovereign and whole without joining NATO or any military block was the easiest request for the western alliance to meet. Had this been done, there would be no Russian invasion, US-Russia security talks would have proceeded with good chances for success," he said.
But instead of building on this clear, assured road to ensure lasting peace and prosperity for both Russia and Ukraine as well as for the United States, the US president had opted for a policy of reckless confrontation with potentially terrible consequences, Lozansky concluded.
However, that should be no problem for the US government who will try to convince the world otherwise, Giraldi said.
Biden has repeatedly boasted about the amount of security assistance his administration has committed to Ukraine, which now totals $4 billion since he took office.
Russia will be blamed for utilizing chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, in line with at least three scenarios already developed as a response to Russia's success in conducting its special military operation, said Igor Kirillov, the chief of the Russian MoD's radiation, chemical, and biological protection forces.
American University in Moscow President Professor Edward Lozansky said had the Obama administration, in which Biden served as vice president, honestly proceeded with its announced reset of relations with Moscow, friendship and a harmony of common interests could easily have been maintained between the nuclear superpowers.
"Of course the American public always likes a nice warparticularly when foreigners are doing the dying and they have been effectively brainwashed by the media and politicians into believing that our totally corrupt leaders are willing to fight the good fight in support of exalted principles like 'freedom' and 'democracy,'" he said.
In the short run, Biden might reap brief political rewards from his irresponsible policy because the US public favoring backing people they imagined were "good guys" in wars as long as they did not have to pay any serious price themselves, Giraldi pointed out.
Giraldi underscored that Ukraine democracy had been toppled by US and Allied efforts in the 2014 Maidan coup and since then Washington had systematically supported militant neo-Nazi forces.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
