hypocritical sacrifice and borrell is an idiot in the long term
20220829
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/45349
According to the diplomat, European citizensmust be willing to pay the price for freedom, because the war in Ukraine isnt only a war of the Ukrainians, but a war for our freedom.
FREE JULIAN ASSANGE NOW IT'S A BIT HYPOCRITICAL TALKING ABOUT FREEDOM WHEN ASSANGE IS IN PRISON....
The issue was raised during Borrells interview with the Austrian newspaper Kronen Zeitung, with journalists pointing out that many people in their country areskepticalabout the anti-Russia measures.
Some members of the political opposition are seeing through Macrons manipulation.France's serious role is to encourage peace, not war, by returning to the Minsk agreements which NATO and Macron flouted,Tweetedformer minister and French presidential candidate Sgolne Royal.And let's urgently identify the triggers and the profiteers of war, the values and priorities of the French people.
During his meeting with Federal Taxation Service director Daniel Yegorov, President Vladimir Putin highlighted that the revenues of the Russian Federation increased by 32 during the first half of 2022, mainly due to the rise in energy prices.
No matter how difficult it may be for the collective West to admit, the fact is that the sanctions against Russia are boosting that countrys revenues.
French citizens entrusted the government to prioritize French national and economic security above all else. Instead, Macron has compromised it by going along with EUs self-harming edicts. And now he seems to be playing thetired game of trying to scare up some leeway from the people so they dont rebel.
It remains to be seen, however, what repercussions will result from the flow back of dollars normally sponged up by the international energy market.
The pandemic has barely waned and Macron is already back to try the same strategy of employing hyperbolic, militaristic rhetoric amid the conflict in Ukraine, even though neither France nor the EU is at war with Russia.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
What France and the EU have done, however, is sanction their own cheap energy supply from Russia on which their economies are highly dependent. Initially, they patted themselves on the back because they figured they could just snap their fingers and switch to something greener. When that didnt work, they blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin for their own knee-jerk choices. And now, theyre trying to portray themselves as being at war with Russia as a way to explain to their own citizens why theyre heading for an energy and cost-of-living crisis that was entirely avoidable.
Why is it important to get all of this straight? Because officials around Europe are already framing the looming backlash against the pending crisis as the doing of populists and extremists rather than of their own. If they succeed, it will only be because their own constituents allowed them to get away with every single other lie leading up to it.
These are restrictive measures. Weve limited Russia's economic possibilities. As long as Russias economy is dependent on oil and gas, theyll be needing our technologies,he said.
Announcing the first Covid lockdowns in March 2020, Macron said six times that France was at war  with Covid.Never has France had to take such decisions in peacetime,hesaid, persisting with the militaristic rhetoric that served to justify locking an entire nation inside their homes forweeks on end.
The EU will encountermajor challengesdue to the sanctions it imposed on Russia over the conflict in Ukraine, the blocs top diplomat, Josep Borrell, has said.
Clear definitions are important to avoid being fooled by fancy rhetorical gymnastics. France isnt at war with Russia. There is no war within the European Union. Therefore there is no war economy to justify. The EU and its leaders including Macron are complicit in a self-imposed crisis as a result of their own sanctions policy  which is still completely reversible.
So far, it has pushed inflation rates up to between 6 and 17 everywhere in the world, including Russia.
However, Borrell acknowledged thatof course, we are facing major challenges in the short termbecause of the sanctions, and there is no denying that the price of gas is rising.
The fear-mongering gave Macron and his government the wiggle room to limit peoples liberties in the absence of substantial opposition.Poor domestic policies and unpopular decisions apparently get carte blanche if theyre in service of a war of some kind.
Earlier this summer, French President Emmanuel Macron evoked the country'sentry into a war economy in which I believe we will organize ourselves in the long term.It would have sounded familiar to anyone who paid attention during the Covid-19 pandemic.
I am thinking of our people, who will need the strength of soul to face the coming times, to resist uncertaintiesunited, to agree to pay the price for our freedom and of our values,Macron said last week. Ukraine isnt defending French values or freedoms. But just like locking ourselves at home was sold to us as the price to pay for saving lives during Covid, appealing to the French sense of solidarity or fraternity  written into its national slogan  has been too often used as a way to pacify the masses.
It was a stretch, of course. France wasnt at war with a virus. But the language was so hyperbolic coming from someone in a position of the utmost national authority that people were either frightened or convinced they were fulfilling a patriotic duty by sitting at home all day and watching Netflix. In any case, if you questioned or opposed Macron's war framing, you were branded self-centered and irresponsible by those on whom the rhetoric had worked.
So last week, Macronsaidduring a commemorative address thatwar has returned a few hours from our borders on European soil.There is, of course, no waron French soil, or that of the European Union. France, like its EU allies, voluntarily chose to deplete its military stocks to the detriment of its own national security merely at the request of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky. It also chose to amputate a crucial economic lifeline without a viable backup plan. French nuclear reactors have been eroding and neglected for so long under the state's plan to move away from nuclear power before Macron realized what a bad idea that was that its unclear whether France will have enough energy when crunch time arrives. Its kind of like when the governments Covid panic and war framing served to obscure the state's years of mismanagement of the now-eroded health care system
The sharp slump in the Russian economy at the beginning of the Western sanctions has therefore been largely absorbed and the Wests self-isolation from the rest of the world has only favored the Russian economy.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
