propaganda burger
20220405
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/43558
Nine years before Arendt published herNYRBpiece, Daniel Boorstin brought outThe Image: Or, What happened to the American Dream, an unjustly neglected work. I describe the world of our making, he wrote, how we have used our wealth, our literacy, our technology, and our progress to create the thicket of unreality which stands between us and the facts of life.
The Ukrainian forces have shown consistently that they are willing to slaughter their own people in order to blame Russia. This has been the one constant. These are the people using human shields.
Bocquet noted that he often interacted with the Ukrainian Armed Forces and Azov fighters, who shocked him with their inhumane treatment of Russians, Jews, and people of other races.
One of the volunteers who was at this place the day before, I emphasize that I didn't witness this, but one of the volunteers told me He told me that the day before he saw refrigerator trucks from other cities of Ukraine coming to Bucha and unloading bodies and laying them out in rows. I realized from this that they were staging mass massacres, the interviewee explained.
Now I understand what the young student long ago could not quite grasp. The French simply could not face Ophuls unyielding exposure of who they had been. Ophuls had punctured the enduring bubble of pretend within which they had lived for 25 years after the 1945 victory in Europe.
We are to add this to various other truths now almost universally accepted: The Russian intervention had nothing to do with NATO expansion and was unprovoked  that favored term in the Biden regime. Ukrainian forces have pushed the Russians into retreat: not that the pressure on Kiev was a Russian diversionary tactic to keep Ukrainian forces away from Donbass where the fighting is.
Antnio Guterres, the U.N. secretary-general, was level-headed enough to state, It is essential that an independent investigation leads to effective accountability. This is the only sound position at this point. But we know from a long history how far SGs at the U.N. get with this sort of talk.
He noted that both volunteers and locals were pressured and threatened with imprisonment and reprisals to avoid bad publicity.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
This is our condition. The Ukraine crisis is the mirror that reflects us as we are.
Before proceeding to Bucha, the outrage of the moment, I must reproduce a quotation from that propaganda-is-O.K. pieceThe Timespublished in its March 3 editions. It is from a Twitter user who was distressed that it became public that the Ghost of Kiev turned out to be a ghost and the Snake Island heroes didnt do much by way of holding the fort.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, in turn, called on the international community to conduct an impartial investigation into the provocation in Bucha. He stressed that Russia categorically rejected any allegations of involvement in the deaths in that city and demanded that international leaders should not rush to draw sweeping accusations, but listen to Russia's arguments.
Furthermore, he witnessed preparations for a false flag provocation in Bucha, which looked to accuse the Russian military of massacring civilians.
He added that there were journalists nearby who immediately started filming as soon as piles of bodies were set up.
And what happened to the Mariupol theatre bombing Russian atrocity war crime? It sure did disappear from the news quick! Thats because every piece of evidence showed that Azov locked the civilians in the theatre and then bombed it themselves to blame Russia. The US refused to release any satellite footage, or anything else that would have implicated Russia.
When we entered Bucha by car, I was in the passenger seat. And as we drove through the city, I saw bodies of people on the sides of the streets, and at the same time I saw people's bodies being taken out of trucks and laid out next to the bodies lying on the ground to give the effect of mass killings, Bocquet said.
Why cant we just let people believe some things? this thoughtful man or woman wanted to know. What is wrong, in other words, if thinking and believing nice things that arent true makes people feel better?
Will we have our interim of sorrow, of pity, and emerge from our bubble the better for it? May we someday be so blest.
Patrick Lawrence, a correspondent abroad for many years, chiefly for theInternational Herald Tribune, is a columnist, essayist, author and lecturer. His most recent book isTime No Longer: Americans After the American Century. Follow him on Twitterthefloutist.His web site isPatrickLawrence. Support his work viahis Patreon site.
Former soldier and writer Adrien Bocquet visited Ukraine and told Sputnik that he witnessed preparations for a false flag provocation in the Kiev suburb of Bucha in April.
Themedia is running with itand blowing it all up. But no one who didnt already believe in the Ukraine hoax is going to believe this.
In light of the blatant provocation by Ukrainian radicals in Bucha, Russia has demanded a meeting of the UN Security Council to be convened on Monday, April 4. We will bring to light the presumptuous Ukrainian provocateurs and their Western patrons,Polyansky said in a Telegram post.
I had to pretend a lot to avoid showing my opinions and emotions and above all not to show disagreement with their opinions. Disagreement with their Nazi ideology, especially when they expressed attitudes toward Jews and people of color, because they made very cruel statements. And first of all, I'm talking about hatred towards Russians, because they ... call you Russian dogs. And for all these soldiers, for members of the Azov Battalion, the main task, as they have always told me, is to torture and kill Russian dogs. As a former military man, I was surprised. Because everything showed that their main goal was to torture and kill 'Russian dogs' while they never even talked about the liberation of their population, the volunteer recalled.
After railing against disinformation for years,The Timeswants us to know, disinformation is O.K. in Ukraine because the Ukrainians are our side and they are simply boosting morale.
It is a half-century since Arendt published Lying in Politics. And it is to that time, the 1960s and 1970s, that we must trace the formation of what now amounts to Americas great bubble of pretend. The world as it is has mattered less and less since Arendts time, the world as we have wished it to be has mattered more and more.
People can live in these bubbles a very long time. The unreality within them can be very persuasive. The French finally emerged from their bubble. It was painful, a passage full of angst, but they were fortunate to have escaped.
After the Pentagon Papers came out in 1971, Hannah Ardent published anessayinThe New York Review of Bookscalled Lying in Politics. In it she wrote of Americas slide into a sort of collective psychosis she termed defactualization. Facts are fragile, Arendt wrote, in that they tell no story in themselves. They can be assembled to mean whatever one wants them to mean. This leaves them vulnerable to the manipulations of storytellers.
Ten days into the Russian intervention, the propaganda coming out of Kiev was already so preposterousThe New York Timesfelt compelled to publisha pieceheadlined, In Ukraines Information War, a Blend of Fact and Fiction. This was a baldly rendered apologia for the many stories of questionable veracity, asThe Timesput it, then in circulation. I do loveThe Timesfor its delicate phrasing when describing indelicate matters.
All of this has been reported as fact in theTimesand other major dailies and, of course, by the major broadcasters. There have been pictures. There have been videos, all very persuasive to the eye.
Bucha is a suburb of 35,000 souls a few miles north of Kiev and one of the cities Russian forces began to evacuate on March 29 as peace talks in Istanbul progressed. Two days later the mayor, Anatoly Fedoruk, celebrated the citys liberation in a selfie-speech to his citizenry. He made no mention of anything untoward in Buchas streets, backyards, or public spaces.
This is just made up. Its an atrocity hoax. The Ukraine yet again killed a bunch of its own people  this time in an area where the Ukrainians themselves confirm there were no Russian forces  and blamed it on Russia.
Of course, I'm afraid of that, I'm afraid that they are going to fabricate some things against me in order to silence me or put me in jail, he concluded.
Top Western politicians were quick to back and amplify Kievs claims, with NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg branding the incidenta brutality against civilians we havent seen in Europe for decades.
There was so much of this leaking out on social media and Telegram that eventhe Washington Post last weekwas forced to admit that the Ukrainians main tactic is human shields.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
Four days later, April 2, a special unit of the Ukrainian national police deployed to Bucha. And suddenly the place turns out to be a hellhole: bodies in the streets  410, according to the Prosecutor Generals office in Kiev  evidence of atrocities galore, people bound and shot point blank. The whole nine, in short.
The Sorrow and the Pityshredded to pieces, relentlessly, unblinkingly, the national myth that the French had all been heroes of the resistance, or had aided it, or had in some way stood against the collaborationist Vichy regime of Marshal Ptain, hero of Verdun in World War I, capitulationist in World War II. This was nothing like the case.
In early April, Ukrainian media and social networks published photos and videos of dead bodies lying in the streets, which were allegedly taken in Bucha after the Russian military withdrew. The Kiev authorities accused Russia of massacring civilians.
As a matter of principle we must await evidence of what happened in Bucha, even as we know we are likely to see as much about events there as we have in Mariupol. We also know that to most people neither evidence nor its absence matters.
And then, as evidence mounts that these incidents were staged as propaganda to frame the Russians and draw NATO forces directly into the war, a silence worthy of a Catholic chapel descends. We read no more of the maternity ward that turned out to be an improvised Azov base, or the theater, where citizens were herded, photographed in raggedy blankets, and sent away. Ditto the art school: Nothing more on this since the initial reports began to collapse. No body counts, no mention of the fact that Russian jets did not fly over Mariupol on the days in question.
There was the Ghost of Kiev story, featuring an heroic fighter pilot who turned out to derive from a video game. There were the Snake Island heroes, 13 Ukrainian soldiers who held out to the death on some small speck in the Black Sea, except that it turned out they surrendered, though not before Zelensky awarded themposthumous medals of honor that were not posthumous.
The press, as you can imagine, did not escape Boorstins scrutiny. The reporters task, he wrote memorably, is to find a way to weave these threads of unreality into a fabric the reader will not recognize as entirely unreal.
French writer Adrien Bocquet traveled to Ukraine twice in April on missions to deliver humanitarian aid, medical equipment, and medicines. He visited both the Polish-Ukrainian border and the Kiev suburb of Bucha, observing Russian prisoners being tortured and killed and Ukrainian fighters setting the stage for a false flag frame-up of civilian massacres.
He admitted that he himself started receiving threats after he began talking about the crimes of Ukrainian fighters. He also expressed fears that he would be persecuted by the French authorities.
There was the maternity ward the Russians supposedly bombed in Mariupol. And then the theater, and then the art school. All filled with huddling citizens the Russian air force cynically targeted because this is genocide, as the ever-intemperate Zelensky does not hesitate to assert.
Last week I took it upon myself to watch Marcel OphulsThe Sorrow and the Pity, all four hours of it. This is the famously explosive documentary that forced the French to come to terms with the extent to which they had collaborated with the Nazis during the three years and some they occupied France.
The outrage from Washington, London and Paris  worldwide outrage, this would be  was instant. No demand for an impartial inquiry, forensic inspections, or any such thing. No one asked why corpses left in the street for five days appeared to be fresh, or why the relatives of the dead left them there until Kievs commando unit arrived.
The writer alleges to have witnessed the torture and murder of Russian POWs in a hangar in the northern part of Bucha in early April when the Ukrainian military had regained control of the city.
Graphic footage from Bucha, a town to the northwest of Kiev, emerged over the weekend, showing multiple bodies clad in civilian clothing scattered around.Kiev was quick to blame the Russian military for the incident, with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba alleging it was adeliberate massacre.
In response, the Russian Ministry of Defense said that this was yet another provocation and stressed that not a single Bucha resident had been harmed by the Russian military while the city was under its control. The ministry also noted that all units had fully withdrawn from Bucha on March 30, and the city's exits to the north were not blocked, while the Ukrainian troops were shelling Bucha with artillery, tanks and multiple rocket launchers around the clock.
We were warned that if we took photos or videos we would get imprisonment for ten years or more severe consequences. This ban also applied to the locals. This pressure was exerted by the military, primarily by the Azov men. Today, Europe does not understand how great the pressure is on the population of Ukraine, said the Frenchman.
Moscow will convene an extraordinary meeting of the UN Security Council over an incident in the Ukrainian town of Bucha, Russias deputy permanent representative to the organization, Dmitry Polyansky, said on Sunday. Ukraine has accused Russia of massacring civilians in the town, while Moscow dismissed the incident as having been staged by the Kiev forces.
This film has a special meaning for me. It came out in 1969, just as I arrived in Paris for university studies. France was in an uproar over Ophuls film. It was banned from broadcast on French television until 1981. I did not understand much of this at the time.
You can read that. They try to put as much lipstick on as possible, but ultimately do say that the Ukrainian forces are relying heavily on human shields.
We distributed medicines, including those containing narcotic substances, painkillers, containing morphine. They told us openly: if you don't share with us, you won't get where you need to go. I clearly remember that we had to deliver these painkillers to a children's hospital, and we were told that if we didn't share, we wouldn't get there. Moreover, when we were near Bucha, we were escorted by military guards, they were Azov fighters. They escorted us to one of the hangars and told us to prepare a separate box of morphine-containing drugs to allow us to drive on, Bocquet said.
The Bucha massacre was deliberate. Russians aim to eliminate as many Ukrainians as they can. We must stop them and kick them out. I demand new, devastating G7 sanctions NOW,Kuleba said on Twitter.
A dead body in a Ukrainian street, in other words, can be assigned a meaning that, once it is established, evidence to the contrary cannot be used to erase.
The deliberate falsehood deals withcontingentfacts, Arendt explained in this remarkable piece of work, that is, with matters which carry no inherent truth within themselves, no necessity to be as they are factual truths are never compellingly true.
When I talk about murder and torture, I am talking about the murder and torture of the Russian military. Officers were the first to be executed. I heard shouts when the Azov men asked who the officer was. As soon as they got the answer, they immediately shot that person in the head ... The worst thing is that I saw no human attitude, no emotions, because I saw people being executed, people being tortured, people being killed, shot in their limbs, heads, Bocquet said.
We cannot say we werent warned. The Ghost of Kiev and Snake Island turn out now to be mere prelude, opening acts in the most extensive propaganda operation of the many I can recall.
In my read this is yet another of the false flags the Kiev regime flies almost by the day now. Paying-attention people will not miss the striking similarity between these incidents and the numerous put-up jobs that featured in Washingtons covert operation in Syria and the campaign of those famous moderate rebels who desperately wanted to draw the U.S. into the conflict.
We have been told once again what to think and believe, and most of us will think and believe it.
