rewriting history
20220812
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/45199
But a facade as shaky as Zelenskys can only be maintained for so long. With the economy spiraling into recession and inflation at record highs in both the US and UK, among other NATO countries, theres only so much politicians are willing to do to maintain the narrative, especially as numerous US Democrats are struggling to hold onto their seats in the upcoming midterm elections.
Ukrainians can stop dying tomorrow if the US sat down with Russia and made peace, Pink Floyd co-founder and British rock legend Roger Waters told RT in an interview on Friday. Waters said the West seems determined to fight to the last Ukrainian because there are fortunes to be made from weapons sales, while American elites wish to rule the world.
Novofedorivka and Saky are about 50km 30 miles north of the port of Sevastopol, home of Russia's Black Sea Fleet, which has been leading a blockade of the Ukrainian coastline.
It can be stopped, in my view, tomorrow,Waters told RTs Eunan ONeill.All it takes is for the Americans to come to the table and say OK, lets go with the Minsk agreements. And then it would be over.
Ukrainian-born US congresswoman Victoria Spartz, one of the loudest cheerleaders for calling on the US government to support Ukraine, has been blowing the whistle on the Ukrainian authorities, including Zelensky. Asdetailed by CNNlast week, Spartz has leveled numerous accusations against the Ukrainian government, drawing attention to its deep-seated corruption  and shes asking questions about where all the funds are going.
Spartz isnt alone in her criticism of the Ukrainian government and its corruption. CBS published a documentary called Arming Ukraine detailing how much of Americas military aid to Ukraine has disappeared. Jonas Ohman, founder of the nonprofit Blue-Yellow, provides an assessment in the documentary that only aslittle as 30 of the military aid sent by the US ever reached the front lines.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
Mr Zelensky did not mention Tuesday's blasts but said: "Crimea is Ukrainian and we will never give it up."
Viewed from afar, the extent of Ukrainian corruption appears to go far deeper than the recent shift in the narrative might suggest, and it might come back to bite the West as weapons sent toKiev's forcesare disappearing with no account as to their whereabouts.
But her peers in Congress are reportedly tired of herbellicose rhetoric,arguing that her questions are making Ukraine look bad. After all, Zelenskys image as a clean politician is one that needs to be preserved if members of Congress, especially those with personal stakes in defense contractors, want to keep milking the American taxpayer for continued support towardsthe proxy war against Russia.
The minute he was elected, someone put a gun to his head, I assume, and he changed his mind and didnt do any of that,Waters noted.
On Tuesday,a series of explosions rocked the Saky military base near Novofedorivka,in the west of Crimea - which is near seaside resorts popular with Russian tourists.
Meanwhile, with the training provided to radical neo-Nazi extremists such as the Azov Battalion to combat the Russians, the Wests concerns with white supremacy may become manifest in something more than a few racist trolls on social media.
The BBC, by the tone of this article, is of course biased and supports the US dumb puppet called Pinocchio Zelenskyy.....
Fast forward to the present day: Zelensky is a squeaky clean beacon of strength and icon of liberal democracy. Former British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called him a hero, and numerous celebrities have appeared alongside the Ukrainian leader in photo ops to promote his image.
Regardless of the retraction, the concerns are valid and echo those raised by US intelligence sources whotold CNN in Aprilthat Washington has no idea where the weapons its sending are actually ending up.
And its all because the politicians needed their anti-Russian stand-in state to appear as a dishonestly presented posterboy for liberalism and democracy.
Waters pointed out that the current president of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, ran on the platform of upholding the Minsk agreements and ending the civil war that started after the illegal 2014 coup in Kiev, and that 73 of Ukrainians voted for him based on that,so they didnt have to have a war.
Following the onset of Russias military operation in Ukraine, the media very abruptly ceased its coverage of Ukraines seedy political underbelly  with dirty dealings that go all the way to the top. Even Americas sweetheart, Vladimir Zelensky, did not come away unscathed in those reports.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
No, they have no interest in ending it. They will fight to the last Ukrainian. Or if they do want it to end, why dont they end it? Because its in their hands, always has been. Its in NATOs hands, its in Joe Bidens hands  except its not, its his  whoever pulls his strings hands. And they dont want it to end. Theres huge fortunes to be made,he added, in reference to billions of dollars worth of weapons the US and NATO countries were sending to Kiev.
Russia's defence ministry said ammunition detonated at the base. Meanwhile, Ukraine denied any responsibility for the explosions.
Even more recently, in July, NATO and EU states demanded accountability from Ukraine for the weapons flowing into the country, noting that everything from MANPADs and rifle ammunition, to armored vehicles arent being properly tracked  if at all.
All these weapons land in southern Poland, get shipped to the border and then are just divided up into vehicles to cross: trucks, vans, sometimes private cars,sa Western official told the FT.And from that moment we go blank on their location and we have no idea where they go, where they are used or even if they stay in the country.
Such an assessment belies CBS new claim thatdelivery has improved,which would not account for the billions in munitions and military aid sent to Ukraine since the onset of the conflict.
The war in Ukraine began with Crimea and must end with its liberation, President Volodymyr Zelensky has said.
One must say that the West has no intention of challenging poor idiot Zelensky on his view of history. History is fluid and since Catherine the Great. Crimea has seen various "owners", including the ottoman Empire Turkey. Presently, the "owners" of Crimea are the people living there who overwhelmngly chose to "RETURN TO RUSSIA" in 2014 considering that Sevastopol has beem a Russian Port for a long time  despite Crimea being a gift to Ukraine, by the USSR president, for being a good communist country in 1954-USSR, a gift that was never approved by the Douma. So the present reality is that CRIMEA IS RUSSIAN and Zelensky is pushing his stupidity beyond his unintelligence.
We have fidelity for a short time, but when it enters the fog of war, we have almost zero,said one of the sources.It drops into a big black hole, and you have almost no sense of it at all after a short period of time.
Its one thing for a politician to walk back on campaign promises, but Zelenskys apparent corruption is becoming a liability for his Western supporters.
The Financial Timesreportedthat NATO states called on Kievs leadership to establish detailed inventory lists and tracking for weapons supplied by the West.
In a separate development, Ukrainian officials say 13 people were killed in overnight Russian strikes in the central Dnipropetrovsk region, and another one in the Zaporizhzhia region in the south.
The CBS documentary prompted a massive backlash from Ukraines loudest supporters on social media, with many demanding that the channel retract the report  all because it made Ukraine look bad. AndCBS capitulated, putting out a retraction to state that the information was old and that thedelivery has improved.The documentary is beingupdatedaccordingly. Its anyone's guess whether CBS got the call from on high, or if it simply caved in to the demands of Twitter users with Ukrainian flags in their profile.
Apart from highly-regulated armaments such as the US state-of-the-art HIMARS mobile artillery pieces, much of the weaponry sent to Ukraine has simply disappeared into a black hole  a fact made evident by concerns raised by Swedish policewho warnedthatthere is probably a high risk that flows of illegal weapons will enter Sweden.
With so little accountability about where any of the weapons are going, and an unwillingness to face the facts, the West may stand to face something akin to a renewal of the War on Terror, especially with existing threats such as Al-Qaeda and ISIS already in the process of regrouping and rebuilding  and potentially rearming with Western weapons.
But for all the pomp and grandeur surrounding Zelensky, the issue of Ukraines corruption is once again rearing its head. Reality is setting in for many in the West  much of the funds and armaments directed towards Ukraines military are going unaccounted for, and average Americans and Europeans are paying the price for it. Literally.
Eventually, Zelensky will vanish in the arsehole sorry I mean the annal of history, DESPITE BEING SUPPORTED 100 PER CENT BY THE WEST THAT HATES PUTIN.....
Just as it was with Americas support for the Mujahideen in the 1980s in fighting a proxy war against the Soviets, itsbacking of the Ukrainian government may one day reap a whirlwind.And just like its involvement in Afghanistan, decades ago, supporting the enemy of my enemy involves dealing with shady characters and whitewashing their wrongdoings.
Crimea is internationally recognised as part of Ukraine - but the Black Sea peninsula was annexed by Russia in 2014 after a referendum which the global community sees as illegitimate. Many Ukrainians see this as the start of their war with Russia.
Just months prior to the conflict, mainstream publications, such asThe Guardian, were reporting on Zelenskys offshore connections, as exposed by the Pandora Papers. As detailed in the report, Zelensky, who campaigned for office on an anti-corruption platform, failed to disclose the extent of his offshore assets and his connections to some of the very oligarchs he promised to strip of political influence  and continued to treat everything as business as usual once he came to power.
The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT.
Ukraine's president was speaking after a string of explosions hit a Russian airbase there, killing one person.
