the devils threepronged fork
20220523
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/44125
In these circumstances, its an illusory hope that that Russias opponents will listen to reason or be represented by more moderate political figures as a result of internal upheavals in their countries. There has been a fundamental shift towards disengagement and confrontation even in the political classes of countries where the attitude towards Moscow had until now been determined primarily by important economic interests Germany, Italy, France, Austria, Finland. Thus, the systemic confrontation between the West and Russia is likely to be protracted.
Gaddafi had become so close to the FreemasonsNeocons in the US that when they lost power in 2008, he was deemed a liability. This is the simple truth of it.
War is always the most severe and cruel test of durability, endurance and inner strength. Today, and for the foreseeable future, Russia is a country at war. It will be able to continue its trajectory only if the authorities and society unite on the basis of solidarity and mutual obligations, mobilize all available resources and at the same time expand opportunities for enterprising citizens, remove obvious obstacles that weaken the country from within, and develop a realistic strategy to deal with external adversaries.
Foreign policy has always been closely linked with domestic policy, in the loose meaning of the word, including economics, social relations, science, technology, culture, etc. Facing a new type of warfare which Russia is forced to wage, the line is erased between what was called the front line and the rear in previous eras. In such a fight,it's not just impossible to win, it is impossible to survive, if the elites remain fixated on further personal enrichment and society is left in a depressed and overly relaxed state.
The success of this strategy would allow the US-led West to finally resolve the"Russia question"and create favorable prospects for victory in the confrontation with China.
What we saw in Nazi Germany, the weaponization of the ignorant masses, not just in Germany but later through the Waffen SS, Ukraine, the Baltic States, Norway, Holland and others, was the weaponization of Christian Nationalism, rooted in occult fantasies and racial hatred and continually repackaged as pro-family or anti-crime.
I can confirm right now that we have several injuries, adults and students, and we do have some deaths. The suspect is deceased at this point,Arredondo said, adding that the shooter appears to have acted alone.
The all-powerful Israel lobby had fed dozens of ignorant ruralistsevangelicals into congress, Dispensationalists who represented both conservative values, meaning racism and hatred of educated elites and a suicidal desire for nuclear Armageddon.
We begin with fake Islamic radicalism and end with an equally fake war on terror that wholly replaced the painfully missing Cold War and morphed, ever so quietly, into the equally fake EastWest conflagration being waged in Ukraine today.
Following this back in time a bit, the issue of culpability for 911 comes to mind as well. Three towers are hit and obliterated, supposedly by hijacked aircraft both incapable of such maneuver and destructive power.
The American legal system was an easy target for control. Courts in the United States have always been politicized and traditionally exist only to protect monetary interests from oversight through the Federalist Society.
Then there were always the gas attacks. After all, you cant cut off food supplies, bomb water facilities and knock out electricity for a city like Damascus unless you are retaliating for a gas attack.
This circumstance almost completely nullifies Russias previous foreign policy strategy towards the US and EU, which was aimed at the West recognizing Russian security interests, ensuring cooperation on issues of global strategic stability and European security, non-interference in each others internal affairs, and building mutually beneficial economic and other ties with Washington and Brussels. However, recognizing that the previous agenda is now irrelevant does not mean we should abandon active politics and completely submit to the circumstances.
Alongside the development of bilateral relations, a new priorityshould be given to the multilateral interaction between states in the non-Western part of the world. There should be a greater focus on building international institutions. The Eurasian Economic Union, the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Russia-India-China grouping, BRICS, and the mechanisms for dialogue and partnership between the Russian Federation and ASEAN, Africa and Latin America need a boost for further development. Russia is capable of playing a leading role in developing a framework ideology for these organizations, harmonizing the interests of partner countries and coordinating on common agendas.
Gus is an atheist and DOES NOT BELIEVE IN THE DEVIL, but it makes a powerful image of psychological manipulation to create and serve the US Empire. May the US Empire fall on its own fork and eventually rot.
One must note that when Gaddafi came under attack by Obama and Biden, he turned to Israel for help, but to no avail.
Moscow needs to assess carefully the reasonableness, possibilities and limits of situational cooperation with various political and social groups in the West, as well as with other temporary potential allies outside the bloc whose interests coincide in some respects with those of Russia. The task is not to inflict damage on the enemy anywhere, but to use various irritants to divert the opponents attention and resources from the Russian focus, as well as to influence the domestic political situation in the US and EU in a direction favorable toMoscow.
Managing Christianity as a tool of conquest is historically observable in these Roman military actions against early Christianity by Romanized Christianity.
Freemasonry melded well with Judaism under the Likudists, themselves Freemasons and in the US under a bizarre militarized form of Christian heresy. We will examine this process.
Keeping Assange in prison and subjecting him to daily psychological torture is a true indication of the nefarious spirit of the US Empire.... Please understand.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
Though the historical record has long been under attack, twisted and cleansed, none of this began in recent centuries.
It was the American eugenics movement that was transplanted by the Rothschild partnered HarrimanBush banking family to Germany when that nation, in 1933, adopted the eugenics law of the State of Virginia as its own.
Taken at face value, the current struggles in the world are based on struggles for individual liberty as described in the 19th century by English philosopher John Stewart Mill. The planet is ravaged on a daily basis as part of an ongoing struggle, we are told, between good and evil, a struggle intended to elevate those who survive as part of an ongoing utopian experiment embraced by American liberalism.
The dice have been cast and they have been loaded in favour of the cheating US Empire.
The most important objective in this regard is developing a strategy for an emerging confrontation between the United States and China. The partnership nature of Russian-Chinese relations is the main thing that positively distinguishes the current hybrid war against the West from the previous cold one. Although Beijing is not a formal military ally of Moscow, the strategic partnership between the two countries has been officially characterized as more than a formal alliance. Russia's largest economic partner has not joined the anti-Russian sanctions, but Chinese companies and banks are deeply integrated into the global economy and are wary of US and EU sanctions, thus limiting the possibility of interaction. There is mutual understanding between the leaders of Russia and China, and the people of the two countries are friendly towards each other. Finally, the United States views both countries as its adversaries  China as its main competitor and Russia as the main current threat.
Similarly, the military academies in the US, all of them, were taken over though their chaplaincies, with the candidate selection process honed to select uniquely morally challenged appointees to build a push button military to wage holy war without ethical considerations.
The transition from a confrontational, but still conditionally peaceful, state of economic relations between Russia and the West to a situation of economic war requires Russias deep revision of its foreign economic policy. This policy can no longer be implemented primarily on the basis of economic or technological expediency.
In relations with the West, the strategy of Russia will continue to address the containment of the nuclear, conventional and cyber abilities of the US, and deterring it from exerting military pressure on Russia and its allies, or even attacking them. Never since the end of the Soviet-American confrontation has the prevention of nuclear war been more relevant than now. The new challenge after achieving strategic success in Ukraine will be to force NATO countries to actually recognize Russian interests and to secure the new borders of Russia.
Worse still, as many scholars attest, the Albigensian Crusade, precursor to so many fake wars to be waged later on, may have represented the death of Christianity in the West, particularly at the hands of the Dominicans and later the Jesuits.
The asymmetry between the opponents is huge, particularly the imbalance between the forces and capabilities available to them. Based on this, the US and its allies have set much more radical goals than the relatively conservative containment and deterrence strategies used toward the Soviet Union. They are in fact striving to exclude Russia from world politics as an independent factor, and to completely destroy the Russian economy.
Let us take a second and examine the religious hypothesis. Few who examine events in Iraq and Syria over the past decade have not considered that the ISIS and al-Qaeda in attacking nations targeted by the US while lovingly cooperating with both Israel and Saudi Arabia, and Turkey as well, let us not forget them, are as much CIA constructs as the Mujahedeen in Afghanistan.
Those that dont are most often members of the radical Catholic sect, Opus Dei, which dominated the CIA and Department of Justice.
The immediate and most important task of this strategy is to achieve strategic success in Ukraine within the parameters that have been set and explained to the public. It is necessary to clarify the stated objectives of the operation and use all opportunities to achieve them. The continuation of what many now call a "phoneywar" leads to a prolongation of military activities, increased losses and a decrease in the global stature of Russia. The solution to most of the countrys other strategic objectives now depends directly on whether and when it succeeds in achieving strategic success in Ukraine.
In the field of foreign policy, the most pressingobjective is clearly to strengthen the independence of Russia as a civilization, as a major independent global player, to provide an acceptable level of security and to create favorable conditions for all-round development. In order to achieve this objective in the current conditions  which aremore complex and difficultthan even recently  there is a need for an effective integrated strategy  general political, military, economic, technological, informational and so on.
Now it is necessary to move from retaliatory steps to initiatives that will strengthen Russias position in the total economic war declared by the West, allowing itinflict significant damage on the enemy. In this regard, a closer alignment of efforts of the state and the business communitys activities is required, as well as implementation of a coordinated policy in such sectors as finance, energy, metallurgy, agriculture, modern technology especially related to information and communications, transport, logistics, military exports and economic integration  both within the framework of the Eurasion Economic Union and the Union State of Russia and Belarus and taking into account the new realities in the Donbass and the northern Black Sea region.
With incredible consistency, Christian Nationalism, a euphemism for fascism, has represented a marriage between militarism and totalitarianism.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
The case we will make is this, governments are little more than middle management in centuries-old organized crime cabals. It is all theater, nothing more. The blood, the fear and suffering is real and the audience was issued tickets at birth.
Behind it all, supposedly again, was a radical Islamic movement rooted in the CIA sponsored Mujahedeen and headed by Oxford educated Osama bin Laden, long established as a CIA asset.
It was Donald Trump who brought American fascism full circle. Getting its roots from a century and a half of racial and ethnic strife driven by a civil war, unwanted Jewish, Italian and Slavic immigration and Black migration to Northern cities, a perfect storm took hold.
However, when Syria began winning the war and expelled ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorist organizations, both banned in Russia from Aleppo, it was suddenly a brutal invasion against a population living under moderate Islamic governance.
The stand-off between Russia and the Western nations, which has been developing since 2014, escalated into an active confrontation with the start of the Russian military operation in Ukraine, back in late February. In other words, the Great Game has ceased to be a game. It has become total war, though a hybrid one so far, since the armed conflict in Ukraine is not of a full-scale nature at present.
Remember as well, in all the Hollywood movies, the "president of planet Earth" is American, even in comedies such a Men In Black.... This is not accidental or incidental. This has been a powerful trick designed to give a sense of exclusivity and indispensability to the US nation, which apart from having started the present beef with Russia by having NATO "moving East", is also creating a deliberate confusion about China and Taiwan. I say confusion because the President is saying one thing but the administration is saying another... THIS IS DELIBERATE. This is a devious trick of the "devil".
When Roman Emperor Constantine called the Council of Nicaea in 325 AD, a war against Christian heresy began. The heretics, as study will reveal, were followers of the teachings of Jesus Christ, teachings found inconvenient to an empire that filled the role of first global superpower.
All are deeply rooted in the tenets of fascism. When German fascism under Hitler was described as a death cult, it is the American roots of German fascism that are being hidden and their relationship with end times prophesies of Scofield and the Dispensationalists and their related obsession with eugenics. Americans states, starting in the late 19th century, began writing eugenics theories into law, empowering state governments to sterilize Jews, mentally unfit or others at will, based on theories generously funded by the robber barons.
Without understanding the layers of control and deception built into American society, predicting or even surviving interaction in a unipolar world is impossible.
Up to 100 million Americans follow the teachings of Scofield, including almost all Republican members of congress and almost all leaders of the American military.
At least, the intervention of Russia to defend the autonomy of the Donbass, possibly towards an annexation, in order to afford more protection to this region, has forced the massively powerful Empire USANATOEurope to show its hand to the extend of ruining the entire world economy to prevent Russia being secure while threatening Russia's own existence...
These racial and ethnic theorists continue to this day supporting an agenda of anti-immigration, racial separation and suppression of individual freedoms. Recent moves in the US congress have been made to outlaw interracial marriages and put special constraints on voting by undesirable minorities.
The most important of these broader foreign policy tasks is not the overthrow of the US-centric world order by any means and at any price its erosion is due to independent factors, but a Russian success in Ukraine would be a painful blow to US global hegemony and of course, not a return to the fold of this set-upon more favorable terms, but the consistent building of a new system of international relations together with non-Western countries, and the formation, in cooperation with them, of a new world orderand its consequent promotion. We need to work on this task now, but it will only be possible to act fully after a strategic success in Ukraine.
Little is currently known about the shooter or his relationship with the school. Uvalde and state police, as well as FBI and ATF agents, are investigating the scene.
RUSSIA AND CHINA MIGHT HAVE TO DEFEND "HARDER" AND WE'LL ALL GO TO HELL TO KILL OFF THE US DEVIL...
The IIF's mission is to support the financial industry in the prudent management of risks to develop sound industry practices and to advocate for regulatory, financial and economic policies that are in the broad interests of its members and foster global financial stability and sustainable economic growth.
Thinking back to Syria, one of so many events come to mind. When the US decided to occupy Syria, it was driven by a need to stop bloodthirsty ISIS headchoppers who were terrorizing large areas they occupied in both Syria and Iraq.
Uvalde police chiefPete Arredondodescribed the shooting asa mass casualty incidentthat took place around 11:30 am local time. Robb Elementary School has students in grades 2-4.
The role of the IIF is to "make predictions" that will influence the NOW markets. It is economic VOODOO with the financial institutions dancing around a gigantic pyre of DEBT, while shouting incantations to the DOLLAR GOD... See also:https:yourdemocracy.netdrupalnode42040
Its called liberalism. It denotes the self-ordained task taken on by adherents to liberate others, even if it means death or a lifetime of slavery.
I have modified the cartoon at top. The THREE-PRONGED FORK trident of the devil are the US Empire. Wahhabism is SAUDI ARABIA DOING the dirty work of the Empire via "TERRORISM". Zionism is a great part of the US Empire's brains and tentacular AGGRESSION with "official" terrorism. The manipulations of the Empire are many, are clever and are complex. The aim is simple: own the entire planet. And there is a Zionist sub-prong to this fork: Christianity and its many formats, from the fascist Catholic Church to the evangelical nutters.
The framing of new geopolitical, geo-economic and military-strategic realities in the western part of the former Soviet Union, in the Donbass and Novorossiya, becomes extremely important and relevant in this context. A long-term priority here is the further development of allied relations and integration ties with Belarus. This category also includes strengthening Russias security in Central Asia and the South Caucasus.
US policy brings Russia and China even closer. Under a hybrid war, political and diplomatic support from China, and even limited economic and technological cooperation with it, are very important for Russia. Moscow does not currently have the opportunity to force even closer rapprochement with Beijing, but there is no necessity in too close an alliance.
A separate task is to revise the Russian approach and policy position on climate change issues under the changed conditions. It is also important to determine the permissible limits of Russia's financial, economic and technological dependence on neutral countries primarily China, and launch a technological partnership with India.
The Federalist Society is a a dark funded organization tasked with building a fascist America though channeling morally unfit young people into prestigious law schools, top law firms and directly into the nations courts. The current collapse of the Supreme Court of the US is entirely due to the machinations of the Federalist Society.
In the context of rebuilding foreign economic relations and creating a new model of the global order, the most important directions are cooperation with world powers  China and India as well as Brazil  and with leading regional players  Turkey, ASEAN countries, the Gulf states, Iran, Egypt, Algeria, Israel, South Africa, Pakistan, Argentina, Mexico and others.
Such an attitude on the part of the adversary does not imply room for any serious dialogue, since there is practically no prospect of a compromise, primarily between the United States and Russia, based on a balance of interests. The new dynamic of Russian-Western relations involves a dramatic severance of all ties, and increased Western pressure on Russia the state, society, economy, science and technology, culture, and so on on all fronts. This is no longer a source of discord between the opponents of the Cold War period, who then became unequal partners. It looks more like the drawing of a clearer dividing line between them, with the West refusing to accept even the perfunctory neutrality of individual countries.
At least14 students and a teacher were shot and killed at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas on Tuesday, according toGovernor Greg Abbott. The suspect, an 18-year-old male, also reportedly shot his own grandmother before the school slaying, and is now dead.
"Re-establishing" the Russian Federationon a politically more sustainable, economically efficient, socially just and morally sound basis becomes urgently necessary. We have to understand that the strategic defeat that the West, led by the United States, is preparing for Russia will not bring peace and a subsequent restoration of relations. It is highly probable that the theatre of the "hybrid war" will simply move from Ukraine further to the east, into the borders of Russia, and its existence in its current form will be contested.
Abbott told reporters that the suspect, named as Salvador Ramos, drove to Robb Elementary School armed with a handgun and possibly a rifle, and thatit is believedthat he was shot dead by responding police officers.
The Institute's Board of Directors3includes 43 leading CEOs and Chairs, led by ChairmanAxel Weber Vice Chairmen Brian Porter also Treasurer of the IIF,Walter Kielholz, Piyush Gupta and Candido Bracher. The IIF's President and Chief Executive Officer isTimothy D. Adams, who has held the position since February 1, 2013.4The Institute is headquartered inWashington, D.C., and has satellite offices in Beijing, Singapore, Dubai and Brussels.
Up to now, we have merelycelebrated the Victory won by previous generations in 1945. The current challenge is whether we are able to save and develop the country. To do this, Russia's strategy must overcome the circumstances surrounding and constraining it.
To understand the script, one must understand the agenda or at least that part of the agenda easily visible. We will try to go beyond that but we must begin somewhere:
The long trail of bible thumping frauds that dominate American religious life began with Cyrus Ignerson Scofield, the creator of the Scofield Reference Bible, a hodgepodge of grotesque heresies based on fabricated biblical prophesy.
For several years now, possibly since the inception of this YD site see"The Age of Deceit", we have warned about the American dangerous spirit and the desire of America to "conquer" the ENTIRE world. Along the way, the US Empire has spluttered here and there, but its momentum has been set in motion, probably since the Russian Revolution 1917. It can sound far fetched, but the HISTORICAL SIGNS ARE VERY OBVIOUS TO THOSE WHO DARE TO LOOK. Furthermore, there are documents AND MASSIVE PROPAGANDA pointing to this "ideal".
It is Russia itself that should be at the center of Moscow'sforeign policy strategy during this period of confrontation with the West and rapprochement with non-Western states. The country will have to be increasingly on its own. The outcome of the confrontation is not predetermined though. Circumstances affect Russia, but Russian politics can also change the world around it. The main thing to keep in mind is that no strategy can be developed without a clear set of goals. We need to start with ourselves, with an awareness of who we are, where we come from and what we strive for, based on our values and interests.
Thus, up to 100 million American conservatives, voting as a bloc, follow a centralized party line with little or no reason or discernment.
The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT.
Historical disinformationists and launderers have, for generations, tried to tie the roots of fascism to German based occultism. What they are hiding is the real basis for fascism in the American religious movement, a Christian heresy known as Dispensationism.
It is obvious that the US has made sure Europe is part of the plan. The European have been tragically manipulated by the USA and have been unable to see the "reverse psyop"they have been subjected to, through their own neurotic incompetence and desire for a buck.
It is in these areas, rather than in traditional Euro-Atlantic arenas, that the main resources of diplomacy, foreign economic relations, and the information and cultural spheres should be deployed. Whereas in the military sphere the main focus for Russia now is the West, in other areas it is the rest of the world  the larger and more dynamic part.
TheCONQUEST OF THE HEARTLANDby the US Empire has presently been activated in Ukraine. It' not a game, but a dangerous situation that RUSSIA CANNOT AFFORD TO LOOSE.
Measures aimed at de-dollarizing and repatriating offshore finances are under implementation. Business elites often incorrectly described as "oligarchs" who previously took profits outside the country are forcibly "nationalized". Import substitution is underway. The Russian economy is shifting focus from the policy of raw materials export to the development of closed-cycle production processes. So far, however, the country hasmostly been defensive and reactive.
When the War on Terror began, Gaddafi was laundered back into the good graces of the Bush administration and made a full partner in the global program of torture and kidnapping known as rendition.
TheInstitute of International FinanceIIF is the association or trade group for the global financial services industry. It was created by 38banksof leading industrialized countries in 1983 in response to theinternational debt crisisof the early 1980s,12and has since expanded to represent more than 450 firms from more than 70 countries. IIF members include commercial and investment banks, asset managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, hedge funds, central banks and development banks.
Without the War on Terror, the US would have remained de-militarized at the end of the Cold War. Radical Islam was the construct for the remaking of a unipolar world where the United States, as bully boy nominee for centuries-old organized crime now freely invades, bombs and assassinates in over six dozen nations.
Moreover, the shared anti-Russian agenda has already become an important structural element of unity within the European Union, while strengthening American leadership in the Western world.
The US Empire controls the world economy through various organisms such ass the IMF, the World Bank and "Fort Knox"....
To those who observe from safety, free from being liberated by a Hellfire missile fired from a drone, the most painful part of the process is the hypocrisy.
When we add this to the Inquisition, originally aimed at Jews and Muslims and the Churchs war on witchcraft, we can follow a continual theater of slaughter that has continued to this day.
Abbott announced the death toll at a press conference, shortly after local hospitals reported an influx of children with gunshot wounds. Earlier reports suggested that the death toll had been much lower, and that the suspect had been taken into custody.
These are but passing scenes in a larger play, minimally multi-generational, one meant to save the world from itself and, in the process, re-engineer mankind at the point of a sword with sufficient brutality to prevent new outbreaks of individuality or social expression outside what is authorized.
Reality tells a different story. Governments are bought and sold. Leaders are groomed to play rolls, Zelensky, Boris Johnson, acting President Ronald Reagan, as theater for the hoi polloi.
Now, it has to be said that MOST Americans have no idea about the way they have been manipulated  including those who believe that peace can be achieve by sending more weapon to Ukraine. It's delusional.
Gordon Duff is a Marine combat veteran of the Vietnam War that has worked on veterans and POW issues for decades and consulted with governments challenged by security issues. Hes a senioreditor and chairman of the board ofVeterans Today, especially for the online magazineNew Eastern Outlook.
The challenge Russia is facing has no equivalents in our history. Its not just that we have neither allies nor even potential partners left in the West. Frequent comparisons with the Cold War of the mid and late 20th century are inaccurate and rather disorienting. In terms of globalization and new technology, the modern form of confrontation is not only of a larger scale than the previous one, it is also much more intense. Ultimately, the main field of the ongoing battle is located inside the country.
That the US sought to represent jet fuel, jellied kerosene barely capable of starting campfire, as vaporizing two of the planets largest buildings is an abuse of reason.
Along with eugenics laws, Hitlers Germany also received financing to rebuild their military as well, a generous stream of cash from financial groups directly tied to the US Federal Reserve and their parent banks under the Bank of England and Rothschild family.
The Wests been liberating folks for a long time, often with a bible in one hand and a machine gun in another.
As Christianity divided, East and West, the cleansing continued, with the Albigensian Crusade of the 13th century unleashed by Anti-Pope Innocent III. History has laundered this German born fake pope who ruled from Avignon, France, appointed by a powerful financial cabal and tasked with destroying Cathar Christianity and seizing large swaths of Southern France. Hundreds of thousands were butchered in one of historys darkest events.
The article was prepared based of the author's speech at the30th Assembly of the Council for Foreign and Defense Policyand originally published in Russian onglobalaffairs.ru.
Gas attacks are made possible, as a tool of freedom when those staging them also control the corrupt organs of investigation and the first responders who make the videos, no matter how many retakes are needed.
One iteration of global order-keeping which was implement in the 1970s was called Operation Gladio. Gladio used NATO weapons and cash to organize and militarize Freemasons across Europe, Central and Latin America and in the Middle East. Freemasonry was the foundation of post Ottoman Turkey and at the root of all Western backed Middle East regimes. Freemason organizations run the gambit of beliefs and methodologies but include the Muslim Brotherhood, ISIS and al Qaeda.
Anti-Freemason leaders like Nassar, Sadat, Saddam Hussein and Syrias Assads are Baathists and vilified by the West. Gaddafi, on the other hand, was a Freemason and agreed to secretly host Gladio bases as part of a secret protocol with the CIA this author was privy to.
If US-Chinese contradictions aggravate, Russia should be ready to support Beijing politically, as well as provide on a limited scale and under certain conditions, military-technical assistance to it, while avoiding direct participation in the conflict with Washington. Opening a second front in Asia is unlikely to significantly ease the pressure of the West on Russia, but it will dramatically increase tension in relations between Russia and India.
