the souschef and the crook
20220805
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/45107
As part of the CIAs clandestinestay-behind operationsbroadly known as Operation Gladio in central and eastern Europe, Ukrainians recruited from OUN and other ultra-nationalist groups were used to start up an insurgency movement against the Soviet state that involved the smuggling of weapons, the uses of covert radio transmissions, spies, commandos, banditry, assassins, and sabotage. According to a declassified originally secret CIA history study, theAgency refused to extraditethe murderous OUN leader to the Soviet Union in order to keep the underground movement and their destabilisation efforts in Ukraine intact. Instead, two branches of the CIA, theOffice of Policy Coordination OPCfor covert operations and the Office of Special Operations OSO for clandestine projects in which the US government provided cover, both protected the OUN and worked closely with the anti-Soviet Ukraine Insurgent Army and engaged in psychological warfare activities directed against Communist Polish, Czechoslovakian, and Romanian targets bordering Ukraine. OPC and OSO agrees that the Ukrainian organisation Ukrainian Supreme Council of Liberation offers unusual opportunities for penetration of the USSR, and assisting in the development of underground movements behind the Iron Curtain.
During the specified period, we can reliably confirm the elimination of 335 foreign fighters,the ministry said, adding that another 398 had left the territory of Ukraine voluntarily.
There is an easy segue from racial to national prejudice, which is why the biased US mainstream media coverage of the invasion also showed a disinclination to analyse the nature, history, and causes of the conflict. The MSM also censor voices that question the dominant narrative so as not to populate the discourse with alternative ways of interpreting the crisis. No source in the MSM could be found focusing on the role of the US in inciting the war, on the recent and related history of Americas own invasions, or on the effects of sanctions on ordinary Russian citizens. At leasthalf of the Russiansselected for American news interviews were picked solely because of their opposition to the war, even though 80 of Russians two months into the warsupported the invasion.
What has changed in US relations with Russia is not just the superpowers aggressiveness  the posting of NATO bases all the way to the perimeter of Moscow, enabling first strike capability  but as important, its abandonment of diplomacy. Even Ronald Reagan, who foamed about the evil empire, engaged in dtente and military treaty-making with a far more formidable foe, compared to Russia that is, the Soviet Union. Trump and members of his inner-circle were accused by the Clinton Democrats of treason for merely talking to Russian officials. And in the ongoing Russiagate hysteria, the mainstream media have jettisoned all pretence of balanced and objective journalism.
During the early part of World War II, Bandera had been in charge of OUNs more ruthless faction that collaborated with the Nazi occupation and actively participated in the slaughter of millions of Poles, Ukrainian Jews, and ethnically Russian communists in the region. A CIA clandestine operations chief in Berlin at the time,Peter Sichel, stated that They OUN were Nazis, pure and simple, and indeed, Worse than that, because a lot of them did the Nazis dirty work for them. More recently, under pressure from the extreme right-wing forces in the country, including the Azov Battalion, Bandera was proclaimed by the president, Viktor Yushchenko, as Hero of Ukraine, the countrys highest honour, a status that was later abrogated by his successor, Victor Yanukovych.
Opposing Zelenskyys nationalist and heroic image, thePandora Papersrevealed that he and his show business partners in a television production company, Kvartal 95, were invested in a network of offshore firms dating back to at least 2012. This was the year that his company began producing regular TV station content owned by UkrainianIsraeliCypriot billionaire Ihor Kolomoisky, an oligarch and political patron of Zelenskyy dogged by allegations of multi-billion-dollar fraud. The offshore stashing of assets by Zelenskyy and his partners to avoid tax obligations also include three prime properties in the center of London. His business associates have been convenientlyturned into government officials.
The predominantly Russian-speaking Crimea used to be part of Ukraine, but joined Russia back in March 2014 following a referendum on reunification which came after the Maidan coup in Kiev.
The military blocs chief described the Russia-Ukraine conflict asthe most dangerous situation in Europe since World War Twoadding that Moscow must not be allowed to win.If Russia wins the war, Russian President Vladimir Putin will be convinced that violence works. Then other neighboring countries may be next,Stoltenberg argued.
In December 2021, Moscow appealed to the US and the alliance for legal guarantees that NATO would cease its expansion and refrain from deploying weapon systems capable of striking deep into Russian territory. However, NATO replied that it was for its members and accession candidates to decide whether to join the alliance or not.
Local authorities have confirmed that at least one person was killed in the incident, with five more hospitalized. The number of injured was later updated to nine.
The Russia-Ukraine news coming out of the MSM leans heavily on a Manichaean depiction of the two heads of state. On the one hand, there is the evil spirited Putin with grand ambitions of restoring the Soviet Union by running over the former Warsaw Pact countries, which does not require any evidence, as there is no penalty for publishing or expressing falsehoods about Russia and Putin. In Joe Bidens diplomatic descriptives, Putin is a killer, war criminal, murderous dictator, and a pure thug, and yet in Europe Biden is still treated as the preeminent world leader and statesman. And then theres the modern-day Joan of Arc in the person of Volodymyr Zelenskyy , the State Departments heroic nationalist, with fawning admiration from the Western media. G.W. Bush called him the Winston Churchill of our time.
Multiple notable British, American and other Western journalists have focused on the Ukrainian flight within a narrative frame of racial supremacist ideology. An English TV anchor working for Al Jazeera, Peter Dobbie, for example, had this to say about Ukrainian war victims: These are prosperous, middle-class people  not people trying to get away from areas in North Africa. They look like any European family that you would live next door to. In Britain, an ITV correspondent,Lucy Watson, speaking from a Polish train station where Ukrainian immigrants had arrived, expressed shock at seeing white war refugees: Now the unthinkable has happened to them. And this is not a developing, Third World nation. This is Europe! Her American counterpart in Poland, NBC News reporter Kelly Cobiella, wept in white solidarity: To put it bluntly, these are not refugees from Syria, these are refugees from neighbouring Ukraine . Theyre Christians, theyre white. Theyre very similar to people who live in Poland. CBS news correspondentCharlie DAgataoffered a straightforward assessment that Ukrainians are relatively white and therefore more worthy than Arabs: This isnt a place  with all due respect  like Iraq or Afghanistan. This is arelatively civilised,relatively European I have to choose those words carefully too  city Kiev where you wouldnt expect that or hope that its going to happen italics added. On Frances premier cable news channel, BFM TV, the journalist Phillipe Corbe also applied the racial hierarchy scoring of tragedy: Were not talking here about Syrians. Were talking about Europeans leaving in cars that look like ours to save their lives.
The organised US government efforts to destabilise Russia, which began with the Cold War era CIA, has never abated, and Ukraine remains the prime corridor for carrying out the dismemberment of Russian sovereignty. A Rand Corporation study for the US Army in 2019 makes very clear what has caused the conflict in Ukraine, and its not the one-sided narrative given by the New York Times and CNN. Its about beggaring Russia. The report provides the Army and presumably the White House with the specific economic, geopolitical, and military tactics and strategy for bringing about this end:
We must remember that in time of war what is said on the enemys side of the front is always propaganda, and what is said on our side of the front is truth and righteousness, the cause of humanity and a crusade for peace
Bolstering defences on NATOs eastern flank is crucial, amid efforts to prevent a Russian victory in Ukraine, the secretary general emphasized. Nevertheless, he reiterated that the alliance was nota party to the conflictand will not send troops into Ukraine.
It also reported that between July 8 and August 5, 175 mercenaries joined Kievs forces, but said that its not enough to cover the losses in their ranks.
When he fell out with the postwar OUN-B based in Germany, the CIA smuggled him, along with hundreds of German Nazis, including war criminals like SS officerOtto von Bolschwinga leading organiser of the Final Solution, to the US. Lebed worked in New York City under a false name as an anti-Soviet intelligence asset. The Ukrainians then and now were regarded as instruments of a Cold War policy designed to take down the Soviet UnionRussia. Former members of the Ukrainian underground now in the United States, theCIA wrote in a top-secret document, will be exploited to the fullest extent practicable.
Since the start of Russias military operation on February 24, Ukraine has received substantial military aid from NATO countries, with billions of dollars worth of weaponry pouring into the country  something Moscow has repeatedly criticized.
In July, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview to RT that Ukraine was beingpumpedwith Western military hardware, and moreover,forced to use these weapons in an increasingly riskier way,thus keeping Kiev from makingany constructive steps.
The circuit of corporate state-MSM propaganda is constantly renewed within the echo chambers of Washington. AsEdward Herman and Noam Chomskynoted in their classic study of news propaganda, few journalists who cover foreign policy are willing to jeopardise their privileged perches in the corporate media by seeking sources outside of the national power complex  the White House, State Department, DoD, CIA, and DC-area think tanks. JournalistStephen Kinzerhas said that the worst aspect of the closure of public debate on US policy in eastern Europe is that the press is such an eager participant, in its over-the-top demonisation of Putin and its portrayal of Russia as a predatory enemy about to crush us. This has led newspapers like his former employer, theNew York Timesto become even more militant than the Pentagon.
Gerald Sussman is professor of urban studies and international and global studies at Portland State University. He is the author and editor of several books, including The Propaganda Society: Promotional Culture and Politics in Global Context 2011.
 Exploit tensions in the South Caucasus, reduce Russian influence in Central Asia and challenge Russian presence in Moldova
Apart from the anti-Russian prejudices that have infected mainstream media coverage of the Soviet UnionRussia since the Bolshevik Revolution and for the imperialist-minded British, the Crimean War, there is a new coalition of neoconservative forces in the Democratic Party and its allies in the intelligence establishment, the IT industries, and major media institutions in the US and UK that have mobilised public opinion in the US. Since the G. W. Bush administration, broadcast and cable news channels have been packed with foreign policy analysts drawn from the community of retired intelligence officers, high-ranking military and defence officials, and politicians, many of them concurrentlyon the dole of defence industries, but without viewing audiences told about it. They include such figures as retired four-star general Jack Keane, General David Petraeus, and former secretaries of defence Leon Panetta and Condoleezza Rice. These conflicts of interest go largely unnoticed in the neoliberal boundary- and ethically-free and militarised US political culture.
The award was condemned by the European Parliament and by Polish, Jewish, and Russian organisations representing the hundreds of thousands of their ancestors who were directly murdered under Banderas leadership. But the pro-fascists in Ukraines power complex would not be deterred. Under the US selectee for president in the post-coup government, Petro Chocolate King Poroshenko, previously an active informant at the US embassy in Kiev, Bandera was again restored to the highest status and his birthday was made a national holiday. In Lviv, a startling Bandera monument andtriumphal arch, stands next to a former Polish Catholic church, along with other monuments and renamed streets in western Ukraine in tribute to this wartime criminal.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
In a previous interview with Norwegian public broadcaster NRK, the NATO chief pointed out that the alliance was not obliged to intervene in the conflict as Ukraine is not a member state.We have a responsibility to support Ukraine, but we also have a responsibility to keep safe all the nations NATO is responsible for,he said.
Stoltenberg was speaking at a yearly camp held on the island of Utoya by the youth wing of Norways Labor Party, of which he was the leader until 2014. The island made headlines in 2011, when Norwegian right-wing extremist Anders Breivik opened fire on the camp after blowing up a truck bomb at a government building Oslo to distract the police. The massacre left 77 people dead.
What the mainstream media fail to see in the coverage of the current Ukraine crisis is that there is no text narrative without context. Long before the mainstream US and UK media launched a worldwide propaganda war against the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February, the CIA had laid the foundations of the conflict in the early years following the Second World War  the Cold War. Friends Soviet Union became enemies and enemies Germany, Japan became friends. The CIA used the Nazi sections of the Ukraine nationalist movement to crack apart the CIAs words the USSR through efforts to sabotage, divide, and destabilise the Soviet Union. In this project, they worked most closely with the violently anti-semitic, anti-communist, and anti-Russian group, the Organisation of Ukrainian Nationalists-B, led by Stepan Bandera.
In its daily update, the ministry claimed that the strike was carried out near the village of Uman in Ukraines Cherkasy Region via long-range high-precision sea-based weapons and destroyed over 300 rockets for HIMARS multiple rocket launch systems. A large amount of ammunition for American M777 howitzers was also taken out, it said.
A Russian military air base was at the center of several blasts that occurred in Crimea on Tuesday, according to the countrys defense ministry. Officials in Moscow have attributed the explosions to an accidental detonation of ammunition, insisting that the installation had not been attacked.
The report follows an update from August 7, when the ministry claimed to have hit over 45,000 tons of NATO-supplied ammunition in southern Ukraine along with five other ammo depots.
With the Ukrainian insurgent movement crushed, many of the Banderites, including Mykola Lebed, one of the founders of OUN and a lieutenant of Bandera trained by the Gestapo in ruthless methods of torture, became migrs.Lebed, who had served as OUNs foreign minister and head of its notorious secret police, was then described by the US Army as a well-known sadist and collaborator of the Germans. He migrated to Munich after the war, where he played an important role in the newly formed and secretly CIA-run Radio Free Europe, the US-funded propaganda organ that transmitted to eastern Europe. During the World War II, Lebed was said to have been a favourite of the German SS.
Ukraines struggle for statehood have been bound up in the ultra-nationalist efforts to de-Russify the country, which after the 2014 coup led to restrictions on the practice of Russian culture. A 2019 law, criticised by Human Rights Watch, required that all conversations carried out by public officials and all schooling beyond the primary grades be conducted in Ukrainian and that all foreign language media, with exemptions given to English and EU languages,but not Russian, provide a Ukrainian version. The law was shepherded through parliament by its chair speaker Andriy Parubiy, a co-founder of theSocial-National PartySNPU, which was modeled after Hitlers National Socialist Party. Parubiy declared the SNPU to be the last hopeof the white race, of humankind as such.In 2004, SNPU morphed into the fascist party Svoboda, whose leaderOleh Tyahnybok, a former member of parliament Rada, gave a speech that year calling upon Ukraine to rid itself of the Muscovite-Jewish mafia, familiar words from the Third Reich.
Russian forces have destroyed a large amount of munitions for American-made weapon systems after striking a depot in central Ukraine, Russias Defense Ministry said on Tuesday.
The ministry says that it is actively monitoring foreign fighters and specialists that have arrived in Ukraine, noting that their number has been reduced to 2,190 from 2,741 in early July.
In his speech on Thursday, Stoltenberg claimed that Putin has ultimately failed to achieve his goals, since instead of NATO scaling back its presence in Eastern Europe and slowing down its expansion, the alliance has becomestronger and more consolidatedwith the impending accession of Sweden and Finland.
Although the extreme right parties hold little power in the Rada, groups such as the Azov Battalion wield a great deal of power in Ukraines street militias, the national guard, the Kiev police, and the regular army. Initially, the US banned assistance to Azov in 2015 because of its neo-Nazi orientation andassaults on migrants and the Roma and LGBT communities,but lifted the ban the following year. Azovs first commander and former member of parliament,Andriy Biletsky, declared that Ukraines national objective was to lead the white races of the world in a final crusade  against Semite-led Untermenschen subhumans. And despite entreaties from at least 40 members of the US Congress to list Azov as a foreign terrorist organisation, the Obama, Trump, and Biden administrations failed to respond.
Why do the American mainstream media MSM pay so little attention to the racist agenda and war crimes of Azov as if only Russians commit war crimes, the leading military force attempting to crush the independence movements in the Donbas region? Could it be that many reporters in the mainstream media in the US, UK, and other western European countries share similar, indeed racist prejudices? Since the Russian attack in February, the briefly reported incidents of African and Asian nationals being blocked by Ukrainian officials from leaving the country during the early shelling of the Kiev revealed one side of the racial aspects of the conflict. But the MSM coverage of white Ukrainians fleeing war zones to other countries gave a more explicit understanding of how the US MSM treatsworthy and unworthy victimsbased on race.
One of NATOs main goals in the Ukraine conflict is preventing afull-scale warwith Russia, the alliances Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said on Thursday.
In this conflict, NATO has two tasks: supporting Ukraine and preventing the war from escalating into a full-scale war between NATO and Russia,Stoltenberg said in a speech in Norway.
As part of a relentless effort to this day of trying to crack apart the Soviet UnionRussia, the CIA has been at the forefront, joined by their obedient subaltern, MI6 aka Secret Intelligence Service, in infiltrating central and eastern Europe during the Warsaw Pact and post-Soviet eras for the purpose of obliterating Moscows influence in the region and the sovereignty of Russia itself. Among its early Cold War allies werehigh-level Catholic Church officialsin Vienna and anti-communist assets in the Vatican, which aided the Agency in collecting valuable intelligence in the region, particularly on Poland, Hungary, and Ukraine. In the same period, the CIA-launched Operation Red Sox, which was designed to stir up nationalist independence movements in the Soviet republics. American-trained commandos parachuted into Soviet Ukraine and linked up with anti-Soviet fighters. The CIA wound up sending85 operatives, three-quarters of them captured, in what ended as a dismal communist roll back failure, a foretelling of the Bay of Pigs invasion a decade later.
The MSM has failed to discuss his autocratic and repressive actions far more than whats occurring in Russia. In the past few months,Zelensky has bannedall 11 opposition parties and encouraged the disappearance, torture and even murder of an array of human rights activists, communist and leftist organisers, journalists and government officials accused of pro-Russian sympathies. Among those banned was the second largest party in Ukraine whose leader, Viktor Medvedchuk was arrested for treason  namely questioning the countrys integration efforts with the EU, which the president regards as siding with Russia.
A striking contrast is the political and MSM coverage of the January 6thassaults on the Capitol and the 2014firebombing of government buildings and sniper murders of protesters and police by neo-Nazi and other extreme right-wing groupsin Kievs Maidan central square, which led to a coup dtat and to the Azov Battalions assault in Donbas, but which the American major media outlets chose to largely ignore. With the latestGallup pollshowing that the MSM are less trusted 16 confidence in newspapers, 11 in TV news than at just about any previous time in history, journalists may want to reconsider their individual roles as crude propagandists for the US proxy war in Ukraine and the corporate state.
Before launching its operation, Russia repeatedly said it views NATOs eastward expansion as a threat to its national security.
In late July, Russia reported eliminating over 100 US-made HIMARS rockets in Ukraines Dnepropetrovsk Region, along with 120 Ukrainian military personnel guarding the facility, as well as foreign mercenaries and technical specialists.
Russia sent troops into Ukraine on February 24, citing Kievs failure to implement the Minsk agreements, designed to give the regions of Donetsk and Lugansk special status within the Ukrainian state. The protocols, brokered by Germany and France, were first signed in 2014. Former Ukrainian president Pyotr Poroshenko has since admitted that Kievs main goal was to use the ceasefire to buy time and create powerful armed forces.
Multi-ethnic Ukraine is from the US standpoint little more than a pawn in a global power game by which the US seeks to retain a unipolar position in the world, one in which Russian, Chinese, and Indian assertions of balance of power principles will not be heard by the Empire. The mainstream media with rare exceptions refuse to bring up in their reporting these rather open and obvious rules of the game, and thats because they themselves are invested in the perpetuation of Anglo-American global hegemony and white supremacy.
In October 2021, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists exposed the Pandora Papers, a roster of world leaders, wealthy individuals, politicians, celebrities, and others who put their money in offshore accounts for the purpose of evading taxes. Ukraine had the most number of politicians cited in the expos, consistent with the listing of the country as consistently the most corrupt in Europe, according toTransparency International, a US government- and corporate-funded anti-corruption organisation.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
