we could be wrong
20210624
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/44552
Mr Trump wanted to join the protesters at the seat of government, where lawmakers were meeting to certify Democrat Joe Bidens victory over the Republican Mr Trump in the 2020 election, she said.
Should NATO engage with troops on the ground, then idiot Zelenskyyy-y would have his wish of WW3. Not a good outcome, because everyone would loose, with Europe the biggest looser. Then the USA flattened from NY toCalifornia.
Comedian and podcasterKatie Halpersaid late-night show hostStephen Colbertsridicule of Fox Newss Peter Doocy was pathetic, saying it was PresidentBidenwho deserved criticism.
Ukraine has already lost a third of its territory. Should Zelenskyyyy-y refuse to make a deal, Ukraine will loose more than half and loose about 10,000 young men every 120 days before he wakes up. This is not viable.
Halper said Doocys questioning of Biden over whether the United States plans to use chemical weapons in response to possible Russian chemical warfare was reasonable.
Speaking to the House of Representatives committee investigating the January 6 attack, former White House aide Cassidy Hutchinson described Mr Trumps actions after he finisheda speech at the Ellipse outside the White House where he exhorted supporters to march on the Capitol.
Kamala so far has proven below hopeless Not even an ounce of deceit in this complete and utter hopelessness, except possibly to her staff that have really stopped working for her.
This goes for the piece by Tom that follows. Some good points are made, then the arguments sink in propaganda, useless patriotism and delusions that failed to tell reality. Instead of Saddams weapons of mass destruction, we get Putins imperial desires. We even get his failure to take Kiev.
So we shall see what comes next. from 2012, The USA set a trap for Russia to fall into, and Russia is destroying the trap. Should the West try to up the ante, Russia will double the response.
An angry Donald Trump tried to grab the steering wheel of the Secret Service limousine when the then-US president was told he would not be joiningsupporters moving on the US Capitolon January 6, 2021, a former aide has testified.
Now this intervention could be stopped any day by Zelenskyyy-y which we Gus find highly unintelligent for his misunderstanding of the situation  though he is very clever with his annoying pleas to Western governments. Between you, me and lamppost, Ukraine wont see most of the money promised by the USA.
Dunny? an outdoor Australian toilet where MANY spiders sometimes as big as your hand lurk... Not to mention the red-belly black snakes and other creepy things that could bite your bum, while the toilet paper is provided by the 1929 Almanac of the Great Depression....
On his show Tuesday night, Colbert said that during a press conference the previous day Biden was asked a ridiculous question by a ridiculous man: Fox News reporter and that one kid in high school who wears a suit to gym class Peter Doocy.
Russia has ways to destroy any new hardware coming from the West to help the Banderite Nazi government of Ukraine led by the young Jewish idiot.
Im not going to tell you, Biden answered. Why would I tell you? You got to be silly.
Anyway here follows the editorial from Tom andJohn Fefferthat misunderstands Putins position on all this, considering the USA want to conquer the Heartland and do not wish to provide Russia with a treaty on security... The USA are the aggressor, Russia is the defender in this affair.....
Russia has 120,000 troops fighting more than 450,000 Ukrainian troops. Russias new strategy looses few soldiers, while Ukraine bleeds around 500 dead, plus at least 1,500 injured per day. The hardware comparison is 40 to one if favour of Russia. Russia is trying hard to avoid civilian casualties because many of those in the region fought upon are RUSSIAN. This is why Russia is patient against pockets of resisting Azov battalions in the Azot complext. As mentioned before the intervention battle front is more than 1500 kilometres long. Massive line to defend.
Biden clarified that the U.S. response would be significant, to which Doocy asked, What does that mean?
"CAPITOL" the musical continues. It's a soapie saga that makes Games of Thrones and the American Civil War pale into nothingness....EVERYone is prompted to give more shit buckets to dump on DONALD, WHICH THE ESTABLISHMENT DOES NOT WANT TO SEE BACK AT THE CONTROL OF THE COUNTRY.
We see so many things that people were upset about with former President Trump are fine when Biden does it, Halper said while appearing on Hill.TVs Rising.
Several points have to be made. Putin has not mobilised his armies and the Kiev excursion was a dubious adventure. Of all things, Putin does not want to destroy Ukraine, nor take it over. Had Putin decided to destroy Kiev, there would have been blood everywhere and no Western nation could have done anything about it, except accept more refugees.
As well it is imperative for the US media to come to term with their huge blind spot. Due to exceptionalism superiority complex, the Western media has become a parrot for the Pentagon and the CIA. A million Sigmund Freud could not be enough to analyse the moronically deficient journalists that munch the news daily and feed us with crap. Sometimes the crap is polished as if the news-tellers understood the newsmakers. This is far from what we, the Joe public, should understand.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
So it is imperative, for the Democrats to find someone else to lead this great country called the USA, while being able to shoot down all the warmongers and hawks that are making a dangerous nightmare out of the USA.
Im not a fan of Doocy, but it was not at all unreasonable question, and Biden kind of gaslit him to make it seem like he  asked some question that was inherently dangerous for national security, Halper said.
I could be wrong and the morons of the January 6th commission might manage to pin Trump to the floorboards, but this is unlikely. Joe Biden versus Donald Trump in 2024? Trump would take it away with brilliance. By then Joe would not even remember his own name  as some nasty folks would also interfere with both his teleprompters.
During that press conference, Doocy asked Biden about a previous comment in which he said the U.S. would respond in kind to a Russian chemical attack.
The world wants to know a lot of things, Biden responded. Im not telling what the response would be. Then Russia knows the response.
Little has changed, except the STATUS of the Donbass region populated by RUSSIANS which Russia has nearly fully conquered.
Who has been the worse president? Trump or Biden? So far on international relations and on civil duties, Trump is behind by a clown nose. Biden is a liar, a psychopath not really, but hes lost his sense of reality and a devious character, because he always was devious. Trump is a stupid clown, and despite what theyre trying to do with the 6th January investigation for which the Democrats might spread the mustard for another year  way after the Mid-Terms elections which so far might prove to be lethal to Biden-the-Prick, Trump might resurrect himself.
Im the effing president, take me up to the Capitol now, Ms Hutchinson quoted Mr Trump as saying to Secret Service agents.
I do not wish the worse for America. Hopefully it will become a good humble citizen of this planet. Yet so far, we havent seen any of this  what some people might call magical  transformation.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
