whether by accident or design
20220314
https://www.yourdemocracy.net.au/drupal/node/43360
She noted that the weapons delivered by NATO member states to the Ukrainian leadership "are prolonging the war, but they will not result in Ukraine winning it." The promise of NATO membership did not help Ukraine either, Wagenknecht remarked.
This war goes far beyond Ukraine,he said.A sword of Damocles hangs over the global economy, especially in the developing world.
The prospect of nuclear conflict, once unthinkable, is now back within the realm of possibility,Guterres said.
Thepurpose of the eerie, riveting footage is clear: Zelenskyy, 44, a married father of two, wants to show Ukrainians that hisleadership understands their fears and has not abandoned them to Russias onslaught.
Guterres comments on nuclear war were made in relation to President Vladimir Putin raising Russias deterrent forces  which include various strategic weapons, both nuclear and conventional  tospecialalert last month, a development the UN chief calledbone-chilling.
Contributors please note that this site is archived in the National Library of Australia in perpetuity.
The countrys transport ministry has also switched off live feeds from cameras on German highways for security reasons, presumably to prevent Russia from reconnoitering weapons convoys before they leave Germany.
Aside from the specter of nuclear conflict, Guterres warned thatthis war will have no winners, only losers.The worlds poor will be particularly affected by soaring food prices, he said, noting thatUkraine alone provides more than half of the World Food Programme's wheat supply,and that Russia and Ukraine combined account for half of the worlds sunflower oil supply and a third of its wheat.
Guterres said that the UN would allocate $40 million to provide food, aid and cash to Ukrainian civilians affected by the conflict, and that he personally had been indirectly in touch with Putin to discuss ending the conflict. The UN, he said, had also reached out to a number of third countries, including China, to discuss mediating negotiations.
Behind him, a group of Zelenskyys closest confidants stand with grave expressions, dressed in the same plain khaki clothing that speaks of war, but also of solidarity.
Sanctions against Russia and the arms supplies to Kiev will not solve the current crisis, while Ukraine's guaranteed neutrality would be a reasonable solution, argued Sahra Wagenknecht, a member of the Bundestag for The Left, in her latest interview with Die Welt. Could Berlin become a responsible peace broker?
Buechner said that under the new policy, Germany will not say which weapons are being delivered to Ukraine or how to avoid security risks. Speaking at the same press conference on Monday, Defense Ministry spokesman Arne Collatz added that it is the goal of the Russian aggressors to cut Ukraines supply routes and make defense harder, and we dont want to facilitate this.
He constantly rallies the exhausted Ukrainian people via videos and updates posted to social media where he has more than14 million followers on Instagramalone.
Russia launched a military offensive in Ukraine in February, with Putin stating that Russia intends todenazifyanddemilitarizeits neighbor, and ensure that it does not join the NATO alliance. The attack came after a seven-year standoff in which Moscow accused Kiev of committinggenocideagainst the Russian-speaking breakaway republics in the Donbass region, whose independence Putin recognized days before the military offensive commenced.
Sahra Wagenknecht, a member of the Bundestag for The Left, told Die Welt on Monday that Russia has long warned the West against providing Ukraine with offensive weapons and integrating the country into NATO. "After all, 2,000 US soldiers were already in Ukraine, and NATO maneuvers were taking place on its territory," the leftist politician stressed.
The opinions expressed in this site are those of the various authors and contributors and do not reflect those of the site, the site owners or hosting agencies.
One could cry for Zelensky-y... He is not the master of the good ship "Lollipop"... By this he has a limited view of "territorial integrity", which means that the people living on his real estate the territory do not matter... and do not have a choice about their ethnicity. For example while some ethnic languages are allowed in Ukraine, Russian has been made illegal. Volodymyr may not be the one who pushed Ukraine into NATO's arms but he's the one who DOES NOT WANT TO IMPLEMENT THE MINSK AGREEMENTS. He's the one whose military was planning a full assault on the Donbass region. He has no sense of history in regard to Crimea, which was no more Ukrainian than a bit of paper.
"My party, the Alternative for Germany, is the only exception here," Blex notes. "The AfD parliamentary group of the Bundestag passed a position paper this week in which we clearly speak out against arms deliveries in war zones."
Nevertheless, it's highly unlikely that the German Left could stop Berlin's armament of Ukraine, says Dr. Christian Blex, an AfD lawmaker, state parliament of North Rhine-Westphalia. Wagenknecht's party, Die Linke, largely supports the federal government which has recently resorted to Cold War rhetoric, according to the politician.
Germany will no longer divulge details of its weapons shipments to Ukraine, government spokesman Wolfgang Buechner told reporters on Monday, according to the Associated Press. The policy of secrecy will extend to switching off livestreams from the countrys highways, and comes after Russia said it will treat Western arms shipments into Ukraine as legitimate targets.
Of course, the Russians will see zilch from their spy satellites in infrared, and other spectrums  as we can see inside galaxies about 12 billion light-years away... Go away, you make me cry with my own stupidity...
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned on Monday that an ongoing escalation of war in Ukrainewhether by accident or designwill threaten the entire humanity. He further alarmed that the conflict may end up in the nuclear apocalypse.
The TRUTH is that the US want to conquer the Hearland and Zelensky-y is the Pinocchio to help the propaganda...See:
and I do not know of the autheticity of this  it could be a fake:
Zelensky-y is a little boy venerated by the West because he's our puppet standing against the big nasty Putin, which we have tried to dislodge since 2000... Zelensky-y handlers are the Nazis in Ukraine and the fascists in the US and NATO... He should deal with Putin without any caveats, which he places daily on his fake desire for peace  a desire as FAKE as his singing video  a piece of theatrics in which he is only a decent actor reading the US hegemony script.
"The German government under Chancellor Scholz is more subservient to Washington than the Merkel government," says Gilbert Doctorow, an international relations and Russian affairs analyst. "As a US vassal, Germany is dancing to the melody coming from Washington which is to extend the Ukraine-Russia war as long as possible in order to inflict maximum economic and political damage on Russia in the hope of precipitating regime change. The interests and welfare of the Ukrainian people count for nothing. For Germany, as for the United States, all the sympathy to the suffering refugees from Ukraine is all Public Relations. The reality is that for Scholz the Ukrainians are just cannon fodder."
We are all here, he says, in a moving and grainy video, filmed under cover of darkness in central Kyiv on February 24, soon after Russias invasion began.
Russian and Ukrainian delegations met virtually on Monday for a fourth round of peace talks, which were then paused and scheduled to resume on Tuesday. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Sunday that he hopes these talks will lead to a personal meeting with Putin.
On the Western side, somepundits and politicians in Europe and the US are pressing for NATO to declare ano-fly zoneover Ukraine, a move that would see the alliance commit to shooting down Russian aircraft in Ukrainian skies, and bring nuclear superpowers into open conflict with each other. NATO leaders have thus far resisted these calls for war, and Washington has repeatedly insisted that it will not engage Russia militarily unless a NATO member is attacked.
We will be defending our country, because our weapon is truth, and our truth is that this is our land. That is it. Thats all I wanted to tell you.
