Electronic Warfare Is Russias Secret Technology To Be Used in the War Against Ukraine
20220528
https://www.techtimes.com/articles/276318/20220604/electronic-warfare-russia-secret-technology-war-ukraine.htm
This is electronic warfare, an important but usually unnoticed part ofRussia's war against Ukraine. According toAP's report,military leaders avoid talking about it for fear of compromising operations.
When it comes to undermining reconnaissance attempts and commanders' interactions with troops, Ukrainian intelligence told the AP that Russia's threats are "pretty severe." He claimed that the effects of Russia's jamming of GPS receivers on Ukrainian drones, which were employed to locate their enemy and direct artillery fire, are particularly acute on the line of contact.
Related Article:Phone Shipments Will Dip by 3 in 2022, Researchers Predict, as Ukraine vs. Russia War Continues and Other Factors
However, Ukraine has made some progress against Russia's electronic warfare tactics. It has taken vital hardware and destroyed at least two multi-vehicle mobile electronic warfare units, a big intelligence coup.
Ukraine has also made good use of technology and intelligence provided by the US and other NATO countries. Ukraine used this intelligence tosink the battleship Moskva. Allied satellites and surveillance aircraft, as well as entrepreneurElon Musk's Starlinksatellite communications network, have all provided for Ukraine.
According to the AP, electronic warfare consists of three essential elements: probe, attack, and protect.
In 2014 and 2015, Ukraine learned a harsh lesson about electronic warfare when Russia used it to overwhelm its forces. The Russians shot down drones and sabotaged warheads, broke through cellular networksfor psychological operations, and targeted Ukrainian armor.
It is used by military forces to defend themselves by countering artillery,fighter jets, cruise missiles, drones, and other threats.
The capabilities of Ukraine's own electronic warfare are difficult to gauge, although analysts believe that it's come a long way since Russia took Crimea and sparked a separatist revolt in eastern Ukraine in 2014.
There are, however, setbacks. Russia claimed last week that it had destroyed a Ukrainian electronic intelligence center in Dniprovske, in the country's southeast. The assertion could not be independently verified, and a request for comment from Ukrainian officials was not answered.
In a statement with AP, an Aerorozvidka officer who requested anonymity said that Russia's warfare is jamming Ukraine's systems and that it is hindering them greatly.
Electronic warfare technology is employed to identify, blind, and deceive the opponent and deliver devastating blows through targeting communication, navigation, and other crucial systems.
Russia was regarded to have a clear advantage in this field going into the war. Despite this, its much-touted electronic warfare prowess was barely visible in the early phases of the battle in its failure to conquer Kyiv, Ukraine's capital.
The probe entails gathering intelligence to locate adversary electronic signals. During an attack, "white noise" jamming disrupts and degrades enemy equipment such as radio and cellphone communications, air defense, and artillery radars. Spoofing, on the other hand, confuses and deceives, resulting in munitions missing their targets when it works successfully.
The simple act of turning on a cellphone on the battlefields ofUkrainemay cause some threats. Artillery radar and remote controls for unmanned aircraft could result in a fiery shrapnel hail.
However, this tech is becoming a significant factor in the violent conflict in eastern Ukraine, where shorter and easier-to-defend-supply lines enable Russia to use electronic warfare equipment closer to the battleground.
