FBI and MI5 Chiefs Warn Business Leaders that China is Set On Stealing Their Technology
20220707
https://www.techtimes.com/articles/277738/20220707/fbi-mi5-chiefs-warn-business-leaders-china-set-stealing-technology.htm
TheFederal Bureau of InvestigationsFBI director Chris Wray warned Western companies that Beijing was committed to stealing their technology to gain a competitive advantage.
Meanwhile, Ken McCallum, the director of the UK's MI5, claimed that the Chinese government's "covert pressure" throughout the world amounts to "the most game-changing challenge we face."
Read also:North Korean State-Sponsored Hackers Have Been Attacking Healthcare Providers Since 2021 - US Authorities Warn
Al Jazeera reported that McCallum's statement was reiterated by the FBI director. They described China's efforts as posing a "complex, lasting, and pervasive danger" to the US, the UK, and their ally countries.
As soon as the claims were made, China dismissed them and labeled them as an effort to malign its political system in its statement to Al Jazeera.
However, McCallum and Wray's claims were denied by the Chinese embassy in London, which called them "completely baseless."
He also alleged that China'sstate-backed cyber hacking programwas more extensive than the combined efforts of all major countries.
McCallum further alleged that Chinese intelligence develops sources slowly and patiently to breach sensitive information, and only several targeted people can discern that they have been breached.
According to Robert Potter, Co-CEO of the Australian-US cybersecurity firmInternet 2.0, it's critical that the general public fully comprehends China's threat.
McCallum and Wray gave their first joint talk at London's Thames House in front of a crowd that included government representatives and business leaders.
MI5 is currently conducting seven times as many investigations compared to 2018, according to McCallum. He added that the agency would continue to make major efforts to counter covert dangers posed by Russia and Iran.
Wray claimed that China is "set on stealing your technology, whatever it is that makes your industry tick and using it to undercut your business and dominate your market".
However, cybersecurity expert and Microsoft Regional Director in Australia Troy Hunt said in a statement with Al Jazeera that the general public has "little reason" to be threatened by China's online activities.
Wray also discussed China's vows that Taiwan will be unified with it in whatever forms necessary during the joint address.
He also stated that everyone who attended the joint address was at risk from the Chinese Communist Party's aggression due to their development and possession of cutting-edge information, technology, research, and economic advantages.
In an unusual, rare joint statement in London, the chiefs of the national intelligence agencies of the United States and the United Kingdom have expressed concern over China's alleged economicespionage, according toAl Jazeera's report.
He said there are indications that China, perhaps learning from Russia's experience following its war with Ukraine, has looked for ways to shield its economy against potential sanctions. Wray claimed that if China invaded Taiwan, it would disrupt global trade and industry.
