Homeland Security Warns US About Possible Russian Cyberattacks Heres What DHS Memo Says
20220125
https://www.techtimes.com/articles/271000/20220125/homeland-security-warns-possible-russian-cyberattacks-heres-what-dhs-memo.htm
However, Homeland Security's researchers added that they did not detect direct cyberattacks against the U.S. critical infrastructure operators. If you are worried about the warning of DHS, the best thing you can do right now is to wait for the government department's further announcements.
In its latest bulletin sent to the United States, the government agency claims that state and local governments and some critical infrastructure operators in the U.S. might be targeted by Russia.
According toUSA Today's latest report, the Department of Homeland Security released a memo on Sunday, Jan. 23.
The Department of Homeland Security claimed that Moscow could deploy cyberattacks against the United States if the Russian government thinks that the actions of NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization or Atlantic Alliance will affect its long-term national security.
CNN Politicsreported that some DHS analysts checked the chances of Moscow deploying security breaches against the United States.
Right now, Russia and Ukraine are currently facing some tensions against one another. As the Russian government sends its troops to the border near Ukraine, NATO is preparing its fighter jets and ships, which are still currently on hold.
Based on their observations, the likeliness of destructive cyberattacks of Russia against the U.S. homeland is still very high.
The government department added that the possible Russian security attacks could affect the systems used in hospitals, dams, bridge operations, as well as commercial flights.
In other news,potentially harmful Instagram postsare now being minimized. Meanwhile, Jetpack claims thatoutdated WordPress plug-insand themes might be used to distribute security backdoors.
For more news updates about Russian cyberattacks and other security threats, always keep your tabs open here at TechTimes.
"Russia maintains a range of offensive cyber tools that it could employ against U.S. networks," said DHS.
Because of this, the DHS thinks that NATO's involvement in the alleged Russian invasion might also affect the United States.
