Brandon shifts the narrative on Banderastan
20220801
https://www.greanvillepost.com/2022/08/01/brandon-shifts-the-narrative-on-banderastan/
We will also continue reinforcing NATOs eastern flank with forces and capabilities from the United States and other allies. And just recently, I welcomed Finlands and Swedens applications to join NATO, a move that will strengthen overall U.S. and trans-Atlantic security by adding two democratic and highly capable military partners
REALLY? Might does not make right? But then how was the USA itself born if not under that very principle? And then, the HUNDREDS of military operations and attacks the USA waged against almost every country on the planet in total illegality? How about all the so-called sanctions which are all illegal under international law, including various blockades and secondary sanctions? And how about Israel, this genocidal entity which every single US politician has piously worshiped, and which has made might makes right its highest religious dogma, that is the entity which the USA has called the only democracy in the Middle-East and its closest ally!  I submit that instead of the clearly counter-factual in God we trust the USA should adopt a new motto: quod licet iovi non licet bovi which can loosely be translated as it's okay when we do it.
President Biden i.e. the collective Biden, not the actual Brandon penned an interesting article for the NYT entitled President Biden: What America Will and Will Not Do in Ukraine. The entire thing is behind a paywall, and it is not really worth reposting it here. But I do want to comment on a few of Bidens theses.
Another pearl for sure! So after Nulands fuck the EU we are now told that Biden has the utmost respect for the Ukraine and its brilliant leader Zelensky. But never mind that, the key word here is territorial concessions. Here Biden is being very slick on two levels:
And now Biden generously will allow Putin to stay in power. Yes, Biden, not the fact that the Russian population fully supports Putin, and the SMO. How stupid does Biden think that we all are?
My principle throughout this crisis has been Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine. I will not pressure the Ukrainian government  in private or public  to make any territorial concessions. It would be wrong and contrary to well-settled principles to do so.
It used to be about ousting Putin and crushing Russia, now it's about pretending to be strong while preparing the public opinion for the inevitable defeat of not so much the Ukraine proper that war was lost in the first week of the SMO!, but the defeat of the USA and NATO in this conflict.
The initial plan was simple: to smash the Russian economy, have Putin overthrown in an insurrection of some kind, break apart Russia and then turn towards China and crush it. And, considering the absolutely extreme demonization of Putin, he was clearly designated as the object of total hate by all of progressive and freedom-loving mankind.
Now that is a HUGE change. In Russian, there is this expression of changing shoes while in mid-jump    which refers to a situation when a person suddenly makes a full and instantaneous 180 after pompously insisting on a goal which is now dropped.
Standing by Ukraine in its hour of need is not just the right thing to do. It is in our vital national interests to ensure a peaceful and stable Europe and to make it clear that might does not make right.
This entire paragraph can be summarized in all sorts of colorful ways, I will just call it counter-factual and delusional nonsense. Where do I even begin here? Let me describe the reality of NATO here, with a few bullet points.
Oh sure, depending on the audience, Biden will say this, or that, or its opposite or both. That is how western politicians operate. But an opinion piece in the NYT is one of the main ways to send a signal to the ruling elites and the propaganda machine of the AngloZionist Empire. There is no more talk about defeating Russia, only that the Ukronazi regime in Kiev will have to figure out on its own how and when to sue for peace.
First, I will ignore the obnoxious habit of calling the USA America, when just Canada and Brazil alone are almost as big as the USA. Furthermore, the USA is only 9,833,520 km2 3,796,742 sq mi while the total area of the Americas is 42,549,000 km2 16,428,000 sq mi. Finally, there are 35 countries in the Americas but, fine, okay, if saying Murica evokes images of Captain America and waving Chinese-made flags  then fine. Lets look at a few key sentences:
Americas goal is straightforward: We want to see a democratic, independent, sovereign and prosperous Ukraine with the means to deter and defend itself against further aggression  We do not seek a war between NATO and Russia. As much as I disagree with Mr. Putin, and find his actions an outrage, the United States will not try to bring about his ouster in Moscow
