Celebrities Are Such Scumbags Because Theyre Invested In The Status Quo
20220515
https://www.greanvillepost.com/2022/05/15/celebrities-are-such-scumbags-because-theyre-invested-in-the-status-quo/
Bono visits George W. Bush at his Texas ranch "He has a huge heart ... not to mention a decent voice," Bush said. https:t.coyQO53UygKq pic.twitter.comnmypfv68dx
Welp, guess I wont be listening to Bettes cover of The Ronettes Be My Baby again  Ill stick with either the original from the Ronettes themselves or Leslie Graces Hispanophone twist until the jury is out on her as well.
There are of course many reasons why parents might be unable to consistently provide breast milk to their baby, including but not limited to the very health problems and long working hours that the US status quo often creates. More than this, telling individuals what to do in response to a systemic problem created by the wealthy and the powerful serves to divert attention away from criticisms of those people and those systems.
The immensely popular Indian spiritual leader known as SadhguruJagadish Vasudev recentlytweeted May Israel inspire the world in praise of the apartheid ethnostates farming practices even as its tyranny and bloodshed draws international headlines.Few of the enlightenment merchants on the spiritual marketplace have anything worthwhile to say about individual awakening, and virtually all of them are fast asleep when it comes to consciousness about the external world.
So fame is a self-reinforcing feedback loop of support for establishment power in numerous ways, and its a major problem. Its a major problem because it means that the people with the most influential voices in our society will always necessarily be people who have benefited tremendously from status quo systems. Their voices eclipse those countless millions who are suffering under those same systems, not because they are more valid or more truthful but solely because they are more amplified.
Someone who is worth a quarter billion dollars is unlikely to support the end of capitalism and the elimination of vast wealth inequality. Someone whose wealth and status come from Hollywood is unlikely to oppose the imperial propaganda machine of which Hollywood is a crucial part. Someone who benefits from status quo politics is unlikely to promote meaningful opposition to them.
In this way the contentment of celebrities with the current establishment order becomes a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy, because it keeps enough of the population thinking that the status quo must be working. That any difficulties they are having making ends meet and keeping their head above water is a failure not of the system, but of themselves. That the answer is not revolution and change but self-defeating self-blame and learned helplessness.
This kind of thing happens so often because within an empire that is held together by propaganda, capitalism and mass military violence, those who are elevated to prominence within that empire have a symbiotic relationship with those things.
Thanks for reading! The best way to get around the internet censors and make sure you see the stuff I publish is to subscribe to the mailing list for atmy websiteoron Substack, which will get you an email notification for everything I publish. My work isentirely reader-supported, so if you enjoyed this piece please consider sharing it around, liking me onFacebook, following my antics onTwitter,throwing some money into my tip jar onPatreonorPaypal, purchasing some of mysweet merchandise, buying my booksRogue Nation: Psychonautical Adventures With Caitlin JohnstoneandWoke: A Field Guide for Utopia Preppers. For more info on who I am, where I stand, and what Im trying to do with this platform,click here. Everyone, racist platforms excluded,has my permissionto republish, use or translate any part of this work or anything else Ive written in any way they like free of charge.
You dont generally become rich and famous without the cooperation of people who have the power to facilitate your doing so. Those people will always be invested in the continuation of status quo systems, because they are intimately intertwined with those systems. If you seek the end of capitalism or empire or Israeli apartheid or US sanctions or cold war brinkmanship, you are unlikely to be helped toward the top by any of those people.
When youve got all the loudest voices talking about the world and their nation in a way that suggests that the system is working fine while all the far more numerous voices saying the opposite are going virtually unheard, what happens? It creates the illusion that the system is working fine. That status quo politics is getting the job done, and no massive, sweeping changes are needed.
Midler often uses her Twitter account to broadcast her indifference to the struggles of the less fortunate, like in March when she tweeted Id happily pay more for gas for her with a picture of a child holding a Ukrainian flag. Midler has an estimated net worth of a quarter billion dollars.
While were on the subject of Ukraine, U2s Bono and the Edge recently played a concert in Kyiv in support of the world-threatening US proxy war against Russia, because of course they fucking did. Bono, who says he has grown very fond of war criminal George W Bush and praised capitalism at the World Economic Forum andteamed up with warmonger Lindsey Graham to promote US empire narratives about Syria in 2016, would of course be seen singing Stand by Ukrainein support of US empire narratives in a Kyiv subway in 2022.
Hitchcock once said actors should be treated like cattle. No offence to poor cattle!. I agree. Most celebs are not exactly bright. And constant adulation makes them even more detached from reality.
Bette Midler has been drawing headlines for her recent let-them-eat-cake remark about baby formula shortages, taking to Twitterto tell Americans, TRY BREASTFEEEDING! Its free and available on demand.
Have you ever wondered why a famous person whose work youve enjoyed has such a myopic perspective on world events? How someone can stir you at your most intimate depths with their words or their music and yet have a blinkered mainstream political worldview that is manufactured by think tanks and spinmeisters?
Celebrities have been particularly odious empire sycophants these last few days, and its probably worth taking a moment to reflect on whats going on when that happens.
And then once you are granted your golden ticket to fame and fortune, you immediately find yourself surrounded by people who are deeply invested in the status quo systems which just elevated you. You go to their parties. You make friends with them because its difficult to form normal friendships with ordinary people when youre very famous. Before you know it youre in a tighty cloistered echo chamber of the status quo worldview.
And it goes both ways. The imperial machine is not going to elevate people who seek its death. Anti-imperialist journalist Aaron Mat will never win a Pulitzer. Antiwar comic Dave Smith will never star in a mainstream Hollywood movie. Chart-topping songs will tend to glorify money and affluence and will never amplify any opposition to the mechanisms which make them possible.
To be a celebrity within the oligarchic empire is, with very few notable exceptions, to be an agent of that empire. The weird plastic-faced freaks who fill our screens and shape our worldviews are as much a part of the oppression machine as the Pentagon.
Covid-19 has put this site on ventilators.  DONATIONS HAVE DRIED UP... PLEASE send what you can today! JUST USE THE BUTTON BELOW
Horror author Stephen King made the bizarre decision to tweetI stand with Nina Jankowicz the other day in support of the freaky shitlib who will be leading the Department of Homeland Securitys Ministry of Truth. Nothing really to say about that beyond what it is.
