Russian Invasion Prognosticators Are Like Cult Leaders Repeatedly Predicting The Apocalypse
20220211
https://www.greanvillepost.com/2022/02/17/russian-invasion-prognosticators-are-like-cult-leaders-repeatedly-predicting-the-apocalypse/
Radio evangelist Harold Camping famously predicted that the Apocalypse would occur onSeptember 6, 1994, then again on September 29 of the same year, and then again on October 2. In 2005 he revised his claim and said the real Rapture was coming on May 21, 2011, and then when that failed to pan out he said it was happening on October 21 of that year. Whenever he got a prediction wrong hed just do some more magic Bible math and move the date into the future.
If Vladimir Putin opts to back away from invading Ukraine, even temporarily, its because Joe Biden  that guy whose right-wing critics suggest is so deep in dementia he wouldnt know Kyiv from Kansas or AARP from NATO  has matched every Putin chess move with an effective counter of his own, writes Friedman.
Then British outletsThe Daily Mirror and The Sun told us that the Russian invasion of Ukraine was to come at precisely 1am GMT on Wednesday, citing American intelligence agencies. This prediction, whose frightening DAWN RAID presentation likely gave sales a bit of a boost, was again debunked by the hands of the clock.
This is such a transparent scam, journalist Aaron Mat recentlytweeted of the hacking claims. The warmongers crafting new US sanctions on Russia have repeatedly said that Russian cyberattacks could trigger them. With no invasion happening, this is Plan B.
This past Friday the deputy director of the Atlantic Councils Eurasia Center, Melinda Haring, tweeted the following:
Looking to the mainstream media for truth is like looking to a prostitute for love. Thats not what theyre there for. Thats not their job. If you believed these predictions, the correct thing to do as they fail to come true is not to engage in a bunch of mental gymnastics justifying it, but to drastically revise the worldview and your media consumption habits which caused you to believe this crap in the first place.
The Ukraine invasion that never arrives is showing us once again that when it comes to Russia you really can just completely ignore all the so-called experts in the mainstream media. Just dismiss 100 percent of everything they say, because any random schmoes best guess would be better than theirs.
On January 14th we were told by NBCthat we could expect a Russian invasion of Ukraine within a months time. On February 14th the prediction was as unfulfilled as the wishes of a Jordan Peterson fan on Valentines day.
Camping was one of many exploitative Christian cult leaders whove falsely predicted the Second Coming over the years amassing thousands of followers with an early form of tabloid clickbait. The difference between the Harold Campings of history and the Ukraine invasion prognosticators of today is that Harold Camping died disgraced and disdained instead of being elevated to lucrative positions in the most influential news media outlets on the planet.
No way. I'm a think tank expert. We make predictions. We get some right, we get some wrong. Things looked mighty bad on Friday. They still do. Putin may strike on Weds or he may sit on the border and just menace us all. VVP hasn't called yet to tell me his plans. Did he call you? https:t.coVUatu9wdYW
Putin has big weekend plans in Ukraine: 1 hes going to cut power and heat, knock out Ukrainian navy and air force, kill general staff and hit them with cyber attack 2 then install pro-Russian president and 3 resort to full-scale military invasion if Ukraine doesnt give in.
Were already seeing this we stopped the Russian invasion narrative circulated by unscrupulous pundits like Tom Friedman of the New York Times, whose spectacularly awful career differs from a stopped clock only in that it is wrong two additional times per day.
Were also seeing a new narrative in the oven with claims of a Russian cyberattack against Ukraine, which as an invisible attack whose evidence is classified would serve the imperial face-saving effort, with the added bonus of justifying further economic warfare on Moscow.
Last week the US president told US allies that Putin may invade on February 16th, a prediction Ukraines President Zelensky made fun of in a widely misinterpreted joke. This claim also has been discredited by the clock.
The prospect of a Russian invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 16 was always overhyped, Politico tells us. The time frame to really keep an eye on is what happens shortly after Feb. 20.
Thanks for reading! The best way to get around the internet censors and make sure you see the stuff I publish is to subscribe to the mailing list for atmy websiteoron Substack, which will get you an email notification for everything I publish. My work isentirely reader-supported, so if you enjoyed this piece please consider sharing it around, liking me onFacebook, following my antics onTwitter,throwing some money into my tip jar onPatreonorPaypal, purchasing some of mysweet merchandise, buying my booksRogue Nation: Psychonautical Adventures With Caitlin JohnstoneandWoke: A Field Guide for Utopia Preppers. For more info on who I am, where I stand, and what Im trying to do with this platform,click here. Everyone, racist platforms excluded,has my permissionto republish, use or translate any part of this work or anything else Ive written in any way they like free of charge.
Then in late January when the calendar debunked the Military Times incendiary headline Russia preparing to attack Ukraine by late January, that same outlet ran a much less viral story with the headline Russia not yet ready for full-scale attack says Ukraine.
And now were being told that nobody seriously believed Russia was going to invade on the 16th, and that February 20th is the real invasion date.
And, of course, none of these things happened. The weekend came and went, Haring issued a sheepish admission that she got it wrong, then immediately turned around and proclaimed that Putin may strike on Weds, then later pivoted to Weve been so focused on Russian troops and tanks that we missed Moscows strategy: strangle Ukraines economy and sap the resolve of its people. This Twitter thread shows clearly how social media, controlled by the US disinfo machine, is crawling with idiots and probably bots, all sounding the same message against Russia or the enemy of the moment. DISGUSTING!  No way. I'm a think tank expert. We make predictions. We get some right, we get some wrong. Things looked mighty bad on Friday. They still do. Putin may strike on Weds or he may sit on the border and just menace us all. VVP hasn't called yet to tell me his plans. Did he call you? https:t.coVUatu9wdYW  Melinda Haring melindaharing February 14, 2022  On January 14th we were told by NBCthat we could expect a Russian invasion of Ukraine within a months time. On February 14th the prediction was as unfulfilled as the wishes of a Jordan Peterson fan on Valentines day. Then British outletsThe Daily Mirror and The Sun told us that the Russian invasion of Ukraine was to come at precisely 1am GMT on Wednesday, citing American intelligence agencies. This prediction, whose frightening DAWN RAID presentation likely gave sales a bit of a boost, was again debunked by the hands of the clock. The 3am time 1am GMT when US intelligence sources suspected a Russian attack came and went without incident last night as Putin continued to keep The West guessing, The Suns updated online article now reads.   This is Britain's best selling newspaper making a very specific forecast. pic.twitter.comqTQwI6fp77  Bryan MacDonald 27khv February 15, 2022  Last week the US president told US allies that Putin may invade on February 16th, a prediction Ukraines President Zelensky made fun of in a widely misinterpreted joke. This claim also has been discredited by the clock. And now were being told that nobody seriously believed Russia was going to invade on the 16th, and that February 20th is the real invasion date. The prospect of a Russian invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 16 was always overhyped, Politico tells us. The time frame to really keep an eye on is what happens shortly after Feb. 20.   We got a banger today from alexbward and QuintForgey on why experts thought Feb. 16 was never really going to be the day Russia invades Ukraine ... but why Feb. 20 might be.https:t.cor422PE3O4s via politico and with help from magmill95 paulmcleary and dlippman   Ben Pauker benpauker February 16, 2022  Radio evangelist Harold Camping famously predicted that the Apocalypse would occur onSeptember 6, 1994, then again on September 29 of the same year, and then again on October 2. In 2005 he revised his claim and said the real Rapture was coming on May 21, 2011, and then when that failed to pan out he said it was happening on October 21 of that year. Whenever he got a prediction wrong hed just do some more magic Bible math and move the date into the future. Camping was one of many exploitative Christian cult leaders whove falsely predicted the Second Coming over the years amassing thousands of followers with an early form of tabloid clickbait. The difference between the Harold Campings of history and the Ukraine invasion prognosticators of today is that Harold Camping died disgraced and disdained instead of being elevated to lucrative positions in the most influential news media outlets on the planet. Todays Harold Campings will invent all kinds of justifications for their shameless participation in a transparent government psyop designed to advanced the unipolarist geostrategic agendas of the US hegemon once their war forecasts fail to bear fruit. The most common justification will be to claim that the Biden administrations hawkish posturing and strategic information warfare is what deterred the forcible annexation of Ukraine into the Russian Federation. As we discussed previously, this claim is logically fallacious,explained here by Lisa Simpson:  Were already seeing this we stopped the Russian invasion narrative circulated by unscrupulous pundits like Tom Friedman of the New York Times, whose spectacularly awful career differs from a stopped clock only in that it is wrong two additional times per day. If Vladimir Putin opts to back away from invading Ukraine, even temporarily, its because Joe Biden  that guy whose right-wing critics suggest is so deep in dementia he wouldnt know Kyiv from Kansas or AARP from NATO  has matched every Putin chess move with an effective counter of his own, writes Friedman. Putin could just as easily have launched a virulent propaganda campaign claiming the US is about to invade Mexico any minute now and threatening severe repercussions if it does, and then taking credit when the invasion fails to occur for his bold stance against the Biden regime. It would have been the easiest thing in the world just copy the western script replacing each instance of Ukraine with Mexico and each instance of Crimea with Texas. Were also seeing a new narrative in the oven with claims of a Russian cyberattack against Ukraine, which as an invisible attack whose evidence is classified would serve the imperial face-saving effort, with the added bonus of justifying further economic warfare on Moscow. This is such a transparent scam, journalist Aaron Mat recentlytweeted of the hacking claims. The warmongers crafting new US sanctions on Russia have repeatedly said that Russian cyberattacks could trigger them. With no invasion happening, this is Plan B.   This is such a transparent scam. The warmongers crafting new US sanctions on Russia have repeatedly said that Russian cyberattacks could trigger them. With no invasion happening, this is Plan B: https:t.covKUBszrdrO  Aaron Mat aaronjmate February 16, 2022  The Ukraine invasion that never arrives is showing us once again that when it comes to Russia you really can just completely ignore all the so-called experts in the mainstream media. Just dismiss 100 percent of everything they say, because any random schmoes best guess would be better than theirs. Looking to the mainstream media for truth is like looking to a prostitute for love. Thats not what theyre there for. Thats not their job. If you believed these predictions, the correct thing to do as they fail to come true is not to engage in a bunch of mental gymnastics justifying it, but to drastically revise the worldview and your media consumption habits which caused you to believe this crap in the first place.
This is such a transparent scam. The warmongers crafting new US sanctions on Russia have repeatedly said that Russian cyberattacks could trigger them. With no invasion happening, this is Plan B: https:t.covKUBszrdrO
We got a banger today from alexbward and QuintForgey on why experts thought Feb. 16 was never really going to be the day Russia invades Ukraine ... but why Feb. 20 might be.https:t.cor422PE3O4s via politico and with help from magmill95 paulmcleary and dlippman 
Putin could just as easily have launched a virulent propaganda campaign claiming the US is about to invade Mexico any minute now and threatening severe repercussions if it does, and then taking credit when the invasion fails to occur for his bold stance against the Biden regime. It would have been the easiest thing in the world just copy the western script replacing each instance of Ukraine with Mexico and each instance of Crimea with Texas.
The 3am time 1am GMT when US intelligence sources suspected a Russian attack came and went without incident last night as Putin continued to keep The West guessing, The Suns updated online article now reads.
Todays Harold Campings will invent all kinds of justifications for their shameless participation in a transparent government psyop designed to advanced the unipolarist geostrategic agendas of the US hegemon once their war forecasts fail to bear fruit. The most common justification will be to claim that the Biden administrations hawkish posturing and strategic information warfare is what deterred the forcible annexation of Ukraine into the Russian Federation. As we discussed previously, this claim is logically fallacious,explained here by Lisa Simpson:
Covid-19 has put this site on ventilators.  DONATIONS HAVE DRIED UP... PLEASE send what you can today! JUST USE THE BUTTON BELOW
