Ukraine The Price You Pay for Speaking Out
20220320
https://www.greanvillepost.com/2022/03/20/ukraine-the-price-you-pay-for-speaking-out/
But there is reason to believe their reconnaissance is far simpler than that. The New York Timesreports:
Or you could say that America launched a war vs Russia decades ago and Russia responded by opening a front in Ukraine. Ergo thedaily Pentagon briefingson an ostensibly Russian-Ukrainian war.
On paper, the Ukrainians have the capability to discover such camps by flying drones, either in a grid search or directing them to sources of intense radio chatter they might have detected.
Jareth Copus in an amazing interview about his personal journey, the "rat line" he created in Kiev, Ukraine, Donetsk, Georgia, Moldova and elsewhere. He's an author: Preparing for the Worst and Ukraine Forever a Pawn.
Theyre passing on images coupled with electronic intercepts within an hour but its not specific intelligence about specific targets. So what does that mean? That Americans will send an image of Russian forces and installations but they wont circle them with a thick red marker? What kind of gaslighting is this? Of course, satellite images will help with targeting and long-range attacks.
Andthey say they are not passing on specific intelligence that would tell Ukrainian forces how to go after specific targets.The concern is that doing so would give Russia an excuse to say it is fighting the United States or NATO, not Ukraine.
           highway to hell      35-      .https:t.cogJnOtyMQdj pic.twitter.comYDQoVK6tjr
The 35th Combined Arms is from the Eastern Military District and is moving south from Belarus to blockade Kiev from the west
So in fact the Ukrainians do not need to spend time and resources discoveringthe layout of the Russian rear. Something they would have only a limited ability to do.
Actually, The New York Times tries tomuddy the watersby saying that the US is not passing on intelligence that would tell Ukrainian forces how to go after specific targets but I dont know what that is even supposed to mean.
Knowing exactly where the Russian camps are, they are easy enough to target. Whether with the help of drone surveillance for better precision or not. Particularly by self-propelled artillery which can quickly change position after a few salvos to avoid potential Russian counter-fire.
In Washington and Germany, intelligence officials race to mergesatellite photographswith electronic intercepts of Russian military units, strip them of hints of how they were gathered, andbeam them to Ukrainian military units within an hour or two.
Ukrainian military publicized an artillery strike it conducted against a camp of the Russian 35th Combined Arms Army accompanied by horribly cheezy music considering the occasion:
Aside from counter-battery fire, such an installation is defenseless against enemy long-range artillery. What keeps it safe is that normally enemy wouldnt know about it. The enemy cant normally see tens of kilometers behind your front line.
So the Americans are providing the Ukrainians with numerous satellite images of the battlefield and of the Russian rear.
Please make sure these dispatches reach as many readers as possible. Share with kin, friends and workmates and ask them to do likewise.
America is neck-deep in this war. This is yet one more aspect of its involvement.
