US to Send Ukraine its Gray Eagle Drones  Will it make a Difference
20220603
https://www.greanvillepost.com/2022/06/03/us-to-send-ukraine-its-gray-eagle-drones-will-it-make-a-difference/
Up to You.  ^3000US citizens have no real political representation.  We don't live in a democracy. And our freedom is disappearing fast.  I don't want to be ruled by hypocrites, whores, and war criminals. What about you? Time to push back against the corporate oligarchy. And its multitude of minions and lackeys.
The US has announced it will be sending General Atomics Gray Eagle drones - similar to the infamous Predator drone - to Ukraine. However, the US is only initially sending 4 drones and the Gray Eagle is comparable to Ukraines existing or perhaps previously existing Bayraktar TB2 drones produced by Turkey. The Gray Eagle drones will face the same limitations Ukraines Bayraktar drones faced, providing no means to change the course of the conflict, but almost certainly making General Atomics money alongside other US arms manufacturers, namely Lockheed Martin and Raytheon.
References:  Guardian - Himars: what are the advanced rockets US is sending Ukraine?: https:www.theguardian.comworld202...  US Army - Multiple Launch Rocket System MLRSHIMARS Crewmember: https:www.goarmy.comcareers-and-jo...  CSIS Missile Defense Project - Russian Air and Missile Defense: https:missilethreat.csis.orgsystem...  The Times - Russia takes battle into space and targets GPS in Ukraine: https:www.thetimes.co.ukarticleru...
Dont forget to sign up for our FREE bulletin. Get The Greanville Post in your mailbox every few days.   First name or full name  Email  By continuing, you accept the privacy policy
A question for you. The Bayraktar TB 2 is a line of sight system. Reported to be around 300 kilometers or 190 miles. The Gray eagle system uses satellite links I believe. The last time I looked Ukraine doesn't have satellites. So how are they going to operate them unless they use US satellites? That makes the US a participant in the conflict. Agree totally that these drones will have a very short life span in the conflict.
References:  Reuters - EXCLUSIVE U.S. plans to sell armed drones to Ukraine in coming days -sources: https:www.reuters.combusinessaero...
Andrew Shilkey --3 hours ago The other day, you were talking about how many US weapons systems are designed with the assumption that one already has air superiority, and this is a great example of that. These drones may have worked in Afghanistan where airspace was basically uncontested, but not against a modern military with modern air defense systems as you said. For how much they cost, US military weapons are shockingly bad at winning wars against competent adversaries.
