USNATO is in the Grip of a Daemonic DeathWish and the Entire World is Threatened
20220306
https://www.greanvillepost.com/2022/03/05/u-s-nato-is-in-the-grip-of-a-daemonic-death-wish-and-the-entire-world-is-threatened/
In his Putin interviews, Oliver Stone, a man of truth and honor, lets viewers catch a glimpse of the real Vladimir Putin and the matters that concern him as the leader of Russia. In 2018, I wrote of those interviews:
Although I have no inside information, I get the sense that the Western Empire is planninginitiating counter-measures far more extreme than the highly publicized economic sanctions. While it is true, as many commentators such as Ray McGovern and Pepe Escobar have pointed out, that a paradigm shift is underway and the once dominant U.S.NATO bully boys must now contend with the Sino-Russian alliance that has ushered in a dramatic change, nevertheless, as in the past decades, the so-called leaders of the U.S. are a dumb bunch driven by unquenchable demons. As McGovern says:
Not wanting to sound hyperbolic, but I am starting to conclude that the nuclear madmen running the U.S.NATO New Cold War they started decades ago are itching to start a nuclear war with Russia. Their hypocrisy and nihilistic thirst for death and destruction are so extreme that it boggles my mind. They accuse Russia of starting a New Cold War when they did so decades ago and have been pushing the envelope ever since. Now they act shocked that Russia, after many years of patience, has struck back in Ukraine.
In 2017, Oliver Stone released his four part interviews with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Putin Interviews were conducted between 2015, the year after the U.S. engineered the coup dtat in Ukraine installing Nazis to power in that country bordering Russia, and 2017. Stone was of course bashed for daring to respectfully ask questions and receive answers from the Russian leader who the American media has always cast, like all the mythic bogeymen, as the new Hitler intent on conquering the world, when it is the United States, not Russia, that has over 750 military bases throughout the world and has attacked Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria  the list is endless.
Perhaps hyperbole is the only way to do so, for it may be closer to the truth than we want to believe.
M. Rochat is 100 correct, I think, but the world will not be healed until a MAJOR event shakes the billions of somnambulists the US-allied propaganda has created. What that could be strains the imagination, as US propaganda also seeds the mind with imbecilic indifferentism. Kudos to Ed Curtin for still trying to awaken the mind of the West, especially in the US, the most brainwashed and idiotised republic in history.
Im afraid they dont and never will. That is what frightens me. While it seems counterintuitive and totally irrational that these people would be planning to use some type of nuclear weapon in this current situation, I am not so sure. They obviously pushed Russia to have no alternative but to attack Ukraine, and now that they have accomplished that goal, it seems to me that they will up the ante. Diplomacy is not their way violence is.
We are inexorably moving toward a global war that will become nuclear if an international movement doesnt quickly arise to stop it. Most people bemoan the thought of such a war to end all wars, but refuse to analyze the factors leading to it. It seems so unimaginable, but It happens step-by-step, and many steps have already been taken with more coming soon. Its so obvious that most cant see it, or dont want to. The corporate main stream media are clearly part of the continuation of the CIAs Operation Mockingbird, and those who still rely on them for the truth are beyond reach. We need to use all alternative means to raise the alarm and make sure the ultimate nightmare never occurs.
Considering the near term inevitable suffering awaiting all of humanity as accelerated climate change rapidly leads to loss of plant life and starvations and extinction  and if doubtful on that read a recent essay by Robert Hunziker on counterpunch referencing the latest IPCC official report  perhaps an all out nuclear exchange would be more kind to the human population than that which nature intends. Half a dozen of one, 6 of the other ?
In the years since those interviews, U.S.NATO has consistently tightened the noose around Russia, including fueling the Ukrainian attacks on the Donbass, killing thousands, all the while pleading innocent and expecting no reply. Now the reply has come.
As usual, his analysis is correct, but it may fail to grasp the unspeakable nature of the madness that drives desperadoes. If those running U.S. foreign policy feel that a new geo-political order is being born at breathtaking speed as a result of Russias move into Ukraine, then they are capable of extreme acts. And they have all the mainstream western media behind them, barking out their non-stop propaganda.
