RussiaUkraine war Key things to know about the conflict
20220312
https://www.wdel.com/news/russia-ukraine-war-key-things-to-know-about-the-conflict/article_637435b0-a220-11ec-8a8d-bf14f2bd31cb.html
The city of 430,000 has been without food, running water and electricity for 10 days.
Now in its third week, the war hasexpandedto areas closer to NATO members Poland and Romania, with Ukrainian authorities saying Russian airstrikes attacked sites in two western cities. Meanwhile residents in some besieged areas have faced so much firepower they cant even bury the dead.
Ukrainian authorities said there are plans for several evacuation and humanitarian aid delivery routes. The top priority remains freeing people from the city of Mariupol and getting aid to its desperate population.
Anastasiya Erashova, wept and trembled as she held a sleeping child. Shelling had just killed her other child as well as her brothers child. No one was able to save them.
Repeated attempts to bring in food and evacuate civilians have been cancelled due to relentless Russian fire, while Moscow accuses the Ukrainians of violating cease-fires. Mariupols mayor says the 12-day assault has killed over 1,500 people.
Warsaws mayor has appealed for international help as the city becomes overwhelmed by refugees, with more than a tenth of all those fleeing the war arriving in the Polish capital. Its train stations have become crowded transit hubs, with many camping out on the floor.
U.S. President Joe Biden announced an agreement Friday with other nations torevoke Russias most favored nation trade status,which would allow for higher tariffs to be imposed on Russian imports.
In Kyiv, an ammunition depot outside the city was shelled overnight, sending billowing black smoke into the sky, according to video provided by emergency workers. It was unclear immediately if were injuries or deaths.
The West has ramped up economic pressure on Russia, as the U.S. and its alliesdowngraded Russians trade status the latest in efforts to further isolate Moscow for the invasion.
The war has forced more than2.5 million people to fleeUkraine, while others seek refuge in basements, subway stations and underground shelters. The Ukrainian chief prosecutors office says at least 79 children have been killed since the start of the invasion.
Zelenskyy said the mayor of Melitopol, west of Mariupol and near Crimea, was kidnapped, and videos have emerged of local citizens there protesting the Russians presence, carrying flags and shouting.
There were also efforts to create new humanitarian corridors around the cities of Kherson in the south, Chernihiv in the north and Kharkiv in the east. Russian forces were blockading Kharkiv and pushing their offensive in the south around three cities and towns, including the hometown of Ukraines president, Kryvyi Rih.
An Associated Press journalist witnessed tanks firing on a 9-story apartment block in Mariupol and was among a group of medical workers who came under sniper fire on Friday. Conditions at a local hospital there were deteriorating, electricity was reserved for operating tables and the hallways were lined with people with nowhere else to go.
Bombardment intensified as Russian units fanned out to prepare their assault on the capital, Kyiv, a major political and strategic prize for Russian President Vladimir Putin. Ukrainians armed with portable missiles and Molotov cocktails have vowed to annihilate any Russian forces who enter the capital.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has accused Russia of kidnapping the mayor of another, occupied city of Melitopol, calling it a new stage of terror.
In the northeast, Russian forces were blockading Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city, even as efforts have been made to create new humanitarian corridors around it and other urban centers.
The Russians push on Kyiv from the northeast appeared to be advancing, a U.S. defense official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to give the U.S. assessment of the fight. Combat units were moved up from the rear as the forces advanced to within 30 kilometers 19 miles of Kyiv.
Doctors Without Borders said some residents are dying for lack of medication, with the city without drinking water or medicine for over a week now. The aid group says people are resorting to boiling water from the ground or extracted from heating pipes.
New commercial satellite images appeared to capture artillery firing on residential areas that stood between the Russians and the Ukrainian capital. The images from Maxar Technologies showed muzzle flashes and smoke from big guns, as well as impact craters and burning homes in the town of Moschun, 33 kilometers 20.5 miles from Kyiv, the company said.
The prosecutors office of the Luhansk Peoples Republic, a Moscow-backed rebel region in eastern Ukraine, accused Fedorov on its website of terrorist activities.
Ukraines emergency services reported that the bodies of five people were pulled from an apartment building that was struck by shelling in Kharkiv, including two women, a man and two children.
The strikes in western Ukraine, in the cities of Ivano-Frankiivsk and Lutsk, were confirmed by Russia, which said it used long-range weapons to put military airfields in the two cities out of action. Lutsk Mayor Ihor Polishchuk said four servicemen were killed and another six were wounded.
The Ukrainian government said on Saturday that Russias troops have shelled a mosque sheltering more than 80 people in the besieged city of Mariupol. There was no immediate word on casualties.
French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday theEuropean Union will continue applying pressureto Moscow and consider all options for more sanctions if Putin intensifies bombing and lays siege to Kyiv.
Kirill Timoshenko, the deputy head of Ukraines presidential office,posted a videowhich he said shows armed men taking Mayor Ivan Fedorov across a square. Russian forces captured Melitopol, with a population of 150,000, on Feb. 26. Another video subsequently published online showed hundreds of Melitopol residents marching in a central square, demanding the mayors release. The video could not be immediately independently confirmed.
The Ukrainian Embassy in Turkey said Saturday that 86 Turkish nationals, including 34 children, were among the people who had sought safety in the mosque that was shelled. Ukrainian authorities have warned of ahumanitarian catastrophe in Mariupol, besieged by Russian forces and where Ukraines military said Russian forces have captured the citys eastern outskirts.
Buses were being sent Friday to multiple Kyiv suburbs to bring people to the capital, where authorities say half of the metropolitan areas population, or around 2 million, has already fled.
Russian troops arepressing their offensiveacross Ukraine, pounding populated areas with artillery and airstrikes and deploying siege tactics honed in Syria and Chechnya  where front line cities were reduced to rubble.
In Baryshivka, a village east of Kyiv, people surveyed damage and boarded up windows after a Russian bombing reduced a restaurant and a cinema to hanging metal, dust, glass and other debris. Ivan Merzyk, a 62-year-old resident, said: Putin created this mess, thinking he will be in charge here. Ukrainians are a free nation. We are not going away from here and we dont want to see any Russian here.
