In Germany the stuttering bid to jumpstart coal plants
20220828
https://techxplore.com/news/2022-08-germany-stuttering-jumpstart-coal.html
Further south from Moorburg, energy group Uniper will on Monday fire up its Heyden 4 site, which had been a reserve plant since mid-2021.
But the company warned that its output would be affected by railway capacity limits in ferrying hard coal to the site.
But record low water levels over the last week have limited shipments and forced suppliers to turn to rail transportputting further pressure on strained cargo trains.
In Moorburg, "most of those who left have found a job, or are retired," said Wacker.
part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
The river Rhine has been a key route for coal transport to power plants in the west of the country.
Before it closed, the plant churned out around 11 billion kilowatts per yearthe equivalent of the electricity consumption for the city of Hamburg.
It was shut down in the summer of 2021, just six years after it was put into service, in exchange for a public subsidy programme aimed at cutting coal from Germany's energy mix.
It has targeted November as a possible restart date, but it also noted that current rules require sites to have coal supplies for 30 dayssomething that would be unachievable "given the current tight logistics situation on rail transport".
Even power plants that had not been completely shut, but put in reserve to generate power only occasionally, are struggling with a complete reboot.
Energy supplier STEAG has also said that it would bring into operation two coal-fire plants from its reserve.
Russia's curtailing of gas exports to Germany in the wake of the Ukraine war has forced Berlin to make the radical decision to restart coal power stations, at least temporarily.
Energy giant RWE told AFP it is seeking several hundreds of workers as it prepares to reopen three plants with a capacity each of 300 MW.
But infrastructure issues, manpower shortages and logistical problems are proving to be major obstacles for the restart.
A year after the last wisps of smoke disappeared into the skies from the imposing chimneys of the Moorburg coal plant, hopes had grown that the mothballed site would see new life as Germany scrambles to secure energy supplies.
With winter round the corner, the race is getting tighter for Germany to ramp up its power generation capacity.
With a capacity of 875 megawatts MW, Uniper's Heyden 4 figures as the largest on the list.
Logistics was also turning out to be tricky, with a drought further putting pressure on the distribution network.
But Russia's invasion of Ukraine has upended plans as Moscow reduced energy exports to Germany in what Berlin believes is retaliation for its support for Kyiv.
But so far, only onethe Mehrum plant with a capacity of 690 MW, has restarted.
In a bid to unblock the jam, Berlin decided Wednesday to prioritise coal and oil cargo over passenger travel this winter.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government has said it would stick to the 2030 coal exit timetable, but in the meantime, it authorised the restart of 27 mothballed plants or those put in reserve to help fill the energy gap until March 2024.
This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no
"Without the transformer, the power plant is no longer linked to the network and cannot produce any electricity," said Vattenfall.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government has said it will stick to the 2030 coal exit timetable.
At Moorburg, operator Vattenfall has dashed hopes of new operations, saying simply that "restarting it would be neither technically, economically nor legally feasible".
Pointing at rust that has accumulated on the components over the last year, the operator's spokesman Gudrun Bode said: "We can't restart a plant just like that."
In the turbines hall, thousands of small components have been packed away into boxes. A rotor, an element that allows the turbine to turn, is packed in aluminium, ready to be sent off.
Uniper has said Heyden 4's operation will be "limited partly by limits of rail transport capacity bringing coal to the site."
Germany began winding down its coal-fired power plants in the last few years, in view of meeting a target to end usage of the fossil fuel by 2030.
Since then, the operator has started dismantling and selling the parts that are not necessary for hydrogena priority for Germany's future energy sources.
But the Moorburg plant, located in the suburb of Hamburg, had been one of the most modern in the world.
