James Porters Farm View Homegrown food security an imperative
20220305
https://www.thescottishfarmer.co.uk/opinion/19965912.james-porters-farm-view-home-grown-food-security-imperative/
Questioned at the NFU Conference last week, George Eustice said this was a mistake and the real rise would be to 10.10 per hour, still more than double the projected national living wage increase. We still dont know what the rise is going to be, but anything above the NLW will simply not be sustainable.
There is no chance a grower will get this back from the retailer without completely killing sales, particularly for those most in need of fresh, healthy food who can least afford it.
They proposed that seasonal workers in the scheme must be paid in line with the skilled worker visa, which would effectively mean an hourly rate of 12.31 which, after employers NI, holiday pay and pension contributions, will cost the grower almost 15. For the sake of clarity, this would add around 300k to my own wage bill alone, and tens of millions of pounds to growers nationally.
In Russia and Belarus, there have been many protests against the invasion of Ukraine and thousands of arrests. This is not Russias war, it is Putins.
Fundamentally, Ukraines fight is also our one, because we have seen this behaviour before in Europe 75 years ago and we know where it ends if you dont stand up to it.
The first duty of any government is to feed its people and you cant do that safely and securely without producing a big percentage of that yourself. We can still make big environmental and carbon reduction efforts, but there needs to be a balance.
The implication is clear  self-sufficiency is back on top of the agenda. That doesnt just mean fuel and energy supply, it should also include the most critical fuel and energy source of all  food.
Already under pressure from massive cost increases in fertiliser, coir the growing medium used in tabletop growing systems packaging and transport, the Home Office decided they were not yet doing enough to kill off horticulture in the UK. Some bright spark thought it would be a great wheeze to impose a massive increase over and above the National Living Wage, which is already rising from 8.91 to 9.50 in April.
Its hard to see how they can improve on their efforts so far, but they never disappoint  we await their next genius move in eager anticipation. Not!
Last week, I emailed our Ukrainian friends who had worked here and the responses were, without exception, courageous. Many were fearful about what might happen to them and their families, but also resolved to stand their ground.
There is clearly overwhelming support in the country to allow refugees to come here with no visa restrictions, as the EU have already done to their great credit. Surely UK government must do the same.
I am not trying to be grandiose, but rather wanted to set the background for the conclusion this leads us to, because it has massive implications for food policy and security.
Well done the Home Office. Its not easy to single-handedly wipe out a vital, productive and efficiently functioning industry, but those guys could do it with both hands tied behind their backs whilst sleeping.
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Many of us have been arguing against this for some time, partly in anticipation of the very political situation we are now facing. The war in Ukraine has already pushed wheat futures for May to 259 as I write, but thats up 16 in a day, so who knows what it will be by the time you read this.
For the past couple of years, more than 100 Ukrainians, Belarussians and Russians have come and worked on our farm in the summer months picking fruit. They have lived and worked alongside each other in harmony.
The new ELMS scheme in England will surely need to be adjusted to include a previously overlooked consideration of food production, and in Scotland, we should be thankful the ARIOB is still deliberating what will replace our old scheme, because whatever was going to replace it was inevitably going to include less support for food production and more for trees.
I know this is a farming paper, but I hope you will forgive me a slight diversion, because it is clearly relevant to agriculture.
A change of emphasis is already happening in the energy sector. Last week, Lord Deben  who heads up the Climate Change Committee  recognised that whilst he is still not in favour of new oil fields in the North Sea, national considerations of a secure supply of oil might override his aim to reduce the nations carbon footprint.
Marina, who lives in the Kharkov region, emailed this reply: Explosions are heard not far from us. And its been like that for four days. Everyone is scared. Russia started a war against us for no reason. Innocent people and children are dying. Its a terrible pain. We hope everything ends soon. We have a basement for shelter.
His outrageous assault on Ukraine is a disgraceful affront to the proposition that people and countries should be able to live in peace, and although we face years to come of instability and uncertainty, the way forward could not be more certain.
The situation is now critical for fruit and veg growers in the UK, and it would be negligent to ignore it. The latest report compiled by Andersons consultants for British Summer Fruits is grim reading.
With that in mind, a change of attitude at the Home Office towards seasonal labour would be welcome.
They have given good support up to now, but its a poor show if we cant offer at the very least temporary shelter to these refugees on our doorstep. They are escaping conflict, they dont want to move here permanently.
I didnt know what to say to her except to try and stay safe. Others are offering more practical help. Notably Mossgiel Organic Farm have been co-ordinating lorries to Poland with supplies for refugees, and ScottishUkrainian farming operation, the Central Plains Group see also page 18, are also sending a flight over this week with aid.
