Stronger Russian weapons against Ukraine Russian troops to Nicaragua
20220611
https://www.kdrv.com/news/stronger-russian-weapons-against-ukraine-russian-troops-to-nicaragua/article_00e157c4-e9a2-11ec-bfe7-67fcc2de4805.html
In Central America, Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega has authorized Russian troops, planes and ships to deploy to Nicaragua for training, law enforcement or emergency response. In a decree published this week and confirmed by Russia, Ortega will allow Russian troops to carry out law enforcement duties and "humanitarian aid, rescue and search missions in emergencies or natural disasters."
A Ukrainian military factory outside Kyiv, pictured here on April 15, that produced missiles allegedly used to hit Russia's Moskva warship was partly destroyed by overnight Russian strike.
UKRAINERUSSIA -- While Russia attacks neighboring Ukraine, a Western Hemisphere nation is inviting Russian troops to train, possibly about a thousand miles from the United States border.
The Nicaraguan government also authorized small groups of Russian troops for "exchange of experiences and training" in Nicaragua. Russia's foreign ministry notes the law also authorizes troops from the United States, Mexico and other Central American countries for such purposes.
Two convoys of civilian cars in one northeastern Ukrainian village speak of Russia's retreat from the area and the brutality it left behind. The remains of a Russian T90M tank destroyed days earlier is pictured here.
FollowKDRV12on Facebook andKDRVon Twitter for the latest news, sports, and weather in Southern Oregon and Northern California.
An Ukraine regional governor accused Russia of using incendiary weapons in Ukraines eastern Luhansk province. Both sides have been using large amounts of weaponry in a war of attrition. Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelenskyy wants "even stronger" EU sanctions against Russia.
In Eastern Europe, Ukrainian and British officials warn that Russian forces are using weapons with mass casualties potential as they try to capture eastern Ukraine. The U.K. Defense Ministry said today Russian bombers likely have been launching 1960s-era anti-ship missiles that "can cause severe collateral damage and casualties when used on land targets.
