US Extends Sanctions to Belarus
20220302
https://www.kdrv.com/news/u-s-extends-sanctions-to-belarus/article_736510ba-9a56-11ec-9fe6-9f49f0b31e95.html
Today, the Commerce Department imposed on Belarus the export controls that went into effect February 24, 2022 against Russia.
Belaruss choice to enable Russias horrific assault on the people of Ukraine has rightly drawn international condemnation. Todays action will significantly impair Belaruss ability to abet Russias unjustifiable aggression,said Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration Thea D. Rozman Kendler.BISs new Russia and Belarus export controls demonstrate the power of U.S. technological and economic leadership in furthering our national security. With our allies and partners, we will continue to stand with the people of Ukraine.
Belarus is a neighbor nation to both Russia and Ukraine. As a Russian ally, it borders Ukraine to the south and NATO nations Lithuania and Latvia to the north and Poland to the west. Belarus' eastern border, with Russia, sits approximately 300 miles west of Moscow.
These U.S. Commerce Department Bureau of Industry and Securityactions were taken by authority of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 and the Export Administration Regulations. The new regulation took effect when publicly released by the Federal Register today.
The Ukrainian people have demonstrated the power of community and solidarity in the face of unimaginable horrorand the international community has responded strongly that we stand with them against authoritarianism, said Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don Graves. As long as this war continues, we will continue to take powerful action against Russia and its enablers in cooperation with our international partners and federal colleagues.
The footnote 3 designation, established under the Russia sanctions rule last week, ensures the public knows that these entities are subject to severe restrictions on receiving items, technology, and software under the new Russia-Belarus MEU FDP.
The Department says the sanctions are part of the U.S. response "to Belaruss substantial enabling of Russias further invasion of Ukraine. Application of these controls on Belarus will help to prevent the diversion of items, including technology and software, in the defense, aerospace, and maritime sectors to Russia through Belarus, and degrade both nations ability to sustain military aggression."
FollowKDRV12on Facebook andKDRVon Twitter for the latest news, sports, and weather in Southern Oregon and Northern California.
Todays rule imposes a policy of denial on items that support Belarus defense, aerospace and maritime industries. The Commerce Department says the rule also adds Belarus to two new Foreign Direct Product FDP rules put in place against Russia last week as part of the Commerce Departments Russia sanctions rule, "with a near total ban on exports of items to both Russian and Belarusian military end users the 'RussiaBelarus MEU FDP rule' and adds two entities, including the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Belarus this listing encompasses the national armed services, including the army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard national guard and police and government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations of Belarus, to the Department of Commerces Entity List with a footnote 3 designation."
Washington, DC -- The United States Department of Commerce is imposing "sweeping export restrictions" on Belarus for supporting Russia's unilateral military advance into Ukraine.
The photos, videos, and reports coming out of Ukraine are heart wrenchingboth due to the brutality of the Russian assault, and for the amazing resolve of the Ukrainian people, said Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo. Their resilience in the face of unimaginable aggression has galvanized a robust international response. The Commerce Department will continue to lead strong, coordinated action with our global allies and partners to apply maximum pressure on Russia, its enabler Belarus, and any other parties that may seek to support them.
