Volunteers sorting more than 100000 in medical supplies for Ukraine
20220317
https://www.kdrv.com/news/volunteers-sorting-more-than-100-000-in-medical-supplies-for-ukraine/article_a6310d9b-8ed6-566b-b0f5-3f42b8ac8cf4.html
Seven years ago, Scheinberg and his wife Cherrie, who is also helping in this effort, traveled throughout Ukraine alongside a small team of medical professionals, teaching medical providers their techniques to provide care during situations with high levels of trauma.
Over multiple days, volunteers have sifted through more than $100,000 worth of medical supplies that have expired or are nearing their expiration dates at the Samaritan Health Services warehouse in Corvallis.
CORVALLIS, Ore. -- A small team from SAM Medical is partnering with Samaritan Health Services to ship medical supplies to Ukrainian military hospitals.
War with Russia is something Ukrainians have been concerned about for years, according to Scheinberg. His wife has been communicating with Ukrainian military hospitals throughout the crisis to determine what supplies they need as they care for those injured during the fighting.
Scheinberg is urging people to donate money or medical supplies if they're able to, or consider housing refugees fleeing from the fighting.
"Their need is growing everyday and will probably continue to do so in the next weeks and months," Scheinberg said.
Heustis said Samaritan Health Services accumulated a backlog of medical supplies during the height of the pandemic.
"I was contacted by Cherrie and Sam," said Todd Heustis, who oversees Samaritan Health Service's warehouse. "They're the owners of SAM Medical. They reached out and they were trying to get some stuff together, and I'm like, 'Hey, we've got some stuff that we can send over.'"
"It's clear they're having a war there, and having been in one myself, I understand the horrendous needs," Scheinberg said. "The injuries are terrible. They're continuous. And anyone who watches television is aware if that."
"Shipping has become a nightmare, not only in just the logistics of getting something somewhere, but the cost of it, and so when you have these nonprofit groups that want to take our donations and ship them overseas to places that can use these supplies, because we're no longer able to use them due to regulations here, it's cost prohibitive at this point," Heustis said.
Using his experience as a retired orthopedic surgeon, Sam Scheinberg with SAM Medical has played an instrumental role in deciding what medical supplies will be useful to Ukrainian military hospitals.
