Will the West Please Stop Taking Credit for Positive News in Ukraine
20220303
https://ricochet.com/1197720/will-the-west-please-stop-taking-credit-for-positive-news-in-ukraine/
Ive noticed a lot of chest-beating from western leaders and pundits this past week basking in the resolution of the Ukrainian defense. Joe Biden was the most egregious example of this last night. According to National Review I refuse to watch the State of the Union, he said the following:
He Putin thought he could roll into Ukraine and the world would roll over. Instead he met with a wall of strength he never anticipated or imagined. He met the Ukrainian people, Biden said.
No, we didnt. There has been massive division in the west and especially in the US about how to deal with the Russian threat to Ukraine. Ukraine has been an inspiring story solely due to the mettle of its own resistance. I dont believe for a second that any of the hard sanctions, offers of weapons, or world turning its collective back on Russia would have happened if Russia had been able to roll into Ukraine like everyone thought they would. What really happened is a people determined not to be subjugated has punched a bully back in the mouth when most everyone else was running away. Ukraine has shown the world the weakness of the Russian bear and the weak-kneed leaders of the west now feel safer to come out of hiding and offer some real help.
Please, arm Ukraine unite in sanctions against Russia take on the pain required to disentangle from Russian energy. But we shouldnt forget for a moment that we were already averting our eyes and preparing our mumbled excuses for why we couldnt have done anything anyway to save the poor Ukrainian people.
I am humbled by the willingness of the Ukrainian people to defend themselves. They have shown us the real weakness in the bully countries looking at you China who can be resisted if people will do so. But resisting these countries will take real sacrifices that we need to start making now. I believe those sacrifices start in our personal behavior: a better people will make better policy.
Putins latest attack on Ukraine was premeditated and totally unprovoked. He rejected repeated efforts at diplomacy. He thought the West and NATO wouldnt respond. He thought he could divide us here at home, Biden said. But Putin was wrong. We are ready, we are united, and thats what we did  we stayed united.
