WTH is going on with military support to Ukraine Former Polish Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski on NATOs calculus in Ukraine
20220310
https://ricochet.com/podcast/aei-what-the-hell-is-going-on/wth-is-going-on-with-military-support-to-ukraine-former-polish-foreign-minister-radek-sikorski-on-natos-calculus-in-ukraine/
Radosaw Sikorski joined Marc and Dany to discuss Russias ongoing invasion of Ukraine, President Zelenskys request for more support from the US and NATO, and the implications of an increased Western response in Ukraine.
As Russia continues its bloody invasion of Ukraine, the United States and its NATO allies have responded by levying wide-ranging sanctions against Moscow as well as providing Kyiv with humanitarian, security, and economic assistance. However, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, the aid has been largely insufficient in helping turn back the almost two-week-long Russian campaign. With Ukrainian cities increasingly under siege and intelligence estimates suggesting Russian President Vladimir Putin may soon escalate his offensive, this week President Zelensky pleaded for the US and NATO to step up their support by establishing a no-fly zone over the country, banning the purchase of Russian oil, and helping secure more fighter jets. Late breaking news suggests a NATO deal is underway to get Polish MiGs to Ukraine.
Subscribe to What the Hell Is Going On in Apple Podcasts and leave a 5-star review, please!, or by RSS feed. For all our podcasts in one place, subscribe to the Ricochet Audio Network Superfeed in Apple Podcasts or by RSS feed.
Radoslaw Sikorksi is a member of the European Parliament where he serves on the Committee on Foreign Affairs AFET, the Special Committee on Artificial Intelligence in a Digital Age AIDA and the Subcommittee on Security and Defense SEDE. He also chairs the Delegation for relations with the United States. Prior to his election to the European Parliament in 2019, Sikorski served as minister of national defense of Poland from 2005 to 2007, minister of foreign affairs from 2007 to 2014, and marshal of the Sejm speaker of Polands parliament from September 2014 to June 2015. From 2002 to 2005, he was resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. and executive director of the New Atlantic Initiative. Sikorski is the author of several books, including Dust of the Saints and The Polish House: An Intimate History of Poland.
