Splintered Ukrainian city braces for new battle with Russia
20220703
https://www.wvtm13.com/article/splintered-ukrainian-city-braces-for-new-battle-russia/40491310
Ukraine "says they are protecting us, but what kind of protection is this? asked one man, who did not provide his name.
A group of young off-duty Ukrainian soldiers gathered at a military distribution center to enjoy a rare respite from the fighting that has again engulfed their fractured home in eastern Ukraine.
These soldiers were still teenagers when pro-Russian separatists captured and held the town for three months. The brief occupation in 2014 terrorized Slovyansk, where dozens of officials and journalists were taken hostage, and several killings took place.
The same building was bombed in 2014, when the shell left a gaping hole on the sixth floor, and many residents suffered broken bones.
On the one hand, it is easier for us because we know what its like. On the other hand, it is more difficult for us since weve been living like this for eight years in a suspended condition.
Another soldier, a 23-year-old accountant who joined up when the invasion began, said Ukrainian forces simply do not have the weapons to fight off the superior arsenal of the approaching Russian army.
That is why we cannot negotiate, we need to win. Otherwise it will be a never-ending process. It will keep repeating she said.
Everyone knows that there will be a huge battle in Slovyansk, said one of the soldiers, who could not be named for security reasons.
Nobody wants to be captured. When there is an imminent danger of the enemy troops entering the city, I will have to go he said.
Fierce fighting and shelling broke out when the Ukrainian army laid siege to the city to recapture it.
Im not pro-Russian, Im not pro-Ukrainian. I am somewhere in between he said. Both Russians and Ukrainians kill civilians  everyone should understand that.
She said not enough was done after 2014 to punish people who collaborated with Russian proxies to prevent a repeat of the situation.
But before 2014, he was part of a political party that sought closer ties with Russia. Lyakh said that while pro-Moscow sentiment in the city has faded in past years  in part because of the horrors witnessed in 2014  there are still people who are waiting for the return of the Russian troops.
The statue of Vladimir Lenin that once stood in the central square has been removed. Water and power supplies were renovated. New parks, squares and medical facilities were built.
More and more, he is among the first responders at the scene of bombardments. The Associated Press followed Lyakh and recently witnessed what authorities described as a cluster bomb attack on a residential area. One person was killed and several others wounded.
Slovyansk is a city of splintered loyalties. With a large retired population, it is not uncommon to hear older residents express sympathy towards Russia or nostalgia for their Soviet past. There is also distrust of the Ukrainian army and government.
I had a great car, a good job. I was able to travel abroad three times a year, said the former accountant, who plans to stay in Slovyansk with the others to defend the city. How can we let someone just come and take our lives away from us?
As the front line creeps ever closer, attacks on the city intensify. Three-quarters of Slovyansks pre-war population has fled, but the mayor said there are still too many people here, including many children. He encourages them to evacuate. He spends his days coordinating humanitarian aid and strengthening the citys defenses.
After a recent shelling of his apartment block, one resident named Sergei said he believed that the strike was launched by Ukraine.
After 2014, Khimion said, it became easier to know who is who in Slovyansk. Now you can easily see: These people are for Ukraine, and these people are for Russia."
Khimion's husband is on the front lines, and she put her teenage daughter on a train to Switzerland as soon as the invasion began.
Now, eight years after their city was last occupied, the war has returned. Slovyansk could become the next major target in Russias campaign to take the Donbas region, Ukraines predominantly Russian-speaking industrial heartland, if Moscow captures Lysychansk  the last remaining Ukrainian stronghold in Luhansk province, 70 kilometers 43 miles to the east.
At the military distribution hub, the young soldiers talk wistfully about their lives before the invasion.
It is emotionally difficult. You see how people are dying and being harmed. But nevertheless, I understand that this is my job and that nobody but myself and the people around me can do" it.
The mayor says that shelling now occurs at least four or five times a day, and the use of cluster munitions has increased in the last week. Although he remains optimistic that Ukrainian forces can keep the enemy at bay, he is also clear-sighted about his options.
Those who have suffered understand what this Russia world means: It means broken houses, stolen cars and violence he explains. There are those who miss the Soviet Union, who think we are all one people, and they do not accept what they see with their own eyes.
I have been deprived of everything  a home, husband, child  what should I do now? she asks. We are doing everything we can to stop the offensive, to keep it to a minimum ... But to be afraid is to abandon this place.
Residents of Slovyansk wonder  some with hope, many in fear  if the sign will soon be painted yet again, in the red, white and blue of the Russia flag.
As they shared jokes and a pizza, artillery explosions could be heard a few kilometers away  a reminder of the looming battle that threatens to unfold here in the city of Slovyansk, which was occupied by Russian proxy fighters in 2014.
Andrey, a 37-year-old factory worker who has lived in the building for 20 years, recalls the bombing and occupation. He said separatist forces did and took what they liked.
At the entrance to the city, a monument bearing Slovyansks name is riddled with bullet holes from 2014. It has been painted over several times. It now bears the national colors of Ukraine, and a local artist has painted red flowers around each perforation.
They kneel to that Biden  may he die! exclaimed his neighbor, Tatyana, referring to U.S. President Joe Biden.
In the eight years since the separatists retreated, he said, life has markedly improved in Slovyansk.
The mayor of Slovyansk, Vadim Lyakh, reflects the city's new trajectory. Taking his cues from Ukraine's wartime leader, President Volodymyr Zelensky, the mayor has decorated his office with Ukrainian flags, anti-Russian symbols, portraits of national poets  even a biography of Winston Churchill.
One morning last week, Lyakh paid a visit to an apartment block that had been shelled overnight. Most of the windows in the building were blown out, doors were broken wide open and a power line severed.
Actually, the war never left Slovyansk. It didnt leave peoples heads said Tetiana Khimion, a 43-year-old dance choreographer who converted a fishing store into a hub for local military units.
On Thursday, a group of elderly residents couldnt hide their frustration after a bomb blast slashed open their roofs and shattered their windows.
