EA on Indias NDTV and Turkeys TRT World War Crimes Justice and Zelenskiys Speech to the UN
20220406
https://eaworldview.com/2022/04/war-crimes-justice-zelenskiy-un-speech/
Dont hide behind a claim of fog of war. An independent investigation is needed of what happened in Bucha. We already have the satellite imagery, videos, the witness accounts.
ORIGINAL ENTRY, APRIL 6: Immediately after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiys address to the UN Security Council, I spoke with Turkeys TRT World about the significance amid Russias invasion and war cries against Ukrainian civilians.
The Indian Government tries to maintain a precarious balance by avoiding any reference to Russias invasion of Ukraine, while calling for an investigation of the mass killing of civilians in Bucha.
There is a short-term message here: Support Ukraine. Make sure that it can continue to stand against this invasion.
LeftRightCentre  "This is not a fog of war, don't hide behind that," says Professor Scott Lucas ScottLucasEA, international politics, University of Birmingham, on UkraineRussiaWar. pic.twitter.com5taQgsTp7M
See also Ukraine War, Day 42: New Sanctions as Zelenskiy Tells UN, Russian Leaders Must Be Brought to Justice
Then, following the lie-filled statement of Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia  that was disgusting  I take apart Moscows disinformation.
UPDPATE, APRIL 7: The Indian Government tries to maintain a precarious balance by avoiding any reference to Russias invasion of Ukraine, while calling for an investigation of the mass killing of civilians in Bucha.I joined a panel on Indias NDTV on Wednesday to cut through Russian disinformation and to explain the challenge and risks for Delhi.An extract from my analysis:Dont hide behind a claim of fog of war. An independent investigation is needed of what happened in Bucha. We already have the satellite imagery, videos, the witness accounts.LeftRightCentre  "This is not a fog of war, don't hide behind that," says Professor Scott Lucas ScottLucasEA, international politics, University of Birmingham, on UkraineRussiaWar. pic.twitter.com5taQgsTp7M NDTV ndtv April 6, 2022 ORIGINAL ENTRY, APRIL 6: Immediately after Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiys address to the UN Security Council, I spoke with Turkeys TRT World about the significance amid Russias invasion and war cries against Ukrainian civilians.We discuss the immediate situation as evidence is collected of the mass killings of Ukrainian civilians the pursuit of justice inside and outside the UN and the importance for international order, security, and human rights.Then, following the lie-filled statement of Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia  that was disgusting  I take apart Moscows disinformation.There is a short-term message here: Support Ukraine. Make sure that it can continue to stand against this invasion.But beyond this, Zelenskiy is saying to the UN, If you have a reason to exist, you need to reform yourself now. Peace must be dominant.And he is, quite rightly, saying that the reason we cannot get peace, or protection against war crimes and invasion, is because there is one powerful member in the Security Council who can blockade it.On the significance of Zelenskiys speech and the move to suspend Russia from the UN Human Rights Council:By highlighting the killings, the torture, the rapes, you are highlighting that even though this country sits on the Security Council  even though this country, as Zelenskiy noted, will use all its disinformation to turn black into white  it must be held to account morally and politically, even if you cant hold it to account structurally within the United Nations.See also Ukraine War, Day 42: New Sanctions as Zelenskiy Tells UN, Russian Leaders Must Be Brought to JusticeLike this:Like Loading...
I joined a panel on Indias NDTV on Wednesday to cut through Russian disinformation and to explain the challenge and risks for Delhi.
But beyond this, Zelenskiy is saying to the UN, If you have a reason to exist, you need to reform yourself now. Peace must be dominant.
And he is, quite rightly, saying that the reason we cannot get peace, or protection against war crimes and invasion, is because there is one powerful member in the Security Council who can blockade it.
By highlighting the killings, the torture, the rapes, you are highlighting that even though this country sits on the Security Council  even though this country, as Zelenskiy noted, will use all its disinformation to turn black into white  it must be held to account morally and politically, even if you cant hold it to account structurally within the United Nations.
We discuss the immediate situation as evidence is collected of the mass killings of Ukrainian civilians the pursuit of justice inside and outside the UN and the importance for international order, security, and human rights.
On the significance of Zelenskiys speech and the move to suspend Russia from the UN Human Rights Council:
