Ukraine Open Thread 2022110
20220716
https://www.moonofalabama.org/2022/07/ukraine-open-thread-2022-110.html
"What Would Be The Economic Implications For Russia Of Being Designated A State Sponsor of Acts of International Terrorism? The impacts would be quite severe, said Jason M. Blazakis, professor of practice at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey, in an interview. It would likely expand the types of materiel that could not go to Russia. Dual-export restrictions are a key aspect of the SST State Sponsor of Terrorism regime.
Mr. Oprisko, you come off as a haughty, arrogant jerk. Who are you to tell others to post under their real
Secondly, where Mrs Zakharova is wrong and just because she's Russian doesn't mean she's right - or wrong is that being gay or becoming transgender is not the result of an education nor any kind of inculcation. Her child could very well become so despite all the efforts she would make to keep himher in hisher gender or in a sexuality she considers the right one.
No , you have to post your source. Otherwise we do not have to believe one iota of what is posted. NOTE: the per centage of first posts that are from trolls is very above average. This is not .   ...But your post, without corroboraion, I call feces.
i also am extremely worried about a false flag--either chemical or "tactical" nuke. all the "winning" propaganda and now clearing people--they are such liars that most of the regular people in the west will believe that it is russia that is desperate, not nato.
As part of the counter-battery struggle, two platoons of multiple rocket launchers, 15 units of Hyacinth-B howitzers and D-30 artillery guns were hit at firing positions in the areas of the settlements of Verkhnekamenskoye, Serebryanka, Seversk, Artemovsk, Avdiivka and Georgievka of the Donetsk People's Republic, as well as artillery units at firing positions in 73 districts.
In total, since the beginning of the special military operation, 256 aircraft, 139 helicopters, 1557 unmanned aerial vehicles, 355 anti-aircraft missile systems, 4073 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 746 multiple rocket launchers, 3149 field artillery guns and mortars, as well as 4253 units of special military vehicles have been destroyed.
one of the old timers wants to be knighted before they die??  they finally suck up to the queen? lol..
This war is going to go on for a long time if things continue as they are.
At a battlefield level, its same deal with the human shield strategy, to gradually reduce whole towns and cities to rubble, as in Syria and now the Novorossiya portions of Ukraine.
Does not sound right, does not feel right, and no source.  The feelers going out now from the presidents of Serbia and Brazil is that "all hell will break loose" after the Donbas Arch Operation is over and the peace proposal from the Russians is not accepted.
When willing adults go together to bed it's not my business. What the baker carries in their underwear is also not my goddamn business.
Such designation is not even the most insane proposal. That dubious distinction seems to be the idea of flooding eastern Europe with nuclear-tipped intermediate range missiles while publicly announcing a whole-of-government reaffirmation of first-strike "ambiguity".
BUT, Shoigu has been visting the front and has publically asked for "more". Of what?
Sure, you can speculate. Everyone is allowed to speculate. It's supposed to be a free world.
"However, if the Russian Federation is recognized as a country sponsoring terrorism, at the request of Ukraine, Moscow will declare war on Kyiv within 24 hours.
On the energy war, the cauldron operative works good! NS1 is cut for maintenance. But it's not a so big for all of EU.
Something weird just happened in Greece. Apparently, an Antonov cargo aircraft caught fire on air and tried to land but it crashed. According to TV, the flight path was from Serbia to Jordan? and it was carrying ammunition. There are numerous videos of the crash site with a lot of secondary explosions. Greek TV keeps calling it an Ukrainian aircraft but I don't know and I'm sure as hell they don't as well if that is because it is an Antonov or because of its registry.
I don't have to, and don't respond to anonymous authors of demands. Post under your real name, or shutup.
So the US is moving "persons unknown or of US provenance" out. Wise move, as their presence is an open invitation for reprisals on US interests elswhere, by the DPR etc.
The world had changed on 24th February 2022, and it won't come back to the former status quo.
Too many cooks and they all seem irrational. And too many cooks holding levers that get a response. No one home at the top.
Sushi, I used the word "rant" perhaps inappropriately, being French, I thought of the idiom "coup de gueule", meaning a deep disagreement expressed publicly in anger.
The sanctions war is hurting the American economy. At the same time, the United States needs to fully support Ukraine, even paying the salaries of the entire state apparatus, and soon it will also need to support the declining economy of the European Union in order to keep the already shaky anti-Russian coalition under control.
Most likely, this is why Russia operates in Ukraine with a limited contingent and does not rush things at all, Vasilets explained.
I took the liberty of moving the topic here, ostro did it anyway, mainly because I didn't have time to write a comprehensible answer where he posted it first.
91   "When willing adults go together to bed it's not my business. What the baker carries in their underwear is also not my goddamn business."
In Ukraine, Yankee snuff fields can openly gloat about funding mail-order nazi filth, a type of progress, I guess.
Riyadh has taken all measures to prevent similar mistakes in the future. But we should not forget that the United States also made a number of miscalculations, such as the Abu Ghraib prison incident in Iraq, he quoted the crown prince.
Russian air defense means destroyed 14 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles in the areas of the settlements of Dolgenke, Izyum, Malaya Kamyshevakha of the Kharkiv region, Kamyshany of the Kherson region, Reshetilovskoye of the Zaporozhye region, Alchevsk of the Luhansk People's Republic, Serebryanka, Grigorovka, Spartak, Krasny Oktyabr and Krinichnaya of the Donetsk People's Republic.
And in the end, I just would like to say that there's many more important things I don't want to instill in my kid.
As a government spokesperson, I assume she has a pretty good grasp of how these types of statements are used against her by her adversaries. So what's her angle here? I'm trying to think of a clever explanation as to why she willingly treads into this territory. Is she angling for the homophobe support? After all, gender issues are a powerful trigger for many folks. Thing is, it works both ways. Seems pretty dumb to deliberately steer the conversation away from solid ground and dive right into the marsh.
Operational-tactical and army aviation, missile troops and artillery hit 21 control points, five ammunition depots, manpower and military equipment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in 189 districts during the day.
After that, Kyiv, Lvov, Dnepr, Krivoy Rog, Kharkov and Nikolaev will be destroyed within 72 hours.
It has not been posted on Slavyangrad.   I am aware of the statements of the Serbian president, and it is within the realm of possibility he is signaling a greater intent of the RF and its allies.  But your post, without corroboraion, I call feces.
As a result of high-precision strikes of the Russian Aerospace Forces, the 115th mechanized Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, operating in the Seversky direction, was actually destroyed. In the last two days alone, the losses of personnel in this compound amounted to more than 600 people. Residents of Seversk, Nikolaevka and other nearby settlements under the control of the Ukrainian army are urgently mobilizing to complete the brigade.
But I also think that it's an issue paid excessive attention to, only to monetize it and for capitalistsliberals to look like they're doing something for society, also to sow division.
So Zbigniew Brzezinski was educated at McGill. His father fled to Montreal in 1945 from Poland and became President 1952-62 of the Canadian Polish Congress.
Once the United States finally designates Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, Russia will be stripped of any immunity under the U.S. Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, said Camp in an interview. This will result, most importantly, in litigants being able to obtain not just compensatory damages, but punitive damages against Russia. In my view, such judgments that will be able to be entered against Russia will be nearly infinite in amount and will cripple Russias ability to operate financially outside of Russia for decades to come, inflicting more financial suffering upon Russia than any sanctions currently being imposed or sanctions that would be imposed upon Russia when it is designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.
 32 dh - I think they should have done Sympathy for the Devil, or perhaps Paint it Black.
I dont believe Russia will go all the way in and employ American shock and awe. Putin is doing a balancing act and keeping the action below certain level, to eventually succeed but not to turn the world opinion against Russia. Yes, the western propaganda is accusing Russia of all kinds of crimes, but overall the Russian strategy is succeeding in that its softening the position of many western actors. There are many options in the escalation ladder and some harsh rhetoric may be employed. No full scale destruction of Ukrainian cities in my opinion.
Yesterday, the US Embassy announced their move to LVOV from Kiev, and warned all US Citizens to leave the country by a date in the near future.
 66 - Didn't Joseph Goebbels do the same?  He got his Ph.D. in German Romanticism, if I'm not mistaken.
Hungary is ready to act militarily to protect Hungarians in Transcarpathia. There were protests there, people don't want to be sent to die for Slava Cocaini. If zelly takes them by force I'm sure Orban will send the troops and split the country with Putin's approval. Orban might go in anyway, the nazis are collapsing and will start to hide towards Hungary, which will attract missile strikes and that will kill locals too. Exactly for this reason EU has stopped 9bn for Ukr, there will be no Ukr to pay back the loans
This is the second time I read Zakharova making this type of statement. If I remember correctly, a few months ago she made an out of the blue, completely off topic, comment about a journalist's sexual orientation. At the time, it seemed like too much of a gratuitous slander to be real.
 is just a vocational training school, in the west one might say cadet school.  is a cadet. He was such a  from August 1980 to August 1985. Then he was enrolled into border troops of KGB, USSR... USSR stopped existing in June 1991... University degree? My foot! It is just an alleged copy of a copy written by an notary public...RussianSoviet documents have to be signed and stamped by the relevant ministry. By the way,  doesn't give degrees...
Urgent info needed. I tried to make a donation and, avoiding paypal, put in all the debit card details. My card is Australian, but suddenly PAYPAL, which now I strenuously avoid, started asking for all sorts of personal details and I could not make the payment.Why has paypal this power? Can a person not use a card from another country? I live in France but here had bank trouble claiming someone was trying to get into my account, so I cannot use internet with the replacement card, so I use the Australian card for internat payments, usually with no trouble. Please help. I know many people avoid paypal since their recent grossly unfair treatment to some patreon users, and I certainly want to use the bank card NOT PAYPAL.
And btw, when addressing me be sure to use my real name  Sir waynorinorway!
1. Russia never reveals its tactical plans. 2. Russia is immune to name callingverbal attacksdesignations. 3. Russia until now went great lengths to avoid civilian victims. Why shoud they erase big cities in within 3 days? The civilians are their declared "brothers", still. Which they are indeed, as seen in the liberated settlements.
Clearly, the reason Russia is holding back is because it must retain 75 to 80 of its military force in the expectation that the US and NATO mightwill directly enter the conflict then the shit will hit the fan.
b ostro any day, a. m. I tried twice on YT, when really bored, couldn't
Not if the person is addressed verbally. In that case you just say "Herr Doktor" as if he had only one doctorate.
Talk is of USFED raising interest rates a full 1 at their 27 July meeting.
Italian Prime Minister Draghi is "determined" to step down next week, despite the President's refusal to accept his resignation-Bloomberg
Combat effectiveness begins to degrade immediately. US Army figures after 60 days a soldier is half a soldier and after 90 they need to be rotated out as they have become useless and dangerous. In olden times after a 90 day summer campaign it would be take up quarters in a fat prosperous town or farm village, wait for spring. Or stumble home.
"I dont believe Russia will go all the way in and employ American shock and awe. Putin is doing a balancing act and keeping the action below a certain level, .... No full-scale destruction of Ukrainian cities in my opinion."
So, please, give everyone here a break and start inform us with the vast knowledge of yours, instead.
The rest of the territory of Ukraine will be subjected to massive missile and bomb attacks, and bridges across the Dnieper, civilian airports, and the entire railway infrastructure will be destroyed.
President VV Putin said all this, and more, in his speeches, comments, etc. The U.S. did not respond to the written documents transmitted to them at all.
Shoigu is visiting Ukraine and has ordered his forces to increase their efforts on all fronts, looks like the "pause" has ended and a new offensive wave is starting. Seemingly intensifying missile and artillery attacks upon Ukrainian positions and supplytrainingtroop stationing facilities across Ukraine.
Baku was a provincial town in the former USSR, more than 2900kms away from Leningrad St.Petersburg
Fourth The Russians are going ahead with new testing of something similar to a Sarmat near the Artic. THe US is getting tetchy Stressed about Syria and it's illegal occupation. There are SAA movements, and the visit of CENTCOM to Al-Tanf. Even the last tanker-train of stolen oil was covered by the US from the air. The position of the SDF and Kurds is visibly changing, but I am not sure in what way. Turkeys' idea of stealing a buffer-zone is curious. Different scenarios are possible, including the "usual" doubel cross by Erdogan.
Note in the latest MOD update posted by Jul, the Kiev units being attacked are so-called triple digit brigades  ie 124th . These are absolute bottom of the barrel 3. Line reserve or Volksturm.
"The biggest lie in the US foreign policy-officially fighting terrorism while secretly supporting it."...912019, "Islamic State weapons in Yemen traced back to US Government: Serbia files part 1," Armswatch...https:armswatch.comislamic-state-weapons-in-yemen-traced-back-to-us-government-serbia-files-part-1...Dilyana has many other examples, this is just one. Labels printed on mortar shells, packing slips with shipments of weapons indicate that US taxpayers paid for weapons to terrorists.
As concerns that slightly "off topic" topic I'll be "Captain Obvious" on this as well.
It hasn't become any less potent due to "normalization", instead only more used and intricate due to all the extremely blatant politicization and "woke" shit. Most countries are fully aware that it is being deliberately spread with ill intent turning the classically liberal "none of my business" into a shallow false alibi no matter if it is held as a sincere and genuinely non-aggressive belief or not.
And then in addition why would Russia let itself be goaded by the US into striking against the Ukrainian civilian population when they would instead want to strike the US?
Not addressed is how litigants would collect from Russia the awards decided by US courts.
I dont care how many flippin degrees you list on your CV or how many languages you are fluent in or
The Ukrainians are walking back all their million man army and southern offensive claims. Civilians being forcibly transferred out of Slavyansk and Kramatorsk.
Yes, they said the army of a million was simply bad translation. And they won't defeat Russia in August, maybe next year.
If the special operation in Ukraine is to lead to a new world order, let's hope it's for the best of everybody.
We see a slow advance in the Donbass and near Kharkov, which is due to the fact that the army saves its forces as much as possible, giving the enemy even time and the opportunity to bring up reserves and thus destroying the entire military potential of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
I guess Mick is in competition with Bono and the rest of the virtue signalers who can hold a note.
Sexlust any kind aka "love" was weaponized tens of thousands of years ago, or should that be hundreds of thousands? KGB, nazis, Mk-ultra, anyone you can think of and then everyone else too.
But, the Russia really doesn't care too hoots what the US Congress decidesdeclare. And, Russia will never destroy Kyiv, Lvov, Dnepr, Krivoy Rog, Kharkov and Nikolaev as you speculate. Just ask your wife why? She's a Russian, after all.
In the West, the rocket was immediately dubbed the "Flying Chernobyl" because of the fear that the nuclear reactor that powers the rocket would act as a "dirty" nuclear bomb when it exploded.
First Avdeveeka is my mantra.  Could be a couple of weeks of fairly substantial gains for the RF and the allies.  The AFU can still wage a good defense in places, but imploding markets and imploding morale have nebulous dates. The increasing 's of women and especially mothers who are dying in the AFU can only destroy overall morale in the Ukranian population.
post without bothering to reference the post number let alone abide by the proper protocol and provide a datetime
ostro thinks: "Looks like a german name. Well, if it's german, it's nazi. How obvious!"
Belarus will cut off all land escape routes in the west of the country, and three S-400 divisions will shoot down all private aircraft that try to take off from Transcarpathia and the Odessa region."
"Borderland sacrifice zone is a fitting description of what the Empire has achieved in Irak. Do you see it differently?"
thanks for saying all that.. i agree with you and the others here, INDY, lol..
"The Ukrainians are walking back all their million man army and southern offensive claims. Civilians being forcibly transferred out of Slavyansk and Kramatorsk.
I do not see how the Russians can continue to keep the German economy going, and by extension the European economy, when troops and missiles stationed in Europe are to be the means of threatening Russia's security.
"..Someone put them up to it. If it was the Biden administration or CIA or Israel or your pick we are in trouble. These are dinosaurs, once in motion they do not turn around...             oldhippie10
Fighter aircraft of the Russian Aerospace Forces destroyed three aircraft of the Ukrainian Air Force in an air battle: two MiG-29s in the areas of the settlements of Novopavlovka, Mykolaiv region, Vladimirovka, Dnipropetrovsk region and one Su-25 in the Seversk area. Also, two Ukrainian helicopters were shot down in the air: Mi-8 near Velikaya Novoselka and Mi-24 near Seversk, Donetsk People's Republic.
Oh, the turbine was just a pretext. Who knows what kind of other technical problems energy sector would come up with! Remember the famous words "military-technical" means?
If I read into it, according to her, transgender people are an expression of Western decadence that should not be instilled in children.
So at what point does human limitations kick in given the ferociously kinetic nature of this conflict?
That a group of US Senators said something stupid does not mean it is on the agenda. Although the strong response could mean Russia knows that it is.
How does it say so beautifully in the Threepenny Opera, in the "Song of the Insufficiency of Human Endeavor" Lied von der Unzulnglichkeit menschlichen Strebens, sometimes also translated as "Song about the inadequacy of human planning"?
As far as I can tell, the things you've taken issue with again and again are 1 that he emigrated 2 his branch of service 3 his hometown
Oprisko  is usually an Ukrainian surname, mostly from western part, usually around Galicia. Any connections?
but Germans, unlike Americans, are big on titles. Someone who has two doctorates has to be called "Herr Doktor Doktor".
In addition, a Tochka-U ballistic missile was intercepted near the settlement of Novozvanivka in the Donetsk People's Republic, and two Uragan multiple launch rocket projectiles were intercepted in the Izyum area of the Kharkiv region.
The matter of declaring The Russian Federation a "State Sponsor of Terrorism" was proposed by The US Senators during their recent visit to Kiev.
US transgender Admiral Rachel Levine and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Nuclear Energy Sam Brintonat the French Embassy at a Bastille Day reception.
This is the first real sustained conflict between reasonably sort of matched military groups in a very long time.
The "Empire of Chaos" was the popular label before it became the "Empire of Lies". Will they go so far as to destroy it so no one else can benefit? I doubt it, there are too many players capable of creating serious blowback.
name? YOU, as can be demonstrated countless times, begin many of your posts with a quote from another
I don't and won't blame Russia either way, even when I think it's a mistake, they're not the ones who caused all this and they're not the ones who continue to make it worse.
Second, and perhaps even more important, adding Russia to the State Sponsor of Terrorism regime would have implications for every government that continues to engage in any exchange, especially defense-related, with Russia. The SST listing would have secondary effects for countries engaged in such exchanges and they would become a target of secondary sections unless the President issued a waiver to exempt the activity.
Posted by: anon  Jul 16 2022 16:46 utc  36The Ukraine operation has been such a rip roaring success that the Neocons and Ziocons are now opening second and third fronts against Iran and China.
The statements of the President at a meeting with the leaders of parliamentary factions regarding Ukraine meant a change in the current peaceful concept of the Special Military Operation to a moderately aggressive one.
The fall of the Kyiv regime is undoubtedly spelled out in the plans for a special military operation, but not at all as the culmination of Russia's actions, but only as an intermediate stage. The war is actually being waged at a much higher level.
Putin is not the one with the time limit, in fact time is on his side. Hes is and has been reorganizing the Russian MIC based on the Soviet war time production model, no bids foe contracts and top-down production at a fast pace, just like WWll, which was a complete sucess.
Biden and NATO, on the other hand, need to destroy Russia as it exists today before moving or as Obama put it, "pivot" to Asia China. If the proxy forces in Ukraine can't do the job, what can we expect from the USNATO and the US MIC? It took 30 years to reach this point of escalation against Russia, they are NOT going to just kick the wall and walk away, and Russia knows this. There will be a showdown.
The Ukraine operation has been such a rip roaring success that the Neocons and Ziocons are now opening second and third fronts against Iran and China.
Assuming George W Oprisko above is the real name of the MoA poster who has a habit of disrupting the conversation here and at The Saker, the question becomes - is he a sponsored disinformation professional? Or just a bored retired man looking for amusement?
President Putin doesn't give a rats ass what the US labels Russia. And he certainly wouldn't raze Kiev not Kyiv to the ground.
how many years you have experience on the high seas, or anything else about you. No source  No cred.
I wonder how many books ostro has written and how many years of blog posts does he have in military matters to keep acusing Andrei Martyanov of being a fraud.
Someone already said it more than once, what Serbian president said was not "all hell will break loose" but "we are all going to hell" eg. as warning if it escalates to nuclear war it is the outcome. Bad translation or something else, I won't speculate.
They send some weapons, the money is not going anywhere, it's just stolen from the budget. If you read the US many billion list, you'll see it goes back to MIC and other companies, rest is stolen and "10 for the big guy" like the little boy said. Ukr was used as a money laudering scheme before, now it's at a much large scale. They give some money to their Ukr puppets, like zelly and the nazis, the government and so on, it's nothing. EU was supposed to give them 9bn, now they've changed their mind, no more money. They need it because they'll get people in the streets in their own countries, can't steal 9bn right now. The Ukr gas company wanted a 2 year delay. They won't get it, they'll have to pay about 350m, don't remember exactly, this year.
Taken wordy, it is nonsense. But the message is clear: "capitalism" as the political power bowing to credit and the oligarchyt is over. Russia is moving in the chinese direction.
and i get to come here and other places to be with our growing community to help me feel better.
The implications would be severe, especially for Russia's relations with other countries. At least, that is the U.S. perception. But perhaps this would ultimately harm the USAthe so-called "values West" more than Russia? In any case, it would rapidly accelerate the current process.
It has already happened: Sir Michael Philip Jagger was knighted for "services to popular music" on December 2003.  Part of Lizzie's 2002 Birthday Honours.
34 Sir Keith Richard? Could be something like that. More likely they were asked to do something for Ukraine and they couldn't refuse.
When I see Rachel Levine or Sam Brinton, before their transgender identities, I see the US government's accomplices first, so I don't have to lump all gays and trans people together with them.
Let us not forget that this kind of homophobic thinking is often held by the far right and fascists, precisely those whom Russia is fighting in Ukraine.
Well, you'd have to take the question to Maria Zakharova...I just translated her post and reposted it here. Anyway, that photo was funny...and, I'm old fashioned...
As for what she says, I don't know if ostro linked it because he agrees or not, but it seems essential for him since he moved the topic here. It is not essential for me in the global course of things now, but I feel the need to respond.
But since 11th of July, Germany is on red and now slowly burning gas from underground storage.
The Americans simply will not pull out a long war in such conditions, but, in theory, they also cannot retreat, at least without serious geopolitical losses. The trap has really slammed shut and in Ukraine they Russians are now grinding not only the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but the entire collective West.
It's highly unusual for a Ph.D. to use the "doctor" title outside academia.  I, for example, have a Ph.D. but never use the title.  Oprisko is a person who does.
Calling BS on that text, give a source. Who ever wrote that it wasn't Russia gov. It was someone that spells Kiev in Ukie lang, is bloodthirsty for civilian casualties and destroying whole cities, and acts in a way completely incompatible with how Russian forces behave so far. So... Ukies? US? UK? Israel? Or any of their impotent intelligence servicetrollspropagandists. Or some "Russian" 6th column fanboys.
Third constat HIMARS and others use GPS. It amakes sense to render GPS satellites unable to send the coordinates. Don't forget starlink. The announcement of working on "new" laser weapons,There are already some portable ones in use capable of blinding GPS and observation satellites, is fortuit. These presumably would only be used "legally" by the Russians, if the presnence of US officers and troops in Ukraine was confirmed.
Oldhippie is 100 correct - After 90 days of continuous combat nearly all soldiers are useless and often dangerous.
Summary of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation on the progress of a special military operation on the territory of Ukraine 07162022
ps - james is my real name, i just forgot to give a last name!
"I believe that if Russia is designated a state sponsor of terrorism, that will significantly enhance the ability of aliens to sue Russia in U.S. courts, said Charles H. Camp, a Washington, D.C.-based international attorney who has represented foreign and domestic clients in international litigation and debt recovery....
The "72 hour" thing reminded me immediately at Biden's initial candidate for pentagon chief, Michele Flournoy, who promised to "sink the Chinese fleet within 72 hours". And the whole text of yours, corroberated by your aggressive always the best defense, eh? denial of source in 7 with subsequent theme-change smells fishy. I suspect an attempt to preparecover the false-flag attack on the cities of Kramatorsk andor Slavyansk from which UA forciby deports the inhabitants. - TASS article.
No , you have to post your source. Otherwise we do not have to believe one iota of what is posted.   NOTE:  the per centage of first posts that are from trolls is very above average.   This is not .
ostro35 For your own sake drop the subject. It is becoming a monomania- by now everyone is convinced that Martyanov was educated in Baku. So what?
Smoothie  if we trust your never-ending indictment  is a crook. Well, well! Let's say we're OK with that! But how should we consider someone living in the shadow of such a despicable man?
Iran, China, and everything in between. Not sure they will succeed, but they'll certainly try.
Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya were straight up punishment beatings, using main force, this proxy  terrorist strategy mostly keeps Yankee forces out of the real fight as advisers and volunteers.
That's how it works with "everything else" as well, it's no different at all and people are being used regardless of whether they want to be or realize it.
Second constat The HIMARS and other large US and EU arms being sent in, almost certainly have officers from their respective countries of origine using them. What is the legal position of say an officer from the US in a country at "war" or in a SMO? Are they mercenaries or representatives of the country of origin? If several were captured - what then? The recent missile attack on Vinnitsa may have had representatives from many places. As they were non-nationals but apparently part of someones armed forces, their participation suggests a repeat of the presence of NATO? Commanding officers in Avrostal, that Macon and others wanted to save so badly.
Israel is right in the middle of an election campaign- now going on for three years- and acting irrationally. It can thank Russian restraint and sympathy for its continued existence. If it is burning bridges it is signing its death certificate as an imperialist outpost. No doubt it is following the advice of the the idiots in the White House.
on the other hand,i have to send whatever kind of prayers and blessings i have and trust that russia knows exactly what's happening and with all of the love and gratitude going their way, they are literally in control and doing what must be done.
None of the three...but that he was never a navy officer. He was a officer in the KGB border troops...and that copy of a copy of "degree" is false...that's all. Ah, you are free to readlisten to whom you want, by the way. We are supposed to live in a free world...
My sources for the Quote cited, is one of the Russian Telegram Channels I monitor.  I don't have to, and don't respond to anonymous authors of demands.  Post under your real name, or shutup.
The tactics of unhurried military operations in Ukraine are still bewildering the best Pentagon analysts, and only a few have begun to guess that the main goal of the operation is not at all the surrender of Kyiv.
Try looking at this from the eyes of an Empire well aware of its decline. Its zone of influence is retreating like an Alpine glacier. Dominance may be relative, but once it is lost, these borderlands become assets for your competitor. Do you expect the Empire to graciously sit on its hands and watch its revenue stream dry up? Just think, burning things down is what it does best. It has this down to an art.
If it is real I guess it is another attempt at a warning to their opponents but those have already shown they won't listen to anything and it is extremely unlikely to work.
I don't know but it seems fishy. Like a convert ammo move going wrong. Serbia to Jordan???
As a result of a strike by high-precision weapons of the Russian Aerospace Forces at the temporary deployment point of the 123rd Brigade of the Territorial Defense of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the city of Nikolaev, up to 200 nationalists and foreign mercenaries, as well as 13 units of armored and automotive equipment were destroyed.
So far, at any rate, the great plans of the West have proved to be self-mutilation in this respect, the great wise statesmen who are taking us all hostage here are no different from the very ordinary people. Only the consequences are infinitely more dangerous.
Thats why we increasingly observe Kievs once elite brigades rapidly collapsing. NATO command ordered them to stand and fight to the last round.
Borderland sacrifice zone is a fitting description of what the Empire has achieved in Irak. Do you see it differently?
Russia should keep on being Russia and choose to continue to do what they think is right not based on what the worst of humanity says but based on their own convictions.
Apparently, the Americans know something, they are preparing something and evacuated in advance. A very incomprehensible situation. there are a lot of questions for the US representatives, which have not yet been answered. Yuri Podolayaka
Russia's Burevestnik, a nuclear-powered, global-range intercontinental cruise missile, has been reworked and the Russian Federation may start the projectile testing process again. The missile may enter service with the Russian Armed Forces by 2027 or earlier.
However....if you are a parent with young children you may have some reservations about bakers showing up at the school in their underwear to show the children the value of tolerance.
The journalist noted that one should not believe in fairy tales about the unlimited resources of the United States, which, they say, can cover any costs by running the printing press at full capacity.
Russia will adapt and change its strategy as things develop. We all know Russia's ethno-cultural allies live in south and east of Ukraine and not in the west. Once those areas are secured it may be necessary to use a version of "shock and awe" if the other global and regional powers do not agree to negotiate.
Where do these notions come from? Please don't tell me they're anything real out of Kremlin I'm already worried about a "matching western hubris with eastern hubris" situation.
"There is bipartisan support for the designation. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi D-CA and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell R-KY agree on one thing: The United States should declare Russia a state sponsor of terrorism."
It is already clear that Russia is planning a long-term war with the West in Ukraine. Most of the territory of Ukraine is becoming a financial yoke for Europe and the United States. As they say, politics is a concentrated economy, and war is an even more concentrated economy. The West has fallen into a deadly trap.
2.  The Russian security demands made last December have not been met and on present form won't be.
But it would make sense to act quickly, hard, and decisively, because such a move, i.e., listing Russia as a State Sponsor of Terrorism, would be a massive escalation.
"if you take the time to consider the state of Ukraine currently, it should be obvious that extending this formula to Iran and China would in fact be a roaring success for the Empire."
There was only one Naval Academy in the former USSR, and that was in Leningrad, which later became St. Petersburg. It was named Naval Academy named after N. G. Kuznetsov -   . . .
It is among the key things you're expected to fully reveal in any interviews for security clearances, among the most basic tests of your honesty.
It is difficult to say which of them were really somehow Putin's statements and which were the statements of the authors the channel.
The sanctions were illegal. So, Russia would decide, what actions of Russia might be legal or illegal.
Even that may be a stretch.  The NATO Anglo American death cult will not give up unless forced to by their freezing, hungry, and out of work populations
On 1, Ritter earlier thought there might have been a chance of averting war up to the 24th.  Others say the SMO was baked in from the 16th.  Macgregor, I believe, thought that military action was inevitable well before that.  But when the shelling continued after the republics were recognised that was it for a certainty.
For many years, Kyiv's "partners" exported all its resources out of the country, but now they are only forced to inject huge amounts of money without receiving anything in return. This is a death trap for the US and its satellites.
Exactly! They've already used fireexplosions in Kramatorsk, similar to crematorium for Americans. Bucha was "butcher", of course, killings on the streets.
Re: Posted by: Dr. George W Oprisko  Jul 16 2022 13:44 utc  1
High-precision long-range air-based weapons in the city of Dnepropetrovsk destroyed workshops for the production of components and repair of Tochka-U ballistic missiles and multiple launch rocket systems at the Southern Machine-Building Plant defense enterprise. In addition, high-precision weapons of the Russian Aerospace Forces destroyed four control points during the day, including the 80th airborne assault Brigade in the Serebryanka area of the Donetsk People's Republic and the 3rd Tank Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the Novopokrovka area of the Kharkiv region, an ammunition depot in the Konstantinovka area of the Donetsk People's Republic, manpower and military equipment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in 25 districts.
Slavyansk is new. Would it be they find "slaves" of Russians' soldiers? Mass graves of slaves? It must be a rhyme, that's how green haired diversity workers at CIA think. Dnepropetrovsk is safe, no Westerner can say or remember such word.
Turning Taiwan and Irak into Borderland-type sacrifice zones to be destroyed along with vast amounts of imperial weaponry would be a roaring success for the empire?
The American embassy in Kyiv stopped its work. The embassy building is closed, employees are not visible, eyewitnesses report
Yes, Goebbels used his "Doktor" title, but Germans, unlike Americans, are big on titles.  Someone who has two doctorates has to be called "Herr Doktor Doktor".
Hard to imagine the senators would have done this on their own. Someone put them up to it. If it was the Biden administration or CIA or Israel or your pick we are in trouble. These are dinosaurs, once in motion they do not turn around.
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, in response to US President Joe Biden's allegations of involvement in the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, reminded the American leader of Washington's miscalculations. This was reported to Reuters on July 16 by a Saudi official.
Bin Salman also warned Biden about the negative consequences of trying to impose certain values on countries by force, as happened in Iraq and Afghanistan, where the US failed, the official said.
Designation of Russia Federation as a "state sponsor of terrorism" appeared in a draft bill submitted by Republican House members at the end of January. See page nine:
The idea that western media has grown a concience and is offended by lack of consequences for Kashoggi killing is fairly rediculus. Populist pandering - positioning for elections and anyway clearly Biden is road kill.
The part about sealing the borders is a direct message to mercenaries and USNATO troops. It is the get out of town notice. I will note the US Embassy in Kiev is reported as entirely empty and closed, not merely reduced as it was in FebMarch.
if the person has two doctorates, another masters degree and is a professor. But then you would still address him just as "Herr Professor".
I suspect the west sees taht it cannot carry this past the fall and main antagonist has elections in november and serious economicbudgetary constraints - the problems of europe are entertaining but when it hits us its serious partly because us backstops europe and partly because we worry about us.
I would have thought things NOT going so well in Ukraine is why the Yank is trying to open new fronts.
If that occurs, it would seem the war will widen markedly, possibly involving total destruction of Ukraine, given Putin does what he says he will do.
Damn, Andrei even posted scans of his Soviet military ID and university certificate in one of the ocasions you were disrespecting him on his own blog. It was posted under a different name but I know it was you, no one else on the interwebs is calling him "Baku boy".
"now they are only forced to inject huge amounts of money without receiving anything in return"
The rocket moves due to a miniature nuclear reactor, is able to fly in the air for days. The rocket has a complex electronics of artificial intelligence and special plasma shutters that cover air heaters, and is almost impossible to track it with modern air defense systems.
Against the background of successful actions of the Russian Armed Forces and significant losses of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Ukrainian nationalists refuse to take further part in hostilities in the Donbas. In particular, 45 nationalists of the 204th battalion of the 241st Territorial Defense Brigade left their combat positions in the Artemivsk area and demanded their rotation to the west of Ukraine.
The longer it drags, the more the EU and USA lose. Now that the newly liberated have been able to taste the bombing of the Ukrainian army, it is unlikely that he will want to revolt. It is therefore a victory in three parts, economy, territorial and consolidation of the people. They will undoubtedly intensify the bombings but without systematic destruction.
Earlier, the US authorities appealed to their citizens with an appeal to leave Ukraine. According to the diplomatic mission, the situation in Ukraine is currently assessed as extremely unstable. At the same time, the conditions, according to the embassy, can drastically and suddenly worsen.
Posted by: Flying Dutchman  Jul 16 2022 19:15 utc  73Turning Taiwan and Irak into Borderland-type sacrifice zones to be destroyed along with vast amounts of imperial weaponry would be a roaring success for the empire?
So the options are failure by capitulation or failure by escalation. As time passes this become ripe polical issue great expense and losing fostering regime change. This will damage the mic so cannot be accepted.
So as I said, I fail to see how you hallucinate "success" out of such complete failure. Certainly the empire will go out thrashing and convulsing and flailing out like Hitler and the bunker, and I'm certain the US will let the missiles fly rather than go gentle into the good night. But while I may apply various terms to that, "success" is not one of them.
Jill Biden's doctorate isn't even a Ph.D.  It's an Ed.D., a doctorate in education.
Not at all. And the empire's Irak adventure is typical in having been a total failure in every way but destroying the place, which in itself no doubt is pleasurable for the empire's psychopathic cadres but otherwise accomplishes no constructive goal, only bleeds soft and hard power. Meanwhile the position of the real target, Iran, has only gotten stronger all the while.
Whew! That must be a huge relief to Russian strategists, who must have been planning a major redeployment of all forces to the south, while abandoning all their efforts in the Donbass. That's because no army in history has ever defeated an army of unicorns.
Answer the question honestly for yourself: are these the values that you are ready to instill in your children? Or do we still fight for our own? Maria Zakharova
The funnies. Truss in the UK has proposed sending unwelcome immigrants to Turkey. She obviously found it on a map. As the UK conservatives will obviously elect the person most likely NOT to succeed, She will become the female "Liz Tzu" of the future.
Only he is an American, who cannot call Russia his own...or cannot return...no motherland, or a fatherland...just a homeland...
As someone who leads whatever you lead, you are easily taken away by some Telegram channel.
His work has to be judged on its merits- his academic or practical qualifications should not matter- he gives his opinions of what is happening or is likely to happen in the real world. If he were a Field Marshal with a PhD it would make no difference. It is easy to judge whether he is right by comparing what he prophesies with what occurs.
Can't tell if you're aiming for bold prediction or biting snark, but if you take the time to consider the state of Ukraine currently, it should be obvious that extending this formula to Iran and China would in fact be a roaring success for the Empire.
... Just think, burning things down is what it does best. It has this down to an art.
In the USA, the most recent CPI print was 9.1  PPI 11.3 annual inflation rate...
It is relatively trivial to find his bio and an address in Brooklyn at the Public Research Institute. It looks like the institute is a virtual entity and this is a home address. Note to "George": This is why we do not use real names!!!
The Russian Telegram channels are having a field day with those two "ladies" in tights...
I see the Rolling Stones got sucked into the Ukraine mess. They must figure they'll never get invited to Moscow again anyway.
Russia says Nord Stream 1 future will depend on gas demand and sanctions It was to be expected...
Sleeping DRGs in Kyiv will detain the top leadership of the country, and if it is impossible, they will be destroyed on the spot.
