Ukraine Open Thread 2022130
20220814
https://www.moonofalabama.org/2022/08/ukraine-open-thread-2022-130.html
Deaths will be a bonus for nato, the main idea now is to destroy what they can't steal.
1 Tochka-U ballistic missile over Lisichansk in Lugansk People's Republic and 15 shells of MLRS near Lisichansk in Lugansk People's Republic, Antonovka and Novaya Kakhovka in Kherson region have been intercepted.
If they haven't tried to do so already I am sure they are working on it.
As a result of the Russian Armed Forces' offensive actions Udy in Kharkov Region has been completely liberated.
Examination of the Saky facility shows the perimeter fencing to be incomplete with free access from adjacent public roads and no observable gatehouses. There are a series of disused hard-stands with protective berms to the east of the main runway with traces of a taxi way connecting these locations to the East end of main runway 22 L. There exists a second set of dispersed hard-stands with protective berms connecting to a semi-circular taxi way to the Northwest. A number of these hard-stands appear used to store junk.
For example, the brigade's third battalion, which was operating near Mar'inka, had about 140 of its 580 men on its payroll.
The NPP idiocy only makes the masses more likely to think the other rumours they have heard about the literal slaughter of Ukraine soldiers and civilians due to USZATO policy just MIGHT be true.  The attempt to paint the Russian military as the bogey man has not fared well outside USZATO, and is even taking a fair beating in the US-vassal states. See how many Canadians post here at MoA.
I think Zelensky has reached the teleprompter stage. Eyes fixed on one point. Is the teleprompter also high?
That brings me to my own observation:  I think the West is taken aback by the nuclear plant shellings.  I also wonder if this is not Zelenski's way of threatening his suppliers of weaponry -- and silence now is being caused by a serious rethink of what this entails on the part of Those Who Must Be Obeyed.
Tragic-comedy.  The only thing missing is the big nose, makeup and a baggy multicolored suit.
NONE of these points will be implemented anytime soon. Therefore, Europe is doomed and Ukraine is no more.
Since mid-June, the US and EU militaries have been complaining about a drop in their own defense capability due to assistance to Kiev.
Russia does not shell the Khmelnitsky, Rivne, Chernobyl nuclear power plants, for some reason it shells the Zaporozhe nuclear power plant, and that too with Himars...well?
Tisdalls piece, though, is another reminder that the ongoing 8 year proxy war was and remains a regime-change operation directed at Putin, which has been visibly ineffective,
Re the Grauniad piece, which I just read, well not all of it, it kept sticking in my throat.
Latvia is going full Ukraine FU and is trying to pas a bill that will stop Russian being used as a language.
Thanks for the assessment.  By look of the photos they could have been storing munitions in one 3 sided open revetment facing the opening of the revetments of the jets.  It looks like 3 possible ammo storage areas blow up.  2 separate sets of buildings and one open storage area in a revetment.
They shoot at the used fuel storage. That radiation won't reach natoland maybe Romania but they don't care - Romania already prepared iodine so they, as the good slaves they are, accept anything nato wants and Russia won't be able to use the npp. Deaths will be a bonus for nato, the main idea now is to destroy what they can't steal.
Tactical reconnaissance is also conducted by drones drones are less likely to be detected by the enemy and have the capacity to loiter overhead for an extended period. It is therefore unclear why the UAF would risk military resources to destroy aircraft already being supplanted in the reconnaissance role by drones.
Perhaps the Russian population in the Baltic states should start doing what Israel does in Palestine: build their own state. That would be fun to watch...
Pity the British werent able to retake the 13 States all those centuries ago. I like to think that if they had , we would have had much more peace now.
The Guardian published a selfie video from Shitenskyy saying, in short, that they'll attack ZNPP and kill everyone working there and they'll also "block" the whole Russian nuclear energy.
inexplicably russia continues to supply its enemies, this presupposes an under-the-table deal with the americans and the war in ukraine is a big show, the dead a price to pay to satisfy their purposes,
Just for the record, I am an infirm and near blind Brazilian national located on the island of Lihou who needs to hand crank his Internet connection.
The Guardian : "Ukraine will target Russian forces at Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, says Zelenskiy"
Baltic midget states seem to be blind. They have Russian population on their territory which they are starting to abuse the same way Ukraine gov did since 2014. They should take a note what came out of it - or better said what came in - lot of angry Russian troops.
How can the U.S. Economy be fully Recovered and booming, as so heavily touted by the Federal Reserve in its hiking of Interest Rates, given the headline contraction in First-Quarter 2022 GDP, along with strong indications for a contraction in Second-Quarter 2022 GDP a formal recession?
As Kissinger said, "To be a US enemy is dangerous.  To be a US friend is deadly."  Like Saddam found out the hard way, doing as the USZATO wants works until you be come a "liability" for doing exactly what the USZATO handlers told you to. I think Zelly is too highstupid to know he is the next Saddam.  Another former "staunch ally" who has shaken hands with top USZATO officials.  Saddam's most famous handshake was with Donny GileadTamiflu Rumsfeld.
Not to mention that over the last 12 years, Russian Air Force procured about 650 aircraft of all kinds. How will they ramp that up several times over?
We are forever getting closer to the US mid-terms. Joe Tzu promised victory and that will be shown to be a failed promise come November. So the Big Guy needs to change position and the likely defence will be "We were misled by a coke head. Just like my son Hunter. Completely irresponsible and untrustworthy."
NATO are relying that Ukraine will be a "force-to-be-reckoned-with" by the time Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania force a war. NATO wants that Russia goes to war with them and now also Finland who joined in with this mining and denial-by-sea-missiles schemes.
I'm sure the Kremlin can find 1.7M Russians or Ukrainian refugees that are pro-Russia and would find it easier to enter the Baltic countries if the Russian visas really are blocked willing to implement such a plan in exchange for a few extra $motivation$ on top of the motivation they already have in this moment of Western attack against their motherland.
but I would never give a stick to my enemy knowing that he will use it to hit me.
I now count in excess of 30 Canadians posting on MoA on a regular basis. This strikes me as a significant contingent.
Probably there is someone already thinking about this both in Russia and in the Baltic states, and only that can explain why the Baltic governments decided to start talking about the cancellation of visas for Russians, using Ukraine as an excuse.
A large sheet metal structure located top extreme left in the BBC website imagery for August 9th and 10th and its internal contents became extremely hot due to the current hot and dry conditions across Europe.
I am also from a former Dominion , and like truth and peace in the world. Good to see that many Canadians do not fall for the ordure spread out by their Southern Neighbour .
4 The fact of an existing oil fed fire the plume of black smoke moving to frame right which is followed by an explosion plume of white smoke which rises vertically into the air to a height well above the black smoke. The colour and height of this plume suggest it is associated with an explosion not burning fuel.
Infra red imagery on Intel Slava shows the base before and after the explosions. The initial fire caused a grass fire that expanded to the Northeast in alignment with the Saky main runway. The same set of IR images also shows high heat in structures located both on the airfield and in the nearby residential area.
Operational-tactical and army aviation, missile troops and artillery strikes continue against military facilities in Ukraine.
12- threaten to expell Poland and the Baltics from EU if they continue escalating the conflict Kaliningrad, Schengen visas, etc just to please their emperor overseas...
Our resident  Canadians match that to a tee and that is good thing. Go Canada.
The head of Ukraine's largest TV conglomerate says the door is wide open for Zelensky's return to its comedy channel. His experience throughout in running the UAF should stand him in good stead for a prime time slot.
To the Northwest of the flight line is another semi-circular taxi way. This appears to have its own perimeter fence. It also has a series of dispersal hard-stands protected by earth berms. The damage is concentrated in this area.
There are around 24 Russians both in Latvia and in Estonia. Russia should start funding a massive program to make Russians the ethnic majority, and then lead those countries out of EU and NATO, and then into EAEU and CSTO, or even into Union State like Belarus.
"The collective West has sharply reduced the supply of weapons for the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
By the smell of burnt tyres I have the feeling that Zelensky's train has left the station, first it was Friedman dumping it on him, then CBS even if they corrected the tweet, now Newsweek, and slowly the rats are abandoning a sinking ship. He should run to Moscow, it is probably the only place where he would save his skin, to rest in a nice detention center, he could share chamber with another fallen sacred cow, nakhalny Navalny.
Since 2018, after Trump talks, North Korea hadn't tested any nuclear explosions, but could have started again in 2021. Its alleged that North Korea has 40-50 nuclear weapons, and might have more than 200 by 2027.
The US can't suddenly dethrone Zelly to change horses midstream.  Not after he appeared on the cover of Vogue, making him the darling of the celebrity class.
As for The Rodent in Kiev - he has really run out of show runners
It looks like an accident with multiple ammunition storage area cooking off and taking out the jets.  Bad layout.  They should be driving the munitions in for loading from another area.
The SU-24 is an all weather attack aircraft produced until 1993. The latest aircraft are therefore 30 years old. The first production aircraft are today 55 years old. The aircraft reported destroyed are Su-24MR, a dedicated tactical reconnaissance variant.
you rite to lifers, keep anne heche on life support! pull the plug on this guy!
Google imagery shows base immediately adjacent to a civilian residential area. While this suggests ease of covert access, the reverse is true. The presence of civilians, long term residents presumably known to each other, and who know the normal patterns of neighbourhood activity, presents a threat to any sabotage group.
This leads to Lithuania. Since there are only 5 Russians there, and a much bigger population like Estonia and Latvia combined, the strategy would be different. Just concentrate the new arriving Russians in that sweet corridor between Belarus and Kaliningrad. Then do to Lithuania what Kosovo is doing to Serbia. KarmaForNATO
2 The size of the structures. Note the unit on the left of the frame. This structure sits ahead of a larger structure. The close caption translation has the little girl stating "the house will not protect us" confirming some "cabanas" are large house like structures.
Yet, the headline July 2022 Payrolls also held shy by about 3.6 -3.6 or by 5.8 -5.8 million jobs of where they would be, had the U.S. economy continued its relatively stable trends in place before the externally driven Pandemic shut it down.
"Trump's supporters will never believe the FBI investigation against Trump is a pure legal case. Just as Trump claims, his supporters will only believe this is a persecution and witch-hunt launched by the Democrats and the Biden administration. No matter how and what the mainstream US media and the Democrats say, it's impossible for them to convince Trump supporters, a huge amount of US voters, to peacefully accept the result if Trump has been sentenced to prison or has been banned from running for election again." - L Xiang
North Korea has conducted six nuclear tests, first in October 2006 and then in May 2009 and four nuclear tests in February 2013, January and September 2016, and September 2017. The exact size and strength of North Koreas nuclear arsenal are unclear. Its alleged that North Korea has tested more than 100 ballistic missiles with the ability to carry nuclear warheads, including short, medium, intermediate, and intercontinental-range missiles and submarine-launched ones.
The New York Times has reviewed satellite imagery of the Saki Air Base, collected by Planet Labs hours before and a day after the explosions. The pictures show what appear to be three large craters and at least eight destroyed aircraft, both Su-24 and Su-30 warplanes
I am not a Muslim, but I am for Iran to acquire nuclear bombmissile capacity. It'd acquire that capacity anyway, whatever the US illegal sanctions. With all the might the US claim to have, it didn't attack North Korea.
SU-30 and its enhanced derivative, dubbed SU-30SM2, is primarily aimed at meeting Russian Naval Aviation requirements.
 While the approach has been aided by the long-range Western weapons, it has also been encouraged by Western officials. Mr. Reznikov, Ukraines defense minister, said this week that the American and British defense ministers had both offered him a piece of advice: The Russians use meat-grinder tactics  if you plan to fight them with the same tactics, we will not be able to help you. 
Artillery supplies fell the most: from 90 M777 units in April to zero in July.
With the Trump Mar-a-lago debacle in the US, by November this year, maybe a civil war might start in the US. It'd be quite hard to convince the huge amount of Trump supporters on a ban for Trump to run again. Even though secession is sort of illegal, who is going to stop US states breaking away? The national guard? Nothing is permanent, so there's chance for the US to break into 5-6 portions. Biden's foolish attack on Trump might help that happen.
But the sanctions are boomeranging and the USEUZATO public is not buying "it's all Russia and China's fault". As the COVID Plandemic becomes increasingly revealed as a conspiracy-truth, the more people in USZATO countries get the uneasy feeling their gov'ts will and did lie about anything and everything Ukraine. Very true. People must and will have to connect the dots. The truth is not selectable from a menu. Truth comes from evidence and reason.
Baltic midget states seem to be blind. They have Russian population on their territory which they are starting to abuse the same way Ukraine gov did since 2014. They should take a note what came out of it - or better said what came in - lot of angry Russian troops. Obviously it is the same game, the US is using the Baltic midgets to provoke Russia, fight Russia to the last Latvian etc., with the 'added benefit' of them being NATO members, so when it blows up they will scream 'Article 5' and have their world war. This didn't work with Ukraine.
In particular: Russian Air Force is currently operating 2200 fixed wing aircraft and about 1500 helicopters. WHERE are they going to cram 1000 large drones over the next few years? They have about 1000 Orlans, yes, but Orlans are man-sized while the Iranian drones they will supposedly buy are very large. You can't launch Shahed 129 from a 2-meter rail, you need a proper ground crew with a runway for it. How many more men will the Russian Air Force need to enlist to have that happen? And what will they do with those drones, anyway? They have tons of satellites that can do recon, and also they have tons of stand-off munitions to strike, what do they need drones for? They can't possibly be for counter-insurgency because Americans proved you can't win against an insurgency with drones - so what would their purpose be?
5 command posts have been hit, including those of 43rd Airborne Brigade in Velikaya Novoselka, artillery group of 79th Airborne Assault Brigade near Chasov Yar in Donetsk People's Republic, headquarters of 247th Battalion of 127th Territorial Defence Brigade in Kharkov, 4 temporary deployment points of 113th Territorial Defence Brigade units near Zolochev in Kharkov Region, and 151 areas of manpower, weapons and military equipment concentration.
Out of 375,000 tons of food exported from Ukraine, European buyers have already received 217,000.
I am sure there are reasons that RF does not use heavy bombers combined with kalibers and iskanders, and artillery to bomb the bejesus out of the main artillery to nearby northern areas.  A whole week if needed.   Since late February my number one desire in the SMO is the cessation of the bombing of civilians in Donetsk.    The cessation of attacks on nuclear power plants has superseded that.
I suggest they send in the cookie monster as a last ditch effort. Well, I'm sure they could find a ditch for her to fill up PS, a big ditch
As a result of Russian Aerospace Forces strikes against manpower and military equipment concentrations of 63rd Mechanized Brigade of AFU near Belaya Krinitsa and Belogorka, Kherson Region, 35 nationalists and 15 units of armoured vehicles and equipment have been destroyed.
These are the first steps to end the War in Ukraine, save European economy, and actualy fight for Democracy and against imperialism USA's NeoCon warmongers and corrupt "elite" sponsored by Raytheon, Lockeed Martin, and others.
And what analysts from the NYT of all people think or have concluded from the sat images is well, hardly anything better than what the British Security Service thinks.
The supply of equipment has significantly decreased  from 200 units per month to zero in June and July.
Qualcosa non torna, l'impressione  che sia tutto un gioco delle parti, tanto a lasciarci la pelle sono sempre e solo i poveracci.
Catherine Viner is a disaster as editor at The Grauniad. She has made the rag complete Cultist like AppleTV. If you don't inject the drugs you cannot enter the paradigm.
Saky Air Base, near the village of Novofedorivka, Crimea, is operated by the Russian Navy. This airbase experienced multiple explosions on August 9th, 2022. The site of the airbase airport is  45.09292618398976, 33.587008454887524 Google
Saky is a Navy airfield hosting naval variants of the SU-24 and SU-30. It was in poor condition. Personnel and equipment unfamiliar with the ground attack role were pressed into service to support the SMO. It is likely they used expedient storage for ground attack armaments.
What I have read is that if a reactor was to spike out of control, their SCRAM is pretty much fool proof.   However once scrammed in that manner, the reactor is never able to restart.
Another possibility is that the Biden administration is preparing to dump Zelensky, as some comments above, including the Newsweek Week article, suggest. Just a thought.
During the 1 minute video he moves from saying Russia is inside the NPP to Russia attacks the NPP multiple times. He is high as hell. Go watch it, it's on all social media too
There are reports of several wounded and, apparently, one dead. Thank God there are no big losses.
How much longer can the Neoliberal Parasites running the federal government continue plundering US citizens? IMO, the cover-up must escalate for it to continue at its current pace. Thus, the escalation we're seeing in the Baltics as Ukraine will be used up by November elections and something new needs to be ready to take its place. As I wrote back in February, Ukrainians will be exhausted first, then a cascade of different Europeans will follow beginning with the Balts.
I gather that Estonia and Lithuania are both equally bad- run by fanatical anti-communists and russophobes.
While you might well be able to assume the type of plane seen in the satellite images, in this case Su-24s and planes that might be Su-27 or Su-30, giving the exact specification is nigh impossible. What this twitter channeller and his website does is a lot of guess-work, in this case speaking of 4 Su-30SM and 6 Su-24MMR. While it might be known what sort of planes the Russian Aerospace Forces or Navy uses, you cant simply go on and say that those on the sat-images are exactly that. When you double check his list in the link below, various samples listed yield the same photographs of fully burned wrecks or debris falling from the sky, which essentially can by anything from either war party.
Sylenski fallen from grace ? Or do you want to avoid panic and shaking your head?
Russian air defence means have shot down 2 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles near Lisichansk in Luhansk People's Republic, and Glubokoye in Kharkov Region.
I am sure that there is some sort of down side to adding Tupolevs into the mix and that the AFU can go to more distant sites, use more drones, and it seems the UK might be sending in ATACMS for Himars even as we peruse here.
The frame front moved to the Northeast and aircraft in the path of the flame front were destroyed or damaged. Aircraft located on the main ramp were damaged due to secondary explosions caused by ejecta from the initial explosion.
The RF is assessed to be correct in its reporting of the incident while the UK and Z regime seek a PR victory.
No problem, US will send more. A few long range himars and drones is all they need for terrorism.
In the course of counter-battery warfare 1 platoon of Grad MLRS near Artemovsk, 1 artillery platoon of Giatsint-B guns, and 7 platoons of D-30 howitzers have been suppresed at the nationalist firing positions in Zvanovka, Kuz'minovka, Seversk, Pereyezdnoye, Vesyoloye and Vyemka in Donetsk people's republic.
At the highest levels of NATO - beyond the bloviating politicians and opinion columnists - it is acknowledged that direct conflict with Russia might inadvertently expose Western armaments as overpriced and underperforming and effectively pop the bubble on a critical industry - the maintenance of which is the key aim for senior military officials.
Perhaps the answer to the reasons for the decline in supplies is simple  the arsenals are emptying.
The Su-30M2 is a long-range strike aircraft based on the Su-30 fighter design optimized for precision strikes on ground and naval targets.
8- threaten to cut finantialhumanitarian support to Ukraine if the regime keeps violating Mindk peace agreements by bombing anti-Nazi Ukrainians in Donbass
The thing with the Guardians Tisdall, and many others like him in the Wests commentariot, is a naive conviction in the force superiority of NATO which hinders the ability to apply escalation logics to battlefields.
I have been giving serious thought over the past months about the Donbass, Crimea and the South and East of Ukraine and also the fact that the UAF is shelling, consistently and daily, civilians, using them as human shields and arresting anyone who speaks Russian or expresses even a pro-Russian opinion.  Firstly, I am sick and tired of the industrial levels of propaganda and censorship of any other point of view other than the 'official' narrative which is total lies and distortion.  There is no truth whatsoever in it.  Secondly, whilst I get the issue of the GDP with regards to the East and South of Urkaine which is crucial, I mean really crucial, to the Ukranian economy, I am struggling to find reasons as to why the UKR Govt are so desperate to hang on to Donbass and south and east urkaine since they consider them to be ubermenscen not worthy of any consideration other than to be killed, tortured, starved, blockaded and treated as vermin.  This smacks of Israel's treatment of the Palestinians.  Why is the UKR Govt so intent on recapturing this territory when it is not interested in the Minsk Accords, when they are daily shelling and killing civilians in these areas and are banning the Russian Language and Russian language from these areas.  The collective West seem to be unable to answer these questions.  I have never, never, in my lifetime, seen such blatant excuse making to cover up for excessive UAF War Crimes, for the genocide over 8yrs of anything up to 22,000 Donbass inhabitants, of the torture by Azov of residents in these areas, of the almost near deification of a President who is a Nazi, a Tyrant and a ruthless Dictator and a coke addict to boot.  My Goodness, I hope the collective West rot in hell and I live in the UK.  Once I get my Pension I'm moving to a country in Africa which I shall not name in one year's time to escape this industrial level of censorship, propaganda and outright lies perpetrated by our Govt and the collective West.  The British people deserve everything that's coming to them because they are totally ignorant, judgemental, don't question anything and are so self-absorbed they don't even want to know the truth.  Thank God for Putin, Xijing Pin, the President of India, Imran Khan, Victor Orban, the President of Georgia and Vucic.  I'm going to include the President of Austria here who is talking a whole lot of sense also.  God knows that one day, in the very near future, when the Pan Eurasian Collusus Pompeo talked about recently is reality and it won't be so long coming and BRICS expands as does the SCO, the collective West will sooner, rather than later, be desperate for a trading relationship with Eurasia, China, Russia etc.  The answer will be a resounding NO!  A bunch of WEF fanatics who are, ultimately, going nowhere will have no answers other than an attempt to impose an uber collective West dictatorship which will fail.  There can be no doubt, the stock markets are on the brink of collapse, the USD$ is in decline and will be eradicated by BRICS, the petro dollar is rapidly becoming worthless and the countries the USA has sanctioned will not give a damn about them as they are illegal.  Go Dutch farmers, go!! Oust Rutte by revolutionary means, France, oust Macron in the same manner.  The people of the UK will just be seduced by the propaganda, censorship and lies and do nothing until the Weimar Republic levels of poverty hit.  Only then, will they do something.  As Karl Marx said, the only revolution in the UK will be in Gardening!1 How true!!
Historical records of SAS activity in North Africa WWII and at Pebble Island Falkland Island conflict suggests a team of between 12 and 45 men would have been needed. A sabotage group approaching by vehicle would stop and disembark the vehicle and then proceed on foot If Paddy Mayne had been present he would have simply driven onto the airfield, destroying all aircraft from his moving vehicle before driving off. A group of men walking single file while carrying weapons and bulky packs would be suspicious. The same group moving in bounds down the street while maintaining an over-watch position and making maximum use of natural cover would be even more suspicious. Since Crimea hosts a pro-Russia population it is believed any suspicious behaviour would be immediately reported.
Pero' un traduttore lo puoi anche usare ogni tanto oppure anche quello funziona a gasolio?
Mercouris at The Duran is horrified at the suggestion of a British writer that the west should assassinate Putin.
NATOs actual professional military people have been among the steadiest voices warning against direct conflict with the Russian Federation. In Tisdalls imaginings, NATO could have  should have imposed a no-fly zone over Ukraine, and used that factor to essentially pummel the advancing Russian armies. It never seems to occur to him that the RF forces would fight to prevent a no-fly zone or that the RF forces were likely to prevail in such effort.
B, I think you should wait with eating crows or other small birds, because that story about Russia buying 1000 drones from Iran doesn't add up.
With the concession that I am possessed of zero military expertise, I ask the following question -- in that the Allied forces have broken through the fortified defence at Pisky and thereby have flanked the Ukr forces to their left and right, why hasn't this advantageous situation been taken advantage of by blitzing both sides if  the defended wall while attacking those positions from behind?
The Russian forces took Energodar NPP on the 28th February and since then it is under their control. The rhetoric maintained by the WestUkraine that Russia is bombing themselves, where they are since 28th February is just nonsense.
The damaged and destroyed aircraft are all naval variants. This serves to explain the fact of two closely situated airbases. The Aeroport Imeni A.koltunovoy is likely a VKS air defence airbase while Saky is a naval airbase. RF is a continental power and naval forces are not the foremost priority of continental powers. The decrepit appearance of the base, suggests this is a low priority underfunded facility. This interpretation is supported by the loss of the Moskva which, to a practised mariner's eye, appeared a decrepit derelict prior to its sinking.
There's a big government disconnect within the second bullet point that tells us they're lying about the unemployment rate. Worldometer says US population is 335,155,993 as of today, while BLS cited by Shadowstats says the workforce is just under 164 million, meaning over 50 of the population is either retired, in school, or not seeking employment. So, which unemployment number do you believe: BLS 3.46 or Shadowstats 24.4?
The dumb comic looks like he is rehearsing his lines as many a actor and performer had to learn to do through lockdown. Id even guess he doesnt even realise it is being published.
The ambient heat, an errant spark, or careless machine operation, triggered a fuel fire. Armaments co-located adjacent to the fuel source, and already hot due to climactic conditions, then cooked off. These armaments may have been unstable due to long term storage. In this respect the event is very similar to the 1967 Forrestal CV-59 fire. The initial explosion dispersed armaments across the base resulting in further cook off explosions and igniting a grass fire.
If I was in Russia, I would support the SMO, but would be in the opposition against Putin, because I'm not a Conservative, and I'm Left-wing the actual Left wing in economics Social-Democratic Nordic Model, or what idiots in USA call "communism" and "far-left", not the "left" wing in USA 'woke' fanatics that are all right-wing in economics, i.e. NeoLib.
The Latvians have been abusing the 25-30 of the population which is Russian speaking for years-they are, for example, deprived of the vote, their schools are shut down and every May 9th, with the approval of the NATO allies, including the UK Canada and US, Soviet war memorials are desecrated. They are currently scheduled for total demolition.
The curtains are being pulled down to reveal that behind this seeming grand wizard there is a host of puppeteers slaving away pulling thousands of such strings.
If the Baltic States, including Finland, do get 'obliterated' NATO will want to drag Denmark and Sweden in so as to close the Baltic to Russian shipping altogether. Hard to imagine things getting to that point.
In total, 267 Ukrainian airplanes and 148 helicopters, 1,738 unmanned aerial vehicles, 365 anti-aircraft missile systems, 4,303 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 798 multiple launch rocket systems, 3,298 field artillery and mortars, as well as 4,888 units of special military vehicles were destroyed during the operation.
I believe the newest rods are from Westinghouse. My understanding is that if the newer rods meet air, they will ignite,  UR is one of the most pyrophoric elements around, burns at an incredible temp and has incredibly small ash particles, as small as 0.3 - 0.1 microns.   Rokke,  Livermore labs  And all those fission fragments. Two words,  Brownian motion, and then bio-accumulation.
2- LeyenBorrel should be deposed and replaced by true diplomats, that save what's possible to save of Europe-Russia relations
Or no one in the government believes that Germans are so stupid and still don't believe Sylenski's speeches?
NATO tried to remake 1940, but Russians were ready this time, and jumped straight to 1944 remake - red tide obliterating one after another nazifascist state toward west.
Google also shows what appears to be an abandoned military airfield at 44.785669934319216, 33.572956716880064. This is midway between the other two.
The moon phase on the date of the attack was two days before full moon i.e. maximum illumination. A sabotage party would prefer to operate in the dark new moon period to permit maintaining concealment while the use of night vision equipment permits identification of opposing forces.
The UK's Defence Secretary, Ben Wallace, suggested that the fact there were two separate explosions points to an attack.
Very interesting. It seems the black sea fleet has collected multiple idiots, at both low and high level
Video and still images show the local beach to be heavily populated by people on vacation. Someone needs to explain how a sabotage group could possibly arrive on a crowded beach while evading detection. The same imagery shows long rows of beach cabanas. These cabanas are sizeable structures large enough to contain sleeping arrangements but unlikely to contain toilet facilities. This implies a significant night time population on the beach some of whom would make a late night walk to the nearest toilet. This random movement creates a threat of discovery to any sabotage group arriving from the water.
So here, if "soviet-era" ammunition was being stored or was "left-over", then something similar could easily have been the cause.
For everyone who insisted on the absurd fiction that HIMARS struck the prison at Olenivka - here is what a GMLRS rocket impacting a brick building actually does, from today's strike on the Wagner HQ in Popasna:
Petri, Paveway, yep. Think you guys are right, apologies for sharing bad info and good eye. Saw that was retweeted by an OSINT account that is usually solid but not in this case.
For many of them I can identify the province of residence and in a number of cases the city.
Si che puzza, puzza di soldati e civili in putrefazione grazie alle armi fornite dai paesi ostili trasportate grazie al gasolio fornito dai russi,
I feel sorry for the Ukrainian people, voting for that idiot and hoping for change.  Sounds like the US in some respects.  He may actually believe what he is saying in the video.  He is just repeating what he is being told by his handlers.
Agree on all points except "create European army" 6.  Replace it with "dismantle EU, since its only real purpose is USA interference".
He states that an early Referendum will enable Russia to draw upon conscripts, thus releasing troops for the frontlinesmobilisations.
What does it tell us if a nuclear power plant that is being bombed is not mentioned?
And in addition to those civilians, we have to add those that are already coming back to those territories, after seeing Russians are the good guys in this conflict, and establish better living conditions that the Ukrainian dictatorship. And this is why ZelenskyNazis are now shelling the nuclear power plant: to try to terrorize those civilians before the inevitable selfdetermination referendum happens.
Let's imagine a $motivation$ of 500month forever on top of the salaries those RussiansUkrainians find in the Baltic states. That would be an expense of   10 billionyears, or just 0.5 of Russia's GDP. If I was in the Kremlin, this operation would have started already the day Kaliningrad was blocked. It's an investment that will pay for itself in the long run.
The Guardian began, in Manchester, as a voice against the working class, and that was, if memory serves, 199 years ago. It hasn't changed, though its staff Luke Harding eg and Tisdall  gets worse. It is a perfect indication of what happened there that this once haughty voice of the world's most powerful bourgeoisie is now edited by a silly Broadway scribbler who still gets dizzy at the thought that she used to live in Manhattan.
Wonder how long does that cheer leading last when it's landing on you and your family?
Yes, and it will only get worse with time, with rabid nazi elements and their masters get even angrier due to loss of Ukraine. Russia will not permit abuse of their people right over the border. Something will have to give in.
The social-democratic nordic model is not left wing, it supports nato and imperialism. Social-democracy is cooperating with the neocons against Russia. In capitalist countries democracy is an empty word, for the power is no more political, but economic. The only meaningful opposition party in Russia is the RFCP. This party was the first to introduce a bill in the Duma for the recognition of both Donbass Republics as independent States.
1 radar detection and targeting station near Peresadovka in Nikolaev Region, 1 fuel depot near Slavyansk and 2 ammunition depots near Zvanovka in Donetsk People's Republic and Iskrovka in Kirovograd Region have been destroyed.
In addition, 2 missile and artillery weapon depots of 58th Motorized Infantry Brigade in Artemovsk, Donetsk People's Republic, and 63rd Mechanized Brigade near Bereznevatoye, Nikolaev Region, have been destroyed.
my opinion: the west lives and thrives on cheap energy from russia, if the flow stops, the west stops, no money for the Ugronazis, no weapons,
4- end the illegal sanctions and apologize to the Russian people, and to the anti-Nazi Ukrainians of the Donbass and all of Novorussia and Crimea
Russia has blamed the blasts on a fuel leak, or ammunition exploding in one of the two storage sheds, and said fire safety rules were being flouted on the base.
What's very apparent as its hysterical tone shows, is that the cretin Tisdall, is first, desperately trying to convince himself that 404 will ultimately win if only we sell them enough weapons before they run out of Ukrainians to sacrifice on the alter of Capital.
It appears that tptb in the usOfa are ready to not only fight to the last ukranian, but they want to shit on the Black Sea with radiation.   It does not get any more demented than that.
Russia will finish off Ukraine and absolutely obliterate Baltic states if they force it. Thereafter if USA wants a game of nukes there is nothing to prevent it, but most likely US won't lift a finger for Estonia, Lithuania or Latvia after it sent all its crap to Ukraine.
that guardian article was quite revealing.... as i think stonebird mentioned - they totally got bought by the deep state a number of years ago...
FLASH August 5th: Separately, what was not headlined with the U.3 Unemployment Rate, where it dropped to 3.46 in July from 3.60 in June, is that the broader, headline U.6 Unemployment including those marginally attached to the labor force, plus total employed part-time for economic reasons, increased from 6.67 to 6.73, while the still-broader ShadowStats Alternate Unemployment Rate including long-term discouraged workers widened to 24.4 from 24.3.
Yes, it stinks, it stinks of rotting soldiers and civilians thanks to the weapons supplied by hostile countries transported thanks to the diesel supplied by the Russians,
Tisdall has been channeling the same Blairite comprador imperialism for at least 25 years. In that sense all the talk about how 'The Guardian has changed' is mistaken. What has changed is the tolerance and sophistication of its Establishment masters: they no longer pretend to be happy to listen to dissenting opinion.
Natoland knows sanctions didn't work and now they try to provoke the regular people against Putin. They do that while shooting at an npp. Great plan!
I keep seeing NPP and Europes largest, but it is a NPP complex. Nit picking, I know
The above source has 4 years for first able to dry cask,  others say 3 or 5.   Much of the oldest fuel went to SU and RF for re-processing.   It appears that dry casking has been done at a higher rate than most usOfa npp's. But I am sure that there are spent fuel cooling tanks that need constant circulation and replenishment  of water.
British paper says Russia patrol boat of Vasily Bykov type has exploded and is on fire. There is video of it on the site. Newpaper cites OSINT specialist saying it was hit by Ukro missiles off Sevastopol.
While that all looks sound and neat, it essentially is still just truths wikipedia sources re the plane types mingled with assumptions, not least from sources that are by no means known for being correct.
So the Guardian wants to march into Moscow and lock up Putin- feel free to go, dear military-political-universal expert from that "news" outlet....
I am not revealing the MoA handles but was a little taken aback by the ease with which a state agency might begin to target those who fail to repeat prescribed "truths."
Thanks for the translation, now I must try to figure if you are a troll or not. So, should Russia stop selling diesel, and other fuels? What is your point?
when you keep posting video every moments while using too much drugs, fail will happen and this is what just happened : zel gone way too far, check the vid and pray or not,  if you live in Europe...
The gruardian is completely woke. It cannot be wrong, and there is no such thing as a change in thought processes. Since the days of Assange Wikipedia and the data that it suppressed under the orders of the UK Government, it has become a rubbish source.
1- Western Europe should stop funding Eastern Europe if they continue their lunatic provocations against Russia
Clearly, Bidens offer of a military alliance not only had no takers in the Arab world but they seem petrified. If as the Bible says, there are three brands of deception  vanity, flattery, and blasphemy  and Satan uses all three, Bidens offer contains elements of all three. And if the SCO offers an antidote to the poisoned chalice, why not?
The 2 or 3 big problems is a 1. loss of power. 2. Loss of cooling to spent nuclear rods in water pools, and 3.  How thick, secure is the steel casked spent fuel. Holtec crap standards or a more sturdy version.
The final item of evidence is the layout of the Saky airbase itself. Runways are always positioned with regard to the prevailing winds to give the benefit of natural wind speed to landing or departing aircraft.
The CIA tried to do so with Fidel Castro over 600 times!!! and are probably still trying even though he is dead.
Actually that is the reason for their craziness, a high percentage of Russians. They can abuse them anyway they like and then use them as human shield, Ukr style.
Current momentum will see Donbass liberated mid to late August. In the last few weeks alone there must be upwards of 20k KIA many among the UAF elite Nazis - wounded and desertions
As to my identity, I suffer from multi-phasic posting personality disorder. If I ever write something which "Those Who Must Be Obeyed" find objectionable, I will defend myself by turning in the alter ego and serving as a witness for the prosecution.
More than 200 servicemen of 56th Mechanized Infantry Brigade of AFU have refused to perform combat tasks near Opytnoye and Pervomaiskoye in Donetsk People's Republic and voluntarily abandoned their positions due to heavy losses.
Concentrated strikes on positions of 53rd Mechanized Brigade of AFU near Sribnoye in Donetsk People's Republic have destroyed up to 200 nationalists and 15 pieces of military equipment.
How, by force? Using what? Closing the passage is crazy talk from Estonia. They only want to please their master by buying more weapons
I suspect the Vogue cover story is a direct result of Z sensing a change in the wind direction. Makes it difficult to off the dude if he has just appeared Vogue.
The Military Summary gave the reason to the question I put forward regarding holding Referendums when civilians were in danger. He states that an early Referendum will enable Russia to draw upon conscripts, thus releasing troops for the frontlinesmobilisations.
Supposedly, its location was revealed by an embedded journalist filming the address while Prigozhin visited the site, although there's no indication that he was there when it was hit. Reportedly there were many killed and wounded.
My father spent WWII "turning" grenades over, very carefully, once a week, to see if any of them had leaked Nitro-glycerine. Those that had the tell-tale drops on the outer surface were disposed of.
would be nice... i am not sure where everyone is at here with zelensky wanting to bomb the nuke plant... clearly the west doesn't give a damn.. or this is another last resort when all the other attempts at getting their kleptomaniac demands haven't materialized...
Here is some authentic video of the aftermath of the HIMARS strike on Wagner base in Popasnaya
The groaniard of la Viner   from which I arose, has long shed its supposed neutrality. You dont get direct articles by heads of the secret intelligence service leaders and have a seat on the D Notice committee otherwise. Its running now on the demented readership still buried in its shallow graves. I keep trying to pull a few out who seem to struggle a hand out every now and then. The rest are just going to find out way too late, its sad. But Ill still carry on trying to be kind to them, like a drooling relative or friend or pet you once loved.
High-precision strikes of the Russian Aerospace Forces against a temporary deployment point of 66th Mechanized Brigade near Djerzhinsk in Donetsk People's Republic have destroyed up to 40 nationalists and 9 pieces of military equipment.
7- block Sweden and Finland from entering NATO. Apply sanctions to Turkey amd USA for their current invasion of Syria, theft of Syrian oil and cereals, and bombing of Kurdish people
Is this latest Zelenski public insanitydelusion shaping up to give USZATO an excuse to remove him, or at least allow claims of "how could we have known he would blow up a NPP?". When Amnesty International starts hinting that Zelly may be less than squeaky-clean, even with the inevitable back-tracking, you know there are cracks forming in the USZATO propaganda edifice.
If some ammunition had been stored there for a very long time, as seen from the dilapidated condition of the airfield before the explosions, then it could easily have been an "accident" by oversight.
Misster Ellen Sky high is as disposable a marionette as HH and almost every western corporate banker owned and run politician and general has been for decades , centuries now if you count the various Royal Houses. His eccentricities and green screens and current spate of vblogg clips are aimed at tempering the Narrative as it seems to be heading towards a swifter collapse than planned. No it aint going to be a endless money spinner.
Now the US doesn't know how to change the course of the SMO, and the slow destruction of the exploitative system used by the west, so they expect to be able to find a "short-cut". Less super-dooper weapons and more "special squads and terrorists".
All it takes is 700k Russians entering Estonia and 1M entering Latvia or fewer than those if we consider the amount of abstention in elections in the Baltic states. Then wait 5 years for citizenship, and vote, according to the interests of motherland.
But the sanctions are boomeranging and the USEUZATO public is not buying "it's all Russia and China's fault".  As the COVID Plandemic becomes increasingly revealed as a conspiracy-truth, the more people in USZATO countries get the uneasy feeling their gov'ts will and did lie about anything and everything Ukraine.
6- create European army, without USA interference, and start a forced NATO-exit for USA in Europe. Step one: get rid of USA basessoldiers is Europe.
In case anyone missed it: Yenwoda's video "...from today's strike on the Wagner HQ in Popasna..." mac99 is pointing out a soldier walking past the camera at :19 prominently displaying an American flag on his sleeve. I never knew Wagner mercs were so patriotic! Thank you for your service, Wagner... and God Bless America! lol.
Not only language in Latvia. They also want to cancel the residence permit for "pro-Kremlin" citizens. Finland wants to stop visas, Czech will ban students from Russia and Belarus those who already are there will have to be evaluated for pro-Putin behavior, including the family - though those people must be really strange to want to study in Czech republic and Pooland proposed that EU closes the borders for all Russians.
The usual USZATO trick is to get the locals to do the CIAMossad dirty work.  But the top CIAMossad "approved" Ukie-nazis may have decided they LIKE the current arrangement, and will protect Zelly for as long as he is useful to them, USZATO agenda be damned.  Where else would these miscreants find a ready-made, already placed, psychologically malleable coke-head who publicly plays victim in Vogue on-cue and cons idiots in the USZATO gov'ts to send literal $billions for them to launder, hide and otherwise steal.
Google shows a second military airfield Aeroport Imeni A.koltunovoy at co-ordinates 44.69203910366254, 33.57033561670696. This appears to be fully functioning military field with numerous fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft on the aprons. It exhibits the ring road typical of military installations, ammunition storage bunkers, and hardened fully enclosed aircraft shelters.
The explosions occurred at 3:20pm local time 12:20 GMT but the placement of sabotage materials would likely have occurred at night. Darkness facilitates covert activity and a delay timer on the explosive device affords an opportunity to ex-filtrate before mayhem ensues. A 12 hour delay is excessive and gives the enemy an opportunity to locate and defuse the explosive devices.
I'm from Portugal and I support 100 the pro-Democratic and anti-Nazi people of Novorussia SouthEast Ukraine. If the only way for them to get peace and get rid of Kiev's dictatorship and Nazi battalions, is the Russian intervention, then I cannot condemn the Russian actions.
Sushi, you can add one more Canadian to your informal tally. Infrequent poster from Southern Ontario here.
Observing our present history it is difficult to tell if one should seriously laugh or maniacally cry. Both at once is at times appropriate and necessary.
40   "Russia will finish off Ukraine and absolutely obliterate Baltic states if they force it."
I also am pleasantly surprised by the large contingent of Canucks here.  It makes me rethink my opinion of Canadians being much too nice and earnest for their own good.
This morning I did one of my periodic checks at thedailyblog.co.nz for Ukraine news - just one of their usual mainstream slants was up focusing on the two shockers, the Znuclear plant shelling and the Crimea airfield explosions.  The author averred that the first was of no consequence, but admitted it was unlikely to be caused by the Russians - a big admission in light of his otherwise extremely negative appraisal of Russian activity in Ukraine.
The above is not to say that nothing was destroyed up at Saky Airfield, but one should be wary to determine what exactly happened and what was destroyed.
I don't see how any of Baltic states can offer any meaningful military resistance. And Article 5 is not obligatory so they will only receive moral support from rest of NATO if Russia decides to roll in.
BBC reporting presents civilian video of the event as seen from the crowded beach front.
Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, also suggested Russian incompetence as a possible cause of the blasts. but blamed RF carelessness.
5- open Nordstream 2 and stop importing USA's LNG, close coal power plants, and stop the crazy anti-nuclear power plant "green" ideology
"...Tisdalls piece, though, is another reminder that the ongoing 8 year proxy war was and remains a regime-change operation directed at Putin, which has been visibly ineffective,.."      jayc35
Outlaw US Empire escalation using Baltics as proxy began with blockade of Kaliningrad transport followed by Latvia's trial balloon of calling Russia state terrorism sponsor, which is also being considered by US Congress as I related yesterday. Those hoping Baltics will be "obliterated" are quite wrong and are likely ignorant of the Russian laws aimed at protecting out-of-country compatriots. Any attacks on the Baltics will follow the example made in Ukraine. Why they remain when so many opportunities are available within Russia is a perplexing question. Perhaps the "This too shall pass" sentiment remains very strong. It would be excellent to hear some testimony from ethnic Russians living in the Baltics on this issue.
A search of Saky imagery did not reveal any ammunition storage bunkers such as may be observed at Aeroport Imeni A.koltunovoy. The Saky facility does not give the impression of being an active military airbase it looks to be a secondary facility lacking upkeep. The expected military security such as gatehouses and full perimeter fencing is not found. The Google imagery is dated 2022 date but gives no indication of the month.
I am not churchy,  but Jesus did say,  Be as gentle as doves and as wise as serpents .
They say 1 is not a big loss, well it's an unnecessary loss, just because of a few smiles and a photo opportunity.
FLASH August 5th: A separate, but related issue, which should be of some concern to those following the health, stability and general condition of the U.S. Economy i.e. a nascent new Recession and related labor conditions, is that the total Civilian Labor Force Employed plus Unemployed persons is in decline where the seasonally adjusted 163.96 million in July 2022, was down from a near-term peak of 164.41 million in May 2022, which had rallied off the Pandemic Trough of 156.36 million in April of 2020, after having collapsed from a Pre-Pandemic Peak of 164.58 million in February 2020.
Once, Iran achieves that ability, US will stop blackmailing Iran. Now, that Iran has one satellite Khayyam-1 in orbit with the help of Russia, and will have 3 more in the near future, Iran would be able to spy on the USNATO as it likes, when it likes.
Clearly Chernobyl left no lasting impression on the 7-year old Zelensky who would appear to be seriously deranged and manifestly desperate
lol... i like how you can switch from dead serious to being funny and not sure how many can tell the difference! i am pretty sure you are a canuck, but it is okay.. you don't have to reveal yourself here.. cheers james  - ps, off to the blues festival here today..
So that was interesting.  I am usually more interested in comments, and those did not disappoint.  One expressed relief that New Zealand does not have nuclear power plants, so is not vulnerable to such scary attacks.  Many filled in the gaps in the narrative with links to sites correcting same.
I don't think so. Attacks seem to be nato's decision. The whole Ukr is made from puppets controlled by nazis, controlled by nato. If anyone does anything else they're instantly shot. nato fakes the news for Western msm that Russia is attacking the npp and prevents IAEA from inspecting the location. Seems like a well made plan.
The suggested sequence of events is: 1 Ignition of a fuel store on the airbase 2 The fuel fire "cooked off" stored armaments which exploded creating the dramatic white explosion plume 3The explosion distributed other armaments at random. These also cooked off and resulted in the dispersed craters seen in satellite imagery.
In the end, this is similar to what Russia is doing in the liberated territories of Novorussia: the pro-Nazipro-NATOpro-West Ukrainians have already ran away, so now it's the time to make those sweet referendums with all the pro-Russian residents that stayed courageously in Kherson, Zaporizhia, and Kharkiv during the conflictSMO, and after 8 years of waiting for Russia's intervention.
They are all for criminalising dissent and, now that they have the power, through various internet activities, to surveil millions at a time, they believe that they can shut down all opposition. A brief glance at Patel's recent legislation, which essentially brings the UK itself, back into the same police system that it left in the Empire most of the Indian and Israeli laws used to suppress opinion are part of the legacy inherited in 1948, and at the current proposals for example to criminalise opinions critical of the UK, will confirm that.
Baltic midget states seem to be blind. They have Russian population on their territory which they are starting to abuse the same way Ukraine gov did since 2014.
Saky Naval Air Base is reported to have engaged in ground attack strikes in support of the SMO. This implies the use of aircraft, and personnel, not normally employed in the ground strike role. It also implies the need to store ground attack armaments at a base which may lack appropriate storage facilities and whose ground personnel may be unfamiliar with ground attack armament. It is also likely RF is drawing down its armament stockpile and using weapons made unstable due to aging.
Domestically within the Outlaw US Empire, the very notable decline in media trust across the political spectrum is actually good news as fewer and fewer believe the Establishment Narrative. The same is true for the very huge lack in confidence in the federal government as pocketbook worries spike. Those sentiments are reflected in this Gallup Poll published July 5, with the results likely lower now that another month has elapsed with zero improvement.
3- Western Europe should stop delivering weapons to NAZIS, condemn Ukraine's dictatorship, and block weapon deliveries from anglo-saxons through their territories
you, Sir, are off the hook. Thanks for your clear-headed assessment of this story. I will look for your contributions in the future.
I agree.  Estonia will do nothing unless they get support from Finland. Attempting a blockade of St. Petersburg is madness and I don't think the Finns are that crazy. I don't know what the Baltic states hope to gain from all the tough talk.
37 Seems ethnic Russians can and do vote in Latvia mainly for Harmony party. But they are still a 25 minority so lack real power.
Talk about negotiating with the psychopaths in Urkraine and their NATO partners is worthless imho.
I hope the African country you are going to doesn't have brit ex-pats. I know from experience they are worse than the brits in the UK. Good luck.
