kyiv orders mandatory evacuation of areas retaken from Russians in Kharkiv
20220508
https://thetimeshub.in/russian-defense-ministry-evacuation-of-civilians-from-azovstal-completed/2554/
Andriy Kanashevich , acting head of the military administration of the Kupyansk district, one of the towns of Kharkov, confirmed this. This order was reported in statements collected by the National Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine Suspilne.
According to him, the volunteers and the regional authorities are helping with the evacuation: Buses are provided. The cars are provided by the volunteers themselves. The Red Cross also helps with their vehicles and takes people away, he added.
The initiative, according to what he said, was discussed with the public. Suspilne said at a meeting of the Unoccupied Lands Coordination Staff chaired by her, according to a ministry press service note released by Suspilne. A draft resolution was issued on the protection of children who are found in zones of hostilities and armed conflicts.
The document provides for a resolution. the granting of permission to the authorities, in agreement with the military command bodies and the Compulsory Evacuation Coordinating Headquarters, to make a decision on the forced eviction of children with their parents or persons who substitute.
 pIn this regard, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister  Iryna Vereshchuk  has proposed to approve a mechanism to introduce the forced evacuation of children with their parents from areas of active hostilities.
The Ukrainian government has ordered the mandatory evacuation of several towns and settlements in the Kharkov region east, given the proximity of the  Russian bombardments  in some areas that were already controlled by the Russian Army at the beginning of the invasion.
Kanashevich added: which will be facilitated the mandatory evacuation of and people with reduced mobility in these communities and municipalities, close to the eastern front, The current epicenter of fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces.
At the same time, it will not be allowed to replace. parental refusal of mandatory evacuation. If parents can't take care of the safety of the children, the state will, emphasized Mr. Vereshchuk.
In the Kupyansk district, a new order was announced. the compulsory evacuation of ten settlements of the Vilkhuvat community, as well as the As well as all the nearby communities of Dvorichan and Petropavlovsk, he made a specific decision. the military officer.
He clarified He further stated that his administration wants to get everyone out, but the vast majority of people don't want to leave even in the face of the bombings.
A decision was made regarding the mandatory evacuation of The population of ten settlements of the Vilkhuvat community, which are close to the border and are under fire, of all the communities of Dvorichansk and Petropavlovsk, reiterated the report. the military responsible.
Although the military chief did not give details about the situation in the area, the measures adopted would indicate the advance and insistence of Russian bombardments in an area that came to be destroyed. to control Moscow at the beginning of the invasion and from which his forces were subsequently evicted.
And if parents refuse to evacuate their children during the mandatory evacuation of minors, the children will be removed from the area, he threatened.
We will withdraw the children. At this moment -he said- we are considering the mechanism by which it is possible to withdraw the children and if it is possible within the limits of the law. If there are parents who endanger not only themselves, but also their children, we will make unpopular decisions, said Kanashevich, noting that it is still calculating how many children and people with reduced mobility will be evacuated.
