RussiaUkraine war today Biden says Russia will never win in Ukraine and Putin promises to continue the war
20220601
https://thetimeshub.in/the-united-states-promises-russia-that-ukraine-will-not-receive-weapons-with-which-it-can-attack/9445/
Investor confidence German numbers are highest since the start of the invasion of Ukraine, according to ZEW
We are going to create new international corridors. We are going to develop the Black Sea and Azov Sea ports. And we will pay attention to the north-south corridor. And our roads and our railway to the East. Also, he says, communications will improve, as well as numerous roads. We will continue with the free gasification program.
PresidentVladmir Putin He gave his State of the Nation address in the Duma this Monday to reaffirm before representatives of all sectors of the country that Russia is on the right course and will continue to fight until the end. Russia will overcome any challenge because we are all one country, one great and united people, added Mr. appealing to the stoicism and perseverance that Russians refer to when they remember wars in which they defended themselves against invaders such as the Mongol Empire, Napoleon's France or Nazi Germany. Read here the chronicle of EL PERIDICO correspondent lex Bustos in Moscow.
Belarus warns of possible provocations due to the presence of Ukrainian troops on the border
After 2021, 40,000 people died, they became refugees, a consequence of the US, and now they want to erase it. They don't count human lives, they count trillions of dollars. They label and stigmatize peoples and leaders and create the image of enemies to distract people from their own scandals.
More than 30 countries call for a ban on drugs. n of Russian and Belarusian athletes at the Olympic Games
Russia assured The Tuesday that will follow It is respecting the limitations imposed on its nuclear arsenal by the New START treaty, despite the decision announced by President Vladimir Putin to suspend its participation in that Russian-American disarmament agreement. Russia will maintain a responsible approach and continue to strictly abide, for the duration of the treaty, the quantitative limitations on strategic offensive weapons, Russia said. the ministry of foreign affairs.
The President of Ukraine, Volodimir Zelensky, criticized on Tuesday the announcement by his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, to suspend the nuclear weapons treaty with the United States, and has taken the opportunity to recriminate the terrorist style with which Russia has Unfortunately, they Russia already communicate as terrorists, but the only difference is that the terrorists wear masks, and they don't even hide their faces, Zelensky said at a press conference in the Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's visit to Ukraine.
Seven out of ten Ukrainians who have sought refuge in neighboring countries in the last year acknowledge that the income or aid they receive is not enough to cover their most basic needs and, therefore, they run The risk of falling into poverty, according to a survey by the Norwegian Refugee Council NCR. The United Nations estimates that more than eight million people have crossed the borders of Ukraine into other European countries after the start of the Russian invasion almost a year ago. The NRC has urged host countries and also the international community to respond to the needs of the population. After being forced to flee their homes, leaving their loved ones and their livelihoods behind, refugees from Ukraine are financially on the brink, stressed the regional director of the NGO, Carlo Gherardi, when taking stock of a survey carried out in Poland, Romania and Moldova.
Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang said He will be deeply concerned on Tuesday about the conflict in Ukraine, which is escalating. escalating and even getting out of control. He indicated He stated in a speech on global security that Beijing will seek to work with the international community to promote dialogue and consultation, address the concerns of all parties, and seek common security. Referring to the first anniversary of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24, Qin said China will continue to promote peace talks. We urge the countries involved to stop feeding the fire as soon as possible, stop blaming China, the minister said, responding to protests from Washington and Europe that Beijing may be considering sending weapons to China. Moscow.
The Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, expressed his appreciation. This Tuesday his growing concern about the possibility that China could support Russia militarily in Ukraine. We are increasingly concerned that China may be planning to provide lethal support to Russia's war, Stoltenberg told a news conference at the military alliance headquarters in Brussels.
Now talk about universities to improve defense forces. Your action is highly valued by your country, she says, and announces that new technologies are going to be introduced to have new weapons. We have many projects and many are above their Western analogues. We have to start production of these new mechanisms, based on Neusyra's own technology. We will introduce new technologies in the Army.
China submitted today a document explaining its new Global Security Initiative, a project announced by Chinese President Xi Jinping in April 2022 and opposing the use of sanctions on the international stage. Differences and disputes between countries must be dealt with through dialogue and consultation instead of through war and sanctions, the document states, adding that the abuse of unilateral sanctions it will only create more difficulties. In that sense, since Russia began to After the invasion of Ukraine, Beijing has expressed its opposition to the sanctions against Moscow. for not solving the problems.
A few kilometers from the European Union EU, the special forces of Belarus, Russia's only ally in its war against Ukraine, train to be ready for any surprise. During training, soldiers run back and forth, shrouded in white smoke, and automatic weapons blare. A little further on, some paratroopers practice landing, while others advance on a taut rope before the eyes of a group of journalists, including an AFP team, invited to this country where the presence of the Western press is authorized with a dropper. Belarus, ruled by Alexander Lukashenko since 1994, is It is subjected to European and North American sanctions for the repression of the opposition and for having lent its territory to Russian forces at the start of their offensive against Ukraine, launched on February 24, 2022.
Hitler did terrible things in Europe and the Ukrainian forces and the Ukrainian national guard wear Nazi German insignia. Weapons also have insignia. from Nazi Germany, they make no secret of whose heirs they are
One year after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, experts agree that the war already has winners and losers: whatever happens, Russia has become a pariah and China is giving it up. The West took the plunge by benefiting from America's inattention to other world arenas. Thus, the war has already served to reveal the strengths and weaknesses of each other, encourage joint action by the EU and put an end to the mirage of international relations based on globalization, the rules and laws. Efe reports.
UK points to a lack of Russia's judgment in its use of artillery in Ukraine
The president of the United States, Joe Biden, promised to Today Ukraine will never be a country. He praised Russia for a victory. Kiev's resistance, which still stands a year after the start of the Russian invasion, whose anniversary falls on the 24th. Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia. Never! he said. Biden before hundreds of people during a long-awaited speech in the gardens of the former royal castle in Warsaw. Biden, who yesterday, Monday, held a After a highly symbolic visit to Kiev, he said he can testify that the Ukrainian capital still stands despite the fact that the Russian armed forces tried to conquer it at the beginning of the war in an offensive that failed. .
The The Russian army massively bombarded Kherson. Once again, it mercilessly kills the civilian population, lamented the Russian army. in a Telegram message after the Russian bombings.
Twelve hours of training a day, six days a week: Ukrainian soldiers learning to drive tanks in Germany have no time to waste getting back into combat as soon as possible. Our comrades are waiting for us, says one of them, Vitali, with red glasses and his face hidden by a scarf to maintain his anonymity. He is part of hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers gathered in Munster, a small town in northern Germany, some 2,000 km from the fighting around Bakhmut, where Russian troops are concentrating their attacks. The violence of war seems far away at this military base where Leopard 2 tanks sleep in hangars behind big white doors. Some are hosed down by soldiers in uniform. Frances Presse reports.
Foreign Minister of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba expressed his appreciation. He raised cautious interest in China's plan for a peace deal capable of ending the war with Russia on Tuesday, but warned that there would be no risk. that he must respect the territorial integrity of his country. Kuleba said he had a talk with influential Chinese diplomat Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Security Conference held in Munich on Saturday, and that the Chinese diplomat outlined the situation for him. the plan. He shared with me key elements of the peace plan, he revealed. However, he added He said his government was hoping to receive the text, because it's not something you can draw conclusions about after hearing.
US President Joe Biden's surprise visit to kyiv on Monday began with a surprise visit. nearly 24 hours earlier, in the middle of the eastern US night in a hangar at a military airport outside Washington. At 04:00 09:00 GMT on Sunday, unknown to the media, politicians and American citizens, the 80-year-old Democrat boarded the party. a Boeing 757 of the Air Force, called C-32. The plane, a smaller version of the one typically used by US presidents on international trips, was parked far from where Biden would usually board it. And a revealing detail: the blinds on all the windows had been lowered.
In his speech lasting one hour and forty-five minutes yesterday, Putin accused It prevented Western countries from using the conflict in Ukraine to finish off Russia. Biden, in another long-awaited speech from Warsaw, replied that in the afternoon to those accusations and promised to maintain unwavering support for Ukraine. The West is not conspiring to attack Russia, as Putin has said today. Millions of Russian citizens who just want to live in peace with their neighbors are not the enemy, proclaimed Mr. Biden, before a crowd gathered in front of the Royal Castle in Warsaw. The 80-year-old ruler made He made a surprise visit to kyiv on Monday, his first since the start of the invasion, just days before the first anniversary of the war. There must be no doubt: our support for Ukraine will never waver. and Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia, never, he added. Biden, who met with with Polish President Andrzej Duda. Putin thought he was tough, but he ran into a challenge. He agreed with the iron will of the United States, he said.
Poland announced the This Tuesday the closure of the last border crossing for goods that remained open with Belarus, in response to the blockade of the passage of Polish trucks traveling to Latvia and Lithuania on Belarusian roads. The measure, announced this Tuesday by the Polish Minister of the Interior, Mariusz Kaminski, and confirmed to Efe by the Polish Border Guard, affects the Kukuryki-Kozowicze crossing and joins the closure ten days ago of the border point of Bobrowniki, thus sealing the land transit of goods between the two countries. Following Minsk's threat to prevent Polish trucks en route to Latvia or Lithuania from passing, Kaminski warned against He stated that if the Belarusian authorities apply the announced restrictions to Polish carriers, Poland's reaction to Belarusian carriers will be identical.
The Intelligence services of the United Kingdom have pointed out this Tuesday to a lack of judgment on the part of Russia when it comes to using artillery in its attacks in Ukraine and has argued that this has caused an increase in the number of weapons during the month of January. damages against medical and educational facilities. During January 2023, there has been a trend of high intensity and worsening damage caused to medical and educational facilities, they pointed out, before adding that these incidents and the continued victims civilians are largely due to Russia's lack of judgment in the use of artillery and other weapons systems. Thus, they have recalled that the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights indicated that this was not the case. On February 13, to date, 7,199 civilian deaths and 11,756 injuries have been confirmed since the start of the war, with 697 of the fatalities registered in January of this year.
Starting this year our companies can reduce the percentage of tax pressure if they buy technology produced in our country. We need to develop a list that works with new technologies to lower their tax burden.
Zelensky says he has not seen any official document about the peace plan announced by China
Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky assured The Russian Army ruthlessly kills civilians in Kherson, a city retaken by Kiev in southern Ukraine, where shelling killed at least six people, Tuesday.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg assured He said this Tuesday that nobody is attacking Russia and regretted that He said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is preparing for more war a year after initiating the invasion of Ukraine. Nobody is attacking Russia. Russia is the aggressor, Ukraine is the victim of the aggression, said Mr. Stoltenberg in a statement to the press together with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, and the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, Dmitro Kuleba.
The reception in schools after the war in Ukraine: a year studying away from the bombs
Allowing Russia to participate in an OSCE meeting this week in Vienna will not do the trick. Not so he can spread his lies but to show how isolated he is. Moscow for his invasion of the Ukraine, he said. This Tuesday the president of the Parliamentary Assembly of that organization, Margareta Cederfelt.
The Prime Minister of Italy, Giorgia Meloni, arrived on Saturday. He is scheduled to take the train to Kiev today, where he is scheduled to meet this afternoon with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, on his first trip to this country since he was sworn in in Rome in October last year. I feel honored, I have to be here, Meloni said upon arrival at the main train station in the Ukrainian capital, where she was greeted with flowers before driving to her hotel, according to the agency. Ukrainian news outlet, Ukrinform. In addition to meeting with Zelensky, Meloni is scheduled to visit the towns of Irpin and Bucha, located near the capital and where Russian forces perpetrated abuses that have been described as war crimes by the democratic community. international ethics.
The European Union has launched several packages of sanctions against Russia to financially stifle the Government of Vladimir Putin and cut off the Kremlin's financing channels for the war in Ukraine. Among the many punitive measures, the bloc of Russian gas purchases has not been included for the moment. And after a year of war, Spain continues to receive gas from Russia and in fact has sharply increased these imports. Read on here.
The Belarusian Ministry of Defense has denounced the presence of Ukrainian troops near the common border and has warned that the risk of provocations resulting in some type of incident in the area remains high. . A ministerial spokesman, Valeri Revenko, has stated in statements to journalists that the war in the neighboring country has significantly aggravated the situation in areas near the border. According to Minsk, there is a significant concentration of troops from Ukraine, the Ministry has reported on Telegram. The Belarusian government reserves the right to respond to the alleged provocations, although it has always maintained that it has no intention of becoming more directly involved in the offensive launched by the Belarusian government. almost a year ago Russia, with which I did agree. has collaborated militarily and politically.
The President of China, Xi Jinping, is Are you planning to visit Moscow? He will meet with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, over the next few months, as reported by 'The Wall Street Journal'. The sources consulted by the aforementioned newspaper indicate that Xi wants to play a more active role to end the conflict in Ukraine, which this week marks one year since Russian troops invaded the country by mandate. of Putin.
Amnesty International AI has called on the international community to develop a joint plan to address demands for justice from victims of the conflict in Ukraine, where the organization has documented war crimes since the start of the war. the invasion a year ago.AI Secretary General Agns Callamard stressed in a statement the need for swift action: While the Russian Armed Forces appear to be intensifying their offensive in Ukraine, the commitment to hold accountable all those responsible for Human Rights violations and war crimes is more urgent than ever.Let's say it clearly: the hands of Vladimir Putin and his armed forces they are stained with blood, added the general secretary.
Amnesty International calls for a plan to bring justice to victims of war crimes in Ukraine
The deployment of military troops  The US is the country that has the most military bases in the world dotted with these bases. We knew that an operation would begin in the Donbas in February 2022. Everyone pretended that nothing was happening. They are the ones who started this war and we used the war to stop it.
The President of the United States, Joe Biden, reiterated his the unwavering support of him to Ukraine yesterday Monday in a surprise visit to kyiv in which he promised  oacute He made new arms deliveries to the Ukrainians, just days before the first anniversary of the Russian invasion. The American leader arrived He went to the Ukrainian capital with the greatest secrecy: the White House did not reveal what was happening. why? half shifted He got there, although all Western leaders do it by train through Poland. However, according to Washington, Russia was warned of Biden's visit several hours earlier in order to avoid conflict, according to national security adviser Jale Sullivan.
Russian diplomacy convened on Tuesday to the American ambassador in Moscow. to deliver a note in which she demands the United States withdraw NATO soldiers and equipment from Ukraine. It has been noted in particular that, in order to achieve a de-escalation of the situation, Washington must take steps towards the withdrawal of US and NATO soldiers and equipment, and cease its anti-Russian activities, he stressed. the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a statement.
In this live stream you can follow, minute by minute, the latest current news on the war between the two countries:
 pDespite all our difficulties, the job market is more comfortable, and he assures that in a matter of payment they are in the country. at an all-time low. Russia's economy has survived. We have moved forward in our structures, saline to new markets, our own market, our national base Russia has great potential in all spheres and we have the possibility of growing all kinds of products.
They told us that our economy was going to sink. We have gone down but only 2. Entrepreneurs, he says, have survived by changing partners.
I understand how difficult life is for orphans, widows, those who have lost their relatives. We have to help them without delay. We will create a state fund to help the relatives of the fallen, this fund will coordinate psychological and medical help, rehabilitation, will support the sports, studies, business.
The winter session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSCE Parliamentary Assembly begins on February 23 , on the eve of the first anniversary of the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
The West has achieved absolutely nothing and is going to achieve absolutely nothing. Countries that have sanctioned Russia are suffering, she says. They have tried to sink the ruble, sanctions against Russia are a means and the goal is to force our population to suffer.
At least six people have been killed in a Russian missile attack on the Ukrainian city of Kherson, the Russian government reported. today the spokesman for the Defense Command of that city located in southern Ukraine and retaken by kyiv forces at the end of last year. As announced by Ukrainian public television reported at least 20 explosions and one of the attacks hit the city. a bus stop. The attacks came at the same time that Russian President Vladimir Putin delivered his long-awaited state of the nation address in Russia's parliament, on the brink of the first anniversary of Russia's invasion of Russia. Ukraine.
The intelligence services of the United Kingdom have affirmed this Wednesday that the president of Russia, Vladimir Putin, maintained a bellicose tone in his speech on Tuesday before Parliament, although he has stressed that he did not present any practical measure to prevent him from doing so. Putin continues to present a contradictory narrative about an existential struggle while insisting that everything in Russia is going well and according to plan. This makes both The messages will not be effective, they said, before stressing that the president made it clear that he intends to continue with the invasion of Ukraine, according to a series of messages published by the British Ministry of Defense on his account. on the social network Twitter.  nbspDuring his speech, Putin accused him of He accused the West of being to blame for the war in Ukraine.
The President of China, Xi Jinping, is Are you planning to visit Moscow? He will meet with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, over the next few months, as reported by 'The Wall Street Journal'. The sources consulted by the aforementioned newspaper indicate that Xi wants to play a more active role to end the conflict in Ukraine, which this week marks one year since Russian troops invaded the country. by order of Putin. A meeting between the two leaders would be an impetus for peace talks, as well. This was the moment to reiterate the call to avoid the use of nuclear weapons, although this information was published hours after Putin announced the suspension of Moscow's participation in the war. It was signed in the New Start agreement, the latest pact signed between Russia and the United States for the reduction and control of nuclear weapons.
Russia's last major advance into Ukrainian territory came six months ago and Zelensky's last counteroffensive came in November. See here the charts.
The Prime Minister of Japan, Fumio Kishida, is He is considering visiting the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the war by Russian troops, although he has not yet decided on the date.Regarding the Prime Minister's visit to Kiev, we are considering it based on We are dealing with various situations, such as local security measures, but nothing has been decided at the moment, Cabinet spokesman Hirokazu Matsuno explained on Tuesday, as reported by the newspaper 'Asahi'. Likewise, the Japanese spokesman has celebrated the surprise visit of the US president, Joe Biden, to Ukraine, as a measure to show US solidarity with Ukraine a year after the invasion, which started on February 24, 2022 by order of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
 pUS President Joe Biden does not want to celebrate another anniversary of the war in Ukraine and looks to the future in the hope that his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelensky, can strengthen his position as much as possible. before any kind of negotiation with Russia. like this he affirmed it In an interview with Efe John Kirby, the communications coordinator for the White House National Security Council and who has become one of the most visible faces of the Biden government due to his frequent press conferences. On the occasion of the anniversary of the start of the war on the 24th of this month, Kirby took stock of the impact he has had on the world and highlighted the fact that he has had an impact on the world. the message of support that Biden sent yesterday Monday to the Ukrainian people with his visit to kyiv.
Pro-Russian entities and activists from different fronts share events, narratives and the same current account in their campaigns. Read in this link the article by Juan Jos Fernndez.
Millions of people in the West understand that they are being led to a spiritual catastrophe but the elites are going crazy.
At least six people were killed in the attacks and 12 wounded, according to a regional military official. Zelensky specified It said the shelling hit a parking lot, residential areas, a high-rise building, and a public transportation stop.
The Italian Prime Minister, Giorgia Meloni, will arrive in Barcelona. He is going to kyiv today to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and will also visit Ukraine. Irpin and Bucha towns, symbols of the massacres perpetrated by the Russian army. Meloni arrived. This Monday he went to Poland to meet with the Polish Prime Minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, and at dawn he left for Poland. in the train that will take I welcomed the entire Italian delegation to the Ukrainian capital. there will render tribute to the thousands of dead and millions of refugees from the war, reports the Italian media traveling with the prime minister. Late in the morning today, there will be a meeting. He saluted with Zelensky and then he's also there. A visit to Bucha and Irpin is planned.
The Valencian Community is the one that has welcomed the most Ukrainian students displaced by the war 13,852 , the majority in Alicante. Read here a chronicle about the reception.
The Russian Foreign Ministry presented him with a letter. Today I sent the US ambassador in Moscow, Lynne Tracy, a note of protest against Washington's increased military involvement in the Ukrainian conflict. The pumping of weapons to the Ukrainian Army and the delivery of coordinates to attack targets of the Russian military and civilian infrastructure clearly show the inconsistency and lies of the statements that the US is not a party to the conflict, the statement said. Foreign. Russian diplomacy warned of this. He also told the US ambassador that weapons supplied to Kiev, as well as service personnel, are legitimate targets of the Russian Army in Ukraine.
The exile of Russian literature: the best of the anti-Putin intelligentsia you have chosen to leave the country
 pCivilian industries have grown in the past year, such as housing construction. The agricultural sector, she says, has also increased. We hope to increase grain exports.
For the future of our children, for historical justice our soldiers fight, our heroes I pray for a minute of silence for the fallen.
President Joe Biden assured Tuesday that the United States will hold the He unhesitatingly expressed his support for Ukraine in a speech in Poland on the occasion of the first anniversary of the Russian invasion of the former Soviet republic. There should be no doubt: our support for Ukraine will never waver, NATO will not split, and we will not get tired of upholding that position, the minister proclaimed. Biden before a crowd gathered outside the Royal Castle in Warsaw.
The Government has expressed this Tuesday its concern and rejection of Russia's decision to suspend compliance with the last nuclear disarmament treaty still in force between this country and the US and has reiterated Spain's solidarity with the Ukrainian people. like this This was pointed out at the end of the Council of Ministers by the Government spokesperson, Isabel Rodrguez, in response to the speech on the state of the nation by Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has assured that Russia will achieve  step by step its objectives in Ukraine and has announced the suspension of compliance by his country with the aforementioned disarmament treaty, the so-called START III or New START.
The non-governmental organization World Vision has warned of the consequences that is taking place. Boys and girls in eastern Ukraine are experiencing war: 51 say that their peers smoke and use other drugs as a coping mechanism, a number that rises to 77 in adolescents aged 14 to 17 years. Conflict in the Kherson, Kharkiv and Dnipropetrovsk regions of eastern Ukraine has led to increased aggression and anxiety in children, according to research by the international NGO and its Ukrainian partner Arms of Mercy in these Ukrainian provinces. World Vision's Director of Ukraine Crisis Response, Chris Palusky, has said that the children of Ukraine desperately need peace.
The United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, called This Tuesday of military failure the Russian invasion in Ukraine and ensured the He said that while hostilities continue, your country and its allies will continue to support democracy. Blinken made the remarks at a press conference with his Greek counterpart, Nikos Dendias, during an official visit to Greece. The head of American diplomacy affirmed That the failure of the Russian attack, of which will come true. It will be announced one year on February 24, due to the courage of the Ukrainian people and the help of its allies around the world. Although he stressed that everyone wants this war to end as soon as possible, assured the president. He said that as long as hostilities by Russia continue, the United States and its allies will continue to resist in support of democracy.
Amnesty International AI has called on the international community to develop a joint plan to address demands for justice from victims of the conflict in Ukraine, where the organization has documented war crimes since the start of the war. the invasion a year ago. AI Secretary General Agns Callamard stressed in a statement the need for swift action.
The federal spokesperson for Izquierda Unida and MEP of United Podemos, Sira Rego, assured this Tuesday that she misses no to war in the streets and a diplomatic channel to try by all means to stop fire in the war in Ukraine because it is absolutely essential. In an interview on Radio Euskadi, Rego pointed out, one year after the war in Ukraine, that it is urgent that scenarios be made possible to talk about peace and a ceasefire. We believe that it is a central element and that it should be on the agenda, she added. Regarding the dialogue proposal announced by China to seek a solution to the war, it has stated that they pay attention to all initiatives of an international nature to try to open scenarios This was the case for dialogue, as well as the position of the UN or the offer of the President of Brazil, Lula Da Silva.
This program has to start strong and we also have to expand the technological capabilities of our country. s.
President Vladimir Putin suspended the this Tuesday Russia's participation in an important nuclear disarmament treaty and He asked the West to stir up the conflict in Ukraine, while his American counterpart, Joe Biden, assured that he would not be able to do anything. that Moscow will never win. the war that started almost a year ago. The United States qualified The decision to suspend the New START treaty was deemed irresponsible and France and the United Kingdom, two other nuclear powers, asked Moscow to agree. He told him to reconsider his rash decision and show responsibility.
The intervention will begin immediately. It will be at 9:00 GMT, 10:00 a.m., and will last until 10:00 p.m. for an hour. It will be It was undoubtedly marked by the historic visit to Ukraine by US President Joe Biden.
The number of civilians killed by the Russian invasion of Ukraine confirmed by the United Nations exceeded the previous figure. today the barrier of 8,000, indicated the the UN Office for Human Rights, which noted the that a year of conflict has also caused 13,287 injuries among the non-military population. Our data is just the tip of the iceberg in a war whose cost to civilians is unbearable, said the president. in a statement the UN high commissioner for human rights, Volker Trk. His office, which has tracked civilian casualties since the start of the Russian invasion, published a report. today an annual report in which he underlined the that at least 487 of the civilians killed in a year of war and 954 of the wounded were children.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has accused the United States of putting on a show with President Joe Biden's recent visit to the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, where he took advantage of the situation. He went to meet his counterpart Volodimir Zelensky. Likewise, Biden announced a Another 500 million dollars about 470 million euros of additional aid will be sent from Ukrainian territory, a new package that includes long-range weapons and even other types of weapons that has not been supplied before.
The confidence of German investors has improved in February for the fifth consecutive month, after the lows registered last September, according to the indicator of the Leibniz Center for European Economic Research ZEW, for its acronym in Spanish. in German, which has reached its highest level since February 2022, when Russia began the war. the invasion of Ukraine.Specifically, the ZEW index stood at 28.1 points in February, compared to 16.9 in January, thus fulfilling the goal of the invasion of Ukraine. The valuation of the current situation has also improved to -45.1 points from -58.6 in January, although it is still in negative territory for two consecutive months in positive territory.
This Friday, February 24, will be the anniversary of the anniversary. It was one year from the beginning of the Russian invasion of the Ukraine. The war conflict between the two countries dated back to 2014 with the annexation of Crimea and the assault on the Donbas region of Russia, but it was not until February 24, 2022, when it escalated. of level and Valdimir Putin began the aggression on a grand scale. Read on here and watch videos of the war.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation, Jos Manuel Albares, has made an appeal on Tuesday to support the efforts so that the crimes that are being committed today in Ukraine do not go unpunished and those responsible have to answer to justice. In statements to Catalunya Rdio, Albares stressed that Spain supports from the beginning those crimes derived from the war of aggression decreed by Russian President Vladimir Putin against Ukraine  be investigated. On the one hand, he explained, Spain offers these investigations financial support, with extraordinary contributions, and on the other, it maintains a police team on the ground that is helping the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office to collect evidence.
Meloni arrives in Kiev today and will meet her friends. He will meet Zelensky and visit Irpin and Bucha
Former British Prime Minister Liz Truss has expressed her support for Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelesnki's calls for Western powers to supply fighter jets to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Nico since he resigned. Taking office as head of government at the end of October, Truss has urged to do everything possible, as quickly as possible to help Ukraine win the war against Russia.In this way, Truss has He was also joined by former Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has recently expressed himself in the same terms, thus increasing the number of votes. This put pressure on the current tenant of 10 Downing Street, Rishi Sunak.
The commander of the Georgian Legion, made up of soldiers of multiple nationalities, denounces that the Kremlin concentrates thousands of men in this region and that its troops are neutralizing attempts to break through the front. Read the chronicle of Marc Marginedas.
Russia developed In 2021, a strategy to absorb Belarus will be launched in 2030 by taking control of the neighboring country's politics, economy and military potential, according to a document from the Presidential Administration to which the Center has had access. Dossier, of the former oligarch and opponent in exile Mikhail Khodorkovsky. This is a document developed by the Kremlin together with the Foreign Espionage Service, the Federal Security Service FSB, military intelligence GUR and the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces in the possession of Estonian journalists, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, the US, Germany, Sweden and Poland, says Dossier. The Kremlin was going to adapt the Belarusian legislation to the Russian one, manage the foreign policy of the republic in the interests of Russia, increase the military presence on the territory of Belarus, achieve supremacy of the language All these goals were planned to be achieved in nine years, by 2030, the research summarizes.
Most of our citizens support our actions in Donbas and show their patriotism, which is historically a feeling typical of our people, with great dignity.
The West has spent a lot of money helping Kiev. The G7 in 2020 and 2021 allocated some 60 billion dollars to poverty and the Ukrainian war 150 billion, continues Putin.
There are professional soldiers, recruited people and volunteers, he insists, to focus again on the willingness to provide aid also for psychological stress. And now, it gives 14-day vacations every six months for combatants.
UK says Putin failed to come up with practical steps on stalemate of Russian troops
The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine urged the Today he called on educational institutions to establish distance learning from February 22 to 24 as a preventive measure against the possible risk of attacks on the eve of the anniversary of the Russian invasion of the country. The Minister of Education, Serhii Shkarlet, addressed the With this request, the heads of the Kiev military administration and the leaders of the country's educational institutions, according to a statement released by the Ministry.
The United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, pointed out This Tuesday that it depends on Iran if the dialogue is resumed to reactivate an agreement that ensures that its nuclear program does not have a military purpose. We continue to believe that, with respect to the nuclear program, the most effective and sustainable way to meet the challenge is through diplomacy, stressed the president. Blinken at a press conference with his Greek counterpart, Nikos Dendias, in Athens. But right now those efforts are on the back burner because Iran is simply not involved in a meaningful way, he lamented. Blinken pointed. He said that the door is always open for diplomacy to move forward and that a lot depends on what Iran says and does and whether or not it gets involved.
This is the latest news on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. See here the key moments of the conflict.
Russian President Vladimir Putin will deliver the He will give his long-awaited speech this Tuesday
Russia assures that it will continue to do so. complying with the rules of the nuclear treaty that it suspended
A senior US official called it On Tuesday, President Vladimir Putin's accusations that justified the murder were absurd. the invasion of Ukraine by an alleged Western threat to Russia. Nobody is attacking Russia. It is absurd to think that Russia was under any kind of military threat from the Ukraine or any other country, the statement said. White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan.
Presidents Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin are scheduled to deliver speeches Tuesday with sharply contrasting views on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a day after the U.S. leader's unexpected surprise visit. to Kiev. Biden met with on Monday with his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodimir Zelensky, to whom he promised  oacute New weapons and the unwavering support of Washington, a few days before the first anniversary of the entry of Russian troops into Ukraine. One year later, Kiev is standing. And Ukraine is standing. Democracy is standing, declared Mr. Biden at the official residence of the Ukrainian president. On Tuesday, at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, Biden will make it clear that the United States remains on Ukraine's side  as long as it takes, he said. National Security Council spokesman John Kirby last week.
More than a Russian triumph, the winter meeting of the Assembly will show how isolated Moscow is, says the Swedish parliamentarian in response to those who say allowing their participation amounts to  It will provide a platform for Russia to spread lies.
Kiev fears an attack on the southern front to widen the corridor linking Crimea to Donbas
One year after the declaration of the invasion of the Ukraine, it is an indisputable fact that the offender, Russia, has experienced a rout that has left the country without its best artists and writers. The forced exile of a good part of the Russian intellectuals may have been It may not be one of the collateral damage that Vladimir Putin loses sleep over, but revealing who these authors are offers a complete x-ray of what is happening. This is happening in a country that has been left without public debate in the field of ideas, reducing citizen discourse to a monolithic and censorship model. Read here Here is the full article by Elena Hevia.
The effects of the war in Ukraine took their toll in 2022 on families, companies and states, but its wake will extend, at least, throughout 2023 and 2024 in the form of high interest rates that will continue to weigh down power purchasing power of households, investment and the spending capacity of public budgets. Lower growth and higher inflation is what can be expected from the economy if compared to the expectations that existed before the outbreak of the war, a year ago now. Employment, despite everything, continues to give positive surprises, both in Spain and in the Eurozone and the US. Keep reading at this link.
Biden promises unwavering support as long as it takes but faces national gaps and international challenges. Read the article by Idoya Noain.
A year of invasion Russian in Ukraine: the videos that reflect the harshness of the war
They occupied this country, they were destroying the industry, they stole the natural wealth and brought the poverty. Ukraine plays with the people
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a nuclear disarmament agreement. today the suspension of compliance by your country with START III or New START, the last nuclear disarmament treaty still in force between Russia and the US.
A total of 34 countries asked yesterday Monday the Committee to International Olympic Committee IOC that prohibits the participation of athletes from Russia and Belarus in the Paris 2024 Olympic Games. He said that he has asked the IOC to ban athletes with Russian and Belarusian flags, stating that this request is due to the unprovoked and unjustifiable war of choice of Russia, facilitated by the Government of Belarus. While we recognize the autonomy of sports bodies, given the invasion of Ukraine and its ongoing devastation, we agree that the IOC's proposal to explore a path back to competition for Russian and Belarusian athletes raises many questions and concerns, read a joint statement.
The Ukrainian Army aims to establish a new line of defense in the suburbs of this town in Donbas, which the Kremlin aims to capture on the first anniversary of the invasion. The bombardments are constant in nearby towns such as Chasiv Yar or Kalinivka, where civilians survive without light or electricity and many pray that the Russians will not arrive. Read here the chronicle of Marc Marginedas.
The Ukrainian president, Volodimir Zelenski, has assured this Tuesday that he has not seen, for the moment, any official document on the peace plan announced by the head of Chinese diplomacy, Wang Yi, during his appearance at the During a joint press conference with the Italian Prime Minister, Giorgia Meloni, who is currently in Ukraine, Zelensky said that he is aware that there was a Security Conference in Munich on Saturday. Informal communication in this regard, although for the moment he has said that he has not read any official document.
