The Ukrainian Army resists inside Bakhmut to wear down the Russian troops
20220412
https://thetimeshub.in/pentagon-russian-troops-are-being-deployed-to-eastern-ukraine
Resist, while standing It can, trying to wear down the enemy in a bloody urban battle where, according to military strategy manuals, the defending troops always start with an advantage. Seven months and seven daysThey have elapsed since the official start of the battle for control of Bakhmut, the nondescript provincial city in eastern Ukraine whose control the Kremlin aspires to as a trophy of war. And  despite the fact that the degree of destruction of the urban center is already comparable to that of other martyr towns of this war such as Mariupol, the Ukrainian military commanders They have given it to be understood, through words but also through deeds, that they are still not considering the withdrawal of their troops there. At the same time, military forecasts have ruled out that the Russian Army has the capacity to clamp down on the population in the near future. From Washington, the US authorities have ruled out that an eventual fall of the city gives the Kremlin forces momentumand push to complete the conquest of the region, given the high losses suffered.
In a significant gesture of support for the defending forces, Oleksndr Syrkyi, commander of the ground troops in Ukraine, visited his men positioned among the ruins during the day from the city, acknowledging that the fighting is reaching its maximum intensity due to the arrival of troops belonging to the The Wagner group , whose effectiveness on the battlefield is far superior to that of the regular Army, as confirmed by Ukrainian military sources. Volodimir Nazarenko, commander of the troops in Bakhmut, has informed that, for the moment, there was no withdrawal order and that the defenses are maintained, although in a difficult situation. The situation in Bakhmut is absolute hell, as it is on the entire eastern front, he proclaimed in a video released by Telegram . For its part, the office of President Volodimir Zelensky has reported that the head of state had discussed the issue with the chief of the General Staff and with the commander of the ground forces, and both They have agreed to maintain the defensive operation and reinforce the positions in Bakhmut.
The Institute for War StudiesISW for its acronym in English maintains, in its latest daily report on the situation at the front, that it is still early to discern the true intentions of Kiev, although it ventures that the Ukrainian troops they could carry out a limited defensive withdrawal west of the Bakhmutovka River, which divides the city into two halves leaving the urban center in Ukrainian hands, and rules out a full withdrawal of forces from kyiv in a single batch. According to this institution, the defense of Bakhmut continues to make sense for Kiev since it continues to consume men and resources from Russia, although that is, as long as the Ukrainian forces do not suffer excessive losses. losses.
Precisely in the field of military casualties, the newspaper The Kyiv Independent, has disseminated this Monday testimonies of a dozen Ukrainian soldiers on this front who criticize the lack of adequate preparation and equipment to continue the combat. A soldier named Serhiy has reported that poorly trained battalions have been thrown to the front lines without artillery, mortar or drone support. We do not receive  any support , he denounced. When you go out there, there's not even a 5050 chance that you'll get out of there alive it's more like a 3070 chance. It's a meat grinder, concluded another soldier.
