The president of the European Parliament urges the Twentyseven to seriously consider sending fighters to Ukraine
20220519
https://thetimeshub.in/the-european-parliament-has-abolished-duties-on-all-exports-from-ukraine/5616/
Metsola, upon arrival in Lviv, has deposited a crown He gave flowers on behalf of the peoples of Europe to remember all those killed, including Yuri Ruf, killed by Russian mortars on April 1 of last year, the day he made his first visit to the country.
The President of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola, this Saturday asked the Member States of the EU to take into account the possibility of sending planes of fight Ukraine, as requested by the Kiev government, despite the misgivings of various countries and allies such as the United States.
"It's good to be back," Metsola on Friday, upon his arrival in Ukraine, on his Twitter account. With those brave people who inspired the world. With those heroes who refuse to budge. With those who sacrificed everything for our values. With Europeans whose home is in our European Union , she added.
Member States should seriously consider sending combat aircraft to Ukraine, Metsola declared during his visit to the Ukrainian city of Lviv, after meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. , in his second visit to the country after the first made at this time last year. MEPs, he added, will call on capitals to provide all the military equipment, ammunition and defense systems that Ukraine needs to win.
I have learned many things from Ukraine the past year. But perhaps the most important lesson is one articulated by Taras Shevchenko: Keep fighting, you are sure to win.
Furthermore, Metsola has expressed her wish that 2023 will be the year in which Ukraine can undertake formal EU accession negotiations , after declaring herself impressed by the pace of reforms that Kiev is pursuing. undertaking at the request of the European Commission. Ukraine's future is in the EU, she added.
kyiv applied for It joined the EU on February 28, 2022, just four days after the start of the Russian invasion, and on June 23 the European Council granted it its status. candidate status. The next step will be the opening of negotiations, a process that needs the unanimity of the 27 member states to start and it can take years until the entry is finalized.
