The organization of work in hospitals influences the survival of very premature babies
20220310
https://thetimeshub.in/russia-refuses-further-participation-in-the-work-of-the-council-of-europe
The use of overtime also has an impact on the health of young patients, also notes the doctor. In a study published in 2016 and carried out jointly with researchers Marc Beltempo and Rgis Blais, he had already determined that a higher overtime rate among nurses increased the risk of developing a nosocomial infection, that is- that is, infections acquired in healthcare settings.
Of the 1,870 children born prematurely studied by the research team, 823 experienced serious complications and 153 lost their lives. The main ailments affected the lungs, eyes and digestive or nervous systems.
It demonstrates the importance of taking an interest, and a lot, adds the researcher, in the organization of work and schedules in the Quebec health network.
When the bed occupancy rate is at 50 of the unit's capacity, the percentage of serious complications is 30, explains Dr. Bruno Piedboeuf, clinical physician and full professor at the Faculty of Medicine of the 'Laval University. This percentage increases to 40 when 80 of the beds are occupied, and to 50 when the unit is at 110 capacity.
There has been a lot of improvement technically, he concludes. But there is still work to be done on the work organization side.
Dr. Bruno Piedboeuf believes the findings of the neonatal intensive care unit study are likely to apply to emergency rooms and other high occupancy care units.
Busy periods require more resources, observes Dr. Piedboeuf, which can disrupt the ongoing care that very premature babies need. Very premature babies are hospitalized for several weeks or even months, and the first few days are crucial to prevent the development of severe complications. It's the attention to detail that counts and you have to continually watch over them. The reaction time of the staff is crucial, underlines the titular teacher of Laval University. Ideally, there should be a ratio of one nurse per child to ensure optimal care.
The bed occupancy rate and the availability of care staff in neonatal intensive care units influence the chances of survival of very premature babies, according to a Quebec study of 1,870 infants born between the 23rd and 32nd week of pregnancy.
Hannah McKay Archives Agence France-Presse  staff reaction time is crucial, emphasizes Dr. Bruno Piedboeuf. Ideally, there should be a ratio of one nurse per child to ensure optimal care.
Research is often interested in the effectiveness of drugs and care procedures, but relatively little in the impact of the organization of work and the management of personnel in the medical environment. Yet, insists Dr. Piedboeuf, the biggest expense of a health system is the staff and their use remains very little studied.
In his practice at the CHU de Qubec, Dr. Bruno Piedboeuf notes that the occupancy rate in neonatal intensive care units rarely drops below 80, or even 85. It's common for us to work in a full unit and end up wondering where we're going to put the babies that come in, he explains. It's exceptional when it drops below 80.
The conclusions of the research conducted by a team of researchers affiliated with McGill, Laval and Montreal universities surprised the doctor and researcher from Quebec. The magnitude is larger than we expected. We thought there was an effect, but not of that order. It is clear that this questions us and that it will feed the reflections at the Ministry of Health.
