The G7 will discuss new sanctions against Russia after approving new aid to Ukraine
20220509
https://thetimeshub.in/canada-will-supply-ukraine-with-new-weapons/2801/
Japan is the only country that has suffered the atomic bomb In the past 77 years of history this weapon has not been used again, and we hope that this will not be tainted by Russia, said Kishida, who also expressed his concern. He expressed his great concern about the nuclear threats launched by Putin. Kishida didn't rule out this. That Zelensky may also be invited to the Hiroshima summit, when asked by the media about this option.
The Group of Seven Economic and Finance heads have approved a financial aid package for Ukraine of  strong$39 billion by 2023, up from $19.8 billion last year, so you can afford your payments. Japan will host The face-to-face summit of G7 leaders will be held in the city of Hiroshima at the end of May, an appointment in which the hosts hope to once again stage their commitment in support of Ukraine in the face of the Russian invasion. , in addition to sending a message in favor of denuclearization.
The Prime Minister of Japan, Fumio Kishida, has declared that the G7 leadersThey will discuss the imposition of new sanctions against Russia  at a virtual summit that they will hold this Friday. The leaders of the  Group of Seven will address the  uncertain situation in Ukraine , in which Russia seems to be preparing another offensive as the West offers more arms support to kyiv, the US government noted. Kishida at a press conference prior to the telematic meeting called by the Japanese rotating presidency  of the G7.
The telematic appointment will begin immediately. at 14:00 GMT, and comes after the G7 foreign and finance ministerial meetings held in recent days. The G7 foreign ministers have already demanded that third countries not offer military support to Russia and reiterated their intention to continue intensifying pressure measures against Moscow and supporting Kiev  It will take as long as it takes.
We are also going to discuss the imposition of new sanctions on Russia, said Kishida, pointing to the He also stated the intention of the G7 to urge third countries that are offering military support to Moscow to stop doing so. We will confirm our unity and talk about how to I will help Ukraine in the reconstruction, Kishida said about the meeting, in which in addition to the presidents of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Germany, he is also present. The participation of the Ukrainian president, Volodimir Zelenskiy, is expected.
