These are the 12 points that China proposes for a political solution to the war in Ukraine
20220521
https://thetimeshub.in/russian-forces-are-preparing-for-protracted-battles-in-southern-ukraine-experts/6392/
Support for the exchange of prisoners between Russia and Ukraine  and the cessation ofattacks on civilian facilities.
Theprotection of security of nuclear power plants and a full stop to armed attacks against nuclear power plants.
The cessation of unilateral sanctions for not solving the problems, and may even create new ones, according to Beijing, which has expressed its opposition to the sanctions against Moscow since the beginning of the war. .
 p The guarantee of the export of cereals, in which the United Nations must play an important role, according to the Ministry.
Aceasefire and a call for restraint to prevent the situation from getting out of control.
The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs has released a document explaining its stance for a political solutionto the crisis in Ukraine, summarized in twelve points:
The start of peace talks, given that dialogue and negotiation are the only viable way out to resolve the crisis, according to the Chinese government.
The protection of the stability of industrial and supply chains, which includes a request to all parties to oppose politicization and instrumentalization of the world economy.
Just a week before the war broke out, the presidents of China and Russia, Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin, were engaged in a relationship in Beijing. The friendship was without limits and  China has maintained an ambiguous position throughout the conflict, according to which it asks for respect or for Ukrainian territorial integrity while opposing sanctions on Moscow.
Abandonment of the cold war mentality and respect for The legitimate security concerns of the countries, something Beijing has reiterated since the invasion began, referring to  Russia .
The resolution of the humanitarian crisis, effectively protecting the safety of civilians and establishing humanitarian corridors for their evacuation from war zones.
The strategic risk reduction, which includes an emphasis that nuclear war should not and cannot be fought.
