CPAC straw poll DeSantis top choice for 2024 if Trump doesnt run
20220228
https://www.wtsp.com/article/news/politics/cpac-2022-conference-orlando-trump-disantis/67-e117dadb-714c-4059-a37d-aa57e76fe31c
RELATED: 'We are not going to back down': Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks at CPAC 2022
Trump offered Taylor Greene a particularly warm shoutout during his speech as he ticked down the Republican officials in attendance.
And while Trump's most controversial supporters were generally given lower-profile speaking slots over the four-day program, they were not excluded. Rep. Majorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., appeared on a Saturday morning panel hours after being featured at a conference of pro-Trump white nationalists.
South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem, considered a potential running mate for Trump in 2024, talked about the 2016 presidential election and the unsubstantiated allegations that Democrats in power spied on the Trump campaign. But she pivoted quickly to the future.
"Ive said Im not planning to run for president, Hawley said. He also declined to say whether he wants Trump to run again in 2024: I never give him advice, including on this.
Hawley also said it was a mistake for Republicans like Trump to offer soft praise for Putin: Putin is our enemy. Lets be clear about that."
I refuse to shut up, Taylor Greene said earlier in the day during a brief appearance as she railed against Democrat communists.
We did it twice, and well do it again, Trump said of running in 2024. Even so, he has teased about a 2024 campaign before and his vow this time was not necessarily ironclad.
As invading Russian troops battled with Ukrainian forces, Trump also described Russian President Vladimir Putin as smart.
Up until Trump's appearance, lies about election fraud  the focus of last years conference  had been an afterthought among the top speakers. No one parroted Trumps approving rhetoric toward Putin. And some leading Republicans didnt even mention Trumps name.
We have some fantastic fighters, like President Donald Trump. But hes not alone. The American people are on our side, Noem said.
In his keynote address Saturday night, Trump indicated he planned to run for president a third time, in 2024. He falsely blamed his 2020 election loss on widespread voter fraud, for which there is no evidence. And on Sunday, he was the overwhelming winner of a presidential preference straw poll of conference attendees.
Conference organizer Matt Schlapp said Trump remains a dominant force, but he does not have a lock on the party's base.
ORLANDO, Fla.  Leading Republicans spent much of three days avoiding Donald Trump's chief grievances or ignoring him altogether as they unified behind a midterm message designed to win back the voters the polarizing former president alienated while in office.
And in the straw poll of 2,574 conference attendees, Trump earned 59 followed by Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis with 28. No one else had more than 2.
It's essentially the same playbook that Virginias Republican Gov. Glenn Youngkin used last fall when he won in the swing state by avoiding Trump and his biggest grievances, including the false notion that the 2020 presidential election was plagued by mass voter fraud.
Democrats are clinging to paper-thin majorities in the House and Senate, and voter sentiment has swung in an ominous direction for them since President Joe Biden took office in January 2021. In an AP-NORC poll conducted Feb. 18-21, 70 of Americans said the country was headed in the wrong direction. As few as 44 said the same in April 2021.
Associated Press writers Jill Colvin in New York, Nick Riccardi in Denver and Emily Swanson in Washington contributed to this report.
Aside from Trump, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis was a crowd favorite throughout the four-day conference. Audience members applauded almost every time his name was mentioned or his picture appeared on big screens.
There are people that perhaps have never voted the same way any of you have in a presidential race and they're really angry, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio said Friday. And thats why I believe that for all the negative weve heard, the pendulum is swinging.
Missouri Sen. Josh Hawley, who tried to block the certification of Biden's electoral victory after the Jan. 6 Capitol attack, sidestepped a question about whether he would challenge Trump in a 2024 prospective matchup.
Trump's former secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, spoke about his work in the Trump administration, but he did not repeat his own recent flattering comments about Putin, in which he called the Russian leader very capable and said he has enormous respect for him.
Despite Trump's dominant place at the head of the Republican Party, other party leaders are increasingly optimistic they have found a forward-looking strategy to overcome pro-Trump extremism and expand the party's appeal with control of Congress at stake in November.
Of course hes smart, Trump said in his remarks Saturday, doubling down on praise of the Russian leader that many other Republicans have avoided after the invasion. But the real problem is our leaders are dumb. Dumb. So dumb.
While Trump expressed support for the Ukrainian people and called the countrys president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a brave man, he also noted his ties with other leading autocrats. He specifically pointed to his friendly relationships with Xi Jinping of China and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
DeSantis, who has also refused to rule out a 2024 presidential bid should Trump run, did not mention the former president in his 20-minute address, focusing instead on his resistance to mask and vaccine mandates.
Far from it  the former president was a frequent topic among some of the conference's lower-profile speakers. T-shirts proclaiming Trump won" were being sold in the hallways.
When asked for their preference should Trump not run in 2024, DeSantis earned 61 with no one else earning more than 6 of the vote. The straw poll only measured the opinion of those at the conference, not broader Republican sentiment.
No. 1 is, Does he run again? And its overwhelming that people want him to," Schlapp said. "But theres a diversity of opinion.
But by the end of the four-day Conservative Political Action Conference, Trump had reminded those who want to move on that he remains the most powerful voice in Republican politics.
Instead, those most likely to seek the GOP's 2024 presidential nomination not named Trump united behind an agenda that includes more parental control of schools, opposition to pandemic-related mandates and a fierce rejection of woke culture. The message from more than a half-dozen elected officials, delivered to thousands of mostly white activists at an event that usually celebrates far-right rhetoric, does not mean the party has turned its back on Trumpism.
