Russia Vetoes UNSC Resolution Deploring Ukraine Invasion China India Abstain
20220226
https://thewire.in/world/russia-vetoes-unsc-resolution-deploring-ukraine-invasion-china-abstains
The Council softened the language in its resolution to say it deplores Russias aggression against Ukraine from condemns, while a reference to Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, which deals with sanctions and authorisation of force, was removed along with a reference to the president.
United Nations: Russia vetoed a draft UN Security Council resolution on Friday that would have deplored Moscows invasion of Ukraine, while China abstained from the vote  a move Western countries view as a win for showing Russias international isolation.
The UN vote was delayed two hours for last minute negotiations by the United States and others to win the Chinese abstention, diplomats said. Russia is a UN Security Council veto power, along with the United States, China, France and Britain.
It is a matter of regret that the path of diplomacy was given up. We must return to it. For all these reasons India has chosen to abstain on this resolution, Indias U.N. Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti told the council.
Make no mistake. Russia is isolated. It has no support for the invasion of Ukraine, Britains UN Ambassador Barbara Woodward told the council after the vote.
We are united behind Ukraine and its people, despite a reckless, irresponsible permanent member of the Security Council abusing its power to attack its neighbour and subvert the UN and our international system, US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said after Russia cast its veto.
The United Arab Emirates and India also abstained from the vote on the US-drafted text. The remaining 11 council members voted in favour. The draft resolution is now expected to be taken up by the 193-member UN General Assembly.
The draft Security Council resolution demanded that Russia immediately cease its use of force against Ukraine and immediately, completely, and unconditionally withdraw all of its military forces from the territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders.
The draft also demanded that Russia reverse its recognition of two separatist states in eastern Ukraine as independent.
Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine as the UN Security Council met in New York late on Wednesday to try and defuse weeks of mounting tensions.
Chinas abstention comes just weeks after Beijing and Moscow declared a no limits partnership, backing each other over standoffs on Ukraine and Taiwan with a promise to collaborate more against the West.
