Russia says Black Sea incident was blatant provocation by Britain
20210623
https://www.cityam.com/russian-forces-fire-warning-shots-at-british-destroyer-off-coast-of-crimea-russian-state-media/
UK Defence Minister Ben Wallace has since denied claims from the Russian ministry that Britains ambassador had been summoned over the incident.
However, the UK Ministry of Defence has said that no warning shots were fired at HMS Defender.
The Royal Navy ship is conducting innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law.
However, we will not shy away from upholding international law and our rights on the sea.
We are not surprised by it, we plan for it and we take all steps to make sure we are not escalatory or indeed provocative.
A border patrol ship opened warning fire according to Russian official sources, before a Russian military airplane performed a warning bombing in the vicinity of the Defender.
We believe the Russians were undertaking a gunnery exercise in the Black Sea and provided the maritime community with prior-warning of their activity. No shots were directed at HMS Defender and we do not recognise the claim that bombs were dropped in her path.
Russia has claimed the waters since its invasion of Crimea in 2014, a territory it has since occupied to international disgust.
The warning shots came in the same week that a UK Government minister signed an agreement to bolster a defence partnership with Ukraine.
The UK does not recognise Russias control of Crimea, considering it a part of Ukraine.
The Ministry of Defence earlier hit back at a claim by Russias Defence Ministry that a British destroyer faced warning shots fired by Russian forces.
The Russian Defence Ministry had said the Royal Navys Defender crossed what it defines as the Russian sea border just off the Crimean coast.
The Russian Foreign Ministry has called the passage of a British warship in the Black Sea that was within earshot of fire fromRussian guns blatant provocation.
Wallaces comments came after Russian ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova told the media that Moscow would summon the British ambassador over the incident.
