Forum for Global Peace to hold online event on RussiaUkraine conflict
20220615
https://newsghana.com.gh/forum-for-global-peace-to-hold-online-event-on-russia-ukraine-conflict/
We are a coalition of persons, organizations and groups who have come together to add our voice to the calls for an end to the Russian  Ukraine conflict.
A press released signed by Bishop Dr. Frederick Akakpo, Rev. Dr. Daniel Nii Ayi okine and copied to News Ghana stated that the conflict between Russia and Ukraine unlike any other countries has the potential to escalate and spill over to other countries and continents causing hardship and bringing untold suffering and economic collapse since Russia is a key player in the global oil and natural gas markets and also both key players in huge exports of wheat and fertilizers.
Russia and Ukraine and also key players in huge exports of wheat and fertilizers. Already there are signs the war is having a toll on Europe and the rest of the World.
Theres an online exhibition of portraits of both leaders of Ukraine and Russia as part of the peace building efforts involving every global citizen.
The event is on 26th June and 3rd July online from Accra and will aim at drawing a huge global audience online for the project.
This is because Russia is a key player in the global oil and natural gas markets.
It is for this reason that well organize a Global Peace Summit with key speakers weve identified who can add their voices.
The Russian  Ukraine conflict, unlike any other conflict has the potential to escalate, spill over to other countries and continents, increase suffering and hardships and bring untold suffering and economic collapse.
The coalition for persons, organization and groups is to hold online forum on global peace to add their voices to the calls for an end to Russian  Ukrainian conflict.
The release also pin pointed that therell be online exhibitions of portraits of both leaders of Ukraine and Russia as part of the peace building efforts involving every global citizen.
The forum will be held online on 26th June and 3rd July in Accra and will aim at drawing a huge global audience online for the project.
