A happy little girlobliterated by Putin just minutes later Killed fouryearold Downs Syndrome child and mother fighting for life are seen moments before Russian missiles killed 21 in Ukrainian city
20220715
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4078523/posts
The pink pram that Liza had been filmed pushing an hour earlier was left lying on its side in the middle of the road, spattered in blood from wounds that the little girl tragically did not survive. Meanwhile Irina was rushed to hospital in critical condition, where she is now battling for her life.
Liza Dmitrieva was accompanying mother Irina on a day out in the city of Vinnystya - in western Ukraine, hundreds of miles from the nearest frontline - when a Russian Kalibre missile launched from a submarine in the Black Sea crashed down on top of them around 10.50am local time. The pink pram that Liza had been filmed pushing an hour earlier was left lying on its side in the middle of the road, spattered in blood from wounds that the little girl tragically did not survive. Meanwhile Irina was rushed to hospital in critical condition, where she is now battling for her life.
In March 2022, 24 civilians were killed when the Ukrainians bombed the center of Donetsk. War is hell. Zelenskyy needs to get to the bargaining table while he still has a country to govern.
It's always the innocent who suffer because of the machinations of ahols, and the VAST majority of those who spend their lives seeking any kind of political power are ahols. It's just a sad fact.
Biden: The war will last as long as it takes to prop up the New Liberal Order that will cover for biolabs and sex trafficking in Ukraine
Why would he? The Ukrainians have fought the Russians to a standstill and hes getting tens of millions in aid every month. Some standstill. He's taken a good part of the Eastern part of Ukraine. He's killing thousands of Ukrainian soldiers every day to the 100s he is losing.
After eight years of Donbasss ethnic Russians in the being shelled, and attacks of every kind from the West, Ukraine is dreaming that it can force Russia to the negotiating table. The Russians have set their goals, which are disarming and denazifying the country. There will be no stop till they feel those goals have been accomplished. If that means taking and retaining territory, thats what will happen, no matter how loudly Ukraine screams. Ukraine, blessed with abundant resources and an industrial base courtesy of the USSR, has had 22 years to fashion themselves into a credible country. They botched it completely
A four-year-old girl with Down's Syndrome has become the latest innocent victim of Putin's war in Ukraine after she was killed in her pram by a Russian cruise missile which also left her mother fighting for life. Liza Dmitrieva was accompanying mother Irina on a day out in the city of Vinnystya - in western Ukraine, hundreds of miles from the nearest frontline - when a Russian Kalibre missile launched from a submarine in the Black Sea crashed down on top of them around 10.50am local time. The pink pram that Liza had been filmed pushing an hour earlier was left lying on its side in the middle of the road, spattered in blood from wounds that the little girl tragically did not survive. Meanwhile Irina was rushed to hospital in critical condition, where she is now battling for her life.
KEYWORDS: 1morecaptoveurthread areyounotentertained azovstooges bidenbrownnosers bidenstooges cuffingthewarcarrot dembotbrownnosers demstooges drinkthepunytears feelthepunyanger germanstoogesforuke germanstoogesforzel gettinyerwarjollies himarsisukrainesv2 himarsterror himarsterrorweapon joesbrownnosers likesgladiatormovies littlegirlnazis marcusmallninja marcusmallrat marcusmaxitroll martyrstozelensky maximumshametroll maximumtrolling maxipropagandarausch mucusmaximum mustbeanazi naziswithdowns nuclearpunyanger orcs punyneoconanger putinkillskittens putinkillspuppies putinsbrownnosers putinstooges sacrificedformoney selfishzelensky sorosbrownnosers sorosstooges surrenderzelensky swillstewart tearsofthepunyneocon tongueputiespootie ukrainefappinthread ukrainetrollsonfr unnecessary victimsofnwo vinnytsya warfap warjollies willstewart zelenskysfault zelenskystooges zelenskyystooges zottherussiantrolls zzelenskyy
Zelenskyy needs to get to the bargaining table while he still has a country to govern.
Moscow recognized the independence of the Donetsk and Lugansk Peoples Republics in the Donbass region shortly before the military operation in Ukraine was launched in late February. Crimea, which was also once part of Ukraine, voted to join Russia in a referendum in 2014 after the Maidan coup in Kiev led to the overthrow of the democratically elected government.
Why would he? The Ukrainians have fought the Russians to a standstill and hes getting tens of millions in aid every month.
Ukraine will not agree to any territorial concessions as part of a peace agreement with Russia, its Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba told journalists on Wednesday. Talks between Moscow and Kiev have been in a deadlock since March.
The objective of Ukraine in this war... is to liberate our territories, restore our territorial integrity, and full sovereignty in the east and south of Ukraine, Kuleba said, as reported by Reuters. This is the end point of our negotiating position.
