ANALYST Russia has a moral imperative to neutralize Ukraines weapons systems that allowed NATO to threaten Russia with bioweapons
20220502
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4059568/posts
You will be hard-pressed to find what you are about to read anywhere in the establishment Western media, but Russias invasion of Ukraine had to be done in order to stop the worlds bioterrorists from continuing to wage war on humanity from proxy locations throughout the Eastern European country, point out analysts from State of the Nation. Russian President Vladimir Putin reportedly had no choice, morally speaking, other than to engage Operation Azovstal, a special military operation that aims to protect not only Russia but the innocent people of Ukraine, not to mention all other sovereign countries, from the clutches of the global biowar against humanity that was being pursued in illegal Ukrainian labs. And leading this biowar, perhaps unsurprisingly, are the United States and NATO.Russia was forced to launch its special military operation in Ukraine to terminate the raging biowar waged by the US-UK-NATO-UKRAINE bioterrorist group  from its secret underground operational headquarters located at the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol, Ukraine  against the people of Donbass and western Russia, reports State of the Nation.In other words, the bad guy in all this is not Russia, as the Western media and government structures claim. It is the United States and the Pentagon, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Volodymyr Zelenskyy. These bioterrorist monsters have been cooking up bioweapons under the cover of darkness throughout Ukraine, and are now being exposed by Russias military operations. To date, the Russian military has shut down 30 plus bioweapon laboratories across the Ukraine, State of the Nation adds. However, the main bioweapon lab being systematically used to carry out future bioterrorist operations in Donbass and western Russia is strategically located in Mariupol at the massive Azovstal complex.Ukraine is exploiting innocent citizens as human shieldsMariupol, it just so happens, is located about 40 miles from the Russian border. This is why Azovstal was selected to house one of the largest bioweapons laboratories in the world: because not only is it located right in Donbass, but Azovstal is also the closest biolab from which to launch bio-attacks against Russia. Related: We now have proof showing that the Pentagon was, in fact, planning to use Ukrainian biolabs to attack Russia.Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
Meanwhile Russia and China have extensive biowarfare labs, and Fauci funded research in both China and Russia.
A society grows great when old men plant trees, in whose shade they know they will never sit.
The Bioweapons Labs are U.S. funded and operated. One of them was even named after the slimeball Senator Richard Lugar. This article has merit. What is propaganda is what we see on our own TV sets. Lets just see what unfolds.
...the raging biowar waged by the US-UK-NATO-UKRAINE bioterrorist group  from its secret underground operational headquarters located at the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol, Ukraine  against the people of Donbass and western Russia...
If anyone thinks Russia invaded Ukraine over some biolabs, which was not even among the top 10 reasons given By Putin, they have all their screws loose.
No evidence. But the corrupt Biden Pelosi Kerry Romney sons and the Klaus Schwab WEF early reset schemes...etc., make the concept tatantalizing. Truth is, it is very difficult to know what is true anymore. This is a time of great deception on all fronts.
Pick your propaganda, my friend it's ours or theirs.  Your only other option is to wait about 25 years for all of it to be declassified and made public through a FOIA request.
If all the world is a stage, I would like to request my lighting be adjusted.
So we are to believe Neo Soviet and Chicom propaganda? Pick your propaganda, my friend it's ours or theirs.  Your only other option is to wait about 25 years for all of it to be declassified and made public through a FOIA request.
I dont trust Fauci and I dont trust the CIA. But those guys are amateur liars when compared to the ChiComs.
"If you think tough men are dangerous, wait until you see what weak men are capable of."- J Peterson
The underground network beneath the plant was built by the Soviets so who knows what kind of facilities were in there?
I trust so little of what I read that I might as well know nothing at all. Very discouraging in the age of information.
Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
ANALYST: Russia has a moral imperative to neutralize Ukraines weapons systems that allowed NATO to threaten Russia with bioweapons
Russian President Vladimir Putin reportedly had no choice, morally speaking, other than to engage Operation Azovstal, a special military operation that aims to protect not only Russia but the innocent people of Ukraine, not to mention all other sovereign countries, from the clutches of the global biowar against humanity that was being pursued in illegal Ukrainian labs. And leading this biowar, perhaps unsurprisingly, are the United States and NATO.Russia was forced to launch its special military operation in Ukraine to terminate the raging biowar waged by the US-UK-NATO-UKRAINE bioterrorist group  from its secret underground operational headquarters located at the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol, Ukraine  against the people of Donbass and western Russia, reports State of the Nation.In other words, the bad guy in all this is not Russia, as the Western media and government structures claim. It is the United States and the Pentagon, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Volodymyr Zelenskyy. These bioterrorist monsters have been cooking up bioweapons under the cover of darkness throughout Ukraine, and are now being exposed by Russias military operations. To date, the Russian military has shut down 30 plus bioweapon laboratories across the Ukraine, State of the Nation adds. However, the main bioweapon lab being systematically used to carry out future bioterrorist operations in Donbass and western Russia is strategically located in Mariupol at the massive Azovstal complex.Ukraine is exploiting innocent citizens as human shieldsMariupol, it just so happens, is located about 40 miles from the Russian border. This is why Azovstal was selected to house one of the largest bioweapons laboratories in the world: because not only is it located right in Donbass, but Azovstal is also the closest biolab from which to launch bio-attacks against Russia. Related: We now have proof showing that the Pentagon was, in fact, planning to use Ukrainian biolabs to attack Russia.Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
KEYWORDS: allpraiseputinamen allpraisexijinping ccplies chechens chechnya chicoms china clickbait4qtards communism fakenews heilputlerfanclub isaidbudlight kremlinpropaganda moldova moskva nyuknyuknyuk odesa odessa putinacommie putinfanclub putinisthemessiah putinpuffersonparade putinsbuttboys putinworshippers qtardfantasy russia russianaggression soviets sovietunion transnistria ukraine vatnik xifanclub xisbuttboys yousankmybattleship zottherussiantrolls
More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
They also said that Covid was brought into China by an American soldier who was visiting Wuhan. That silly story didnt fly, so I guess theyre going to try to blame the CIA now. Maybe theyll try to blame Melania Trump next.
The rumor of bio weapons at the Azovstal plant have been around for several months now. No confirmation that any of it is true.
They might have used similar technology to do advanced biochemical research, as biological medicine is a big and profitable business.
Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
Its breathtaking that this level of garbage has taken hold in some sectors. Tokyo Rose and Hanoi Jane applaud this anti-American nonsense.
To date, the Russian military has shut down 30 plus bioweapon laboratories across the Ukraine, State of the Nation adds. However, the main bioweapon lab being systematically used to carry out future bioterrorist operations in Donbass and western Russia is strategically located in Mariupol at the massive Azovstal complex.Ukraine is exploiting innocent citizens as human shieldsMariupol, it just so happens, is located about 40 miles from the Russian border. This is why Azovstal was selected to house one of the largest bioweapons laboratories in the world: because not only is it located right in Donbass, but Azovstal is also the closest biolab from which to launch bio-attacks against Russia. Related: We now have proof showing that the Pentagon was, in fact, planning to use Ukrainian biolabs to attack Russia.Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
Chinese media says that the CIA planted Covid 19 in Wuhan, using the lab wet market as cover. According to the Chinese, Covid 19 came from a Ukranian lab.
The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
Liberty resides in three boxes: the ballot box, the jury box and the cartridge box--Fredrick Douglas
Your only other option is to wait about 25 years for all of it to be declassified and made public through a FOIA request.
Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
Russia was forced to launch its special military operation in Ukraine to terminate the raging biowar waged by the US-UK-NATO-UKRAINE bioterrorist group  from its secret underground operational headquarters located at the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol, Ukraine  against the people of Donbass and western Russia, reports State of the Nation.In other words, the bad guy in all this is not Russia, as the Western media and government structures claim. It is the United States and the Pentagon, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Volodymyr Zelenskyy. These bioterrorist monsters have been cooking up bioweapons under the cover of darkness throughout Ukraine, and are now being exposed by Russias military operations. To date, the Russian military has shut down 30 plus bioweapon laboratories across the Ukraine, State of the Nation adds. However, the main bioweapon lab being systematically used to carry out future bioterrorist operations in Donbass and western Russia is strategically located in Mariupol at the massive Azovstal complex.Ukraine is exploiting innocent citizens as human shieldsMariupol, it just so happens, is located about 40 miles from the Russian border. This is why Azovstal was selected to house one of the largest bioweapons laboratories in the world: because not only is it located right in Donbass, but Azovstal is also the closest biolab from which to launch bio-attacks against Russia. Related: We now have proof showing that the Pentagon was, in fact, planning to use Ukrainian biolabs to attack Russia.Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
In other words, the bad guy in all this is not Russia, as the Western media and government structures claim. It is the United States and the Pentagon, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Volodymyr Zelenskyy. These bioterrorist monsters have been cooking up bioweapons under the cover of darkness throughout Ukraine, and are now being exposed by Russias military operations. To date, the Russian military has shut down 30 plus bioweapon laboratories across the Ukraine, State of the Nation adds. However, the main bioweapon lab being systematically used to carry out future bioterrorist operations in Donbass and western Russia is strategically located in Mariupol at the massive Azovstal complex.Ukraine is exploiting innocent citizens as human shieldsMariupol, it just so happens, is located about 40 miles from the Russian border. This is why Azovstal was selected to house one of the largest bioweapons laboratories in the world: because not only is it located right in Donbass, but Azovstal is also the closest biolab from which to launch bio-attacks against Russia. Related: We now have proof showing that the Pentagon was, in fact, planning to use Ukrainian biolabs to attack Russia.Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
 Chinese media says that the CIA planted Covid 19 in Wuhan, using the lab wet market as cover. 
China is using the Ukraine biolabs propaganda for their own uses, to blame America and NATO for Covid 19. And yes they still say the CIA and American military planted it. Its Chicom and Neo Soviet BS though.
Mariupol, it just so happens, is located about 40 miles from the Russian border. This is why Azovstal was selected to house one of the largest bioweapons laboratories in the world: because not only is it located right in Donbass, but Azovstal is also the closest biolab from which to launch bio-attacks against Russia. Related: We now have proof showing that the Pentagon was, in fact, planning to use Ukrainian biolabs to attack Russia.Russia has reportedly been trying to protect the innocent human life that Ukraine and its Western allies are now using a human shields to try to stop Russia from putting an end to the biolabs operations. This is why Russia is so determined not to blow up Avozstal or even neutralize the 1000 plus Azov Nazis holed up there behind human shields  innocent Ukrainian citizens, State of the Nation further explains.The women and children, in particular, were likely forced into the sprawling Azovstal plant as a defensive stratagem against an all-out Russian attack. But its the US and NATO military leaders, Western intel agents, AFU officers and Ukraine soldiers skulked in Azovstal that Russia really wants and is willing to protect, especially those who are privy to the bioterrorist operations.Putin has known for a while now exactly what these Azovstal biolabs were doing under the cover of darkness. He has been trying to preserve as much evidence as possible so that when the time is right, he can present it to the world to show everyone that the true culprits in global bioterrorism are the US, the UK, the EU, and NATO.This is precisely why the Azov Nazis were given such free rein to terrorize the citizens of Mariupol. They were acting on orders from their NATO command, Pentagon masters and CIA overlords to exert absolute control over the Azovstal bioterror crime scene.Isnt that why these hardcore Neo-Nazis are called the Azov Regiment and Azov Battalion as in Azovstal? These battle-hardened mercenaries were put there to provide brutal defensive and protective services for the Zio-Anglo-American bioterrorist operations.Russia decided it had no choice other than to put a stop to this slow-motion genocide, which would have eventually spread beyond Donbass into Russia. He had to nip this thing in the bud before a global genocide ensued, which appears to have been what was attempted with the Wuhan coronavirus COVID-19 plandemic.The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
The powers that be in the West clearly have future plandemics already lined up and waiting to be executed, though Putins invasion could be the thing that stops them before they get the chance to launch.The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did. Ukraine is right on the doorstep of western Russia and most of Russias most populous cities, so at the very least Putin is doing what is necessary to protect his own people, which is far more than Americas leadership would ever bother to do for Americans.More of the latest news about the conflict between Russia and the US  NATO can be found at WWIII.news.
The bottom line is that according to analysts, Putin reportedly had a moral obligation to intervene, and that is exactly what he did.
