Another Russian colonel killed in Ukraine invasion Reports
20220410
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4053936/posts
These guys lead from the front unlike our purfumed princes. Well that would be stupid.
A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes
Russian forces destroy Dnipro airport as large military convoy moves toward east Ukraine  DW News
At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
I feel sorry for the Russian war dead too..excluding those guilty of war crimes. Its not their war. They didnt ask for it. They have been sent there as cannon fodder. There is only one individual driving this whole atrocity since day 1.
Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
In any war between the civilized man and the savage, support the civilized man. Suppo
Russia focuses on Donbas liberation Sure, like the "liberated" city of Kherson, where the Ukrainian people told the Russian soldiers to gtfo. Ukrainians in Kherson rally against Russian forces after city's seizure.
"ALWAYS BELIEVE OUR INTEL AGENCIES!" The Heroes of Iraq and Afghanistan!They would NEVER lie to us! Never!
Russian Colonel Alexander Bespalov, the commander of the 59th Guards Tank Regiment part of the 144th Guards Motorized Rifle Division
If someone of Milleys calibre was killed on the frontline, the enemy would be doing us a help.
Several top Russian military officials have been killed in combat since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
... Several top Russian military officials have been killed in combat since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
Bespalov was the commander of the 59th Guards Tank Regiment and part of the 144th Guards Motorized Rifle Division, according to Visegard 24. ... Several top Russian military officials have been killed in combat since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
KEYWORDS: 10percentforjoe bespalov chechens chechnya donbas invasion kyiv letsgobrandon mccainswar putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression teamsoros ukraine zottherussiantrolls
Russian Col. Alexander Bespalov was killed during fighting in Ukraine and buried in Ozersk, ... Bespalov was the commander of the 59th Guards Tank Regiment and part of the 144th Guards Motorized Rifle Division, according to Visegard 24. ... Several top Russian military officials have been killed in combat since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
In a survey in JuneJuly 2017, 63 of residents said that they spoke Russian at home, 9 spoke Ukrainian, and 25 spoke Ukrainian and Russian equally.
... Bespalov was the commander of the 59th Guards Tank Regiment and part of the 144th Guards Motorized Rifle Division, according to Visegard 24. ... Several top Russian military officials have been killed in combat since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
Russia lost a colonel, yet another death of a high-ranking military official roughly six weeks into Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Russian Col. Alexander Bespalov was killed during fighting in Ukraine and buried in Ozersk, ... Bespalov was the commander of the 59th Guards Tank Regiment and part of the 144th Guards Motorized Rifle Division, according to Visegard 24. ... Several top Russian military officials have been killed in combat since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. At least seven generals have died in the conflict to snipers, close combat, and bombings, according to a March 26 report from the Washington Post. Col. Denis Kurilo was killed during fighting near Kharkiv on March 29, according to Ukrainian officials. More than 18,000 Russian soldiers have been killed during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to Ukrainian armed forces. This includes the destruction of 147 aircraft, 134 helicopters, 657 tanks, and thousands of other vehicles. Russia has been less vocal about its casualties, though its intermittent estimates are much lower than Western figures, and Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov recently admitted "significant" losses of troops in Ukraine. At least 14,000 Ukrainian troops have been killed, Moscow claimed in late March. Russian President Vladimir Putin is reportedly asking Gen. Aleksander Dvornikov, the so-called "Butcher of Syria," to help reinvigorate the Russian offensive in Ukraine after a series of setbacks. Dvornikov has been tasked with conquering the eastern region of Donbas and is allegedly connected to the strike on Kramatorsk railway station that killed over 52 civilians and wounded over 300. ... Russia has ended its ground assault on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv and is turning its focus to capturing Donbas, according to senior U.S. defense officials.
