Attack On Europe Documenting Equipment Losses During The 2022 Russian Invasion Of Ukraine 23APR2022
20220423
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4057308/posts
On April 22, 2022, the Armed Forces of Ukraine struck a devastating blow at the forward command post of the 49th All-Military Army of the Russian Occupation Troops, which, contrary to combat instructions and common sense, was located a short distance from the battle line in Kherson region.
Was that when they were reporting on other wars  skirmishes before this one came along? Got some kind of links to back up your assertion?
A detailed list of the destroyed and captured vehicles and equipment of both sides can be seen below. This list is constantly updated as additional footage becomes available.
Military intelligence: 2 Russian generals killed near Kherson. According to Defense Ministrys Intelligence Directorate, the military hit a Russian command post near occupied regional capital Kherson, allegedly killing two Russian generals and wounding one.
In terms of tanks, we didnt give any to the Afghans so zero US tanks were lost.
In other news, the Russians lost 2-3 more generals and the entire Kherson area 500 person command staff in the same strike. Oh alas and alack. Woe and much rending skin and pulling of hair
BREAKING: Ukrainian presidential advisor Aleksey Arestovich reported that Ukraines defense forces destroyed the Russian command post in the Kherson region, in which there were about 50 military officers.
Just out of curiosity, no point to be made here. How do the numbers compare to what we left in Afganistan?
Dont forget certain strategic buildings in Russia burning down. And oligarchs and their families turning up messily dead.
but, but, but, this is all part of the plan, trust the plan! and nazis!
The Afghan army did have some old Soviet tanks from the 1970s that the Taliban now how, but we are seeing in Ukraine how useful vintage Soviet tank are.
Turkey has closed its airspace to Russian civilian and military aircraft that transports soldiers to Syria after notifying Moscow: Turkish Foreign Minister via TRT
