Attack On Europe Documenting Russian Equipment Losses During The 2022 Russian Invasion Of Ukraine
20220824
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4087927/posts
The only solution is to restart coal fired power plants. But no one is moving in that direction.
Ukraine NG producers shut down they are too close to the front  the company is a corrupt monopoly. Ukraine will definitely not have enough NG for the winter.
A $75-million superyacht linked to a sanctioned Russian steel billionaire was auctioned on Tuesday in Gibraltar, court sources said, in what is understood to be the first sale of its kind since Russia invaded Ukraine in February.
The Soviet monument in Riga from 1985, glorifying the Red Army, is finally coming down. The main statue fell this morning at 9 am. 19 aggressive Russians protesting the removal of the monument, put up by the occupiers, were arrested by Latvian police.
Russian grain exports were only 6 Mt for July and the August numbers so far are at 2017 levels.
This list only includes destroyed vehicles and equipment of which photo or videographic evidence is available. Therefore, the amount of equipment destroyed is significantly higher than recorded here. Small arms, ATGMs, MANPADS, loitering munitions, drones used as unmanned bait, civilian vehicles, trailers and derelict equipment are not included in this list. All possible effort has gone into avoiding duplicate entries and discerning the status of equipment between captured or abandoned. Many of the entries listed as 'abandoned' will likely end up captured or destroyed. Similarly, some of the captured equipment might be destroyed if it can't be recovered. When the origin of a piece of equipment can't be established, it is not included in the list. The Soviet flag is used when the equipment in question was produced prior to 1991. This list is constantly updated as additional footage becomes available.
The Ukrainian Operational Command North claimed the destruction of an unknown Russian armoured vehicle Possibly a BMP or BTR in Donetsk Oblast.
The prime minister of Japan said Wednesday that his country would restart more idled nuclear power plants and look into the feasibility of developing next-gen reactors.
According to Rogov, an explosive device was placed under the seat of the car. Sushko was taken to the hospital where he died soon after.
Russian collaborator killed by car bomb in Zaporizhzhia. Russian collaborator Ivan Sushko, the Russian-appointed head of the occupied village of Mykhailivka in Zaporizhzhia Oblast, was killed by a car bomb on Aug. 24, Russian collaborator Vladimir Rogov wrote on Telegram.
UA has retreated from the salient. Snihurivka captured. They increased their Crimea buffer. The objective is Mykolaiv to the west and later Kryvyi Rih to the north, but that attack has not happened yet.
Whole point of attacks here is to destroy UA defenses in Vugledar - Velyka Novosilka area.
Fertilizer plants from UK to Poland shutting down because energy prices are too high. Food supply for next year under real threat. Expensive energy  no fertilizer. No fertilizer  no food. No food  starvation and social chaos.
The combinations of high NG prices, high electrical prices, low grain supplies could all come together this winter. Unless misguided policies change.
Russian agents who broke into a Albanian military ammo dump have been charged with espionage
Numbered printed material below - Some of the items below may be out of date, and not updated yet
The way ZZpeedy comments unsolicited to you every morning is very romantic. Does ZZpeedy get up before you and do his postmany comments while you cook breakfast for him?
Thought you people would appreciate this. At a recruiting event for the special military operation
Reznikov said that the Belarusian minister said he was conveying a message from Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, who demanded that Ukraine sign an act of capitulation. I am ready to accept the capitulation from the Russian side, Reznikov said he answered.
Most of the Russian groups that fought east of Kyiv have returned to the front: the 31st AB is back, believed to be somewhere west of Donetsk in the SE corner.
Washington Post: On Feb. 24, Russia asked Ukraine to surrender, Reznikov responded he is ready to accept capitulation from Russia. According to Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov, he received a call from his Belarusian counterpart, Viktor Khrenin.
Artillery key to success in this war, Fuller explanation of Orc military structure, Other Bonus articles - see previous postings in Attack on Europe FR title search.
Russia is generally using up its oldest and least strategic equipment, while were depleting our stores of advanced weaponry.
US NG prices dropped because a Texas LNG plant exporting LNG to Europe caught fire. So that production has to go somewhere. Until around November, when the problems will be fixed. There is a lot of financial pressure to export to Europe because of the extreme high price there. Even the Asian NG producers are exporting to Europe because there is a lot of profit to be had with Europe as the highest bidder.
Orc is associated with the various hoards of 13th century Mongol invaders, as well as LOTR evil villains
Two Russian Tigr-M IMV were hit by Ukrainian fire in the East- some damage is likely but the extent is unclear.
More to the point, the US aid given is not of the sort that is strategically significant to the US. The US depends mainly on its air force and navy. Army munitions have little relevance to the US as the US has no need or intention to engage in massive continental ground wars.
Most of US aid so far is hardly advanced. The bulk of the US commitment so far is thousands of tons of 155mm artillery shells. And this goes also for the vast bulk of Euro aid.
Side effect of the drought in Europe is some nuclear power plants in France had to shut down because there was not enough water to cool them. Electrical prices go up further as a result. This helps kill industries.
Meanwhile, the Russians are trying to disconnect the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant and its 6 reactors from the Ukraine power grid and connect it to theRussian grid. Electrical capacity now has some to spare, but the situation will become dire in the winter.
Looks more and more like Russian command has decided to northern-southern pincer. Still have to capture Donbas region. Their strategic objective here.
Colonel of the Central Security Service of the SBU, cyborg Roman Kostenko and his seven silent trophies also congratulate Ukrainians on the holiday
Id suggest these two mendacious misfits get a room but they are probably sharing one right now.
