Biden calls to put Putin on trial for war crimes over Russias actions in Ukraine
20220404
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4052230/posts
Playing Make Believe is for liberal adultschildren.  It is past  time to grow up!
You're such gullible fool or blatant liar, Speedster: https:www.moonofalabama.org202204the-bucha-provocation.htmlmore I had yesterday, at 15:09 UTC, posted a timeline of the events in Bucha on Twitter. Here is an expanded version. Mar 30 - Ru troops leave Bucha Mar 31 - Mayor of Bucha announces town 'liberated', makes no mention of atrocities. Bucha liberated from Russian invaders  mayor - Ukrinform The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Speedy, do you believe that Biden, a thief, has the moral authority to suggest that anyone else is a criminal?
Of more immediate urgency is putting the whole elected congress and senate and their leaders on trial for treason in not protecting the United States borders from the ongoing invasion of illegals into our country. They are sworn to protect America and are refusing to do so. Mitch McConnell and Nancy Pelosi are accountable for allowing America to be invaded by millions of illegals from around the world. The communist democrat party and the RINO infested Republican party are participating in the destruction of this Republic. The priority for all of American leadership is to stop the paid for invasion of our country. Foreign wars will continue as they always have with or without American participation.
He is a war criminal, Biden said of Putin, on the heels of reports of mass killings of civilians by Russian troops in the town of Bucha, northwest of Ukraines capital of Kyiv. This guy is brutal, Biden said. He should be held accountable.
Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
President Joe Biden said Monday that evidence needs to be gathered to put Russian leader Vladimir Putin on trial for war crimes related to his nations invasion of Ukraine. He is a war criminal, Biden said of Putin, on the heels of reports of mass killings of civilians by Russian troops in the town of Bucha, northwest of Ukraines capital of Kyiv. This guy is brutal, Biden said. He should be held accountable.
Pointless posturing. war criminal is what winners get to call losers. So far Putin hasnt lost. Hopefully he will, someday soon. Until then it is all just talk.
The director of the FSB is appointed by and directly answerable to the president of Russia.1
Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Biden calls to put Putin on trial for war crimes over Russias actions in Ukraine!
A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Bucha liberated from Russian invaders  mayor - Ukrinform The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Biden is unwise. The least bad thing to do is offer Putin a personal amnesty if he will resign as President of Russia.
"March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
It will be very interesting re how Putin responds to this in public and in private to Brandons enemies in America and around the world.
Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Mar 30 - Ru troops leave Bucha Mar 31 - Mayor of Bucha announces town 'liberated', makes no mention of atrocities. Bucha liberated from Russian invaders  mayor - Ukrinform The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
The Mylai massacre occurred when LBJ was President. Was he ever put on trial for war crimes?
LOL. You have to actually beat a foreign leader in a war before you can go that route, Joe.
It may be time for Brandon, Hunter, Jill and the other Biddung criminal family members to run and hide where they can buy sanctuary!
Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
2020:  The year of unreported truths 2021: My main take away from this year? Trust no one.
The Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation FSB RF Russian:       , tr. Federalnaya sluzhba bezopasnosti Rossiyskoy Federatsii, IPA: fdralnj slub bzpasnst rsijskj fdrats is the principal security agency of Russia and the main successor agency to the Soviet Unions KGB.
"The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Mar 31 - Mayor of Bucha announces town 'liberated', makes no mention of atrocities. Bucha liberated from Russian invaders  mayor - Ukrinform The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Its primary responsibilities are within the country and include counter-intelligence, internal and border security, counter-terrorism, and surveillance as well as investigating some other types of serious crimes and federal law violations. It is headquartered in Lubyanka Square, Moscows center, in the main building of the former KGB. According to the 1995 Federal Law On the Federal Security Service,
The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Biden has no room to talk. He is also a criminal. He also wants Trump tried and punished.
Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
The three major structural successor components of the former KGB that remain administratively independent of the FSB are the Foreign Intelligence Service SVR, the Federal Protective Service FSO, and the Main Directorate of Special Programs of the President of the Russian Federation GUSP.
I had yesterday, at 15:09 UTC, posted a timeline of the events in Bucha on Twitter. Here is an expanded version. Mar 30 - Ru troops leave Bucha Mar 31 - Mayor of Bucha announces town 'liberated', makes no mention of atrocities. Bucha liberated from Russian invaders  mayor - Ukrinform The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
Maybe they should put biden, obumber and bush on trial for war crimes. They are every bit as guilty as putin.
https:www.moonofalabama.org202204the-bucha-provocation.htmlmore I had yesterday, at 15:09 UTC, posted a timeline of the events in Bucha on Twitter. Here is an expanded version. Mar 30 - Ru troops leave Bucha Mar 31 - Mayor of Bucha announces town 'liberated', makes no mention of atrocities. Bucha liberated from Russian invaders  mayor - Ukrinform The mayor of Bucha in Kyiv region, Anatoliy Fedoruk, stated that the town had been liberated from Russian troops. Fedoruk said this in his video address posted on Facebook, Ukrinform reports. "March 31 will go down in the history of our Bucha community as the Day of Liberation. ..." Apr 12 - Azov Nazis enter Bucha Scenes of desperation and death as the Russians retreat from suburbs outside Kyiv. - New York Times Ukrainian soldiers from the Azov battalion walked through the remnants of a Russian military convoy in the recently liberated town of Bucha on Saturday, just outside the capital after the Russians withdrew. Apr 3 - Ukr MinDef publishes video of 'Russian' atrocities Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine. - New York Times, Apr 3 Footage posted by Ukraines Defense Ministry and photographs from news agencies showed the bodies of men in civilian clothes on the streets of Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv. Images showed some corpses with hands bound behind their back. A screenshot of the original NYT piece was attached to my tweet. It included the sentence: "The New York Times was unable to independently verify the assertions by Ukraine's Defense Ministry and other officials." The above tweet went viral with more than 3,000 retweets and nearly 5,000 likes. People obviously recognize the importance of the above timeline for the question of who killed whom, when and how. Gonzalo Lira, who is in Karkiv, has previously directed a professionally made movie. In this video he asserts that the main 'Russian' atrocity video, which shows cars driving down a street strewn with dead bodies, is of a professional high production quality that can only be achieved with high end equipment. He also remarks on additional evidence from the scenes that points to a false flag operation.
The immediate predecessor of the FSB was the Federal Counterintelligence Service FSK of Russia, itself a successor to the KGB: on 3 April 1995, Russian president Boris Yeltsin signed a law mandating a reorganization of the FSK, which resulted in the creation of the FSB. In 2003, the FSBs responsibilities were widened by incorporating the previously independent Border Guard Service and a major part of the abolished Federal Agency of Government Communication and Information FAPSI.
Hunters laptop and its contents will be or is now the first action by Putin and his FSS which replaced the FSB which replaced the KGB.
KEYWORDS: azovmassacre bucha buchamassacre chickenhawks einsatzgruppen falseflag mccainsminions natomeannwo nazimassacre soros stuckwithstupid ukeeinsatzgruppen ukronazis warpigs
