Boris Johnson warns it would be a disaster for the world if Russia invades Ukraine as nations president slaps down Biden for greenlighting an attack with minor incursion gaffe
20220121
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4031316/posts
The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
Somebody needs to grab these dorks at the throat and make them understand that they are messing with a nuclear power.
Biden, speaking at a White House press conference yesterday where Russia came up repeatedly, had said: 'It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. 'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
...so whatever he says is instantly discounted. Anyone who ever had a positive thought about Trump is either a madman or a white supremacist, according to the prevailing narrative. Orwell would understand.
It almost looks like in the first picture the Russian vehicles are lined up to spell FJBNow that would be hillarious.
I said a year ago that a war would be started to divert our attention from Bidens plans.
Zelensky denounced Biden for 'green-lighting' an attack on the country with the remarks, warning that there was no such as thing as a 'minor incursion'. 'We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones,' Zelensky wrote on Twitter. Biden, speaking at a White House press conference yesterday where Russia came up repeatedly, had said: 'It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. 'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
Boris Johnson better realize that a few warheads hit England, there might not be much left to inhabit. Yep, I watched "Threads", I know how it turns out.
Boris Johnson today warned it would be a 'disaster for the world' if Russia invades Ukraine as the nation's president slapped down Joe Biden for 'green-lighting' an attack with his 'minor incursion' gaffe. The UK Prime Minister said 'any kind of incursion, on any scale' would be 'a disaster not just for Ukraine but for Russia' as NATO allies try to dissuade Vladimir Putin from launching an attack the Pentagon warns is 'imminent'. Johnson's remark came after Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky slapped down the US president after he appeared to suggest that a 'minor incursion' by Moscow might elicit a lesser response than a full-scale invasion. Zelensky denounced Biden for 'green-lighting' an attack on the country with the remarks, warning that there was no such as thing as a 'minor incursion'. 'We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones,' Zelensky wrote on Twitter. Biden, speaking at a White House press conference yesterday where Russia came up repeatedly, had said: 'It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. 'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
'We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones,' Zelensky wrote on Twitter. Biden, speaking at a White House press conference yesterday where Russia came up repeatedly, had said: 'It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. 'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
Johnson's remark came after Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky slapped down the US president after he appeared to suggest that a 'minor incursion' by Moscow might elicit a lesser response than a full-scale invasion. Zelensky denounced Biden for 'green-lighting' an attack on the country with the remarks, warning that there was no such as thing as a 'minor incursion'. 'We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones,' Zelensky wrote on Twitter. Biden, speaking at a White House press conference yesterday where Russia came up repeatedly, had said: 'It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. 'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
"When we see the image of a baby in the womb, we glimpse the majesty of God's creation." Pres. Trump
Boris Johnson better realize that a few warheads hit England, there might not be much left to inhabit.
It almost looks like in the first picture the Russian vehicles are lined up to spell FJB. JK.
Boris is looking for a war to distract the people from his maskless parties while subjecting the rest of England to tyranny!
Pelosi is only on loan to the world from Satan. Hopefully he will soon want his baby killer back
The UK Prime Minister said 'any kind of incursion, on any scale' would be 'a disaster not just for Ukraine but for Russia' as NATO allies try to dissuade Vladimir Putin from launching an attack the Pentagon warns is 'imminent'. Johnson's remark came after Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky slapped down the US president after he appeared to suggest that a 'minor incursion' by Moscow might elicit a lesser response than a full-scale invasion. Zelensky denounced Biden for 'green-lighting' an attack on the country with the remarks, warning that there was no such as thing as a 'minor incursion'. 'We want to remind the great powers that there are no minor incursions and small nations. Just as there are no minor casualties and little grief from the loss of loved ones,' Zelensky wrote on Twitter. Biden, speaking at a White House press conference yesterday where Russia came up repeatedly, had said: 'It's one thing if it's a minor incursion and we end up having to fight about what to do and not do, et cetera. 'But if they actually do what they're capable of doing with the forces amassed on the border, it is going to be a disaster for Russia,' he added. The president's comment prompted a cleanup from the White House on Wednesday night - a task Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Vice President Kamala Harris carried forward in Thursday morning TV interviews - and saw the US press heavily criticise Biden over his press conference.
Resident Biden has brought the whole world together in a consensus that he is an idiot.
