Captured Russian officer apologizes to Ukraine for genocide begs for mercy
20220307
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4044543/posts
Do you actually believe that?I believe it. And seeing how they are treating prisoners only confirms it.
Although it may seem in some videos that POWs are free to speak as they wish, they are held captive by another military force, and its almost impossible to judge from one video the conditions they face, he wrote.  Stroehlein said this prohibition protects families of soldiers back in their home country who may face retaliation if it is known that their family members have been captured.
A Russian commander captured by Ukraine condemned Moscows genocide invasion  saying in a remarkable televised statement that the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich, who was captured along with two other soldiers, said he had been told they were being sent to help Ukraine because it was dominated by a fascist regime and that nationalists and Nazis had seized power. Obviously, this information was unilateral information, Mikhailovich told reporters in a video that emerged Monday. National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich condemned Moscows genocide invasion. A Russian commander captured by Ukraine condemned Moscows genocide invasion National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
Ahh...but there is an exception to that. When they are Ukrainians pretending to be Russian soldiers, there is nothing wrong with it.
The megalomaniac Putin had to lie to his troops else they would have refused orders. What a wretched scumbag. There nothing that benefits Russia or Russians from his ill conceived and executed stunt. Hopefully those that care about their country will put the rabid crazed dog done.
A Russian commander captured by Ukraine condemned Moscows genocide invasion National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
I thought having prisoners being interviewed was against the Geneva Convention and not to be done?
Andrew Stroehlein, a human rights activist who serves as European media director of Human Rights Watch, said in a tweet that humiliating or making POWs a subject of public curiosity or ridicule is strictly prohibited by the laws of war.  Although it may seem in some videos that POWs are free to speak as they wish, they are held captive by another military force, and its almost impossible to judge from one video the conditions they face, he wrote.  Stroehlein said this prohibition protects families of soldiers back in their home country who may face retaliation if it is known that their family members have been captured.
Stroehlein said this prohibition protects families of soldiers back in their home country who may face retaliation if it is known that their family members have been captured.
I am just going to assume you are a Democrat if you call me a Putin supporter and ignore you.
Reminds me of when Saddam put captured US soldiers on TV and made them trash America. It's the oldest trick in the business.
National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
Footage of Mikhailovich and other captured Russian soldiers has raised questions about whether Ukraine is violating the Geneva Conventions, which provide POWs with protections.  According to Article 13: Prisoners of war must at all times be protected, particularly against acts of violence or intimidation and against insults and public curiosity. Measures of reprisal against prisoners of war are prohibited.  Andrew Stroehlein, a human rights activist who serves as European media director of Human Rights Watch, said in a tweet that humiliating or making POWs a subject of public curiosity or ridicule is strictly prohibited by the laws of war.  Although it may seem in some videos that POWs are free to speak as they wish, they are held captive by another military force, and its almost impossible to judge from one video the conditions they face, he wrote.  Stroehlein said this prohibition protects families of soldiers back in their home country who may face retaliation if it is known that their family members have been captured.
It's the oldest trick in the business.Yep - wonder if any of them were blinking their eyes in a specific pattern ?........
You cant expect chivalry from the defenders placing artillery in the schoolyards and shooting their own civilians for trying to leave cities.
National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich condemned Moscows genocide invasion. A Russian commander captured by Ukraine condemned Moscows genocide invasion National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
2020:  The year of unreported truths 2021: My main take away from this year? Trust no one.
RT.com , the Russian news service , is censored now. In order to compare one liar against another I found out Gab is posting RT news. Sure enough RT was worried about a Neon shortage because of the war. This is pure BS because neon is an inert gas and therefore can only be obtained from the air.
Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich, who was captured along with two other soldiers, said he had been told they were being sent to help Ukraine because it was dominated by a fascist regime and that nationalists and Nazis had seized power. Obviously, this information was unilateral information, Mikhailovich told reporters in a video that emerged Monday. National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich condemned Moscows genocide invasion. A Russian commander captured by Ukraine condemned Moscows genocide invasion National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
Trump: Befuddling Democrats, Republicans, and the Media for the benefit of the US and all mankind.
The only way you know a commie is lying is when they open their pieholes.p
Obviously, this information was unilateral information, Mikhailovich told reporters in a video that emerged Monday. National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich condemned Moscows genocide invasion. A Russian commander captured by Ukraine condemned Moscows genocide invasion National Guard Lt. Col. Astakhov Dmitry Mikhailovich said the troops were duped into believing Kyiv had been overthrown by Nazis and needed liberating. Captured Russian soldiers answer questions of journalists during a press conference organised by Ukrainian Security Service in Kyiv Kiev, Ukraine, 05 March 2022.
According to Article 13: Prisoners of war must at all times be protected, particularly against acts of violence or intimidation and against insults and public curiosity. Measures of reprisal against prisoners of war are prohibited.  Andrew Stroehlein, a human rights activist who serves as European media director of Human Rights Watch, said in a tweet that humiliating or making POWs a subject of public curiosity or ridicule is strictly prohibited by the laws of war.  Although it may seem in some videos that POWs are free to speak as they wish, they are held captive by another military force, and its almost impossible to judge from one video the conditions they face, he wrote.  Stroehlein said this prohibition protects families of soldiers back in their home country who may face retaliation if it is known that their family members have been captured.
Yep - wonder if any of them were blinking their eyes in a specific pattern ?........
