Captured Russian Troops Call Home While Filmed by Ukrainian Officials Raising Geneva Convention Questions
20220308
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4044679/posts
Putin is a war criminal, but then, why are there rules of war when theyre always violated, in all wars, sometimes even by the good guys?
He compared what the Ukrainians had done more to a misdemeanor than a felony, and also noted that there was a positive humanitarian aspect of the videos in showing "proof of life" to the families of the captured troops.
Funny thing. This very same dialogue was reported to have been on text messages of dead Russian soldiers phones. But that was last weeks propaganda pitch.
 KE.  NP.  N.C.  12 Promoting Afro Heritage diversity will destroy the democrats
Like Putin cares about the Geneva Convention. Ukraine is bringing a case against Russia in the International Court of Justice ICJ in the Hague. Russia's response: they sent a letter that said they are not going to participate.
"Mama and Papa, I didn't want to come here. They forced me to," a Russian soldier said in videos purporting to show the phone calls that were taken by Ukraine's Interior Ministry and posted on YouTube. Videos and stills of captured or surrendered Russian troops also were posted on the Ukrainian Security Service's Facebook page.
BASIC COMMON SENSE tells you that Russian conscripts are not all eager beaver to go kill Ukrainians or be killed or maimed doing so. Now we see who doesnt have any.
This is war in the 21st century. Did they ask to get on facebook too to post updates for their families ? Or instagram. Oh wait, those are banned in their home country.
What we were told was a conspiracy theory in 2020 is now fact.   Ps 33:12
When it comes to wars, and war crimes, those committing war crimes dont follow the rules of war.
KEYWORDS: chechens chechnya genevaconvention newworldodor newworldorder nwoagitprop putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression russians ukraine wefagitprop zottherussiantrolls
You missed the point of the post that there is evidence of propaganda. But then propaganda is missed by many as propaganda without analysis.
If this is the worst charge that can be brought against a nation invaded by a vastly larger one, then theyll be doing pretty good.
A Cadet will not lie, cheat, steal, or tolerate those who do.  Then they graduate...
Mama and Papa, I didnt want to come here. They forced me to, a Russian soldier said
Several demoralized Russian troops captured in Ukraine were allowed to call home over the weekend to tell their families they were safe and profess confusion about why they were sent to war. "Mama and Papa, I didn't want to come here. They forced me to," a Russian soldier said in videos purporting to show the phone calls that were taken by Ukraine's Interior Ministry and posted on YouTube. Videos and stills of captured or surrendered Russian troops also were posted on the Ukrainian Security Service's Facebook page.
When it comes to criminals in everyday life, they dont care about following the law.
US recruits are forced to be vaccinated, invade Iraq or go through social justice training.
Vietnam era POWs welcomed the chance to get their pictures "out there". It was encouraged during SERE training so authorities and loved ones at home knew they were alive.I'm not sure this isn't the tech age equivalent.
It is us civilian citizens who should determine what our soldiers are forced to submit to.
it's a violation" of Geneva to post the videos, but not what would be considered a "grave breach" to be taken up by a war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Solis said. He compared what the Ukrainians had done more to a misdemeanor than a felony, and also noted that there was a positive humanitarian aspect of the videos in showing "proof of life" to the families of the captured troops.
