Civilians rush to flee as Ukraine aims to take back Kherson  Focus on Europe
20220821
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4087259/posts
Its different times each day, but when you see one Zeeper start with the propaganda, you see a few more spamming FR with it right around same time.
If nothing else, you people who support the latest US state departments proxy war are persistent.
And yet, here we go again, the soon to come vaunted Ukrainian Kherson offensive.....lmao. Right. Okie dokie.
Does anybody else notice that the Zeepers all start showing up here en masse with the propaganda at the same time?
Zeepers all start showing up here en masse with the propaganda at the same time?
On what recent success of such activity do you rely upon to reach the conclusion the outcome will be anything other
Tell me idiot, when have you in your life ever checked on the freedom of the Russian political system?
Laughing cause you pro-Ukrainian jackasses are steady eating up propaganda like its tomato soup or some sht.
Yeah its all a conspiracy because Freepers oppose agression by a scumbag thug like Putin.
You mean like when they announced anyone opposing the war is a traitor who will be hustled into vans and disappear?
Russia said on Sunday that its hypesonic Kalibr missiles had destroyed an ammunition depot containing missiles for US-made HIMARS rocket system in Ukraines southeastern Odesa region, while Kyiv said a granary had been hit.
Theres not an original thought in your pointed little head, is there? You just spew whatever youre told to spew.
If you have something to add do so, dont bore everyone by showing us you have no rational analysis.
A spokesman for Odesas regional administration said two missiles had been shot down over the sea, but that three had struck agricultural targets.
Russias defence ministry said sea-based Kalibr missiles had destroyed a depot that also housed Western-made anti-aircraft systems.
There were no casualties, the spokesman, Serhiy Bratchuk, said on Telegram. An explosives expert and other investigators were working at the granary, he said.
Russia is not a free country and you show yourself to be a fool to say otherwise.
Ty for the post. There is no justification for the pathetic nothings on here who post their mocking of a free people fighting for survival.
That alleged million man army was supposed to have mounted a Kherson offensive to take back Kherson weeks ago.
Russia claims it hit Ukraines Odesa region with Kinzhal hypersonic missiles, seen here under the Russian MiG-31 jet
Russia has threatened to annex occupied areas in the south of Ukraine. The Ukrainian army has now launched a counter-offensive with the help of Western long-range weapons. Much of the local population has already fled.
Russias defence ministry also said its forces had destroyed two M777 Howitzers in combat positions in the Kherson region, as well as a fuel depot in the Zaporizhzhia region that it said was storing more than 100 tonnes of diesel fuel.
Yep. Obsessively.  They remind me of slick-talking used car salesmen in cheap, shiny suits.
