Defiant Zelensky emerges at dawn during Battle for Kyiv after Putins forces stormed the capital Tower block is hit by missile and Ukraine claims to have killed 3500 Russian troops as bloody streettostreet combat rages
20220226
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4041650/posts
I've seen speculation that his personality changed after he was vaccinated, judgement impaired to some degree, reduced planning ability, more pugnacious.  I'm not a Putin watcher, perhaps someone more tuned in to Russian politics could chip in here?
I'm not a Putin watcher, perhaps someone more tuned in to Russian politics could chip in here?
Ukraine's armed forces were engaged in a fierce battle for Kyiv on Friday night, with footage on social media showing explosions close to a metro station in the western center of the capital by the zoo a battle ongoing for control of a thermal power plant to the north and multiple reports suggesting fierce fighting 20 miles south, near a vital airbase. In Kyiv, footage shared on social media showed a bombardment close to Beresteiska metro station, in the west of the city, which is near the zoo. More than 50 explosions and heavy machine gun fire were reported in the district of Shulyavka, near Beresteiska metro and the zoo, according to The Kyiv Independent.
Sometimes I think all I'm ever doing is trying to convince myself I'm climbing in the trees
You Tube is running a live feed in Kiev, overlooking the Maidan in center city.
Ukraine's armed forces on Saturday morning claimed 3,500 Russians had been killed overnight, and 200 taken prisoner. I'll agree that alot of propaganda is floating around.
I take it youre not a Notre Dame fan either. The Church or the football team?
Want to make a conservative mad,tell him a lie.Want to makye a liberal lose his mind?Tell him Truths
More than 50 explosions and heavy machine gun fire were reported in the district of Shulyavka, near Beresteiska metro and the zoo, according to The Kyiv Independent.
As soon as Quadaffi publicised his intention to no longer trade oil in Dollars, his days were numbered. TPTB will not allow that. Same thing in Ukraine. As soon as they nationalised the countries largest bank , Bank One I think it is, TPTB turned their back and greenlit Putin.
Ukraine is a modern Country with modern vehicles, home appliances, and yes, even Apple Phones.
Obama said weve got to have NATO bomb Libya with the U.S. leading from behind over unproven allegations that Gaddafi was going to attack his own citizens.
I'll agree that alot of propaganda is floating around. A lot of which will be posted by you uncritically on this forum, Putinist.
Putin isnt sounding quite so smart and savvyI've seen speculation that his personality changed after he was vaccinated, judgement impaired to some degree, reduced planning ability, more pugnacious.  I'm not a Putin watcher, perhaps someone more tuned in to Russian politics could chip in here?
The MSM attacked Trump for pulling troops out of Syria saying it was a bad idea.
I an getting sick of the gold domed church they always show Live from Kiev Some bizarre "people" on FR
There's a lot of fake information online that I call on our army to lay down arms, and that there's been an evacuation ordered, he said. Ukraine's armed forces on Saturday morning claimed 3,500 Russians had been killed overnight, and 200 taken prisoner. I'll agree that alot of propaganda is floating around.
I an getting sick of the gold domed church they always show Live from KievI take it youre not a Notre Dame fan either.
In Kyiv, footage shared on social media showed a bombardment close to Beresteiska metro station, in the west of the city, which is near the zoo. More than 50 explosions and heavy machine gun fire were reported in the district of Shulyavka, near Beresteiska metro and the zoo, according to The Kyiv Independent.
That gold domed church is Saint Sophia, built in 1199 by Byzantine craftsmen for Prince Yaroslav. It is a very important and beautiful treasure of the Ukrainian people.
This is as good as it gets for Russia. The occupation will be far worse. You lose again Pooty.
Thats hyperbaric not hyperbolic. Some commentary in FR is hyperbolic. So are some important mathematical concepts, and hyperbolic functions are very important in electrical engineering, and were part of a good slide rule back in the day like mine.
Wait for the carpet bombing of Kiev with hyperbolic bombs. I an getting sick of the gold domed church they always show Live from Kiev- The fact they gave out guns is a sign of weakness. Saddam did that before the fall. Kiev will fall MondayI believe. The fact they still have lights on in amazing.
As Churchill said In wartime, truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies.
Poland ignoring Putins threats and sending in massive Javelins and Stingers from Latvia, Lithuania, even Sweden.
DemocRATS - when they speak, they lie when they are silent, they are stealing the American Dreams
