Desperate Putin is considering turning to Kim Jong Un for help in Ukraine and offering energy and grain in return for 100000 soldiers
20220806
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4083513/posts
Off subject a bit, I had a great uncle who was tortured by Russian officers in Korea, and there were many others.
Is it true that if Putin wont accept their help, Biden and NATO will welcome them as independent contractors?
Relations between the two countries continued even after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, with Vladimir Putin giving it more importance when he was elected president in 2000. Kim Jong Un accepted an invitation to visit Russia in 2015, and the pair met on Russian soul - in Vladivostok - on 2019.
So sending your healthiest, best educated and most loyal people off to be killed in a foreign land for little or no real benefit for yourself is a good idea?
Some men want to watch the world burn. It is they that want you to buy an electric car.
'The country is ready to transfer up to 100,000 of its soldiers to Donbas,' said the report by the pro-Kremlin news agency. 'Pyongyang will be able to transfer its tactical units to Donbas.' In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
A desperate Vladimir Putin is considering turning to North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un for help in his invasion of Ukraine, and is willing to offer energy and grain in return for 100,000 soldiers, according to reports in Russia. North Korea has made it clear through 'diplomatic channels' that as well as providing builders to repair war damage, it is ready to supply a vast fighting force in an attempt to tip the balance in Moscow's favour, reported Regnum news agency. They would be deployed to the forces of the separatist pro-Putin Donetsk People's Republic DPR and Luhansk People's Republic LPR, both of which Kim has recently recognised as independent countries. 'The country is ready to transfer up to 100,000 of its soldiers to Donbas,' said the report by the pro-Kremlin news agency. 'Pyongyang will be able to transfer its tactical units to Donbas.' In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
Retired USAF air traffic controller.   Father of  USAF pilot.  USAF aviation runs in the family 
They would be deployed to the forces of the separatist pro-Putin Donetsk People's Republic DPR and Luhansk People's Republic LPR, both of which Kim has recently recognised as independent countries. 'The country is ready to transfer up to 100,000 of its soldiers to Donbas,' said the report by the pro-Kremlin news agency. 'Pyongyang will be able to transfer its tactical units to Donbas.' In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
Phone lines must be burning up between Moscow and Beijing, as Putin has already outwardly indicated he politically supports a Communist CCP take down of Taiwan, and has warned he would support CCP with his naval and military assets, and has threatened the US and Japan if we try to intervene against CCPs efforts.
Ideal for Kim. Turn hungry mouths into cannon fodder.Yep. Just a whole bunch less mouths to feed, and a whole bunch less potential coup soldiers to worry about.
Yep. Just a whole bunch less mouths to feed, and a whole bunch less potential coup soldiers to worry about.
Ties between Russia and North Korea dates back to 1948, when the Soviet Union became the first country to officially recognise the DPRK. During the Korean war, the Korean Peoples Army was supported by the USSR.
North Korea has made it clear through 'diplomatic channels' that as well as providing builders to repair war damage, it is ready to supply a vast fighting force in an attempt to tip the balance in Moscow's favour, reported Regnum news agency. They would be deployed to the forces of the separatist pro-Putin Donetsk People's Republic DPR and Luhansk People's Republic LPR, both of which Kim has recently recognised as independent countries. 'The country is ready to transfer up to 100,000 of its soldiers to Donbas,' said the report by the pro-Kremlin news agency. 'Pyongyang will be able to transfer its tactical units to Donbas.' In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
When Putin launched his invasion in Ukraine on February 24, North Korea was one of five countries to vote against a United Nations resolution condemning the invasion.
In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
And the peddlers of such Baghdad Bob level propaganda should be utterly ashamed of themselves. Bet.
Stop being so cranky. Your Pooty Poot  Lil Kim will do so much better together.
Russia has repeatedly claimed Ukraine is a fascist country as one of its many ways to attempt to justify Putins brutal invasion, that has killed thousands of civilians and caused millions of people to flee their homes.
North Korea also became the third country to recognise the independence of the breakaway states of Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics in Eastern Ukraine - territory seized by Russian forces during the invasion.
Putin and Un either already have, or are gonna have to run this Op by Putins CCP axis partner Xi, as this would be a draw down on Chinas Southern whipping boy proxy, and the logistics will require transit through China.
...all you are hearing in the Western mainstream media about the course of the conflict is the most absurd Baghdad Bob level propaganda imaginable...
If North Korea really wanted to help Russia, they would invade South Korea. Once the invasion happens the USA would need to focus on sending weapons and troops to South Korea.
"For they that sleep with dogs, shall rise with fleas" John Webster, "The White Devil" 1612.
Bad Vlad and Lil Kim will make a formidable duo. The little Rocket Man and the Hypersonic missiles man.
In return, it said grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy Reacting, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.' Russia and North Korea have shared close ties dating back to 1948, when Soviet Union became first country to recognise DPRK. Putin and Kim last met in 2019 A desperate Vladimir Putin is considering turning to North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un for help in his invasion of Ukraine, and is willing to offer energy and grain in return for 100,000 soldiers, according to reports in Russia. North Korea has made it clear through 'diplomatic channels' that as well as providing builders to repair war damage, it is ready to supply a vast fighting force in an attempt to tip the balance in Moscow's favour, reported Regnum news agency. They would be deployed to the forces of the separatist pro-Putin Donetsk People's Republic DPR and Luhansk People's Republic LPR, both of which Kim has recently recognised as independent countries. 'The country is ready to transfer up to 100,000 of its soldiers to Donbas,' said the report by the pro-Kremlin news agency. 'Pyongyang will be able to transfer its tactical units to Donbas.' In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
He said: If North Korea expresses a desire to meet its international duty to fight against Ukrainian fascism, we should let them. It was the sovereign right of the DPR and LPR to sign the relevant agreements, he said.
A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
N. Korea made it clear it is willing to assist in Russia's war, news agency reported This would include providing a vast fighting force and builders to repair damage In return, it said grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy Reacting, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.' Russia and North Korea have shared close ties dating back to 1948, when Soviet Union became first country to recognise DPRK. Putin and Kim last met in 2019 A desperate Vladimir Putin is considering turning to North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un for help in his invasion of Ukraine, and is willing to offer energy and grain in return for 100,000 soldiers, according to reports in Russia. North Korea has made it clear through 'diplomatic channels' that as well as providing builders to repair war damage, it is ready to supply a vast fighting force in an attempt to tip the balance in Moscow's favour, reported Regnum news agency. They would be deployed to the forces of the separatist pro-Putin Donetsk People's Republic DPR and Luhansk People's Republic LPR, both of which Kim has recently recognised as independent countries. 'The country is ready to transfer up to 100,000 of its soldiers to Donbas,' said the report by the pro-Kremlin news agency. 'Pyongyang will be able to transfer its tactical units to Donbas.' In return, grain and energy would be supplied to Kim's stricken economy. A leading defence expert in Moscow, reserve colonel Igor Korotchenko, told Russian state TV: 'We shouldn't be shy in accepting the hand extended to us by Kim Jong-un.'
If North Korean volunteers with their artillery systems, wealth of experience with counter battery warfare and large calibre multiple launch rocket systems, made in North Korea, want to participate in the conflict, well lets give the green light to their volunteer impulse.
