Elon Musks satellites help Zelensky dominate the skies US billionaires internet system is allowing Ukrainian drones to pound Putins helpless tanks
20220319
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4048111/posts
The Starlink app is the most downloaded in Ukraine with global downloads tripling in the last two weeks Elon Musk's Starlink satellite system is giving Ukrainian forces the edge in winning the drone war as the nation fights back with technology to track down invading Russians. Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladmir Putin's army of tanks and track down their positions in the conflict, which has been ongoing since February 24, according to The Telegraph. Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine. With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladmir Putin's army of tanks and track down their positions in the conflict, which has been ongoing since February 24, according to The Telegraph. Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine. With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
Russia obviously cant win on the battlefield, its been 4 weeks now with no victory in sight, and Russia is running out of money
Reminds me of the way LBJ and the communist supporters in Congress fought the Vietnam war... No realistically designed path to ultimate victory...
A couple of observations about that, maybe they dont have the ability to shoot down satellites, even if they do how many and how accurate are the satellite killer missiles.
I would imagine that this gives ol Elon a mental erection that surpasses any hes ever had even as a teenager. He is THE most popular guy in the WORLD right now. So cool to be alive at the same time that he is. Not so much with Brandon.
Despite talking about nuclear weapons perhaps they are bluffing dont want to commit an act of war against a NATO countries satellite.
With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
"Good thing hes not looking for victory" Reminds me of the way LBJ and the communist supporters in Congress fought the Vietnam war... No realistically designed path to ultimate victory...
US billionaire Elon Musk's new technology helps to keep Ukrainian drones connected with their bases It comes as the country has continue to suffer through internet and power outages throughout the invasion The Starlink app is the most downloaded in Ukraine with global downloads tripling in the last two weeks Elon Musk's Starlink satellite system is giving Ukrainian forces the edge in winning the drone war as the nation fights back with technology to track down invading Russians. Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladmir Putin's army of tanks and track down their positions in the conflict, which has been ongoing since February 24, according to The Telegraph. Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine. With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
Oh great tell the Russians how Musk is helping Ukraine and Putin launches several suborbital nuke bursts to zap Musks satellite..or at least he tries to...
If you dont watch the MSM you are uninformed. If you do watch the MSM you are misinformed.
Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine. With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladmir Putin's army of tanks with the help of the newly available Starlink system which improves internet and connection speeds US billionaire Elon Musk's new technology helps to keep Ukrainian drones connected with their bases It comes as the country has continue to suffer through internet and power outages throughout the invasion The Starlink app is the most downloaded in Ukraine with global downloads tripling in the last two weeks Elon Musk's Starlink satellite system is giving Ukrainian forces the edge in winning the drone war as the nation fights back with technology to track down invading Russians. Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladmir Putin's army of tanks and track down their positions in the conflict, which has been ongoing since February 24, according to The Telegraph. Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine. With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
The point is, I have no idea whats real and whats not anymore with all the propaganda flying around.
they wont come right out and say it, of course, but theyre always crapping on Ukraine and never say anything bad about Russia, then insist that theyre not taking sides in the conflict
What is more interesting is that the Russians have apparently not been shooting down satellites.
Much more than just Elons help - theres lots of intellegrnce agencies and various forms of image related actors from other countries with their communications networks scanning the ground in Ukraine....wihtout these Ukraine would be done by now.
I dont think Putin is looking for Victory - hes made clear what his objectives are.
Elon Musk's Starlink satellite system is giving Ukrainian forces the edge in winning the drone war as the nation fights back with technology to track down invading Russians. Aerorozvidka Aerial Reconnaissance is being used to attack Russian drones and target Vladmir Putin's army of tanks and track down their positions in the conflict, which has been ongoing since February 24, according to The Telegraph. Drones used in the field are able to use the newly available Starlink to keep connected and provide intelligence as internet and power outages plague Ukraine. With the technology, the drones can be directed to drop anti-tank munitions to help ward off the Russian attack. The so-far-successful implementation of the satellites into the defense of the war-torn nation makes good on a promise outspoken mogul Musk - who challenged Putin to a fist fight for the future of Ukraine earlier this week - made to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier in the month, that SpaceX will send more Starlink satellite stations to provide internet to some of the country's stricken cities. The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
The president of the embattled country took to Twitter to thank the Tesla CEO, 50, for the support, and invited the tech mogul to visit Ukraine once the war is over.
sort of like those people who criticize Jews all the time, but then insist that theyre not anti-semitic
