ENSLAVED Barbaric Russians snatch 40000 Ukrainians from cities  force them into slave labour
20220328
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4050271/posts
Next we'll hear about Bat Boy and the Space Alien being held hostage by Russian troops.  C'mon man!
"Listen. Strange women lying in ponds distributing swords is no basis for a system of government."
"We have made contact with people who have told us what is happening  they are being taken off to Russia to work for the state in depressed areas.
Mr Orlov told the Sun: Russian troops are bursting into cellars and basements where our people are hiding like frightened mice and telling them: You have 15 minutes to leave. If they refuse to come out the buildings are destroyed, leaving families entombed. "We have made contact with people who have told us what is happening  they are being taken off to Russia to work for the state in depressed areas.
To transport that many people would take something like 200 trains or 1000 airliners. It is simply an unbelievable number
The Sun is the Weekly World News in color.  Next we'll hear about Bat Boy and the Space Alien being held hostage by Russian troops.  C'mon man!
The 40,000 people are refugees, who escaped to Russia at their first chance, after the brave Ukrainian military was unable to hold them hostages anymore.
KEYWORDS: bidenapologists chechens chechnya coldeurostooges eurostooges gulliblepeople nickparker nickparkerisaclown putinapologists putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression sorosapoligists suckerborneverymin ukraine zottherussiantrolls
Trying to create the scenario of nazis busting into cellars to round up Jews for shipment to camps. When what is really happening is Russian soldiers hunting genuine nazis who are using every hamas and hezbollah trick in the book. Given that official U.N figures have civilian casualties at around 1000, the slower pace of what was expected to be a quicker invasion seems more related to trying to limit civilian deaths. Wonder what the Iraqi civilian death toll was at a comparable time frame. Oh the saintly west. Nothing worse than fake piety
Sergei Orlov, deputy mayor of devastated city Mariupol, spoke exclusively from his bunker yesterday to reveal the plight of civilians hauled into enemy territory. And he said hundreds of children are now lost and alone in the clutches of ruthless Russian troops after being forced away from their families. Mr Orlov told the Sun: Russian troops are bursting into cellars and basements where our people are hiding like frightened mice and telling them: You have 15 minutes to leave. If they refuse to come out the buildings are destroyed, leaving families entombed. "We have made contact with people who have told us what is happening  they are being taken off to Russia to work for the state in depressed areas.
UP to 40,000 Ukrainians have been snatched from besieged cities and forced into Russian slave labour in a war crime revealed by The Sun today. Sergei Orlov, deputy mayor of devastated city Mariupol, spoke exclusively from his bunker yesterday to reveal the plight of civilians hauled into enemy territory. And he said hundreds of children are now lost and alone in the clutches of ruthless Russian troops after being forced away from their families. Mr Orlov told the Sun: Russian troops are bursting into cellars and basements where our people are hiding like frightened mice and telling them: You have 15 minutes to leave. If they refuse to come out the buildings are destroyed, leaving families entombed. "We have made contact with people who have told us what is happening  they are being taken off to Russia to work for the state in depressed areas.
But the story is still fake. It was posted yesterday but does not show up on search.
Ruling class noticed our total lack of pushback for how the election  Covid was handled.
Here is one that is not: Patrick Lancaster on the ground in Mariupol showing what they found.
The shirtless Vlad squad will be here to attack Zylensky. Point the Vlad Squad out as they arrive. How many do you expect?
And he said hundreds of children are now lost and alone in the clutches of ruthless Russian troops after being forced away from their families. Mr Orlov told the Sun: Russian troops are bursting into cellars and basements where our people are hiding like frightened mice and telling them: You have 15 minutes to leave. If they refuse to come out the buildings are destroyed, leaving families entombed. "We have made contact with people who have told us what is happening  they are being taken off to Russia to work for the state in depressed areas.
Biden - There's going to be a new world order out there and we've got to lead it
Russian speaking Ukrainian does not equal an ethnic Russian. Many Russian speakers are patriotic Ukrainians and my wifes family is among them.
If they refuse to come out the buildings are destroyed, leaving families entombed. "We have made contact with people who have told us what is happening  they are being taken off to Russia to work for the state in depressed areas.
The WWW never could compete with page 3, no matter how many aliens it had.
Sergei Orlov, deputy mayor of devastated city Mariupol, spoke exclusively from his bunker yesterday to reveal the plight of civilians hauled into enemy territory. This is the state of "reporting" these days.
Bat Boy was cool. Anyway, the Russians do have him, and at least one of the Space Aliens. The Sun never was like the WWW though, it was more into crime, sport and celebrity gossip, and, above all, page 3.
