Escalate to deescalate Experts say Putins strategy may be to get more aggressive in war on Ukraine
20220301
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4042517/posts
Ive wondered if the deep state has bioweapons laboratories in Taiwan, like they apparently had in the Ukraine.
Putin showed Ukraine enough of what to expect. The Ukrainians dont listen to their own or western propaganda when considering the very life of their nation. Putin is allowing the Ukrainians to come to a negotiated peace. This, they will do because not negotiating a peace is suicide for them, regardless of what the American talking heads are talking.
Our BIGGEST problem, by far, is that most of the media is hate  agenda driven, not truth driven.
No it doesnt. If I understand correctly the agitators in Luhansk and Donetsk were trained by and sent by Putin into these places. Declaring them independent aligned with Russia was to then set the stage for them calling the Ukrainians racists, which of course they did, claiming the Ukrainians are Nazis committing genocide against Russians in these places.
This is from a twitter feed a little over half an hour ago. You can go to the site to see pics if you wantAntonov Airport is just outside Kiev
Come to think of it, why does the MSM never mention anything about globalism, even though its the most powerful influence on geopolitics for the past several decades?
This is what Putin does pretty much all the time. Escalate figuring his opponent will eventually not want to.
I dont know about that, he seems to be trying to do it on the installment plan. Sure, there is the sense of I want. This over. Why isnt this over? But it feels like that is only because he wants to invade someone else and really cant be having these silly little people with their silly little homes messing up his plans.
What are the cosmological implications if the Resurrection of Christ is a true event in history?
Well see a massive increase in the murder of civilians in the coming days by Putinist Russia. Russia and their useful idiots in the west will scurry around blaming Ukraine for Putins murder. Ballistic missiles, cluster bombs, MLRS, etc. All aimed at cities. The deaths will be in the tens of thousands easily.
And many powerful normally pro-Pooty folks in Russia are not happy with what hes doing and calling for it to end.
Losing both the Ukraine in Taiwan under his watch is not going to help Biden by any stretch of the imagination. Only drugs can make that kind of thinking seem possible.
Troops are at Antonov Airport, meaning military vehicles  equipment are stretched out along 40 miles of road.
Its the best of all worlds for all three of them: Russia get what they want: Ukraine. China gets what they want: Taiwan. And the media gets what they want: to get Bidens failures off the front pages and replaced by a narrative they can spin in their partys favor.
As Russia's war on Ukraine continues, some experts warn Russia might escalate the conflict further either in Ukraine or against the western nations supporting it, with the goal of forcing those nations to capitulate to its demands. This strategy, former Defense Intelligence Agency officer Rebekah Koffler told Fox News, is called "escalate to de-escalate." It has roots in Russia's planning for a war against the United States, Koffler said, but similar thinking is now standard throughout Russia's military planning.
But when Putin gave independence to Luhansk and Donetsk, it contradicted the low IQ Putin as Conqueror narrative being spewed by the globalists.
Putin no doubt plans on the EU andor Brandon forcing Ukraine to surrender at some point to stop it. This did not have to happen. Weakness breeds aggression and here we are.
Have there been any complaints from the globalists about Putin taking out their bioweapons labs in the Ukraine?
Ive said for a while now that a joint RussianChinese plan MAY be for Russia to suck the U.S. into war in Europe. I now see the best way to do this would be for Russia to engage a NATO member, probably Poland, because we are bound by treaty to defend NATO countries.
Nah, Putin simply wants to get the gang back together again before he kicks off. Kinda like another dictator from the last century.
With our military tied up, this would leave Tiawan wide open for the Chinese. After China has Taiwan, Russia will withdraw from the NATO country back to Ukraine, which is what Putin wanted all along. The media will say that Russia caved to a tough President Biden.
This strategy, former Defense Intelligence Agency officer Rebekah Koffler told Fox News, is called "escalate to de-escalate." It has roots in Russia's planning for a war against the United States, Koffler said, but similar thinking is now standard throughout Russia's military planning.
