EU Internal Battle  Separatist
20220512
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4062793/posts
It's hard to "Believe all women" when judges say "I don't know what a woman is".
The sanction imposed on Russia is an economic version of a nuclear war spearheaded by the United States without any consideration whatsoever. The United States was energy self-sufficient under Trump. Biden has taken every step to end fossil fuels and has had the audacity to turn to OPEC to ask for more supply while he denies American those very jobs. But Europe has no self-sufficient energy. This hair-brain idea that they can punish Russia for invading Ukraine was deliberately created by the West  Zelensky and is now tearing the EU apart. As always, the West simply thought they needed to conquer Russia and then China to push this Great Reset with the United Nations in charge of the world because no single nation can tackle climate change alone. They never anticipated that shutting down fossil fuels before there was any viable alternative would lead to political chaos. The euro will be in serious trouble post-2024 and may even collapse as a viable reserve currency in the world. The euro was doomed when they refused to consolidate the national debts and become one real government because they simply never trusted each other.
it is interesting that the Ukraine wants to join the EU. However, the euro is tanking, at least at this moment. Why fight to join something that is tanking?
Regardless, the West is now fed up with Russia acting the part of the neighborhood hooligan and the days of Russian threats scaring people are over.
As always, the West simply thought they needed to conquer Russia and then China to push this Great Reset with the United Nations in charge of the world because no single nation can tackle climate change alone. They never anticipated that shutting down fossil fuels before there was any viable alternative would lead to political chaos. The euro will be in serious trouble post-2024 and may even collapse as a viable reserve currency in the world. The euro was doomed when they refused to consolidate the national debts and become one real government because they simply never trusted each other.
If this happens we also need to demand the end of the Chinese Communist Party, as well as Communism worldwide. Russia and the territories of the USSR, China and the other tinpots would have to totally de communize.
Putin isn't sending gays into our schools to groom my children, but anti-Putin people are
Three to five years before the EU can ban Russian oil..Biden is an idiot, and it is now obvious, he is willing to fight Vlad down to the last Ukrainian AND EU citizen.
The sanction imposed on Russia is an economic version of a nuclear war spearheaded by the United States without any consideration whatsoever.
India may have the freest press in the world, at this point, as the Western media is a total basket case, and the Russian media tends to minimize any bad news regarding their country.
No, there was consideration. Soviet Russia invaded Crimea and the West mostly let it slide. But when Soviet Russia tried to conquer the rest of Ukraine that crossed a line.
Of course, Russia can always put an end to this by ending the war, leaving all of Ukraine, making reparations to rebuild Ukraine, handing over Putin and his cronies for war crimes trials, and disarming itself of nuclear weapons.
Hey, Im here all week! Come see my matinee on Saturday and bring the family!
Korea would be one again, Vietnam would be free, and China would become part of Taiwan, with Taipei resuming command in Beijing. Cuba would become a resort island. And Russia would become a Christian democracy, free of Soviet influence. Iran would also be free and allies with Israel.
Orban ,quote  Russias oil and gas  dependency has dropped a nuclear bomb on us, . Yes Joe, you destroy everything you touch..and you are funding the Russians for years of war.Trump was right, again.
Now Soviet Russia is fighting all manner of NATO armaments in Ukrainian hands, Sweden and Finland are joining NATO when a year ago that seemed impossible, and the West is indeed doing their all out best to collapse Soviet Russia economically and eventually thats what will happen.
Yep, Ive enjoyed listening to the Indian News, as they dont seem controlled by the Neoconmedia alliance in the West, nor are they required to toe the Russian line.
Be sure to view the Indian MSM video, some facts the westerm fake news will never mentionabsolutely mind blowing. .and Vlad says checkmate, again. The  west, is not the world.
