EU to allocate 725 million euros to investigate Russias war crimes in Ukraine
20220608
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4069528/posts
This project, first announced by the head of European diplomacy Josep Borrel in Kiev, is part of the EU's efforts to combat impunity for international crimes around the world. In particular, it will help the ICC expand its investigative capabilities to respond to ongoing investigations into war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine. "There can be no impunity for crimes committed under Russian occupation. The investigations of the International Criminal Court are crucial for ensuring responsibility and justice for the terrible crimes committed in Ukraine," Borrel said. "One thing is clear: a global response is needed to ensure that those responsible for the atrocities committed in Ukraine are brought to justice. We are working closely with the International Criminal Court to ensure that there is no impunity for those responsible for war crimes," said Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders. The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC prosecutor. On April 25, Eurojust and the ICC agreed to join forces and take part in the work of the joint EU investigation team. Currently, information is being collected on war crimes and crimes against humanity, so that in the future relevant actors can conduct investigations and make decisions to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are brought to justice. This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
There is no definition of patriotism that includes stooging or siding with Nazis against Christians.
This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
Russia will, of course, demand that Europe turn off any stupid little witch hunts such as the one you mention, before they try to save anybody....
As the censor reports: reported by "European truth". This project, first announced by the head of European diplomacy Josep Borrel in Kiev, is part of the EU's efforts to combat impunity for international crimes around the world. In particular, it will help the ICC expand its investigative capabilities to respond to ongoing investigations into war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine. "There can be no impunity for crimes committed under Russian occupation. The investigations of the International Criminal Court are crucial for ensuring responsibility and justice for the terrible crimes committed in Ukraine," Borrel said. "One thing is clear: a global response is needed to ensure that those responsible for the atrocities committed in Ukraine are brought to justice. We are working closely with the International Criminal Court to ensure that there is no impunity for those responsible for war crimes," said Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders. The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC prosecutor. On April 25, Eurojust and the ICC agreed to join forces and take part in the work of the joint EU investigation team. Currently, information is being collected on war crimes and crimes against humanity, so that in the future relevant actors can conduct investigations and make decisions to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are brought to justice. This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
He personally watched and filmed the Ukrainians taking Russian POWs from vans carrying 3 or 4 at a time...asking them if they were officers. If they said no they were shot in the knee. If they said yes they were shot in the head.
He told the French government about it and the French media. They wouldnt touch it because it went against the narrative the West is pushing.
"There can be no impunity for crimes committed under Russian occupation. The investigations of the International Criminal Court are crucial for ensuring responsibility and justice for the terrible crimes committed in Ukraine," Borrel said. "One thing is clear: a global response is needed to ensure that those responsible for the atrocities committed in Ukraine are brought to justice. We are working closely with the International Criminal Court to ensure that there is no impunity for those responsible for war crimes," said Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders. The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC prosecutor. On April 25, Eurojust and the ICC agreed to join forces and take part in the work of the joint EU investigation team. Currently, information is being collected on war crimes and crimes against humanity, so that in the future relevant actors can conduct investigations and make decisions to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are brought to justice. This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
"The Political left is the Garden of Eden of incompetence" - Marx the Smarter Groucho
Ukrainian Emmanuel Arsan, also known as ex-ombudsman Lyudmila Denisova, confessed to the reasons for the boundless flight of her erotic fantasies about brutal rapes.
She said that, speaking in the Italian parliament, she saw the local deputies fatigue from the Ukrainian agenda, and decided to stir them up, impromptu writing brutal tales about probable sexual crimes of the Russian army. In this way, she hoped to push Italy towards more energetic assistance to the Kyiv regime.
The French medic who went to Ukraine to help the Ukrainians was shocked at all the war crimes he personally saw the Ukrainians commit. He is personally putting himself in danger by reporting this. He even covers the shelling at Bucca and indicates it came from the Ukrainians.
The European Commission has launched a new project as part of its foreign policy tool to support the capabilities of the International Criminal Court ICC with 7.25 million euros. As the censor reports: reported by "European truth". This project, first announced by the head of European diplomacy Josep Borrel in Kiev, is part of the EU's efforts to combat impunity for international crimes around the world. In particular, it will help the ICC expand its investigative capabilities to respond to ongoing investigations into war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine. "There can be no impunity for crimes committed under Russian occupation. The investigations of the International Criminal Court are crucial for ensuring responsibility and justice for the terrible crimes committed in Ukraine," Borrel said. "One thing is clear: a global response is needed to ensure that those responsible for the atrocities committed in Ukraine are brought to justice. We are working closely with the International Criminal Court to ensure that there is no impunity for those responsible for war crimes," said Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders. The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC prosecutor. On April 25, Eurojust and the ICC agreed to join forces and take part in the work of the joint EU investigation team. Currently, information is being collected on war crimes and crimes against humanity, so that in the future relevant actors can conduct investigations and make decisions to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are brought to justice. This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
And then what exactly are you going to do if you find any?? Your friggin sanctions did nothing but strengthen the ruble...
Armageddon won't be pretty, but it's not like it's the end of the world or something 
"One thing is clear: a global response is needed to ensure that those responsible for the atrocities committed in Ukraine are brought to justice. We are working closely with the International Criminal Court to ensure that there is no impunity for those responsible for war crimes," said Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders. The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC prosecutor. On April 25, Eurojust and the ICC agreed to join forces and take part in the work of the joint EU investigation team. Currently, information is being collected on war crimes and crimes against humanity, so that in the future relevant actors can conduct investigations and make decisions to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are brought to justice. This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
This is what most of Europe has signed up for... In shark attacks or lion attacks, it's usually just one or two guys who die. Whole countries could freeze andor starve due to stupidity attacks affecting a few of their leaders.  I'm hoping that Russians will allow some of those countries to return to something resembling status-quo-ante after jettisoning their brain-dead leaders and leaving NATO. You never know, that might happen. Russians are basically Christians and I don't picture them wanting to see the entire populations of Germany and France starve and freeze...  Russia will, of course, demand that Europe turn off any stupid little witch hunts such as the one you mention, before they try to save anybody....
I'm hoping that Russians will allow some of those countries to return to something resembling status-quo-ante after jettisoning their brain-dead leaders and leaving NATO. You never know, that might happen. Russians are basically Christians and I don't picture them wanting to see the entire populations of Germany and France starve and freeze...  Russia will, of course, demand that Europe turn off any stupid little witch hunts such as the one you mention, before they try to save anybody....
A Ukrainian Nazi reveals the regime plan on Tv 2015 - says Donbass is overly populated with people nobody has any use for useless people and sitting on rich resources and in order to exploit those resources 1.5 million Donbas people have to be exterminated
Maybe I overdid it. But I was trying to achieve the goal of convincing the world to provide weapons and put pressure on Russia, said Denisova, convinced that such intentions fully justify her awkwardness. Someone wants to negotiate with Kyiv? WarDonbass
The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC prosecutor. On April 25, Eurojust and the ICC agreed to join forces and take part in the work of the joint EU investigation team. Currently, information is being collected on war crimes and crimes against humanity, so that in the future relevant actors can conduct investigations and make decisions to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are brought to justice. This crisis response will provide targeted support to the ICC prosecutor's office to further expand the Office's data storage and processing infrastructure and to build additional analytical and forensic capabilities for new types of evidence, particularly digital ones. Source: https:censor.netuan3346729
In shark attacks or lion attacks, it's usually just one or two guys who die. Whole countries could freeze andor starve due to stupidity attacks affecting a few of their leaders.  I'm hoping that Russians will allow some of those countries to return to something resembling status-quo-ante after jettisoning their brain-dead leaders and leaving NATO. You never know, that might happen. Russians are basically Christians and I don't picture them wanting to see the entire populations of Germany and France starve and freeze...  Russia will, of course, demand that Europe turn off any stupid little witch hunts such as the one you mention, before they try to save anybody....
Read also: "book of executioners": Zelensky announced the launch of a project with data on the atrocities of the Russian army
