EXCLUSIVE  Nikki Haley Biden Rewarding Terrorists With New Iran Deal
20220320
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4048339/posts
KEYWORDS: biden breitbart captainobvious deal dictatorship haley iran iraniannukes iraq islamicgenocide joshuaklein lebanon mullahcracy nikkihaley wipingoffmap yemen
Giving Biden a chance to justify making any and all economic sanctions the U.S. has imposed on Russia vanish into the ether, at the exact perfect time successful conclusion of peace negotiations between Russia and Ukraine as if the same had never even existed.
Biden is just doing what Obozos White House Staff tells him to do......Obozo gave billions to radicals in the Middle East and his staff then is now Bidens STaff.
Why does what she says, late to the party, so noticeable, when Trump has been saying the same thing for years.
I get the feeling she believes she has more to offer this country than just helping to erase its history.
She's running in 2024...She was quick to denounce Trump for Jan. 6th. Trump didn't accept a phone call from the traitor after she had a look at the polling on herself.
Nimrata Randhawa was born an Indian national to TWO Indian national parents, she is not a natural born citizen.
She was quick to denounce Trump for Jan. 6th. Trump didn't accept a phone call from the traitor after she had a look at the polling on herself.
Blockade of Cuba by USA was OK by neocons, but Russia must tolerate NATO weapons on its border!
The name Nikki Haley - which is what this woman calls herself - keeps appearing in the pop press.
Nikki Haley, who served as President Donald Trumps U.N. ambassador at the time the U.S. withdrew from the Iran deal, blasted President Joe Biden for rewarding terrorists through a new illegitimate deal with Iran over its nuclear program as reports swirl of an imminent revival of the 2015 nuclear pact, only weaker than the original. In an exclusive statement to Breitbart News on Sunday, Haley claimed that a new Iran nuclear deal would be a disaster.
She's running in 2024She keeps trying to make herself happen.She's not going to happen. We are on to her.
In an exclusive statement to Breitbart News on Sunday, Haley claimed that a new Iran nuclear deal would be a disaster.
She keeps trying to make herself happen.She's not going to happen. We are on to her.
They are all coming out of the woodwork. I wonder if they even have a clue that if Trump runs no a single on of them will get over 10.
 Natural born citizens are born here of citizen parentsKnow Islam, No Peace-No  Islam, Know Peace
Agree. Out with the imposters. Aint gonna vote for any more RINO pieces of sh!t.
