Former Air Force Officers Please Explain MiG Situation
20220311
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4045812/posts
AEWC systems are really meant to warn allied forces of incoming threats and to track their movements for interception. Ukraine needs tactical fighters to deliver bombs to ground targets primarily like hitting that miles long convoy and to deter air threats secondarily. I am sure Ukraine has all kind of ground based AEWC systems, however its likely Russia has already neutralized those for the most part so some AWACS would be helpful, however they contain top secret technology that we would rather not let into Russias hands, so giving those to Ukraine aint happening.
I understand Poland has offered the Ukraine their MiG-29's hoping to replace them with American F-16's. I understand that the Biden administration put a stop for that. 43 Republican Senators want to push the deal, which won't happen. However my question is this of what use would aircraft do in this particular situation without AWACS or airborne command and control? Most air to air combat seems to be over the horizon as opposed to dogfighting. Would they not have to turn on their radars to look for airborne targets and become proverbial come kill me signs under this scenario? Obviously there are going to be a ton of AA assets on the ground for the Russians. I'm going to assume that the Ukrainians don't have HARM missiles, a Wild Weasel type function in their air force or a way to mitigate AA units besides flares. So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities?
Of course, attacking ground targets anywhere is risky business, especially since the Ukrainians do not have air superiority. But this may be the risks Ukrainians pilots are willing to take since their backs are against the wall.
Think flying artillery. The Israeli AF in 1948 were flying aircraft in from Europe during their first war Czech S199 an altered Me-109G and later on Spitfires. They used volunteer ferry pilots. I knew a businessman down in Philadelphia, Phil Marmestein, who was a ferry pilot after getting done flying dive bombers for the USN.
Ukranians are probably trained to fly the MIGs. Not so much F16s. But I bet that an F16 is a better fighter than a MIG so it is an upgrade. Will the MIGs get all of the weaponry and maintenance equipment?
Supposedly, Ukraine has a degraded but still functioning air force and air defense system that can take in and make use of additional aircraft. It is unclear whether Ukraine has AWACS or is limited to ground control. Apparently, the intended missions for the Migs and Sukhois are ground attack against Russian forces in Ukraine and air defense missions in the air space above, the sort of missions that the remaining Ukrainian Air Force is still capable of.
This is something I have been perplexed about or at least had questions about. I understand Poland has offered the Ukraine their MiG-29's hoping to replace them with American F-16's. I understand that the Biden administration put a stop for that. 43 Republican Senators want to push the deal, which won't happen. However my question is this of what use would aircraft do in this particular situation without AWACS or airborne command and control? Most air to air combat seems to be over the horizon as opposed to dogfighting. Would they not have to turn on their radars to look for airborne targets and become proverbial come kill me signs under this scenario? Obviously there are going to be a ton of AA assets on the ground for the Russians. I'm going to assume that the Ukrainians don't have HARM missiles, a Wild Weasel type function in their air force or a way to mitigate AA units besides flares. So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities?
Moot point. The larger question is why this matter appears to be now obscured by smokescreen or a smokescreen itself.
It makes little sense that the Poles would directly provoke Putin and the public diplomatic gymnastics in the wake of the supposed offer - coupled with the curious drive by Republicans to push for almost direct intervention - frames either incompetence, neocon interference or propaganda.
They seem to be passing out stingers and shoulder fired anti-aircraft like candy. I would be concerned with friendly fire incidents. The citizen soldiers firing on friendly air power that is pretty similar to what the enemy is flying.
Not really, I am thing of it as a Strike Eagle or FA-18. However that brings up another point no J-Stars equivalent either. Ground attack rarely needs AWACS. And the USAF is retiring their JSTARS.
What you do when you've haddone everything money can buy?What you do when you've haddone every kind of perverted?...and now need something else to keep life interesting?...play Gd.
You are beginning from the premise that the utility of the MiG-29 is strictly as an air superiority platform. It is a multi-role fighter that has substantial air-to-ground capabilities.
So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities? I'm neither military or former military, but more aircraft for the Ukrainians would allow more potential aircraft strikes on Russian ground targets - there seems to plenty of ground targets on Ukrainian soil. No need to go into heavily defended Russia. Of course, attacking ground targets anywhere is risky business, especially since the Ukrainians do not have air superiority. But this may be the risks Ukrainians pilots are willing to take since their backs are against the wall.
Both sides have some types of AA systems leaving both sides vulnerable to AA fire, which is one reason why both sides seem to fly low. The MiG 29s would probably used against low-flying Russian aircraft, especially Su25 ground attack planes, and helicopters.
So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities?
These aircraft would be shot down if they got close to the Belarus or Russian borders. The Russian SAMs would tear them apart.
Ever see The Wizard of Oz? Thats Washington DC - everything is PR and spin from the man behind the curtain. I doubt anyone even got close to asking the serious questions you are asking.
Just bored gazillionaires playing their games. What you do when you've haddone everything money can buy? What you do when you've haddone every kind of perverted? ...and now need something else to keep life interesting? ...play Gd."Green Light!.....Red Light!"
However my question is this of what use would aircraft do in this particular situation without AWACS or airborne command and control? Most air to air combat seems to be over the horizon as opposed to dogfighting. Would they not have to turn on their radars to look for airborne targets and become proverbial come kill me signs under this scenario? Obviously there are going to be a ton of AA assets on the ground for the Russians. I'm going to assume that the Ukrainians don't have HARM missiles, a Wild Weasel type function in their air force or a way to mitigate AA units besides flares. So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities?
Obviously there are going to be a ton of AA assets on the ground for the Russians. I'm going to assume that the Ukrainians don't have HARM missiles, a Wild Weasel type function in their air force or a way to mitigate AA units besides flares. So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities?
Just bored gazillionaires playing their games.What you do when you've haddone everything money can buy?What you do when you've haddone every kind of perverted?...and now need something else to keep life interesting?...play Gd.
What you do when you've haddone every kind of perverted?...and now need something else to keep life interesting?...play Gd.
I'm neither military or former military, but more aircraft for the Ukrainians would allow more potential aircraft strikes on Russian ground targets - there seems to plenty of ground targets on Ukrainian soil. No need to go into heavily defended Russia. Of course, attacking ground targets anywhere is risky business, especially since the Ukrainians do not have air superiority. But this may be the risks Ukrainians pilots are willing to take since their backs are against the wall.
Would they not have to turn on their radars to look for airborne targets and become proverbial come kill me signs under this scenario? Obviously there are going to be a ton of AA assets on the ground for the Russians. I'm going to assume that the Ukrainians don't have HARM missiles, a Wild Weasel type function in their air force or a way to mitigate AA units besides flares. So my basic question is this what would the true military value be if they are fighting without AWACS command and control and significant anti-AA abilities?
Kind of makes sense in my limited understand... Ukranians are probably trained to fly the MIGs. Not so much F16s. But I bet that an F16 is a better fighter than a MIG so it is an upgrade. Will the MIGs get all of the weaponry and maintenance equipment?
Since no one wants WWIII and the Polish MIG-29s represent an escalation and intervention by a NATO member country, why dont we do what the Turks also NATO already did? Send them drones operated from far Western Ukraine in air-to-ground roles. Drones wont be shoot down Russian MIGs, but they can raise holy hell on columns of armor.
