Four Russian generals killed in Ukraine in 20 days as many as in Afghanistan in 10 years
20220316
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4047092/posts
The problem with propaganda is that youre supposed to get THE OTHER GUY to believe it, not yourself.
KEYWORDS: bidensbuttboys bidenswar chechens chechnya friendlyfire gerasimov goodriddance hopetheresmore meettheagitpropboss nowar4biden pigs putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression sealteam sealteamsix ukraine zotneocons zottherussiantrolls
Turn to the Lord Jesus as a damneddestitute sinner, trust Him to save U  be baptized  follow Him!
On Friday, March 11 ... reported the death of Major General Andrei Kolesnikov, 45, commander of the 29th Combined Army of the Eastern Military District. According to the Russian site Valenteshop.ru, in the ten years that the Afghanistan War lasted 1979-1989, four Soviet generals died. Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
On Monday, March 7, Ukrainian sources reported the death of Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, 44, chief of staff of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Friday, March 11 ... reported the death of Major General Andrei Kolesnikov, 45, commander of the 29th Combined Army of the Eastern Military District. According to the Russian site Valenteshop.ru, in the ten years that the Afghanistan War lasted 1979-1989, four Soviet generals died. Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
Inside every liberal is a blood-thirsty fascist yearning to be free of current societal constraints.
Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
All posts made under this handle are, for the intents and purposes of the author, considered satire.
On March 3, the death of Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky, the first member of the Russian Army Generalate killed during this invasion, was confirmed. He was deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Monday, March 7, Ukrainian sources reported the death of Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, 44, chief of staff of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Friday, March 11 ... reported the death of Major General Andrei Kolesnikov, 45, commander of the 29th Combined Army of the Eastern Military District. According to the Russian site Valenteshop.ru, in the ten years that the Afghanistan War lasted 1979-1989, four Soviet generals died. Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
According to the Daily Mail, these generals were killed by an angry and righteous mob of second graders, throwing their lunch boxes at the Russian invaders, and driving them from the city.
According to the Russian site Valenteshop.ru, in the ten years that the Afghanistan War lasted 1979-1989, four Soviet generals died. Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
Since everything is going according to plan as stated by the Russian Ministry of Defense, I guess it was all part of Putin's plan to get a bunch of his own generals killed.
Or just died a few miles from the front with a sour stomach and a bad political record.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the U S of A, and to the REPUBLIC for which it stands.
" Since everything is going according to plan as stated by the Russian Ministry of Defense, I guess it was all part of Putin's plan to get a bunch of his own generals killed. " It might be.
Unfortunately many young men from both Ukraine and Russia are losing their lives. Even though Russia invaded and started the fight many of the young Russian soldiers had no choice but to go and die for Putin. The detruction and loss of life over Putin's politics and ego is very sad.
They are being outside of frame at other end of giant table. I have longest table in all the land comrades
Any Russian Grunts killed yet or just high ranking officers? Unfortunately many young men from both Ukraine and Russia are losing their lives. Even though Russia invaded and started the fight many of the young Russian soldiers had no choice but to go and die for Putin. The detruction and loss of life over Putin's politics and ego is very sad.
This Tuesday, March 15, the fourth death of a Russian general in the invasion of Ukraine has been reported, in this case Major General Oleg Mityaev... Mityaev was commander of the Russian Armys 150th Motorized Rifle Division, a mechanized infantry unit... On March 3, the death of Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky, the first member of the Russian Army Generalate killed during this invasion, was confirmed. He was deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Monday, March 7, Ukrainian sources reported the death of Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, 44, chief of staff of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Friday, March 11 ... reported the death of Major General Andrei Kolesnikov, 45, commander of the 29th Combined Army of the Eastern Military District. According to the Russian site Valenteshop.ru, in the ten years that the Afghanistan War lasted 1979-1989, four Soviet generals died. Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
Mityaev was commander of the Russian Armys 150th Motorized Rifle Division, a mechanized infantry unit... On March 3, the death of Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky, the first member of the Russian Army Generalate killed during this invasion, was confirmed. He was deputy commander of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Monday, March 7, Ukrainian sources reported the death of Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, 44, chief of staff of the 41st Combined Arms Army of the Russian Ground Forces... On Friday, March 11 ... reported the death of Major General Andrei Kolesnikov, 45, commander of the 29th Combined Army of the Eastern Military District. According to the Russian site Valenteshop.ru, in the ten years that the Afghanistan War lasted 1979-1989, four Soviet generals died. Russia has already reached that number of dead generals in just 20 days of invading Ukraine, which shows, once again, the military disaster that this offensive is being for the invaders. Last week, official Ukrainian sources noted that there are about 20 generals in the Russian forces that are part of the invasion of Ukraine.
