G7 warns Russia of massive consequences if Ukraine is attacked
20211213
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4020669/posts
The Kremlin denies it plans to invade and says the West is gripped by Russophobia. Moscow says the expansion of NATO threatens Russia and has contravened assurances given to it as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.At a meeting in the northern English city of Liverpool, the G7 delegates said they were united in their condemnation of Russia's military build-up near Ukraine and they called on Moscow to de-escalate."Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response," said the statement, which confirmed a draft version first reported by Reuters.
Regardless of the intended purpose, this is a trip-wire. Will the US do likewise? Id think the US will - after seeing little reaction to GB doing so.
U.S. intelligence assesses that Russia could be planning a multi-front offensive on Ukraine as early as next year, involving up to 175,000 troops.The Kremlin denies it plans to invade and says the West is gripped by Russophobia. Moscow says the expansion of NATO threatens Russia and has contravened assurances given to it as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.At a meeting in the northern English city of Liverpool, the G7 delegates said they were united in their condemnation of Russia's military build-up near Ukraine and they called on Moscow to de-escalate."Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response," said the statement, which confirmed a draft version first reported by Reuters.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
 It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen. 
Its retarded that he is provoking a war he cant win, question is why? collusion?
G7 NATO countries are run by homosexuals, trannies, feminized soyboys, and chomos. They wont do anything. Putin has no reason not to invade.
Ill go out on a limb and say the elitist establishment is transitioning from the covid scam to a Cold War 2.0 to keep itself in power.
That won't work if Russia and China turn us all into cinders. The Biden elite are playing very dangerous game and assuming that they will be on top when the shooting stops.
At a meeting in the northern English city of Liverpool, the G7 delegates said they were united in their condemnation of Russia's military build-up near Ukraine and they called on Moscow to de-escalate."Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response," said the statement, which confirmed a draft version first reported by Reuters.
Christmas is cancelled, all the reindeer have Covid and a red nose, Donner and Prancer and Vaxxen
Let the Euro s dal with it. Theyve got money, armies and nukes. They dont need us.
Ecce Crucem Domini!  Fugite partes adversae! Vicit Leo de tribu Juda, Radix David! Alleluia! 
"Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response," said the statement, which confirmed a draft version first reported by Reuters.
LIVERPOOL, England Reuters -Russia faces massive consequences and severe costs if President Vladimir Putin attacks Ukraine, the Group of Seven warned in a statement on Sunday.U.S. intelligence assesses that Russia could be planning a multi-front offensive on Ukraine as early as next year, involving up to 175,000 troops.The Kremlin denies it plans to invade and says the West is gripped by Russophobia. Moscow says the expansion of NATO threatens Russia and has contravened assurances given to it as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.At a meeting in the northern English city of Liverpool, the G7 delegates said they were united in their condemnation of Russia's military build-up near Ukraine and they called on Moscow to de-escalate."Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response," said the statement, which confirmed a draft version first reported by Reuters.
Everything will be okay in the end.  If its not okay, its not the end.
"Washington has repeatedly said no country can veto Ukraine's NATO hopes" The dumbest and most dangerous policy position the US has taken in its history.
Biden and Germany both said no to Ukraine ascending into NATO for at least 10 years. And Germany is kinda held hostage to Russia for energy.
