Germany making progress cutting Russian oil amid invasion of Ukraine
20220325
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4049596/posts
Yes and their diplomats at the UN sat around and openly laughed and giggled like a bunch of petulant grade schoolers.
They really do think theyre oh so much smarter and more sophisticated than everybody else - especially non western Europeans. Theyre just sure of it. Theyre incredibly smug about it. Of course the reality is that they are hopelessly naive and laughably wrong - often. For example they thought Reagan was a stupid cowboy and that actually winning the Cold War was a pipe dream and gosh, wed all better get used to the Commies because they were here to stay and say, didnt we really have some good things to learn from them, etc.
This is SO typical of German elites, you cant imagine. I was an exchange student there both in undergrad and in law school. I grew up with the language such that they dont realize Im an American until I tell them....ergo Ive heard what they really think. Ive heard this from them since the early 90s.
Thats a great find that should go vital. Smarta$$ Germans delegation with the smirks on their faces. Idiots.
Europe is sending Russia a billion dollars a day to fund the war in Ukraine. In the meantime, we sent a one-time 800 million shipment and pretend that sanctions are doing something.
The only purpose of a pistol is to fight your way back to the rifle you should never have dropped
Since Europe has exploited most of their hydrocarbons, their choice is to be obligated to the Russians or the Moslems over the next couple decades. Longer term they can take the path France started on and go nuclear.
We already KNNOW what that costs the Ukraine, but how much does it cost us???
All Russia has to do is turn off the spigot on the pipes going through Ukraine. Ukraine makes LOTSA money for the use of those lines.These geniuses shut down their nuke and coal resources....just plain STUPID.
The first important milestones to free us from the grip of Russian imports have been achieved, he said.
I have a few questions for them. Ist es noch lustig jungs? Wer lacht jetzt?
Retired USAF air traffic controller.   Father of a  USAF pilot.  USAF aviation runs in the family 
I suppose the warming spring temperatures have nothing to do with the 15 reduction in natural gas imports.For you math purists, I realize this is actually closer to 37.5
Habeck said imports of Russian oil now accounted for 25 of German imports, down from 35 before the invasion, and gas imports have been cut to 40 from 55. Russian hard coal imports were down to 25 from 50 before the invasion. The first important milestones to free us from the grip of Russian imports have been achieved, he said.
Germany walked themselves into that trap and now they need us to get them out????
Lets see if theyre grown up enough to make these hard choices.....and to shove it down the Gaia worshippers throats.
So after this latest German FACE PLANT, they will do what they always do.....get up, dust themselves off, pretend nothing happened and hope nobody notices what sophomoric IDIOTS they truly are.
In reality they really arent good at making the world work. They just dont see that.
VIDEO: Trump went to the UN and called out countries for relying on Russian oil
Theyve picked all the low hanging fruit. Now comes the hard part.....recommissioning nuclear and coal fired power plants, building LNG terminals, securing long term supply contracts for oil imports, securing alternative coal supplies - or reopening their own mines and digging their own again.
Lets see if theyre grown up enough to make these hard choices.....and to shove it down the Gaia worshippers throats.But, but, muh climate emergency.
Germany has made significant progress towards reducing its exposure to imports of Russian gas, oil and coal since Russia invaded Ukraine, Economy Minister Robert Habeck said on Friday. Germany is trying to wean itself off Russian energy in the wake of the Ukraine crisis, but this is an uphill battle after decades of relying on Russia for energy supplies. Habeck said imports of Russian oil now accounted for 25 of German imports, down from 35 before the invasion, and gas imports have been cut to 40 from 55. Russian hard coal imports were down to 25 from 50 before the invasion. The first important milestones to free us from the grip of Russian imports have been achieved, he said.
Germany is trying to wean itself off Russian energy in the wake of the Ukraine crisis, but this is an uphill battle after decades of relying on Russia for energy supplies. Habeck said imports of Russian oil now accounted for 25 of German imports, down from 35 before the invasion, and gas imports have been cut to 40 from 55. Russian hard coal imports were down to 25 from 50 before the invasion. The first important milestones to free us from the grip of Russian imports have been achieved, he said.
This clip of Trump is about the most perfect illustration of that that exists .
