Has Bidens Presidency Been Transformed
20220302
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4042927/posts
Biden is leading from behind, as he has always done in his 45 years in government. Meanwhile, the war still rages, everyone in Europe and the Americas is taking a financial beating and the supply chains seem to be getting worse, not better.
He had help from the mafia to steal his first senate seat and he had help from the mediademocrat mafia to steal the presidency.
Free Will.  GOD gives you the choice I  accept or reject Him!  Choose Him. It depends on you.
The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
I did believe him when he announced his Covid fraud goon squad like the Jan 6th commission to punish anyone who tells the truth other than the ministry of truth..
But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
Other than the media created hype, Biden hasnt done anything for Ukraine other than some personal criminal trade offs through Hunter. Ukraine war is very good for that loser.
Yes. His presidency has changed from well formed, smelly turds, to even more smelly diarrhea.
Start with the economy. In a recent Fox News poll, just 37 of those surveyed said they approved of Biden's handling of the most important issue in this or most any other year. Sixty-one percent disapproved. On handling crime, Biden's approval rating was 35, with 59 disapproval. On immigration, the numbers were 34 approve, 62 disapprove. On uniting the country, 38 approve, 58 disapprove. And finally, on handling COVID -- which used to be Biden's strength -- the numbers were 47 approve, 51 disapprove. Now Biden is handling the crisis in Ukraine, and it should be no surprise that the public has doubts about that, too. A new Suffolk poll found that 35 approved of Biden's handling of Ukraine, versus 49 who disapproved and 17 who don't know. The "don't know" portion of responses to Ukraine questions is pretty high from poll to poll, reflecting not just many Americans' unfamiliarity with foreign policy issues, but genuine confusion about what is going on in Ukraine and what the best American course would be. But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
people arent stupid...they know Putin is doing his thing because Biden is senile...the Speaker is female and senile to boot...the VP is female with the brain of a squirrel..never thought id see this country so helpless and weak...
He is "going to secure the boarder" with technology and bring illegals into America to work with a path to citizenship because that's what the Chamber of Commerce wants. I think that sums it up.
The Democrats applauding everything Biden said looked silly last night. Biden has not delivered any success stories. He has delivered chaos.
If any presidency needed a new arc, it is Biden's. But it seems unlikely to significantly change Biden's political fortunes for one reason: Joe Biden is still Joe Biden. The reason the president's job approval rating is low is because he is not doing a good job. The polls reflect a fundamental deficiency in his performance. Yes, Biden is old and slowing down, and that does not help. But Biden in his prime would not have been a good president. There is no reason to believe he can suddenly become one now, after one speech. Biden's job approval rating in the last four polls in the RealClearPolitics average of polls was 38, 39, 40 and 38, respectively. That is a reflection of the public's negative view of how Biden has handled key issues and his presidency, in general. Start with the economy. In a recent Fox News poll, just 37 of those surveyed said they approved of Biden's handling of the most important issue in this or most any other year. Sixty-one percent disapproved. On handling crime, Biden's approval rating was 35, with 59 disapproval. On immigration, the numbers were 34 approve, 62 disapprove. On uniting the country, 38 approve, 58 disapprove. And finally, on handling COVID -- which used to be Biden's strength -- the numbers were 47 approve, 51 disapprove. Now Biden is handling the crisis in Ukraine, and it should be no surprise that the public has doubts about that, too. A new Suffolk poll found that 35 approved of Biden's handling of Ukraine, versus 49 who disapproved and 17 who don't know. The "don't know" portion of responses to Ukraine questions is pretty high from poll to poll, reflecting not just many Americans' unfamiliarity with foreign policy issues, but genuine confusion about what is going on in Ukraine and what the best American course would be. But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
And thus, we find the most important reason for Biden Bidens handlers encouraging and promoting the Russian-Ukraine War: To create this story.
My reason is that his administrations policies are still what they are. Was our immigration crisis mentioned in the speech or by the media people?
The reason the presidents job approval rating is low is because he is not doing a good job.
In a recent Fox News poll, just 37 of those surveyed said they approved of Biden's handling of the most important issue in this or most any other year. Who is this 37????? What did they do, poll the White House staff of Biden??? What 37 of people in this nation are that STUPID to believe that old braindead fool is good for this nation??? These people should have their voting rights revoked. People that stupid should not be allowed to hold the important issues of this nation in their hands. The person leading this nation is the figure head of the world. Not anymore. Instead, it is a murdering thug who runs Russia that is the head honcho of the world. We have slipped down below Venezuela!!!
Who is this 37????? What did they do, poll the White House staff of Biden??? What 37 of people in this nation are that STUPID to believe that old braindead fool is good for this nation??? These people should have their voting rights revoked. People that stupid should not be allowed to hold the important issues of this nation in their hands. The person leading this nation is the figure head of the world. Not anymore. Instead, it is a murdering thug who runs Russia that is the head honcho of the world. We have slipped down below Venezuela!!!
These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
Russia's war on Ukraine comes at a moment of political weakness for resident Joe Biden. His job approval rating is low, low enough to drag down his party's chances in the midterms, Americans are angry watching their standard of living diminished by inflation, there is lingering frustration about the president's handling of COVID and there are widespread doubts whether the 79-year-old Biden -- the oldest president in the nation's history -- is physically and mentally up to the job. But the war, as emergencies sometimes do, has lent a new look to Biden's presidency. "A presidency transformed," was the headline of Politico Playbook recently. The New York Times said the "dizzying events of the past week" have "pushed to the sidelines the congressional squabbling over Mr. Biden's domestic agenda, and are already redefining the arc of his presidency." If any presidency needed a new arc, it is Biden's. But it seems unlikely to significantly change Biden's political fortunes for one reason: Joe Biden is still Joe Biden. The reason the president's job approval rating is low is because he is not doing a good job. The polls reflect a fundamental deficiency in his performance. Yes, Biden is old and slowing down, and that does not help. But Biden in his prime would not have been a good president. There is no reason to believe he can suddenly become one now, after one speech. Biden's job approval rating in the last four polls in the RealClearPolitics average of polls was 38, 39, 40 and 38, respectively. That is a reflection of the public's negative view of how Biden has handled key issues and his presidency, in general. Start with the economy. In a recent Fox News poll, just 37 of those surveyed said they approved of Biden's handling of the most important issue in this or most any other year. Sixty-one percent disapproved. On handling crime, Biden's approval rating was 35, with 59 disapproval. On immigration, the numbers were 34 approve, 62 disapprove. On uniting the country, 38 approve, 58 disapprove. And finally, on handling COVID -- which used to be Biden's strength -- the numbers were 47 approve, 51 disapprove. Now Biden is handling the crisis in Ukraine, and it should be no surprise that the public has doubts about that, too. A new Suffolk poll found that 35 approved of Biden's handling of Ukraine, versus 49 who disapproved and 17 who don't know. The "don't know" portion of responses to Ukraine questions is pretty high from poll to poll, reflecting not just many Americans' unfamiliarity with foreign policy issues, but genuine confusion about what is going on in Ukraine and what the best American course would be. But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
My wife, who is a liberal and at one time a news reporter and anchor asked why we have been gaslighted by the left. She has seen the light. Closest I got to converting her is she said every politician needs to be canned, regardless of party.
Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of reboot for the presidents term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Bidens legislative agenda.
Now he will blame Putin. Democrats always blame someone else for the trouble they have caused.
After hearing what Harris said about the Russian war against Ukraine, there should be widespread doubts whether she is mentally up to the job.
Much like attempting to reboot a dusty IBM PC Jr. one might find up in the attic.
Now Biden is handling the crisis in Ukraine, and it should be no surprise that the public has doubts about that, too. A new Suffolk poll found that 35 approved of Biden's handling of Ukraine, versus 49 who disapproved and 17 who don't know. The "don't know" portion of responses to Ukraine questions is pretty high from poll to poll, reflecting not just many Americans' unfamiliarity with foreign policy issues, but genuine confusion about what is going on in Ukraine and what the best American course would be. But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
I noticed last night he immediately went into pom pom waving on Ukraine. He sound all loud and bullying like he usually does when he is trying to project power, Right then, along with all the Ukraine bling and the tubby Ambassador, I knew Ukraine and and US support was planned to cover for this old fool.
But the war, as emergencies sometimes do, has lent a new look to Biden's presidency. "A presidency transformed," was the headline of Politico Playbook recently. The New York Times said the "dizzying events of the past week" have "pushed to the sidelines the congressional squabbling over Mr. Biden's domestic agenda, and are already redefining the arc of his presidency." If any presidency needed a new arc, it is Biden's. But it seems unlikely to significantly change Biden's political fortunes for one reason: Joe Biden is still Joe Biden. The reason the president's job approval rating is low is because he is not doing a good job. The polls reflect a fundamental deficiency in his performance. Yes, Biden is old and slowing down, and that does not help. But Biden in his prime would not have been a good president. There is no reason to believe he can suddenly become one now, after one speech. Biden's job approval rating in the last four polls in the RealClearPolitics average of polls was 38, 39, 40 and 38, respectively. That is a reflection of the public's negative view of how Biden has handled key issues and his presidency, in general. Start with the economy. In a recent Fox News poll, just 37 of those surveyed said they approved of Biden's handling of the most important issue in this or most any other year. Sixty-one percent disapproved. On handling crime, Biden's approval rating was 35, with 59 disapproval. On immigration, the numbers were 34 approve, 62 disapprove. On uniting the country, 38 approve, 58 disapprove. And finally, on handling COVID -- which used to be Biden's strength -- the numbers were 47 approve, 51 disapprove. Now Biden is handling the crisis in Ukraine, and it should be no surprise that the public has doubts about that, too. A new Suffolk poll found that 35 approved of Biden's handling of Ukraine, versus 49 who disapproved and 17 who don't know. The "don't know" portion of responses to Ukraine questions is pretty high from poll to poll, reflecting not just many Americans' unfamiliarity with foreign policy issues, but genuine confusion about what is going on in Ukraine and what the best American course would be. But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
Biden's job approval rating in the last four polls in the RealClearPolitics average of polls was 38, 39, 40 and 38, respectively. That is a reflection of the public's negative view of how Biden has handled key issues and his presidency, in general. Start with the economy. In a recent Fox News poll, just 37 of those surveyed said they approved of Biden's handling of the most important issue in this or most any other year. Sixty-one percent disapproved. On handling crime, Biden's approval rating was 35, with 59 disapproval. On immigration, the numbers were 34 approve, 62 disapprove. On uniting the country, 38 approve, 58 disapprove. And finally, on handling COVID -- which used to be Biden's strength -- the numbers were 47 approve, 51 disapprove. Now Biden is handling the crisis in Ukraine, and it should be no surprise that the public has doubts about that, too. A new Suffolk poll found that 35 approved of Biden's handling of Ukraine, versus 49 who disapproved and 17 who don't know. The "don't know" portion of responses to Ukraine questions is pretty high from poll to poll, reflecting not just many Americans' unfamiliarity with foreign policy issues, but genuine confusion about what is going on in Ukraine and what the best American course would be. But all the issue ratings are subsets of the larger question of Biden's leadership. A recent Washington Post poll asked two key questions about that. The first was: "Do you think Biden is a strong leader, or not?" You can't get more basic than that. Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said no, they do not think Biden is a strong leader. Thirty-six percent said yes, Biden is a strong leader, while 5 had no opinion. Even Biden's party has doubts: 20, or 1 in 5, of Democrats said Biden is not a strong leader. A whopping 65 of independents agreed. Then the Post asked: "Do you think Biden has the mental sharpness it takes to serve effectively as president, or not?" A majority -- 54 -- said no. Forty percent said he does, and 7 did not know. Broken down by party, 13 of Democrats said Biden does not have the sharpness, versus 88 of Republicans and 59 of independents. Even if the Republican number reflects strong partisanship, having 59 of independents doubt the president's capacity to serve is a serious problem for the White House These are fundamental problems with Biden's presidency that will limit his ability to recover from his current low standing in the polls. The one success Biden can count on is the coming Senate confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson. Jackson will likely win the support of a Republican or two, but even if she does not, a Democratic SCOTUS nominee is one thing Senate Democrats will unite around. So barring some incredible, unforeseen news about the nomination, Biden will win confirmation of his choice. But that is just one small bit of good news in an otherwise bleak landscape. Before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the White House was hoping for some sort of "reboot" for the president's term, starting with his State of the Union address, to spur action on Biden's legislative agenda. Now, the Ukraine war has changed the subject. But it has not changed the essential nature of the man in the White House.
since the era of mutual assured destruction, started in the mid 60s, never before has one nuclear power threatened another...they did it again this morning...the FM , that Labrov guy said it again about an hour ago. United States military and leadership have been paralyzed...they wont even mention one word about it....they are taking the madman theory to a whole new level....stunning.
She sounded like a 2nd grader reading a school report. Her words were posted on the tv as she was heard speaking them and her words should have been written in crayon as she sound like a grade school student.
Was our immigration crisis mentioned in the speech or by the media people? He is "going to secure the boarder" with technology and bring illegals into America to work with a path to citizenship because that's what the Chamber of Commerce wants. I think that sums it up.
Best case, Biden gets full credit for defusing the crisis or for restoring the peace or solving the crisis. Nobel Prize, accolades, glories accumulate! Bidens and Pelosi, Kerry, Romney sons all have Ukrainian contracts with Ukrainian oil and gas firms. Bidens Ukrainian cohorts are regenerated, his contracts even more valuable.
Its terrifying what happens when voters elect a president  vice-president based solely on appearance. They tell us they voted for Biden  Harris because they appeared to be stable, calm and mature, not like that madman Trump. Yeah right. Trump has more intelligence, more work world experience and more maturity and determination then any of the democrats. Trumps direct style may appear brash to the scaredy-crats yet he is direct, honest, a hard worker and a champion for the American people.
