Hopes for ceasefire increased after talks with Kiev Moscow Turkish FM
20220317
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4047553/posts
How many Russian generals does it take for them to decide this fight isnt worth it?
Put all of the negotiators in a freezing cold,bombed out basement, with no electricity. Give them only dirty water and cold sausage. I think they'd come to an agreement, quickly.
avuolu, who was in Moscow to hold talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov one day ago, said, Our hopes for the ceasefire have increased a little more. The minister said a meeting between Ukrainian President Volodmyry Zelensky and Putin is also possible and that Turkey was ready to host them at a meeting in Turkey as a facilitator. We are also in contact with Mr. Putin to this end, avuolu said, but adding it is difficult to guess when they can meet. It will be them who will decide for the meeting. The minister said he informed Kuleba about his talks with Lavrov and exchanged views about the ways to narrow differences between the two countries and end the armed conflict. This war must stop as soon as possible tears and blood must stop, he said.
Of course Putin can use the peace negotiations to delay Western opposition, weaken Ukraine resolve, buy time while he levels the cities, etc.
We will welcome to bring two foreign ministers again in Antalya. But we believe it is time to prepare a ground for a meeting between the leaders of Ukraine and Russia, Foreign Minister Mevlt avuolu said at a press conference with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba in Kiev on March 17. avuolu, who was in Moscow to hold talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov one day ago, said, Our hopes for the ceasefire have increased a little more. The minister said a meeting between Ukrainian President Volodmyry Zelensky and Putin is also possible and that Turkey was ready to host them at a meeting in Turkey as a facilitator. We are also in contact with Mr. Putin to this end, avuolu said, but adding it is difficult to guess when they can meet. It will be them who will decide for the meeting. The minister said he informed Kuleba about his talks with Lavrov and exchanged views about the ways to narrow differences between the two countries and end the armed conflict. This war must stop as soon as possible tears and blood must stop, he said.
Considering Russia invaded intending to conquer, Russia is the one that may not have a choice if it wants to now make a deal.
A kleptocracy--if they can keep it.   Think of it as the Cantillon Effect in action.
I was talking to a Russian girl at the time, about Jan 6. She said " Why didn't you finish the job? The world knows the election was stolen. Now Americans just look weak".
Hopes for a general ceasefire in Ukraine have increased following meetings with Ukrainian and Russian foreign ministers in Lviv and Moscow, Turkeys top diplomat has said, informing that President Recep Tayyip Erdoan has had another phone conversation with Russian leader Vladimir Putin. We will welcome to bring two foreign ministers again in Antalya. But we believe it is time to prepare a ground for a meeting between the leaders of Ukraine and Russia, Foreign Minister Mevlt avuolu said at a press conference with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba in Kiev on March 17. avuolu, who was in Moscow to hold talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov one day ago, said, Our hopes for the ceasefire have increased a little more. The minister said a meeting between Ukrainian President Volodmyry Zelensky and Putin is also possible and that Turkey was ready to host them at a meeting in Turkey as a facilitator. We are also in contact with Mr. Putin to this end, avuolu said, but adding it is difficult to guess when they can meet. It will be them who will decide for the meeting. The minister said he informed Kuleba about his talks with Lavrov and exchanged views about the ways to narrow differences between the two countries and end the armed conflict. This war must stop as soon as possible tears and blood must stop, he said.
I agree. I was talking to a Russian girl at the time, about Jan 6. She said " Why didn't you finish the job? The world knows the election was stolen. Now Americans just look weak".
She said " Why didn't you finish the job? The world knows the election was stolen. Now Americans just look weak".
American participation in negotiations notably absent. With the coup against Trump, the first Great American era came to an end. Under BidenHarris, we are presently not a player of influence on the world stage. God willing and if this country goes through a major political reform and religious revival, in the future we may rise again.
Ecce Crucem Domiip!  Fugite partes adversae! Vicit Leo de tribu Juda, Radix David! Alleluia! 
Not have a choice was Ukraine, when it had no choice but to defend itself.
The minister said a meeting between Ukrainian President Volodmyry Zelensky and Putin is also possible and that Turkey was ready to host them at a meeting in Turkey as a facilitator. We are also in contact with Mr. Putin to this end, avuolu said, but adding it is difficult to guess when they can meet. It will be them who will decide for the meeting. The minister said he informed Kuleba about his talks with Lavrov and exchanged views about the ways to narrow differences between the two countries and end the armed conflict. This war must stop as soon as possible tears and blood must stop, he said.
With the coup against Trump, the first Great American era came to an end. Under BidenHarris, we are presently not a player of influence on the world stage. God willing and if this country goes through a major political reform and religious revival, in the future we may rise again.
The only way you know a commie is lying is when they open their pieholes.p
When they reach a deal, which will happen as the Ukes dont have a choice, how does the west walk back the sanctions, war crime rhetoric, nazi allies, and on and on? Or does all of that just stay in place as we fund a 20 year, house to house, blow up all the schools and hospitals insurgency like Iraq and Afgan?
Lets pray for a cease-fire. I cant stand these people getting shot up. The question is, how much do the Ukes give up?
The minister said he informed Kuleba about his talks with Lavrov and exchanged views about the ways to narrow differences between the two countries and end the armed conflict. This war must stop as soon as possible tears and blood must stop, he said.
Give them only dirty water and cold sausage. I think they'd come to an agreement, quickly.
If they hurry and get it done maybe we can save a billion dollars in military aid that would no longer be needed. Go, go, go!!! lol.
If they hurry and get it done maybe we can save a billion dollars in military aid that would no longer be needed. Go, go, go!!!
 I don't have sufficient information to make an informed opinion said no lefty ever.
Lets pray for a cease-fire. I cant stand these people getting shot up. The question is, how much do the Ukes give up?Yep, negotiated settlement.
Armies stay where they are and resupply. Not necessarily good for a final agreement. Could go either way.
