In a shift Republican platform doesnt call for arming Ukraine against Russia spurring outrage July 16 2016
20220708
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4077177/posts
And so I think you are going to be seeing a lot of European countries reversing course when it comes to Ukraine saying that we need to figure out how we are going to survive and survive means we are going to have to figure out how we are going to get along peacefully with Russia. How do we reestablish economic ties with Russia how do we get that cheap Russian gas. These are going to be the critical points and thats where I think Putin said, We havent even begun yet. We havent even begun to deliver the pain. We have so many different ways to deliver pain to Europe right now. And I think he is saying, youre sort of the ones who get to decide how much pain you get. We can do this the easy way or we can do this the hard way. The easy way is for you to put on your thinking cap and realize you have lost. You are not going to win. Russia will prevail in Ukraine. Russia will get what it wants in Ukraine and Russia will get what it wants in terms of a new Europen security framework. The sooner you realize that the easier this will be for everybody.
And as Europe begins to collapse economically to give you an example, the resignation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The Ukrainian government is in a panic because they are losing one of their biggest cheerleaders. The man who was out there in front of everybody loudly proclaiming the support for Ukraine and promoting Russophobic attitudes, etc. Hes gone and the people who have to replace him come from a party that is looking at defeat in the next election. And that defeat isnt going to be because of their Ukraine policy. That defeat is going to be because of failed economic policies that are a direct result of their Ukraine policies.
as opposed to requiring Russian forces to destroy it. Look. There is no way that Russia will win a direct conflict with the USA over anything. Even with our current military leadership.sarcasmRememberinNovember when we destroy the ComDems
Theres another aspect, too, if you recall in the leadup to this special military operation Russia made a concerted effort to engage the United States and NATO, responsibly on the issue of a new European security framework. One that saw NATO withdraw its infrastructure back to 1997 levels and respect Russias legitimate security interests in its immediate sphere of influence, such as Ukraine, Belarus, etc. Were not there yet, either. And then we have to take into context the main weapon that the West was hoping to use against Russia in the case of a Russian invasion was an economic weapon. That the idea was that the West was to strangle Russia economically to destroy Russia economically and thereby to create so much disruption within the Russian state that the Russian people would remove Vladimir Putin from power.
Vladimir Putin, I know he is reviled outside of Russia I think in Russia right now he has a very high approval rating. But, I will tell you this as a historian....one day the history of this is going to be written, decades from now when people have lot the emotion of the moment. And when people talk about this time in the history of the world there are two leaders that are going to be mentioned by name in a positive fashion. One is Chinas president Xi the other is Vladimir Putin and I am betting that Vladimir Putin is actually elevated to being the smartest, wisest, most pragmatic, most responsible global leader. That because of Vladimir Putin the world actually avoided a major conflagration. Yes we are at war in Ukraine, yes there is a potential for different conflicts, but I think the measured way that he is leading Russia right now is actually preventing a wider conflict by giving the West a chance to destroy itself as opposed to requiring Russian forces to destroy it.
Reporting from Washington  For decades, Republican doctrine has viewed Russia as a power to mistrust. But in Donald Trumps GOP, Moscows sins seem to matter less. The platform written at the GOP convention in Cleveland this week eliminated references to arming Ukraine in its fight with Russia, which seized the Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and has supported separatists in eastern Ukraine.Those represent sharp departures from U.S. policy and recent GOP positions and sparked immediate concerns that Trump would abandon treaty commitments to allies.  Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who is not attending the convention in his home state, was among the Republicans who slammed Trumps comments.We think NATO doesnt matter? Are we kidding? Kasich said to the International Republican Institute. He vowed to support arming Ukraine as long as Im breathing and said changing the platform was a terrible mistake.
I will propose that Establishment collusion against Trump began on June 16, 2015, the day he rode down the escalator at Trump Tower with Melania to announce his candidacy for President.  The punch line, was back then the Democrats wanted him to with the Republican primary because they thought he would be easiest to beat.
Interviewer: My guest today is an incredible man, Scott Ritter. Our last interview with you has gained a total of almost 2 million views. This is a huge, huge number people like you and people appreciate your wisdom and your knowledge. My first question is yesterday Vladimir Putin said, and I quote, Russia has not started anything seriously in Ukraine yet. I think Mr. Putin never says anything for nothing. What do you think his words mean and to whom this message is sent?
But, if you want to continue to play stupid games then understand you will win stupid prizes. And the stupid prizes are Russia will continue to press militarily, geopolitically, economically and Russia hasnt even begun doing everything it is capable of doing to inflict pain on Europe and the United States. The fact that Russia is not rushing to do this shows a level of maturity that doesnt exist in the West. I will say that right upfront. I can guarantee you if these were Western politicians they would have their foot to the floor trying to accelerate as fast as possible to inflict as much pain as possible. That is why they failed economically because they tried to do everything at once instead of a gradual approach and then adjust accordingly as Russia responded...you come with a plan. But, to have that kind of a gradual approach means you have had to respond it through you have actually had to war game this out. They didnt. They just assumed right up the front that if they hit the full sanction button Russia would collapse. They were wrong. Russia is not making the same mistake. This is a very gradual approach. Russia is allowing the West to make mistakes that Russia can then exploit instead of rushing too fast making mistakes that the West can exploit.
Look. There is no way that Russia will win a direct conflict with the USA over anything. Even with our current military leadership.sarcasmRememberinNovember when we destroy the ComDems
Texas is not where you were born, but a Free State of Heart, Mind  Attitude!
849 servicemen of the APU died in the 24th ombr during the week of fighting near Seversk ... good info from official sources of ukraine
This photo is given by the main Turkish news agency with the following caption: The Armed Forces of Ukraine survived in an ambush near Seversk , while the rest of their unit was killed . Picture at site of just two Ukrainians hugging and crying
It is in this direction that special forces brave nightmares diggers of the Black Sea
Never recall an article about Biden and the Democrat support for Iran and China. The hypocracy of the LA Times is off the chart. And to quote Kasich as a source is beyond the pale.
Those represent sharp departures from U.S. policy and recent GOP positions and sparked immediate concerns that Trump would abandon treaty commitments to allies.  Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who is not attending the convention in his home state, was among the Republicans who slammed Trumps comments.We think NATO doesnt matter? Are we kidding? Kasich said to the International Republican Institute. He vowed to support arming Ukraine as long as Im breathing and said changing the platform was a terrible mistake.
Scott Ritter: Well, thank you for putting me in the very difficult position of trying to get into the mind of Russias president. What do I think Vladimir Putin meant by this? First, I think he meant what he said. I think we need to understand that the Ukraine conflict is not just a special military operation. That it encompasses economic and geopolitical aspects. Right now what we are seeing is basically the initial phase of a military operation that is the liberation of Donbass. But, we havent seen the breaking of the Ukrainian government necessary to the degree to accomplish two stated objectives: One, de-nazification two, de-militarization. Were not even close to de-nazification or de-militarization. And there are a lot of people who are singularly focused on the Donbass, the fighting there saying well, this is everything, this is what is going on.
The Russians have on a level that should make every Western economist resign their position, go back to school and learn what global economics really is. The Russian president together with a very capable supporting cast. We keep talking about Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Putin and to do so ignores the reality that Russia has a very effective government, a very effective civil service that is populated by some very competent people who have done a very good job of studying the world that Russia lives in. Unlike, for instance, their American counterparts who only live in a fantasy world of how wonderful America is and how the world revolves around America. Russia has an extremely realistic appreciation of its role in the world, where it stands in the world and how the world operates. And you see this in the Russian response economically and I think the key to this conflict is ultimately going to be economics meaning that Europe may collapse economically before the Ukrainian military does militarily.
The punch line, was back then the Democrats wanted him to with the Republican primary because they thought he would be easiest to beat.
We think NATO doesnt matter? Are we kidding? Kasich said to the International Republican Institute. He vowed to support arming Ukraine as long as Im breathing and said changing the platform was a terrible mistake.
Todays socialist, LGBT, energy-hostile NATO is not your grandfathers NATO. Its hostility to free speech is as bad as Putins. The USA should ditch it.
The platform written at the GOP convention in Cleveland this week eliminated references to arming Ukraine in its fight with Russia, which seized the Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and has supported separatists in eastern Ukraine.Those represent sharp departures from U.S. policy and recent GOP positions and sparked immediate concerns that Trump would abandon treaty commitments to allies.  Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who is not attending the convention in his home state, was among the Republicans who slammed Trumps comments.We think NATO doesnt matter? Are we kidding? Kasich said to the International Republican Institute. He vowed to support arming Ukraine as long as Im breathing and said changing the platform was a terrible mistake.
Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who is not attending the convention in his home state, was among the Republicans who slammed Trumps comments.We think NATO doesnt matter? Are we kidding? Kasich said to the International Republican Institute. He vowed to support arming Ukraine as long as Im breathing and said changing the platform was a terrible mistake.
In office, Trump did more to arm and assist Ukraine than Obama did. What Trump avoided was being openly provocative toward Russia.
Its the sad state of affairs in America right now where doing the right thing is political suicide.
"Here you have the beginning Establishment collusion against Trump" I will propose that Establishment collusion against Trump began on June 16, 2015, the day he rode down the escalator at Trump Tower with Melania to announce his candidacy for President.  The punch line, was back then the Democrats wanted him to with the Republican primary because they thought he would be easiest to beat.
