Inspired By Ukraine Civilians Study Urban Warfare In Taiwan
20220708
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4077149/posts
And so I think you are going to be seeing a lot of European countries reversing course when it comes to Ukraine saying that we need to figure out how we are going to survive and survive means we are going to have to figure out how we are going to get along peacefully with Russia. How do we reestablish economic ties with Russia how do we get that cheap Russian gas. These are going to be the critical points and thats where I think Putin said, We havent even begun yet. We havent even begun to deliver the pain. We have so many different ways to deliver pain to Europe right now. And I think he is saying, youre sort of the ones who get to decide how much pain you get. We can do this the easy way or we can do this the hard way. The easy way is for you to put on your thinking cap and realize you have lost. You are not going to win. Russia will prevail in Ukraine. Russia will get what it wants in Ukraine and Russia will get what it wants in terms of a new Europen security framework. The sooner you realize that the easier this will be for everybody.
The self-governed democracy lives under constant threat from authoritarian China, which views the island as part of its territory and has pledged to take it one day. But the war in Ukraine has also inspired Yeh.
And as Europe begins to collapse economically to give you an example, the resignation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The Ukrainian government is in a panic because they are losing one of their biggest cheerleaders. The man who was out there in front of everybody loudly proclaiming the support for Ukraine and promoting Russophobic attitudes, etc. Hes gone and the people who have to replace him come from a party that is looking at defeat in the next election. And that defeat isnt going to be because of their Ukraine policy. That defeat is going to be because of failed economic policies that are a direct result of their Ukraine policies.
It results in loose-association gibberish when you try to type your ideas in a coherent manner.
If the US intervenes, they will strike and then use nuclear blackmail. If WW3 does not start, they take Taiwan successfully and then expand their aggression to South Korea and Japan using the same tactics.  Putinists on this forum will transform into CCP shills and explain why China is actually good: because they imprison or torture queers and Muslims to death, or some such thing.
No more than casual experience regards Taiwan but any takeover by mainland China may be more corporate or social change than force-of-arms.
Theres another aspect, too, if you recall in the leadup to this special military operation Russia made a concerted effort to engage the United States and NATO, responsibly on the issue of a new European security framework. One that saw NATO withdraw its infrastructure back to 1997 levels and respect Russias legitimate security interests in its immediate sphere of influence, such as Ukraine, Belarus, etc. Were not there yet, either. And then we have to take into context the main weapon that the West was hoping to use against Russia in the case of a Russian invasion was an economic weapon. That the idea was that the West was to strangle Russia economically to destroy Russia economically and thereby to create so much disruption within the Russian state that the Russian people would remove Vladimir Putin from power.
Vladimir Putin, I know he is reviled outside of Russia I think in Russia right now he has a very high approval rating. But, I will tell you this as a historian....one day the history of this is going to be written, decades from now when people have lot the emotion of the moment. And when people talk about this time in the history of the world there are two leaders that are going to be mentioned by name in a positive fashion. One is Chinas president Xi the other is Vladimir Putin and I am betting that Vladimir Putin is actually elevated to being the smartest, wisest, most pragmatic, most responsible global leader. That because of Vladimir Putin the world actually avoided a major conflagration. Yes we are at war in Ukraine, yes there is a potential for different conflicts, but I think the measured way that he is leading Russia right now is actually preventing a wider conflict by giving the West a chance to destroy itself as opposed to requiring Russian forces to destroy it.
and then finally normal conservativesThat right there is funny. The last I looked, there are app. 20 varieties of conservative, so unless you specify what a "normal conservative" is I'm going to have to push your comment to the side and wait until you clear things up.
"The Russia-Ukraine war is a big reason why I came to this workshop," 47-year-old Yeh, whose call sign during training is "Prof", tells AFP during a break between sessions. When Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine at the end of February, he gave shape to the darkest fears of many Taiwanese. The self-governed democracy lives under constant threat from authoritarian China, which views the island as part of its territory and has pledged to take it one day. But the war in Ukraine has also inspired Yeh.
The division you see is between those who see the road ahead and those who are applying Cold War thinking to whats happening today.
Dressed in military camouflage with an assault rifle at the ready, "Prof" Yeh peers from behind a vehicle in a parking lot outside Taipei, scanning his surroundings and waiting for a signal to advance. Yeh actually works in marketing, and his weapon is a replica -- but he is spending the weekend attending an urban warfare workshop to prepare for what he sees as the very real threat of a Chinese invasion. "The Russia-Ukraine war is a big reason why I came to this workshop," 47-year-old Yeh, whose call sign during training is "Prof", tells AFP during a break between sessions. When Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine at the end of February, he gave shape to the darkest fears of many Taiwanese. The self-governed democracy lives under constant threat from authoritarian China, which views the island as part of its territory and has pledged to take it one day. But the war in Ukraine has also inspired Yeh.
The first rule in combat is no two theaters of conflict are the same. Taiwan and Ukraine are about as different as you will find. Furthermore, the sheer brutality of the Chinese will leave no room to resist and survive.
Agree. A gradually ratcheting tighter air and sea blockade is much more likely than a D-Day invasion.
The division you see ... is between low IQ Q-tards, conspiracy nutcases in general, liberaltarians, closet-Nazis with a hardon for Vladimir Putin, and then finally normal conservatives.  The most annoying thing and scary about the Q-tards, the nutcases etc., is they're dumb, arrogant and have the zealotry of end of day cultists, so they make pronouncements like yours constantly and won't listen to rational discourse under any circumstance.
When Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine at the end of February, he gave shape to the darkest fears of many Taiwanese. The self-governed democracy lives under constant threat from authoritarian China, which views the island as part of its territory and has pledged to take it one day. But the war in Ukraine has also inspired Yeh.
Interviewer: My guest today is an incredible man, Scott Ritter. Our last interview with you has gained a total of almost 2 million views. This is a huge, huge number people like you and people appreciate your wisdom and your knowledge. My first question is yesterday Vladimir Putin said, and I quote, Russia has not started anything seriously in Ukraine yet. I think Mr. Putin never says anything for nothing. What do you think his words mean and to whom this message is sent?
But, if you want to continue to play stupid games then understand you will win stupid prizes. And the stupid prizes are Russia will continue to press militarily, geopolitically, economically and Russia hasnt even begun doing everything it is capable of doing to inflict pain on Europe and the United States. The fact that Russia is not rushing to do this shows a level of maturity that doesnt exist in the West. I will say that right upfront. I can guarantee you if these were Western politicians they would have their foot to the floor trying to accelerate as fast as possible to inflict as much pain as possible. That is why they failed economically because they tried to do everything at once instead of a gradual approach and then adjust accordingly as Russia responded...you come with a plan. But, to have that kind of a gradual approach means you have had to respond it through you have actually had to war game this out. They didnt. They just assumed right up the front that if they hit the full sanction button Russia would collapse. They were wrong. Russia is not making the same mistake. This is a very gradual approach. Russia is allowing the West to make mistakes that Russia can then exploit instead of rushing too fast making mistakes that the West can exploit.
That is exactly the plan outlined by dissidents from China who claim China may engage in such a blockade sometime this year. If the US intervenes, they will strike and then use nuclear blackmail. If WW3 does not start, they take Taiwan successfully and then expand their aggression to South Korea and Japan using the same tactics.  Putinists on this forum will transform into CCP shills and explain why China is actually good: because they imprison or torture queers and Muslims to death, or some such thing.
I read that the US gov are now trying to foster partisans behind Russian lines. Idiotic.
PLAN-Navy has a better chance than the PLAN-Army which consists of a bunch of young, fat jerkoffs.Chinese Government Says Their Soldiers Are Wimps
That right there is funny. The last I looked, there are app. 20 varieties of conservative, so unless you specify what a "normal conservative" is I'm going to have to push your comment to the side and wait until you clear things up.
... is between low IQ Q-tards, conspiracy nutcases in general, liberaltarians, closet-Nazis with a hardon for Vladimir Putin, and then finally normal conservatives.  The most annoying thing and scary about the Q-tards, the nutcases etc., is they're dumb, arrogant and have the zealotry of end of day cultists, so they make pronouncements like yours constantly and won't listen to rational discourse under any circumstance.
The most annoying thing and scary about the Q-tards, the nutcases etc., is they're dumb, arrogant and have the zealotry of end of day cultists, so they make pronouncements like yours constantly and won't listen to rational discourse under any circumstance.
If China wants to conquer Tawain it doesn't need to invade, just put up a tight blockade. I give Taiwan 3 weeks before they surrender.
Yeh actually works in marketing, and his weapon is a replica -- but he is spending the weekend attending an urban warfare workshop to prepare for what he sees as the very real threat of a Chinese invasion. "The Russia-Ukraine war is a big reason why I came to this workshop," 47-year-old Yeh, whose call sign during training is "Prof", tells AFP during a break between sessions. When Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine at the end of February, he gave shape to the darkest fears of many Taiwanese. The self-governed democracy lives under constant threat from authoritarian China, which views the island as part of its territory and has pledged to take it one day. But the war in Ukraine has also inspired Yeh.
China will only attempt a takeover of Taiwan if The American government supports it, allows it. FULL STOP. Otherwise their entire economy will be cancelled and unlike Russia they wont survive it. They will be decimated.
Why would China invade? If China wants to conquer Tawain it doesn't need to invade, just put up a tight blockade. I give Taiwan 3 weeks before they surrender.
What this means to the Russians is that no part of Ukraine can remain for the west to launch attacks from. The Russians will take it all to end the war. Once the proxy is gone, NATO will not risk sponsoring an attack from their soil.
The Mainland is not a closed shop to some level of private  business travel by Taiwanese including inter-country family relations.
The liberal world order has its global boogieman with Russia and now its time to crash their old, new world order. Good luck to everyone reading our Ukraine posts. The division you see is between those who see the road ahead and those who are applying Cold War thinking to whats happening today.
KEYWORDS: bidennantocic ccp chang cicbiden communism doom drinkthepunytears eternalwarmachine feelthepunyanger globohomo myoligarchs oligarchsoyvey poopinbootlickers poopinjoe poopinjoebiden poopybootlickers punyneoconanger putinsbuttboys putinversuspoopin seanchang taiwan tearsofthepunyneocon war xisbuttboys zmaninmiami
Scott Ritter: Well, thank you for putting me in the very difficult position of trying to get into the mind of Russias president. What do I think Vladimir Putin meant by this? First, I think he meant what he said. I think we need to understand that the Ukraine conflict is not just a special military operation. That it encompasses economic and geopolitical aspects. Right now what we are seeing is basically the initial phase of a military operation that is the liberation of Donbass. But, we havent seen the breaking of the Ukrainian government necessary to the degree to accomplish two stated objectives: One, de-nazification two, de-militarization. Were not even close to de-nazification or de-militarization. And there are a lot of people who are singularly focused on the Donbass, the fighting there saying well, this is everything, this is what is going on.
The Russians have on a level that should make every Western economist resign their position, go back to school and learn what global economics really is. The Russian president together with a very capable supporting cast. We keep talking about Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Putin and to do so ignores the reality that Russia has a very effective government, a very effective civil service that is populated by some very competent people who have done a very good job of studying the world that Russia lives in. Unlike, for instance, their American counterparts who only live in a fantasy world of how wonderful America is and how the world revolves around America. Russia has an extremely realistic appreciation of its role in the world, where it stands in the world and how the world operates. And you see this in the Russian response economically and I think the key to this conflict is ultimately going to be economics meaning that Europe may collapse economically before the Ukrainian military does militarily.
Putinists on this forum will transform into CCP shills and explain why China is actually good: because they imprison or torture queers and Muslims to death, or some such thing.
Most striking is the fact that its foolish to ignore the probability of an enormous CCP fifth-column in Taiwan. Present in every discipline, the sign-changers are ready.
If China wants to conquer Tawain it doesn't need to invade, just put up a tight blockade. I give Taiwan 3 weeks before they surrender. That is exactly the plan outlined by dissidents from China who claim China may engage in such a blockade sometime this year. If the US intervenes, they will strike and then use nuclear blackmail. If WW3 does not start, they take Taiwan successfully and then expand their aggression to South Korea and Japan using the same tactics.  Putinists on this forum will transform into CCP shills and explain why China is actually good: because they imprison or torture queers and Muslims to death, or some such thing.
