Invaders launched airstrikes on Kramatorsk railway damaged
20220405
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4052412/posts
The city was attacked on the night of Tuesday, April 5.  If I'm not mistaken it's only the mourning of April there 5th as I type.
If Im not mistaken its only the mourning of April the 5th there as I type.
As a result, the railway track was damaged. This was announced by the mayor of Kramatorsk Alexander Goncharenko. The mayor did not specify what weapons were used to damage the tracks and how serious the situation was. "We are studying. The timing is still unclear. If something is known in more detail, I will immediately inform you," he wrote. Message from the mayor. We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
Message from the mayor. We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
If I'm not mistaken it's only the mourning of April there 5th as I type.
Possibly be in the night or while it was still night early Tuesday? Lotta dark night between midnight and dawn.
"We are studying. The timing is still unclear. If something is known in more detail, I will immediately inform you," he wrote. Message from the mayor. We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
Explosions in Kramatorsk Russian troops launched an air strike on Kramatorsk, Donetsk region. The city was attacked on the night of Tuesday, April 5. As a result, the railway track was damaged. This was announced by the mayor of Kramatorsk Alexander Goncharenko. The mayor did not specify what weapons were used to damage the tracks and how serious the situation was. "We are studying. The timing is still unclear. If something is known in more detail, I will immediately inform you," he wrote. Message from the mayor. We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
Check article link. Russian troops launched an air strike on Kramatorsk, Donetsk region. The city was attacked on the night of Tuesday, April 5.
We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
Ok, so its currently 1:08PM in Ukraine. How did what is being alleged happen, happen Tuesday night?
Russian troops launched an air strike on Kramatorsk, Donetsk region. The city was attacked on the night of Tuesday, April 5. As a result, the railway track was damaged. This was announced by the mayor of Kramatorsk Alexander Goncharenko. The mayor did not specify what weapons were used to damage the tracks and how serious the situation was. "We are studying. The timing is still unclear. If something is known in more detail, I will immediately inform you," he wrote. Message from the mayor. We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
The mayor did not specify what weapons were used to damage the tracks and how serious the situation was. "We are studying. The timing is still unclear. If something is known in more detail, I will immediately inform you," he wrote. Message from the mayor. We remind you that it is absolutely impossible to publish photosvideos, exact coordinates, addresses, and places where enemy missiles hit on the internet!
The obozrevatel article posted 5.04.2022 09:08 1 minute, stating announcement in the morning by the mayor of Kramatorsk Alexander Goncharenko.
