Is the US Promoting Worldwide Bioterrorism
20220312
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4046037/posts
Nuland: Ukraine has biological research facilities, which, in fact, we are now quite concerned Russian forces may be seeking to gain control of. So we are working with the Ukrainians on how they can prevent any of those research materials from falling into the hands of Russian forces, should they approach.
On Thursday, March 9, the U.S. undersecretary of state for political affairs stated that there was biological research taking place in the Ukraine. Then, in a follow-up question by Sen. Marco Rubio, she stated emphatically that if any biological material from that lab were used in an act of biological warfare, it would surely come from Russia. While there is a distinction between biological research and biological warfare research, the very fact that the answer and follow-up question alluded to using material from that lab in a biological attack shows that the pathogens in that lab can be weaponized. Further, we know that biological weapons of mass destruction were proposed to the U.N. way back in 2002 by then-Secretary of State Colin Powell as an excuse for invading Iraq. So, the admission that there is a biological research lab that has material that could be used as bioweapons could easily be used as an excuse by Russia for invading Ukraine. However, it cannot be used as justification for the war crime of Russias bombing a maternity hospital or other atrocities that are already taking place. Nevertheless, despite disclaimers that might come -- that the facility is not a bio-weapons developmental facility -- we can say if it looks like bio-weapons, sounds like bio-weapons, and kills like bio-weapons, it is a bio-weapons facility despite disclaimers. In an article going back to June 2010 entitled Biolab Opens In Ukraine, the author, Tina Redlup, wrote, The level-3 bio-safety lab, which is the first built under the expanded authority of the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, will be used to study anthrax, tularemia and Q fever as well as other dangerous pathogens. Additionally, Sen. Richard Lugar stated that the facility began
"I doubt we will ever know the whole story." Maybe we Look to the evil Khazarians for the answer..?
Yes, CIA, State Department maybe FDA trying to gain power. Biden may not even know about it if this is the case.
A Russians B Ukrainians C Americans D All of the above E Any of the above         I choose "E".
If there is a biological or chemical weapon incident or attack inside of Ukraine, is there any doubt in your mind that 100 percent, it would be the Russians that would be behind it?
Rubio: Im sure youre aware that the Russian propaganda groups are already putting out there all kinds of information about how theyve uncovered a plot by the Ukrainians to release biological weapons in the country with NATOs coordination.
The U.S. government and its intelligence apparatus is out of control. For the good of mankind both need to be brought to heel. How that is done or if its even possible is a question I dont have the answer to.
And who can say that the US Military is on the side of the American Citizen and not on the NWOs side
That doesnt elicit a whole lot of confidence in any part of the Banana Republic
A lie can travel around the world and back again while the truth is lacing up its boots
The Joe Biden steal seems like it had to have the blessing of the US military on some level
"If there is a biological or chemical weapon incident or attack inside of Ukraine, is there any doubt in your mind that 100 percent, it would be the  that would be behind it?A Russians B Ukrainians C Americans D All of the above E Any of the above         I choose "E".
Getting rid of the Carbon emitters is the only way we can prevent global warming.
With Russian capture of our labs it would be ironic if Russia uses our bioweapons against Ukraine.
For photos of Colorado scenery and wildlife, click on mycreen name for my FR home page.
As long as leftist authoritarian get to dispense it on those who they find deplorable or may disagree with their goals, then yes they feel its their duty. They look forward to composting 50 of the population to have their sustainable utopia.
It certainly looks irrefutable that the US was funding the COVID development. Was the release accidental or intentional? If intentional, who did it? Was it an individual, a group like the WEC or was a national government like China behind it? What were the plans for these facilities in Ukraine? I doubt we will ever know the whole story.
But it would appear to be bad form for the US Military to blow places like McClean, VA to Kingdom come
In an article going back to June 2010 entitled Biolab Opens In Ukraine, the author, Tina Redlup, wrote, The level-3 bio-safety lab, which is the first built under the expanded authority of the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, will be used to study anthrax, tularemia and Q fever as well as other dangerous pathogens. Additionally, Sen. Richard Lugar stated that the facility began
Further, we know that biological weapons of mass destruction were proposed to the U.N. way back in 2002 by then-Secretary of State Colin Powell as an excuse for invading Iraq. So, the admission that there is a biological research lab that has material that could be used as bioweapons could easily be used as an excuse by Russia for invading Ukraine. However, it cannot be used as justification for the war crime of Russias bombing a maternity hospital or other atrocities that are already taking place. Nevertheless, despite disclaimers that might come -- that the facility is not a bio-weapons developmental facility -- we can say if it looks like bio-weapons, sounds like bio-weapons, and kills like bio-weapons, it is a bio-weapons facility despite disclaimers. In an article going back to June 2010 entitled Biolab Opens In Ukraine, the author, Tina Redlup, wrote, The level-3 bio-safety lab, which is the first built under the expanded authority of the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, will be used to study anthrax, tularemia and Q fever as well as other dangerous pathogens. Additionally, Sen. Richard Lugar stated that the facility began
Its not the US, its the Deep State, which is a global entity, we are now occupied by the Deep State.
What's the story on this new twist to the war in Ukraine? On Thursday, March 9, the U.S. undersecretary of state for political affairs stated that there was biological research taking place in the Ukraine. Then, in a follow-up question by Sen. Marco Rubio, she stated emphatically that if any biological material from that lab were used in an act of biological warfare, it would surely come from Russia. While there is a distinction between biological research and biological warfare research, the very fact that the answer and follow-up question alluded to using material from that lab in a biological attack shows that the pathogens in that lab can be weaponized. Further, we know that biological weapons of mass destruction were proposed to the U.N. way back in 2002 by then-Secretary of State Colin Powell as an excuse for invading Iraq. So, the admission that there is a biological research lab that has material that could be used as bioweapons could easily be used as an excuse by Russia for invading Ukraine. However, it cannot be used as justification for the war crime of Russias bombing a maternity hospital or other atrocities that are already taking place. Nevertheless, despite disclaimers that might come -- that the facility is not a bio-weapons developmental facility -- we can say if it looks like bio-weapons, sounds like bio-weapons, and kills like bio-weapons, it is a bio-weapons facility despite disclaimers. In an article going back to June 2010 entitled Biolab Opens In Ukraine, the author, Tina Redlup, wrote, The level-3 bio-safety lab, which is the first built under the expanded authority of the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, will be used to study anthrax, tularemia and Q fever as well as other dangerous pathogens. Additionally, Sen. Richard Lugar stated that the facility began
