Japan hyping China threat to boost its own military might Chinese spokesperson
20220506
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4060977/posts
I pledge allegiance the flag of the U S of A, and to the REPUBLIC for which it stands.
Add to that the fact that they're starting to sign treaties with impoverished,isolated Pacific islands,and impoverished South American nations, and you've got the makings for a new Dark Age...courtesy of Mao's loyal successors,the Butchers of Beijing.
Oh wait. That was Biden, Ukraine was trying to downplay it because the rich were fleeing the country.
Japan hyping China threat to boost its own military might: Chinese spokesperson The threat is real so the response is appropriate.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Friday said Japan is hyping the so-called China threat in order to find an excuse to boost its own military might. During a visit to the UK on Thursday, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said that he had "strong concerns" about unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the East China Sea and South China Sea and "rapid but not transparent" military build-up activities and economic coercion. The Japanese side has frequently exploited some diplomatic activities for its own ends by picking on China, exaggerating regional tensions and hyping the so-called China threat, said Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, at a regular press briefing in Beijing. Zhao said, the Japanese side is doing this to find an excuse for its own expansion of military strength, which undermines the mutual trust and cooperation among regional countries, and is not conducive to peace and stability in the region and will prove to be unpopular.
Japan has damn good reason to fear China and their satellite state,North Korea.China is already well on its way to owning Africa,having made corrupt agreements with many African leaders...every last one of whom is corrupt including South Africa.And they're meeting no real resistance to their claim on the entire South China Sea.Add to that the fact that they're starting to sign treaties with impoverished,isolated Pacific islands,and impoverished South American nations, and you've got the makings for a new Dark Age...courtesy of Mao's loyal successors,the Butchers of Beijing.
China pulling a page from Russias playbook - they have the absolute right to expand their own militaries to dominate their neighbors, but any neighbor who seeks to strengthen themselves is engaging in provocations.
China is always denigrating the Japanese, threatening them in social media and movies. If I had a neighbor like that, you betcha I would load up on weaponry just in case the unhinged neighbor caused problems.
During a visit to the UK on Thursday, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said that he had "strong concerns" about unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the East China Sea and South China Sea and "rapid but not transparent" military build-up activities and economic coercion. The Japanese side has frequently exploited some diplomatic activities for its own ends by picking on China, exaggerating regional tensions and hyping the so-called China threat, said Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, at a regular press briefing in Beijing. Zhao said, the Japanese side is doing this to find an excuse for its own expansion of military strength, which undermines the mutual trust and cooperation among regional countries, and is not conducive to peace and stability in the region and will prove to be unpopular.
The Japanese side has frequently exploited some diplomatic activities for its own ends by picking on China, exaggerating regional tensions and hyping the so-called China threat, said Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, at a regular press briefing in Beijing. Zhao said, the Japanese side is doing this to find an excuse for its own expansion of military strength, which undermines the mutual trust and cooperation among regional countries, and is not conducive to peace and stability in the region and will prove to be unpopular.
Zhao said, the Japanese side is doing this to find an excuse for its own expansion of military strength, which undermines the mutual trust and cooperation among regional countries, and is not conducive to peace and stability in the region and will prove to be unpopular.
Just like Ukraine hyped the Russian troop build up, and Russia denied there was anything sinister about it.
And it turns out Biden wasnt hyping anything, Russia did invade and it should look obvious to anyone who couldnt see it at the time.
