Kremlin sends 400 Russian mercenaries into Kyiv on mission to assassinate Zelenskyy report
20220228
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4042350/posts
The Kremlin has sent more than 400 Russian-paid mercenaries into Kyiv with the mission to assassinate Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, according to a report. The Wagner Group, a Russian private military company accused of covertly working with the Russian government, flew in mercenaries from Africa to Kyiv about five weeks ago, The Times of London reported. Their assignment was to decapitate Zelenskyys government and prepare the ground for Moscow to take control in exchange for handsome financial bonuses, according to the newspaper.
Its like looking at a meeting at Doctor Evils lair where theres only a few people present because Evil already killed the rest of them. Its quite comical, really.
Their assignment was to decapitate Zelenskyys government and prepare the ground for Moscow to take control in exchange for handsome financial bonuses, according to the newspaper.
And KGB Putin is hiding in the Ural mountains! Hes not even at the Kremlin!
Omicron is running high in Russia. The need for social distancing since vaccination is useless against COVID of the Omicron variant.
If Putin was smart he would send his assassins to take out the Soross , Rothschilds and other banksters who have messed up this world for their insatiable greed.
other banksters who have messed up this world for their insatiable greed. Putin is worth $20b. Where do you think he got that?
The Wagner Group, a Russian private military company accused of covertly working with the Russian government, flew in mercenaries from Africa to Kyiv about five weeks ago, The Times of London reported. Their assignment was to decapitate Zelenskyys government and prepare the ground for Moscow to take control in exchange for handsome financial bonuses, according to the newspaper.
I was starting to think that taking out Putin would be the quickest way to end this war.
By the way, it seems like a good idea to destroy the globalist bioweapons labs in the Ukraine.
What are the cosmological implications if the Resurrection of Christ is a true event in history?
Aside from a map posted by some dude on the intwerwebz there is no evidence to support the existence of these labs. Frankly, if there were any such labs Id welcome actual video and other evidence of them being publicized by Russia.
This move will win the hearts and minds of the Ukrainian people for sure sarc.
Putin looks like a sad little man hiding at a safe distance from his advisors and generals.
Amazing! Fox News has an embedded reporter in Putins cabinet meetings! His code name is Mockingbird. Shhhh
KGP Putin's grand plan not going so well.  KGB Putin meeting with his advisors today.  KGB Putin meeting with his generals yesterday.
Joe Biden increasingly isolated...seen pacing in the back yard and yelling at his dog....according to sources who wish to remain anonymous.
