Kremlin accuses Ukrainian helicopters of attacking oil facility INSIDE Russia  Video shows rockets fired from two aircraft blowing up storage depot 20 miles from border  as Kyivs counteroffensive retakes two more villages
20220401
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4051394/posts
Also, all Ukrainians and Ukrainian-speaking people within the current borders of Russia MUST be allowed to hold a referendum and decide whether their territory should belong to Ukraine.Regards,
 It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen. 
Vyacheslav Gladkov, appointed by Vladimir Putin in 2020, said two of Ukraine's military helicopters struck a fuel storage facility in the Russian city of Belgorod on Friday after crossing the border at low altitude. The resulting blaze injured two workers, Gladkov added, while some areas in the city, located close to the Ukrainian border, were being evacuated. Video shared on social media appeared to show the attack happening at 5.43am local time, followed by helicopters flying away from the blaze, although analysts have noted Russia uses the same time of helicopters as Ukraine. Ukraine's government is yet to confirm the incident but if confirmed, it would be the second time Ukraine has ventured past the border since the invasion in the latest humiliation for Putin in his flailing campaign after the Millerovo airbase was targeted last month. The Russian city of 369,000 people is 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and 50 miles from Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
Attacking an oil facility is only going to create massive trouble for both the corrupt losers at the Ukraine and their NATO backers in Europe.
The resulting blaze injured two workers, Gladkov added, while some areas in the city, located close to the Ukrainian border, were being evacuated. Video shared on social media appeared to show the attack happening at 5.43am local time, followed by helicopters flying away from the blaze, although analysts have noted Russia uses the same time of helicopters as Ukraine. Ukraine's government is yet to confirm the incident but if confirmed, it would be the second time Ukraine has ventured past the border since the invasion in the latest humiliation for Putin in his flailing campaign after the Millerovo airbase was targeted last month. The Russian city of 369,000 people is 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and 50 miles from Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
Ukraine's government is yet to confirm the incident but if confirmed, it would be the second time Ukraine has ventured past the border since the invasion in the latest humiliation for Putin in his flailing campaign after the Millerovo airbase was targeted last month. The Russian city of 369,000 people is 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and 50 miles from Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
Russia has accused Ukraine of attacking an oil facility inside Russia, amid claims the Kremlin could stage a 'false flag' attack to justify a further escalation of the war. Vyacheslav Gladkov, appointed by Vladimir Putin in 2020, said two of Ukraine's military helicopters struck a fuel storage facility in the Russian city of Belgorod on Friday after crossing the border at low altitude. The resulting blaze injured two workers, Gladkov added, while some areas in the city, located close to the Ukrainian border, were being evacuated. Video shared on social media appeared to show the attack happening at 5.43am local time, followed by helicopters flying away from the blaze, although analysts have noted Russia uses the same time of helicopters as Ukraine. Ukraine's government is yet to confirm the incident but if confirmed, it would be the second time Ukraine has ventured past the border since the invasion in the latest humiliation for Putin in his flailing campaign after the Millerovo airbase was targeted last month. The Russian city of 369,000 people is 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and 50 miles from Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
Secondly, The resulting blaze injured two workers, Gladkov added, while some areas in the city were being evacuated. Who does a false flag with two guys injured?
Glad to see that the denazification and demilitarization of Russia has begun.Zelinskyy should announce that he is willing to cease attacking IF Russia promises to join no military alliances and remain forever neutral.Also, all Ukrainians and Ukrainian-speaking people within the current borders of Russia MUST be allowed to hold a referendum and decide whether their territory should belong to Ukraine.Regards,
Russia has really not thought this all the way through. A future with a well armed and very hostile people with scores to settle, people who look just like you and speak your language with almost no telltale accent, combined with a long and porous border, will be extremely unplesant.
Attacking an oil facility is only going to create massive trouble for both the corrupt losers at the Ukraine and their NATO backers Okay Pootie fan
Video shared on social media appeared to show the attack happening at 5.43am local time, followed by helicopters flying away from the blaze, although analysts have noted Russia uses the same time of helicopters as Ukraine. Ukraine's government is yet to confirm the incident but if confirmed, it would be the second time Ukraine has ventured past the border since the invasion in the latest humiliation for Putin in his flailing campaign after the Millerovo airbase was targeted last month. The Russian city of 369,000 people is 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and 50 miles from Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
Substations would take care of turning out the lights in Kiev. The Soviets built them all, so its likely that Russia knows where they are.
Sounds like its time for Russia to start hitting civilian infrastructure in Ukraine. Hope they have the candles ready in Kiev!
Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
In short, this was a really stupid move from the Ukraine and their Satanic leadership and enablers.
The Russian city of 369,000 people is 25 miles from the border with Ukraine, and 50 miles from Kharkiv, in eastern Ukraine. Earlier in this week, reports initially claimed that Ukraine had attacked Belgorod. It later appeared more likely that the explosion at a weapons storage depot near Belgorod was the result of a human error, and not a Ukrainian airstrike. The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
The attack could be the latest boost for Volodymyr Zelensky who is striking back against the invading forces, and today recaptured the two strategic villages of Sloboda and Lukashivka on a main supply route between Kyiv and Chernihiv, British intelligence revealed. On Tuesday, similar footage emerged of a huge explosion in Belgorod, at the site of a suspected arms depot.
First of all, it is laughable that the aggressor would publically complain about some sort of unfair counter attack. Whos sympathy are they looking for?
Russia will rightfully cut off fuel from all involved, and raise the prices for those who are still allowed to buy.
Zelinskyy should announce that he is willing to cease attacking IF Russia promises to join no military alliances and remain forever neutral.Also, all Ukrainians and Ukrainian-speaking people within the current borders of Russia MUST be allowed to hold a referendum and decide whether their territory should belong to Ukraine.Regards,
Lucius Accius-Roman,170 BC - "oderint dum metuant" translated  "Let them hate so long as they fear"
Thats rich...Russia whining about oil facilities being attacked a week after doing the same to a Ukey one near Lviv
Russian state-owned energy conglomerate Gazprom said Friday that its natural gas continued to flow into Europe via Ukraine, Reuters reported.
