Lisichansk locals about their liberation by Russian forces
20220703
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4075761/posts
First, Putin initially had no intention of making this an all out war so he never mobilized Russian forces. He only brought in 200,000 troops so he obviously had no intention of a full steam ahead clash. Obviously he NEVER had superior forces numbers.
Excellent Rybar video of where Ukrainians and Russians are heading to for the next battle.
I definitely recommend watching...it is very short, but gives you a clear idea of what is next in this special military operation.
Depends where in France. If it was a German area in France, maybe they werent turncoats.
I had posted this earlier from a Telegram link, but for those who dont have Telegram here is the video on Twitter so it is accessible to all.
crests simply ran out of Soviet stocks along the borders, so they use imported ones, which are supplied to them in large volumes. And as you may have guessed, they generally do not help them much.
The advancing army always suffers multiple times greater losses. This is simply an axiom of military science, nothing can be done about it, it just needs to be taken into account. When we hear that, on the one hand, there are such and such losses, and on the other, such and such losses, then we should also clarify - under what circumstances ...
The advancing army always suffers multiple times greater losses. This is simply an axiom of military science, nothing can be done about it, it just needs to be taken into account.
You think maybe Zelensky had taught them all to play pianos with their Johnsons and the old woman was afraid they were gonna march into town and start doing that in the streets??
But if we talk about losses, then I would like to give a few words to the opposite side.
In one of these operations, I witnessed a radio conversation between the colonel and the company commander, where the colonel shouted with courage in excitement: - have you managed to kill anyone at all?! Kill them all the fk! You took their positions ?! Occupy and kill anyone who resists!
The motivation of Biden to keep this war going is about his desperation to conceal his own corruption in Ukraine and the financial benefits MANY American politicians have received by the massive, long-term money laundering in that country.
It should be understood that as well as technical depletion, it is worth including human depletion as well. Khokhols, from the beginning of the conflict, do not consider losses. They simply do not keep any detailed statistics in principle. Mark my words: when the war ends and the time comes to collect the stones, the losses of the Ukrainian army will, in principle, be impossible to calculate even approximately.
We erase them into atoms - slowly, methodically, confidently. And they cannot make up for this with any imported fittings. And most importantly, what comes to them, albeit through a pain, that the human resource is exhausted. And even if no one keeps statistics there, but in real terms they see and understand that they end - literally and inevitably.
Zelensky has claimed he has 750,000 troops, though experts say it was about 13 of that. But, whatever, it was more than Putin brought to the battle.
That is. If the attacking side has reached the goal of its offensive, and has suffered losses in the ratio of the defending 11 to 1, then this is considered an acceptable loss. Usually, the losses are much less.
The retreating Ukrainian army, with every onslaught of our troops, suffers serious losses. I will describe in general terms one major offensive operation that took place before my eyes, and the administrator has something to do with ensuring the success of this operation.
Obviously also, the whole thing about attackers needing a many to one edge in numbers does not apply when infantry and artillery are being used in the manner your source describes.
Putin thought he could easily take Kyiv in two weeks, force out Zeleniski, and install a puppet regime. He didnt want an all-out war, he wanted a Ukraine that would crumble at the first signs of trouble.
In early May I posted a video from a Russian soldier in Izium. He described the same scenario that todays soldier did. 247 longer reaching artillery fire than the Ukrainians had and a resulting casualty ratio of 7 U to 1 R...saying casualties were rare except for the initial few days when they were 500 and that those commanders had been jailed and new tactics initiated. He said Putins orders were to hold back, advance slowly and limit Russian casualties.
But there is several problems with this. They see Russia is advancing and don't want Russia eliminating them. So they pretend to welcome the Russians. Remember the turncoats in France who welcomed and worked with the Germans. These cities are pretty far from the rebel occupied territory and I don't believe there was much fighting in those areas since 2014. I can't find any references to fighing in Sievierodonetsk that is before the war started in 2022. I think these scared elderly people are saying what the Russians want them to say because they have been occupied by the Russians. International observers said the Russian claims about Ukraine shelling civilians in the rebel occupied areas weren't true. Which again makes me think these are bogus claims made under duress in order to survive the Russian occupation.
Most people do not understand how this war is being fought. I keep reading posts mocking Putin for having made so little territorial gains in X number of months suggesting his war is failing. They couldnt be more wrong...:-
Sounds more like WW1, cept the Russians are better trained, organized, equipped, and supplied compared to the NATO backed Ukes
The stakes in this war are much higher and different than the Western media has portrayed them.
Now Uncle is giving us some water and bread. And we can dig some hole in the ground to live there!
Before attacking Ukrainian positions, they are subjected to massive artillery fire. So massive that Im not afraid to call it artillery terror. Even before the end of the artillery preparation, the forces of our infantry begin to advance in the direction of the enemy to the line. At the end of the artillery preparation, the enemy, not yet having time to recover and sum up the damage suffered, is faced with an assault on his positions. If suddenly, the enemy finds the strength to provide at least relatively stubborn resistance, then our infantry does not attack, but retreats in an organized manner to the original one. And the artillery terror begins again. And again our infantry approaches.
Probably the case - The Neocon-run Ukraine rolled over this Russian-speaking area, and life has sucked then. And then you have the Azov-types that the Russian-speakers have to deal with.
crests have a lot of different foreign weapons. Thats just the use of these weapons is not enough. For you to understand, for us this is no longer any interesting trophies. Ukrainians are knocked out of their positions, and these various grenade launchers are lying around everywhere - from American to Turkish and German - and we continue to stomp on them, without any interest in them. We have nowhere to put our grenade launchers, and then there is this exotic rubbish. Well, they shot from them, for comparison, they realized that there was not much difference, and thats it.
They trotted out frightened elderly civilians who were unwilling to evacuate because those homes were all they have. And some claimed to welcome the Russians and claimed Ukraine had been shelling them for years. But there is several problems with this. They see Russia is advancing and don't want Russia eliminating them. So they pretend to welcome the Russians. Remember the turncoats in France who welcomed and worked with the Germans. These cities are pretty far from the rebel occupied territory and I don't believe there was much fighting in those areas since 2014. I can't find any references to fighing in Sievierodonetsk that is before the war started in 2022. I think these scared elderly people are saying what the Russians want them to say because they have been occupied by the Russians. International observers said the Russian claims about Ukraine shelling civilians in the rebel occupied areas weren't true. Which again makes me think these are bogus claims made under duress in order to survive the Russian occupation.
These cities are pretty far from the rebel occupied territory and I dont believe there was much fighting in those areas since 2014. I cant find any references to fighing in Sievierodonetsk that is before the war started in 2022.
The ratio of attacking and defending forces in people in modern warfare is 11 to 1. This is because of automatic and precision weapons.
Its too bad that todays soldier is right and that Ukraine is truly NOT keeping casualty statistics so the world will never know how many young men had their lives snuffed out by that evil, corrupt grifter.
Well, Im sure he would have preferred that and its too bad that didnt happen for Ukraines sake. Now, instead of a puppet regime though they may get one for the rump state left in Western Ukraine part of Ukraine is now going to be in Russia and there are hundreds of thousands of dead and wounded Ukrainians.
Those poor people just suffered in quiet in their houses and stuff, living peacefully in their city.
These people would do well to remember that well decide what they should or shouldnt be happy about right here, from our couches while we watch Sean Hannity on Fox news.
Funny, the timing. It seems that life was fine, or at least ok, in Ukraine at least this part, until the Neocons finally installed their man in 2014 - then it went to hell.
Putins battle plan had been to fight in a way that minimized Russian casualties. He did not want to have to take Russia into full mobilization. And his goals were never territorial gains initially anyway. He wanted to kill Ukraines military and their Nazisnationalist troops. Remember, initially he did not even intend to stay in Ukraine and that only changed after Zelensky reneged on concessions made in Istanbul and Putin realized that NATOs plan was to take out PutinRussia. He reworked his plan and decided Russia would have to stay forever.
Putin thought he could easily take Kyiv in two weeks, force out Zeleniski, and install a puppet regime. He didnt want an all-out war, he wanted a Ukraine that would crumble at the first signs of trouble.  Putin should have stayed in Russia.
Most often, the next attack of our infantry ends with the fact that we go to the positions that were broken and left by the enemy.
A look at the battlefield from the perspective of a Russian soldier that explains why Ukraine loses.
When we hear that on the one hand there are such and such losses, and on the other hand such and such, then we should also clarify - under what circumstances, and if as a result of offensive actions, then - who attacked.
And in the beginning, such finds were considered trophies, they were given medals and paid according to the price list. Now if you drag a javelin to the CP, they will just send you the fk now you can get something for which you can still get something, you can only bring it with the help of an experienced driver or trawl
International observers said the Russian claims about Ukraine shelling civilians in the rebel occupied areas werent true. Which again makes me think these are bogus claims made under duress in order to survive the Russian occupation.
That one poor old woman was totally terrified of SOMETHING the hohos had been doing for eight years  ... we waited 8 years ...are they all gone... .are they all gone. ... ...  You think maybe Zelensky had taught them all to play pianos with their Johnsons and the old woman was afraid they were gonna march into town and start doing that in the streets??
Correct. We probably need to hang all but two or three dozen current members of congress.
This can be repeated 2, 3, 4 or even more times. Until the enemy finds himself in a position in which it is simply pointless to continue fighting: the losses in killed and wounded are large, the fortifications have been severely destroyed, equipment and warehouses have been destroyed.
Then Uncle Vlad came to their rescue! Killed bunch of them, burned their houses, destroyed all their livelihood !
The above claims were published throughout the Western media BEFORE 2022 when there wasnt a clear-cut bias, so given the credibility of the West and the media since this war started, I wouldnt trust International Observers one bit at this point.
The USA, as a country, has no strategic interest in Ukraine, but American politicians have become extremely wealthy ripping off Ukraine as eager criminals always do when finding treasure they can loot.
Anythings possible, but their performances top-notch if theyre acting, and they dont look like actors.
Except that the Ukrainians controlled that town and therefore were not shelling it for 8 years. Seriously, do you not think before you post?
When the woman talks about waiting, she means waiting for eight years while being subjected to constant shelling and terrorism by the Kiev regime and its nazi military...
They see Russia is advancing and dont want Russia eliminating them. So they pretend to welcome the Russians.
crests are seriously depleted of resources. For example, the ratio of artillery activity at the beginning of the operation I described above was approximately 6040. By the end, the tufted artillery was practically silent. Part of the artillery was knocked out by counter-battery work, part by aviation, but for the most part - the lack of ammunition.
I think these scared elderly people are saying what the Russians want them to say because they have been occupied by the Russians.
