March 1 2014 Russian troops take over Ukraines Crimea region
20220222
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4040586/posts
Yup Obama gave them Crimea and Brandon Fake is giving them the rest. Or nuke from Putin if there is a US military response. Brandon Blinker and CommieLa are cornered like rats.
I wish all Americans would just ignore the hype and hysteria of an ONGOING war. Since 2014. And really long before then since 1917. But the enemedia has taken orders once again from the Swamp Rats, this time to gin up this fake crisis. Why? In order to take our attention away from the real crises that Biden and Pelosi has inflicted upon America. Someone ought to I might do it go back to March 2014 FR history and actually see if this nonsense was even on our radar back then. I for one, can't recall our nation collectively getting our panties in a bunch over this. But they sure are now.
To refer to Putins action as a taking ignores history. The Crimean Khanate was ceded to Russia in the late 18th century 1784. In 1955, for reasons not supportable under any sort of scrutiny, Khrushchev deeded all or much of the same land to the weak, tottering and mostly broke state of Ukraine. In such circumstances, Putins action can only be viewed as a lawful repossession of the wantonly conveyed sovereign land of the Russian state.
RussiaPutin have turned blind, deaf and dumb on this, in the best fashion of evil dictators. The Western Powers, from Obama on down, looked at the mess that Russia  Tsar Putin were provoking and made mouth noises. Then VP Biden unleashed the family on Ukraine to make nice profits off of that same mess! Now Tsar Putin makes another chess move and the same Biden wobbles and babbles!
Russian President Vladimir Putin sought and quickly got his parliament's approval to use its military to protect Russia's interests across Ukraine. But while sometimes-violent pro-Russian protests broke out Saturday in a number of Russian-speaking regions of eastern Ukraine, Moscow's immediate focus appeared to be Crimea.
Putin Recognizes the Independence of the Russian Brighton Beach Republic. Formerly part of Brooklyn, NY - a brief historical anomaly
The only purpose of a pistol is to fight your way back to the rifle you should never have dropped
But the enemedia has taken orders once again from the Swamp Rats, this time to gin up this fake crisis. Why? In order to take our attention away from the real crises that Biden and Pelosi has inflicted upon America. Someone ought to I might do it go back to March 2014 FR history and actually see if this nonsense was even on our radar back then. I for one, can't recall our nation collectively getting our panties in a bunch over this. But they sure are now.
Its a surgical operation to clear out the gesarian mafia. Thats why Bidens so upset. Hes doing the world a favor.
Does anyone else remember Malaysia Airlines Flight 17? You know, the one that was not lost somewhere Flight 370 but the one that was destroyed by a SAM Surface-to-Air Missile over eastern Ukraine on 17 July of 2014. In the prolonged investigation that was stone-walled by the Ukraine Separatists, now officially recognized by Putin, it was shown that a Russian-made BUK was the destroying device and it was fired from Ukraine Separatist territory.
What a stupid comment, that because they took Crimea in 2014, taking Ukraine in 2022 is meanigless.
Spark up a fire. Light up this place. Burn out this darkness and tear down the fear.
There is no way in hell the Potato Regime in DC is even remotely capable of manipulating Putin.
Coming to the aid of the oppressed Orthodox Russian community there, Vladimir Putin has announced that he will heroically allow the residents of Brighton Beach to participate in a referendum to re-join his empire, as history dictates. In his new role as the Father of All Rus, he has prepared a professional group of his loyalists, already equipped and trained to conduct and count the referendum. In the interim, Russian speaking males of military age 16-60 in the area are directed to register for their military assignments, through a convenient website linked on the Russian Embassy home page  or they will be purged after re-integration occurs.
I though that happened in 1783. You know, before Ohio was a us territory. Yeah, me too.
Stop it. This narrative that popped up today that supposes Biden manipulated Putin into invading Ukraine is such prima facie propaganda.
Someone ought to I might do it go back to March 2014 FR history and actually see if this nonsense was even on our radar back then. I for one, can't recall our nation collectively getting our panties in a bunch over this. But they sure are now.
Right you are. Stalin expunged from Crimea most of the native Khans, Tatars, Armenians and Greeks, who were executed or mostly muslims fled to Khazakistan.
I always wondered why Putin didn't take the whole Donbas region at the same time.
Oh look. A Squirrel. I wish all Americans would just ignore the hype and hysteria of an ONGOING war. Since 2014. And really long before then since 1917. But the enemedia has taken orders once again from the Swamp Rats, this time to gin up this fake crisis. Why? In order to take our attention away from the real crises that Biden and Pelosi has inflicted upon America. Someone ought to I might do it go back to March 2014 FR history and actually see if this nonsense was even on our radar back then. I for one, can't recall our nation collectively getting our panties in a bunch over this. But they sure are now.
SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine AP  Russian troops took over the strategic Crimean peninsula Saturday without firing a shot. The newly installed government in Kiev was powerless to react, and despite calls by U.S. President Barack Obama for Russia to pull back its forces, Western governments had few options to counter Russia's military moves. Russian President Vladimir Putin sought and quickly got his parliament's approval to use its military to protect Russia's interests across Ukraine. But while sometimes-violent pro-Russian protests broke out Saturday in a number of Russian-speaking regions of eastern Ukraine, Moscow's immediate focus appeared to be Crimea.
