McCarthy says Russia would not have invaded if US provided weapons to Ukraine sooner
20220417
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4055763/posts
Wouldnt have happened if evil democrats hadnt stolen the election. No one respects the Biden administration.
Trump shoulda just signed Zelensky up with NATO and placed Jupiter missiles there along with all the bio labs and prevented the whole mess.
Destroy America from within?  Check!  WTH?  Enlisted USN 1967 to end up with this? 
What he knows is that Russia would not have invaded Ukraine if he stood up and stopped a stolen election. He is clearly feeling guilty.
Russia was going to invade Ukraine even if NATO troops were there in large numbers.
Nope. It was all dependant upon WHO was POTUS at the time of the invasion.
A clear demonstration of why Ukraine has more lobbyist in DC than any other nation. They have four times as many as Saudi Arabia.
 Natural born citizens are born here of citizen parentsKnow Islam, No Peace-No  Islam, Know Peace
Yeah, that was the whole problem. Another moronic Republican leader following the neocon plan. They are so immersed in the thinking that they simply cannot conceive that their belligerence and alliance sphere building directly causes these wars.
Im not saying that arming Ukraine early would necessarily have been wrong. But by golly, we tend to ignore how our adversaries think. Thats just dumb.
Elections are one day. Reject "Chicago" vote harvesting. Election Reform Now. Obama is an evildoer.
And nice of him to be in lockstep with Biden and Zelensky. Maybe his roommate Luntz told him to say that.
KEYWORDS: bidenworksforputin california chechens chechnya invaded kevinmccarthy mccarthy mccarthytheneocon moreleeway mychaelschnell neoconscum putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression thehill theshill ukraine weapons zottherussiantrolls
More likely Putin would have invaded with a larger force. Western arms to Ukraine would have been as provocative to Putin as Soviet missiles to Cuba were to JFK.
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy R-Calif. on Sunday suggested that Russia would not have invaded Ukraine if the U.S. provided weapons to Kyiv sooner. This is going to get stronger and rougher and what really needs to happen is, Ukraine is not asking for American men and women to fight, all theyre asking for is the weapons to defend themselves, McCarthy told Fox News chief Washington correspondent Mike Emanuel on Fox News Sunday.
This is going to get stronger and rougher and what really needs to happen is, Ukraine is not asking for American men and women to fight, all theyre asking for is the weapons to defend themselves, McCarthy told Fox News chief Washington correspondent Mike Emanuel on Fox News Sunday.
What about the invasion on our southern border ? Thats a lot more dangerous than the Russians
