Meet Ukraines guntoting female soldiers fighting the propaganda war with Russia
20220212
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4037607/posts
Female Ukrainian soldiers are taking to the video-sharing app TikTok to post glam pictures and videos of themselves in their bid to win the soft power propaganda war with Russia. Clips of glamorous women in Ukrainian military uniforms dancing, fooling around in barracks, and even holding bullets have gone viral on social media. As tensions between Russia and Ukraine remain strained, sharing candid videos and pictures of troops behind the scenes have become another front for a quasi-war. Typically, the videos feature soldiers performing dances, but some also show female troops taking apart and reassembling weapons, or having fun in barracks.
You do know that Ukraine president is Jewish. So are you alleging that these neo-Nazis are fighting for a Jewish leader?
Typically, the videos feature soldiers performing dances, but some also show female troops taking apart and reassembling weapons, or having fun in barracks.
Ukrainians were some of Hitler's most efficient and ruthless killers. Russians and Ukrainians. Two scorpions in a bottle.
The Daily Mail issued a similar report on the sniper, complete with an interview and the same night scope video. The outlet described Bilozerska as something of a celebrity in Ukraine, having written a best-selling book called Diary of an Illegal Soldier and as someone well-known even before the war as her oppositional journalism found her under threat of imprisonment by the old hardline regime of Viktor Yanukovych, i.e. the democratically-elected president overthrown in an EU and US-backed coup in 2014...
A female sniper who has fought in the ranks of one of Ukraines most notorious neo-Nazi volunteer units has been glorified by The Daily Mail and The Sun, with the outlets interviewing her and posting images and video of her shooting Russian separatists  the term used by Kiev and its Western allies to disparage independence-seeking residents of the war-torn eastern Ukraine.
In its report on Bilozerska, The Sun praised the Femme fatale sniper, saying she has become a national hero after chilling footage was posted showing her killing two Russian soldiers....
One small benefit of a war in the Ukraine: we may take in a lot of refugees who will improve the gene pool for once.
Do you also believe the MSM when they describe the Freedom Convoy and Trump voters as Nazis?
Clips of glamorous women in Ukrainian military uniforms dancing, fooling around in barracks, and even holding bullets have gone viral on social media. As tensions between Russia and Ukraine remain strained, sharing candid videos and pictures of troops behind the scenes have become another front for a quasi-war. Typically, the videos feature soldiers performing dances, but some also show female troops taking apart and reassembling weapons, or having fun in barracks.
As tensions between Russia and Ukraine remain strained, sharing candid videos and pictures of troops behind the scenes have become another front for a quasi-war. Typically, the videos feature soldiers performing dances, but some also show female troops taking apart and reassembling weapons, or having fun in barracks.
there is no fall back position, there's no rally point, there is no LZ... we're on our own. FJB
America.Founded by geniuses.     Now governed by idiots.           
The FBI has investigated the Ukrainian neo-fascist militias after discovering that US citizens were traveling to Ukraine and joining the ranks of groups like Azov and learning skills like bomb-making. In 2016, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights charged the Azov Regiment with war crimes. However, powerful Washington-based groups like the Atlantic Council have lobbied the State Department to avoid listing the Ukrainian ultra-nationalist battalions as terrorist organisations, citing their usefulness in a potential conflict against Russia.
Western officials and media have spent years downplaying the neo-Nazi links of organizations like the Right Sector and the Azov, notwithstanding the militias open use of neo-Nazi and SS symbols and regalia. In Ukraine, these groups are known for their participation on the front lines in the civil conflict in the Donbass, but also for spearheading crackdowns on opposition media. They are also known for taking to the streets to protest when sensing that Kiev leaders may be considering implementing the Minsk Agreements on Ukrainian peace, as President Volodymyr Zelensky briefly attempted to do when he came into office in 2019.
4 Feb: Sputnik: Ukrainian Female Sniper Linked to Neo-Nazi Volunteer Battalion Lionised by UK Tabloid Media
Olena Bilozerska, 42 joined the Praviy Sektor Right Sector paramilitary group in 2014 after serving as an embedded reporter with the Azov Regiment, another neo-fascist militia unit. Despite her ties to these organisations, she has been celebrated by Western officials and media, invited to speak at a NATO conference in 2019, chronicled by Real Women Real Stories, a YouTube channel founded by an Israeli banker and journalist, and is operating her own YouTube channel.
Mainstream Western media have spent months reporting on alleged Russian plans to invade Ukraine, with Bloomberg even erroneously announcing that an invasion had commenced on Friday. Moscow has consistently dismissed the invasion claims as drivel, accusing Western powers and their media of stoking tensions to justify NATOs eastward push.
