More than 300 dogs starve to death at animal shelter after Russian troops left them to die in their cages while occupying Ukrainian town
20220405
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4052549/posts
why did the Ukraines leave the animals in their cages? I would say this falls on them.
It would have taken ONE person. But now MI6 has got some nice juicy agitprop to slam The Beast Russians with, so we have that going for us.
Meanwhile, images of half mangled corpses in some of the cages suggested some dogs had begun to eat their dead cell mates in the complete absence of food. 'This is the number of dogs... and this is not all, this is just a part,' a woman can be heard saying through tears as she filmed workers adding to the stack of corpses. 'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
But now MI6 has got some nice juicy agitprop to slam The Beast Russians with, so we have that going for us.
Just more Ukraine propaganda........Im sure theres a hollywood set or green screen that created these awful pictures......s
'This is the number of dogs... and this is not all, this is just a part,' a woman can be heard saying through tears as she filmed workers adding to the stack of corpses. 'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
As rellic said - just let them out. It would have taken ONE person. But now MI6 has got some nice juicy agitprop to slam The Beast Russians with, so we have that going for us.
Hundreds of dogs have been found dead at an animal shelter in Ukraine after Russian occupiers left them to starve in their cages for weeks. The UAnimals shelter in Borodyanka, just north of Kyiv, said that up to 485 dogs were locked in their cages by Russian forces shortly after the invasion of Ukraine began on February 24. There they remained without food or water for about a month as the occupiers left them to die, until staff were able to return to the compound on April 1 once the Russian soldiers had retreated. Footage released by the animal shelter on Instagram showed workers stacking up a huge pile of dead hounds which had wasted away in the presence of the occupiers. Meanwhile, images of half mangled corpses in some of the cages suggested some dogs had begun to eat their dead cell mates in the complete absence of food. 'This is the number of dogs... and this is not all, this is just a part,' a woman can be heard saying through tears as she filmed workers adding to the stack of corpses. 'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
Freedom ultimately means the right of other people to do things that you disagree with. T. Sowell 
The UAnimals shelter in Borodyanka, just north of Kyiv, said that up to 485 dogs were locked in their cages by Russian forces shortly after the invasion of Ukraine began on February 24. There they remained without food or water for about a month as the occupiers left them to die, until staff were able to return to the compound on April 1 once the Russian soldiers had retreated. Footage released by the animal shelter on Instagram showed workers stacking up a huge pile of dead hounds which had wasted away in the presence of the occupiers. Meanwhile, images of half mangled corpses in some of the cages suggested some dogs had begun to eat their dead cell mates in the complete absence of food. 'This is the number of dogs... and this is not all, this is just a part,' a woman can be heard saying through tears as she filmed workers adding to the stack of corpses. 'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
Footage released by the animal shelter on Instagram showed workers stacking up a huge pile of dead hounds which had wasted away in the presence of the occupiers. Meanwhile, images of half mangled corpses in some of the cages suggested some dogs had begun to eat their dead cell mates in the complete absence of food. 'This is the number of dogs... and this is not all, this is just a part,' a woman can be heard saying through tears as she filmed workers adding to the stack of corpses. 'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
KEYWORDS: borodyanka chechens chechnya ciaagitprop dailyfail dailypropaganda davidaverre dogs mi6agitprop nwoagitprop putin putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression savingforsnack schwabagitprop sorosagitprop thedailyfail ukraine wefagitprop zottherussiantrolls
seems like bad planning for staff to clear out and just trust the soldiers would take over full management of the facility. As rellic said - just let them out. It would have taken ONE person. But now MI6 has got some nice juicy agitprop to slam The Beast Russians with, so we have that going for us.
There they remained without food or water for about a month as the occupiers left them to die, until staff were able to return to the compound on April 1 once the Russian soldiers had retreated. Footage released by the animal shelter on Instagram showed workers stacking up a huge pile of dead hounds which had wasted away in the presence of the occupiers. Meanwhile, images of half mangled corpses in some of the cages suggested some dogs had begun to eat their dead cell mates in the complete absence of food. 'This is the number of dogs... and this is not all, this is just a part,' a woman can be heard saying through tears as she filmed workers adding to the stack of corpses. 'These are the animals of Borodyanka, and the consequences of war. The consequences of complete indifference and negligence. The animals went three to four weeks without food or water.'
seems like bad planning for staff to clear out and just trust the soldiers would take over full management of the facility.
Next, we are sure to hear that Russian soldiers have resorted to cat juggling as a recreational activity.
Trump: Befuddling Democrats, Republicans, and the Media for the benefit of the US and all mankind.
If the propaganda is to be believe,. Rooskies barely had enough to eat themselves much less feed homeless hounds. Hell, the rooskies might have roasted a few for themselves
