Moscow councillor jailed for seven years after criticising Ukraine war
20220708
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4076984/posts
KEYWORDS: 10percent4biden 1julianassangepot 2callsrukettleblack alexeigorinov another750billion armchairwarriors assistantdemfanbois assistantdemocrats assistantdems4war bendovertaxpayers biden bidenbuttbois4war bidenbuttwipers4war bidentrolls4war britain brithypocrites britscum crazyukrainiacs julianassange kickbacks4pols pootypootishitler putin putinputin putinputinputin putinputinputinputin putinsbuttboys putinworshippers putyputishitler russia russianaggression saveusjoebiden taxpayersbendover ukhypocrites ukrainazis4biden ukraine ukraineuberalles ukrainiacs ukscum
This is the act of a weak leader who knows that his decisions cannot stand the scrutiny of his own people.
"The Political left is the Garden of Eden of incompetence" - Marx the Smarter Groucho
All posts made under this handle are, for the intents and purposes of the author, considered satire.
Luckily, were still mostly under constitutional laws. Democrats are wishing for Moscow-type judicial and political and government systems.That will change once the Democrats get three more Justices on the SCOTUS.
At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
That will change once the Democrats get three more Justices on the SCOTUS.  Except that, they wouldn't be justices or judges. They'd be "yes" menwomen for the democrats' policies. No judging at all, no constitutional tests, no opposition allowed.
Putin is telling us how weak he is with these actions. He is running scared and and his days are few.
Oooh, Russia arrested and gave a sentence to one person! Oh, nos! The Reality: "More than 15,000 Russians have been arrested in anti-war protests" https:www.economist.comgraphic-detail20220322more-than-15000-russians-have-been-arrested-in-anti-war-protests
BoJo the Clown is the first to feel the poisoned bite of The High-Heeled Monkey. Will the rest of the Brit leadership recognize the problem and get the Zelenskyy monkey off the back of the UK? Doubtful.
I believe all efforts of Russian civil society should be aimed only at stopping the war and withdrawing Russian troops from the territory of Ukraine, Gorinov said during the work meeting, which was recorded on video. The charges against Gorinov fall under a series of new laws that have been introduced since the start of Russias invasion. Gorinovs long sentence will be perceived as harsh even in the current political climate in Russia, where authorities have embarked on an unprecedented crackdown on civil society and opposition since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February. Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
According to the authorities, Gorinov committed the offence when he and a fellow opposition deputy, Elena Kotenochkina, spoke out against the councils proposal to hold a childrens drawing contest and a dancing festival despite the war in Ukraine, where Gorinov said children were dying. I believe all efforts of Russian civil society should be aimed only at stopping the war and withdrawing Russian troops from the territory of Ukraine, Gorinov said during the work meeting, which was recorded on video. The charges against Gorinov fall under a series of new laws that have been introduced since the start of Russias invasion. Gorinovs long sentence will be perceived as harsh even in the current political climate in Russia, where authorities have embarked on an unprecedented crackdown on civil society and opposition since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February. Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
Luckily, were still mostly under constitutional laws. Democrats are wishing for Moscow-type judicial and political and government systems.
Ukraine already outlawed political parties, so it seems these two countries both suck. Oh no, Zelensky banned 11 pro-Russiancommie parties out of Ukraine's more than 300 registered parties and he also arrested leaders of the Leninist Communist Youth Union of Ukraine. What a tragedy!
Except that, they wouldn't be justices or judges. They'd be "yes" menwomen for the democrats' policies. No judging at all, no constitutional tests, no opposition allowed.They should be impeached. But it won't happen because we'll never get 67.
Will the rest of the Brit leadership recognize the problem and get the Zelenskyy monkey off the back of the UK? Doubtful.
Alexei Gorinov, a deputy at Moscows Krasnoselsky district council and trained lawyer, was arrested in April on charges of spreading knowingly false information about the Russian army. According to the authorities, Gorinov committed the offence when he and a fellow opposition deputy, Elena Kotenochkina, spoke out against the councils proposal to hold a childrens drawing contest and a dancing festival despite the war in Ukraine, where Gorinov said children were dying. I believe all efforts of Russian civil society should be aimed only at stopping the war and withdrawing Russian troops from the territory of Ukraine, Gorinov said during the work meeting, which was recorded on video. The charges against Gorinov fall under a series of new laws that have been introduced since the start of Russias invasion. Gorinovs long sentence will be perceived as harsh even in the current political climate in Russia, where authorities have embarked on an unprecedented crackdown on civil society and opposition since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February. Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
My dad had a Delta 88. That was a car. It was like driving your living room.
"The trouble ain't that there is too many fools, but that the lightning ain't distributed  right."  
Putin is starting to hand out prison sentences to opponents of his special military operation.
Meanwhile globohomo Churchill outlawed almost a dozen opposition parties. BoJo the Clown is the first to feel the poisoned bite of The High-Heeled Monkey. Will the rest of the Brit leadership recognize the problem and get the Zelenskyy monkey off the back of the UK? Doubtful.
Admirers of Vlad Putin are admirers of fascism, and would like to bring the same to the USA.
Trump: Befuddling Democrats, Republicans, and the Media for the benefit of the US and all mankind.
Gorinovs long sentence will be perceived as harsh even in the current political climate in Russia, where authorities have embarked on an unprecedented crackdown on civil society and opposition since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February. Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
But it won't happen because we'll never get 67.  With the filibuster gone, all they would need is a simple majority. But, democrats won't have the majority after November, but, they'll try before the elections.
A court in Moscow has sentenced an opposition councillor to seven years in jail for criticising Russias military actions in Ukraine, the first prison sentence handed out under the new laws that restrict criticism of the war. Alexei Gorinov, a deputy at Moscows Krasnoselsky district council and trained lawyer, was arrested in April on charges of spreading knowingly false information about the Russian army. According to the authorities, Gorinov committed the offence when he and a fellow opposition deputy, Elena Kotenochkina, spoke out against the councils proposal to hold a childrens drawing contest and a dancing festival despite the war in Ukraine, where Gorinov said children were dying. I believe all efforts of Russian civil society should be aimed only at stopping the war and withdrawing Russian troops from the territory of Ukraine, Gorinov said during the work meeting, which was recorded on video. The charges against Gorinov fall under a series of new laws that have been introduced since the start of Russias invasion. Gorinovs long sentence will be perceived as harsh even in the current political climate in Russia, where authorities have embarked on an unprecedented crackdown on civil society and opposition since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February. Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
If Biden and democrats had their way, they would imprison the out of control SCOTUS members who voted to kill Roe v Wade.
The charges against Gorinov fall under a series of new laws that have been introduced since the start of Russias invasion. Gorinovs long sentence will be perceived as harsh even in the current political climate in Russia, where authorities have embarked on an unprecedented crackdown on civil society and opposition since the invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February. Human rights groups will worry that Gorinovs case will be the first in a string of rulings against anti-war figures who are awaiting trial. This is clearly a politically motivated ruling aimed at scaring the public into silence, said Tanya Lokshina, an associate director for Europe and Central Asia at Human Rights Watch. The outrageous sentence is evidently meant to discourage Russians to speak up against the war and express any forms of dissent. At least 50 people face long-term prison sentences or steep fines for knowingly spreading false information about the military
