MURDERER ON THE RUN
20220829
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4089120/posts
You should bookmark one of these and follow it for a while. They cover everything that is happening for Ukraine during this war. They do a great job of keeping Ukrainians informed about the truth and not having to just accept the government propaganda. And the one I posted is the best because they have an inside source in the Office of the President.
I knew it was a Russian Female that planted the bomb, but they are trying to tie in a Ukrainian ... although I know there are ethnic Ukrainian Russian Citizens known to be involved, it is possible one of them was born in Ukraine that doesnt necessarily make him exclusively a Ukrainian....its complicated....it can be endlessly spun.
The FSB charged that Tsyganenko provided the main suspect, Natalya Vovk, with a fake ID and fake license plates, and helped her assemble an explosive device that was planted in Duginas car.
The Russian Federal Service FSB on Monday accused Natalia Vovk, a 43-year-old Ukrainian citizen, of having carried out the murder of Daria Dugina, daughter of the leader of the neo-Eurasianist movement, Alexander Dugin, a man inside the closed circle of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Meetings were held in the Office of the President on the case of the terrorist attack in Moscow, where the Kremlin accuses the Ukrainian authorities of terrorism.
These Telegram channels are for the Ukrainian people...not the Ukrainian government...not for Americans at all.
These telegrams channels are all super propaganda, if you want to pollute your rational perspective and live in a fantasy land, then you should know what you are watching ... per orchestrated brain sludge.
The FSB claims that Vovk arrived in Russia on 23 July with her 12-year-old daughter, Sofia Shaban. There she rented an apartment in the same building where Dugins daughter lived, and there he studied all her movements and habits.
- to confuse the society by throwing a bunch of versions with an emphasis that this is all the work of the FSB, which wants to frame Ukraine. By the way, in this version, the joke is that then Natalia Vovk will have to be leaked, because she is essentially an FSB agent according to the version launched by Bankovaya.
The suspect arrived in Russia in late July and rented an apartment in the same building as Dugina to study her habits, according to the Russian FSB.
The source points out that the main problem of the Office of the President is that they leak performers, disowning them. Imagine the state of the curator of this group, who promised Natalya and the entire group stars and world recognition as a partisan, but now she is being leaked and can be accused of international terrorism. All life is upside down.
Anytime I read a story from an author from that part of the world and they start saying Ukrainian or Russian, my default interpretation is they mean their ethnicity not what we think of as nationality.
MURDERER ON THE RUN: Russian Federal Security Service releases video showing TERRORIST involved in the MURDER of Daria Dugina, where he is acquiring FAKE license plates, forged ID documents in the name of Kazakh citizen, and driving his accomplice Natalia Vovk, according to intelligence reports, the man is Ukrainian citizen Bogdan Tsyganenko born 1978, arrived in Russia through Estonia on July 30th, where he helped prepare to assemble the explosive device with Vovk in a rented garage in Southwestern Russia, before leaving the day before the crime.
One of the other theories being put forward by those monitoring the war between Russia and Ukraine is that more leverage can be gained by killing those close to powerful people in Putins inner circle. By striking at those in powerful positions could strengthen the resolve of Russian fighters and supporters, while a threat to their loved ones could see them turn against the illegal invasion, something seen by experts as the only solution for Ukraine.
The agency said Monday that Tsyganenko provided Vovk with a Kazakh license plate and Kazakh ID documents belonging to a real person named Yulia Zaiko. It didnt offer any details as to how Vovk obtained other license plates and whether those were fake, too.
According to some Russian propaganda accounts on social networks such as Telegram, Vovk had served in the Azov Battalion under the name of Natalia Shaban. According to 20 Minutes, these accounts have leaked military identification documents that show that the woman was part of the Battalion, considered a terrorist group by Russia.
The FSB said Duginas killing was prepared and perpetrated by the Ukrainian special services and accused Vovk of carrying out the killing and then fleeing to Estonia.
Our source in the OP said that the GUR asked Bankova to allow Vovk to return to Ukraine, but the Office of the President refused to help her and was forbidden to return to the country. The curators were instructed to hide all ties with Vovk, her person is highly toxic to the Ukrainian authorities.
I dont know, so much bs on these sites, their so called stories are written and leave much to the interpretation of the reader example providing statements of Ukrainian etc... without precision of what they even mean by that...which typically isnt the way we understand it
Our source in the OP said that MI6 passed on intelligence to the Office of the President that the FSB has all the facts indicating the involvement of VovkShaban in the terrorist act. Yermak was advised to distance himself from this murder so as not to discredit Ukraine in the international arena, but to clean up the perpetrators and curators.
It is very true what it says nationality was used to describe ethnicity rather than the population of a state.
The FSB said Vovk used a license plate for Ukraines Russian-backed separatist Donetsk region to enter Russia and a Kazakhstan plate in Moscow before switching to a Ukrainian one to cross into Estonia. It released video and photos of the suspect from surveillance cameras at the border crossings, while driving the car in Moscow and at the entrance to the Moscow apartment building.
Vovk, according to the FSB, arrived in Russia in July with her 12-year-old daughter and rented an apartment in the building where Dugina lived in order to shadow her. The agency alleged that Vovk and her daughter were at a nationalist festival that Dugin and his daughter attended just before the killing.
Dugina, a 29-year-old commentator with a nationalist Russian TV channel, died when a remotely controlled explosive device planted in her SUV blew up on the night of Aug. 20 as she was driving on the outskirts of Moscow, ripping the vehicle apart and killing her on the spot, authorities said.
Russias Federal Security Service FSB, the main KGB successor agency, said that Ukrainian national Bogdan Tsyganenko helped prepare the killing of Darya Dugina, the daughter of Alexander Dugin, who was described by some in the West as Putins brain.
MOSCOW AP  Russias top security agency on Monday identified a second Ukrainian that it alleged was involved in the killing of the daughter of a Russian nationalist ideologue.
Those who plotted the murder of Daria Dugina studied her daily routine and habits. When the explosive device was detonated, those who remotely blew up the car were sure that Dugina was alone. His father was not the target of the assassins, said a source close to the TASS agency.
- try to organize a successful shelling of objects of the Russian Federation for an informational occasion
Early FSB theories pointed to it being an accidental killing, with the target being Dugin himself, but his daughter got into the wrong car she died after the vehicle she was driving exploded. This theory has now changed.
I wish we had a similar one for us to tell us what is really going on here in the U.S. instead of just being fed deliberate propaganda lies from officials.
This can greatly undermine the image of the Ukrainian special services, which will merge their own at the first problems.
This is one of the reasons we even have this war, Russia defines it in the Eastern mindset, all ethnic Russian is a Russian Citizen and Ukraine does the same.
Both she and her father, who is a philosopher, writer and political theorist, ardently supported Russian President Vladimir Putins decision to send troops into Ukraine.
Kyiv has vehemently denied any involvement in Duginas death. Estonian authorities said they have not received any formal requests or inquiries from Russia regarding Vovk.
I dont know that it was actually her, or even what what her name was. I saw the video and they took credit for it.
Just a word of advice, Ivan. When you tell a lie, dont make it so detailed. Every detail is another point on which you can be caught out.
Tsyganenko, 44, arrived in Russia via Estonia on July 30 and left the country the day before the killing, the FSB said.
