Nationalists cook up provocations with toxic agents in UkraineRussian Defense Ministry
20220310
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4045384/posts
Today we got the "maternity hospital bombing" with various luminaries like Boris Johnson outraged. Maybe this is tomorrow's news today.
Such an incident would be used to push the US into participating in a war with Russia in Ukraine. Today we got the "maternity hospital bombing" with various luminaries like Boris Johnson outraged. Maybe this is tomorrow's news today.
at face value, this administrations is determined to start a war with russia directly. presumably part of the issue is the mid-terms, or avoiding having mid-terms. if you consider the domestic angle, they may feel that anything that avoids losing elections or holding elections in november is worth it.
I read different stories but in one 17 said to have been hurt all adults in whatever happened there.
On the night of March 9, Ukrainian nationalists delivered about 80 tonnes of ammonia to the populated locality of Zolochev, northwest of Kharkov, Igor Konashenkov said MOSCOW, March 9.TASS. Nationalists are plotting provocations in Ukraine involving toxic substances in order to pin the blame for alleged use of chemical weapons on Russia...
Russia is a country that mercilessly bombed Chechnya in recent memory, and caused a war that ultimately killed something like 250,000 to 300,000 civilians, based on a false flag terror attack on Russian apartment buildings, with Russian FSB actually being caught attempting to plant explosives in the basement of an apartment building, which they later hastily covered up and claimed it was just a security "exercise" which no one, not even the local police, were informed of.
This thing is snowballing out of control for Biden, what with all the revelations by the day of new falsehoods and cover-ups that enshroud this conflict. Im afraid a severe false flag is about to be unleashed. The only saving grace in truths favor is that its all unraveling exponentially for the US, Zelinsky, and the EU. The whole world is seeing their ulterior motives becoming clear by the day.
Why would Russia do an attack like this when they know they will be blamed for it?
Ukraine and Joe are really determined to have a full scaled war with Russia. One of the only countries on earth that can wipe us off this planet.
80 tonnes?? Russia cant even transport a tank of fuel to the front lines My guess on all that hardware stuck is that it is meant to be just where it is stuck. No need for russia to do much but wait it out like an old fashioned siege. Food shortages will stop the Ukrainians unless we do a berlin airlift.
This leads me to believe that the chemical attacks in Syria really were done by Assad, and we were fed a bunch of horeshit about "white helmets" and Syrian terrorists bombing their own people, which we believed uncritically since the individuals involved were, after all, Islamic terrorists. Russia is a country that mercilessly bombed Chechnya in recent memory, and caused a war that ultimately killed something like 250,000 to 300,000 civilians, based on a false flag terror attack on Russian apartment buildings, with Russian FSB actually being caught attempting to plant explosives in the basement of an apartment building, which they later hastily covered up and claimed it was just a security "exercise" which no one, not even the local police, were informed of.
Dont look for any question and answer White House news conferences in the near future. Id bet this whole Ukraine bio labs story has more than a few people running for the tall grass.
Jen Pasaki at the White House today spoke of the potential for Russia to use chemical weapons in Ukraine as she deflected the biolabs story. Such an incident would be used to push the US into participating in a war with Russia in Ukraine. Today we got the "maternity hospital bombing" with various luminaries like Boris Johnson outraged. Maybe this is tomorrow's news today.
The vitriol and insults thrown by each side are as harsh as any tossed at the Left. If Biden were sentient he would be laughing his  off.
yes. they message at a 2nd-grade level, so it is a pretty good bet we will see some kind of chemical attack imminently, blamed on the russians no matter who actually does it, and forcing usnato to intervene directly.
Ive been following the comments about this war since before it started. One thing seems clear, the Dems couldnt have found a better way to divide conservatives. FR is running 55 45 for the Ukes. GP is about 70 30 for Putin.
Russia is worried that something dirty like happened in Syria with chemical weapons attack allegations is about to happen again this time in Ukraine. Jen Pasaki at the White House today spoke of the potential for Russia to use chemical weapons in Ukraine as she deflected the biolabs story. Such an incident would be used to push the US into participating in a war with Russia in Ukraine. Today we got the "maternity hospital bombing" with various luminaries like Boris Johnson outraged. Maybe this is tomorrow's news today.
MOSCOW, March 9.TASS. Nationalists are plotting provocations in Ukraine involving toxic substances in order to pin the blame for alleged use of chemical weapons on Russia...
Ukraine and CIA can do it and still blame Russia. So who is most likely to do it?
From TASS the Russian state press release agency. Whatever your issues with policy in the US or Europe, can you be mad about it without carrying water for these Russian autocrat pukes?
Internal consumption. Russia is a country that invented modern terrorism, having trained or supported such figures as Arafat and the Palestinian terrorists, Al-Qaeda's Number 2 trained at an FSB camp per defector Alexander Litvinenko, who was later assassinated, Carlos the Jackal, Saddam Hussein, FARC, etc etc etc. People here believing this BS at face value do not know what Russia is or its history, or even its recent history as in the last few weeks.
Except Biden. Lying requires a degree of mental awareness Im not sure he has, anymore.
People here believing this BS at face value do not know what Russia is or its history, or even its recent history as in the last few weeks.
Russia is worried that something dirty like happened in Syria with chemical weapons attack allegations is about to happen again this time in Ukraine. This leads me to believe that the chemical attacks in Syria really were done by Assad, and we were fed a bunch of horeshit about "white helmets" and Syrian terrorists bombing their own people, which we believed uncritically since the individuals involved were, after all, Islamic terrorists. Russia is a country that mercilessly bombed Chechnya in recent memory, and caused a war that ultimately killed something like 250,000 to 300,000 civilians, based on a false flag terror attack on Russian apartment buildings, with Russian FSB actually being caught attempting to plant explosives in the basement of an apartment building, which they later hastily covered up and claimed it was just a security "exercise" which no one, not even the local police, were informed of.
throughout this, the posture of the US government has been aggressive and quite pointedly intended to escalate matters.
