NATO Is Invalid And The Nations In It Deserve What They Get
20220426
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4057893/posts
Parenthesis, not quotes. This communication thing is almost impossible, even though I have been a professional communicator.
Each Party declares that none of the international engagements now in force between it and any other of the Parties or any third State is in conflict with the provisions of this Treaty, and undertakes not to enter into any international engagement in conflict with this Treaty.
Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Oh hell, I forgot to close quotes. Am I supposed to close quotes before the period or after the period? Or am I a complete, hopeless humanoid.
And has the use of force in the Russia-Ukraine been authorized in the manner called for by America's constitutional processes?  The point is that such processes haven't been followed. We're just blithely shipping arms willy-nilly, much like how France and Germany did after Russia annexed Crimea. It all rings so hollow.
Show me you know nothing about the author without telling me you know nothing about him.  If there was ever a time where he ever 'hawked' any programs of his or his daughter's, it's been literally years. I certainly can't recall such within recent memory.
Therefore NATO members are obligated to stay out of non-member conflicts except with the unanimous consent of all members. Does unanimous consent exist? Has it been established?  And has the use of force in the Russia-Ukraine been authorized in the manner called for by America's constitutional processes?  The point is that such processes haven't been followed. We're just blithely shipping arms willy-nilly, much like how France and Germany did after Russia annexed Crimea. It all rings so hollow.
This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3
You are quite the Biden guy cheerleading for the Biden globalist team. They are pure evil. You are also a sanctimonious jerk. Biden is throwing all kinds of money over there and wrecking this country. I want no part of any team you are on. Give us another B.
Ok.What does Article I say?The Parties undertake, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, to settle any international dispute in which they may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.Shipping arms into an area where armed conflict is either occurringor threatening to occur, where the destination is NOT a NATO member and thus isNOT subject to NATO's mutual defense obligationsis aclear violation of Article I.It is escalatory, it is a threat to use force or enables the actual use of force, and thus is a clear violation of Article I.How about Article 8?Each Party declares that none of the international engagements now in force between it and any other of the Parties or any third State is in conflict with the provisions of this Treaty, and undertakes not to enter into any international engagement in conflict with this Treaty.Providing arms to a belligerentnot a member of NATOviolates this provision in that it can cause a mutual defense obligation to arise that would otherwise not.Therefore NATO members areobligatedto stayout of non-member conflicts except with theunanimous consent of all members.Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
It just says the parties will endeavor to act in accordance with the purpose of the UN charter, which is peace. The UN authorized "escalation" in Korea, did it not? So obviously sometimes escalation can be in accordance with the UN charter. That's precisely the point: what "escalation" has the UN or NATO authorized with regards to arms shipments to Ukraine? To repeat: Therefore NATO members are obligated to stay out of non-member conflicts except with the unanimous consent of all members. Does unanimous consent exist? Has it been established?  And has the use of force in the Russia-Ukraine been authorized in the manner called for by America's constitutional processes?  The point is that such processes haven't been followed. We're just blithely shipping arms willy-nilly, much like how France and Germany did after Russia annexed Crimea. It all rings so hollow.
I remember this guy. Hes a flake and a conspiracy theorist. He is with the Tea Party, yet at the same time is with Occupy Wall Street the two are polar opposites. His blog is simply a venue to hawk his and his daughters programs. He is what the Comanches would have called a trickster, who appears as one thing, but is actually another who will seem initially to make sense, but then its all an act because he goes off the rails into wild conspiracies. He is the poster child for the term useful idiot.
How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Following that precedent, the UN should authorize the use of force against Russia for waging aggressive war aiming at annexation in Europe, a crime for which men were hanged at Nuremberg.
And if so, why should said members keep pretending its anything more than a means for America to exert influence over Europe, and a means for Europe to let Americas military underwrite its generous social welfare programs?
When asked to join the sanctions against Russia, India told the US, Friends dont draw red lines.
His blog is simply a venue to hawk his and his daughters programs. Show me you know nothing about the author without telling me you know nothing about him.  If there was ever a time where he ever 'hawked' any programs of his or his daughter's, it's been literally years. I certainly can't recall such within recent memory.
Yeah you convinced me NATO has been canceled ty so much for bringing this to our attention.
Providing arms to a belligerentnot a member of NATOviolates this provision in that it can cause a mutual defense obligation to arise that would otherwise not.Therefore NATO members areobligatedto stayout of non-member conflicts except with theunanimous consent of all members.Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
That's precisely the point: what "escalation" has the UN or NATO authorized with regards to arms shipments to Ukraine? To repeat: Therefore NATO members are obligated to stay out of non-member conflicts except with the unanimous consent of all members. Does unanimous consent exist? Has it been established?  And has the use of force in the Russia-Ukraine been authorized in the manner called for by America's constitutional processes?  The point is that such processes haven't been followed. We're just blithely shipping arms willy-nilly, much like how France and Germany did after Russia annexed Crimea. It all rings so hollow.
The point is that such processes haven't been followed. We're just blithely shipping arms willy-nilly, much like how France and Germany did after Russia annexed Crimea. It all rings so hollow.
For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
How about Article 8?Each Party declares that none of the international engagements now in force between it and any other of the Parties or any third State is in conflict with the provisions of this Treaty, and undertakes not to enter into any international engagement in conflict with this Treaty.Providing arms to a belligerentnot a member of NATOviolates this provision in that it can cause a mutual defense obligation to arise that would otherwise not.Therefore NATO members areobligatedto stayout of non-member conflicts except with theunanimous consent of all members.Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Go ahead and try to change my mind. Can't change the mind of someone who can't read. Nothing in the above articles precludes shipping arms or "proxy" wars.
If you want the author's own opinions on Putin, you could just read his own words: Meh. Putin is a dirtbag and I've said it for more than a decade, including on his own TV network. Just because one side of a conflict is a dirtbag does not make the other an Angel. In fact it is often true that BOTH sides are dirtbags.
Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
And of course the keyword brigade appears like clockwork: 'heilputlerfanclub.' 'putinapologist.' 'putinpufferparade.'  It's all so boringly predictable.  If you want the author's own opinions on Putin, you could just read his own words: Meh. Putin is a dirtbag and I've said it for more than a decade, including on his own TV network. Just because one side of a conflict is a dirtbag does not make the other an Angel. In fact it is often true that BOTH sides are dirtbags.
Trump was right about NATO . It should be disbanded pronto . But it wont be .
What does Article I say?The Parties undertake, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, to settle any international dispute in which they may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.Shipping arms into an area where armed conflict is either occurringor threatening to occur, where the destination is NOT a NATO member and thus isNOT subject to NATO's mutual defense obligationsis aclear violation of Article I.It is escalatory, it is a threat to use force or enables the actual use of force, and thus is a clear violation of Article I.How about Article 8?Each Party declares that none of the international engagements now in force between it and any other of the Parties or any third State is in conflict with the provisions of this Treaty, and undertakes not to enter into any international engagement in conflict with this Treaty.Providing arms to a belligerentnot a member of NATOviolates this provision in that it can cause a mutual defense obligation to arise that would otherwise not.Therefore NATO members areobligatedto stayout of non-member conflicts except with theunanimous consent of all members.Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Shipping arms into an area where armed conflict is either occurringor threatening to occur, where the destination is NOT a NATO member and thus isNOT subject to NATO's mutual defense obligationsis aclear violation of Article I.It is escalatory, it is a threat to use force or enables the actual use of force, and thus is a clear violation of Article I.How about Article 8?Each Party declares that none of the international engagements now in force between it and any other of the Parties or any third State is in conflict with the provisions of this Treaty, and undertakes not to enter into any international engagement in conflict with this Treaty.Providing arms to a belligerentnot a member of NATOviolates this provision in that it can cause a mutual defense obligation to arise that would otherwise not.Therefore NATO members areobligatedto stayout of non-member conflicts except with theunanimous consent of all members.Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Can't change the mind of someone who can't read. Nothing in the above articles precludes shipping arms or "proxy" wars.
Does unanimous consent exist? Has it been established?  And has the use of force in the Russia-Ukraine been authorized in the manner called for by America's constitutional processes?  The point is that such processes haven't been followed. We're just blithely shipping arms willy-nilly, much like how France and Germany did after Russia annexed Crimea. It all rings so hollow.
But Russia is not allowed to have "red lines" on Ukraine joining NATO - right on Russia's doorstep. There is no hypocrite like a neocon globalist hypocrite...
The Australian PM spoke as though it wasn't just theirs: "Working together with our partners in New Zealand and of course the United States, I share the same red line that the United States has when it comes to these issues," Morrison said over the weekend. "We won't be having Chinese military naval bases in our region on our doorstep."
His mind can't be changed because he's blinded by his own passions.The treaty doesn't say anything about "escalatory." It just says the parties will endeavor to act in accordance with the purpose of the UN charter, which is peace. The UN authorized "escalation" in Korea, did it not? So obviously sometimes escalation can be in accordance with the UN charter.Following that precedent, the UN should authorize the use of force against Russia for waging aggressive war aiming at annexation in Europe, a crime for which men were hanged at Nuremberg.
Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
Everyonewishes to argue "Article 5" of the NATO treaty, which is the mutual-defense pact.You get attacked and we all get attacked.Ok.What does Article I say?The Parties undertake, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, to settle any international dispute in which they may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.Shipping arms into an area where armed conflict is either occurringor threatening to occur, where the destination is NOT a NATO member and thus isNOT subject to NATO's mutual defense obligationsis aclear violation of Article I.It is escalatory, it is a threat to use force or enables the actual use of force, and thus is a clear violation of Article I.How about Article 8?Each Party declares that none of the international engagements now in force between it and any other of the Parties or any third State is in conflict with the provisions of this Treaty, and undertakes not to enter into any international engagement in conflict with this Treaty.Providing arms to a belligerentnot a member of NATOviolates this provision in that it can cause a mutual defense obligation to arise that would otherwise not.Therefore NATO members areobligatedto stayout of non-member conflicts except with theunanimous consent of all members.Intervening in a non-member's conflict, in short, by other than unanimous consentis a violation of the treaty.How about Article 11?This Treaty shall be ratified and its provisions carried out by the Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which will notify all the other signatories of each deposit. The Treaty shall enter into force between the States which have ratified it as soon as the ratifications of the majority of the signatories, including the ratifications of Belgium, Canada, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, have been deposited and shall come into effect with respect to other States on the date of the deposit of their ratifications. 3For the United States to engagein the elements of a proxy war,which it did at Maidanand now through the provision of armswithout a declaration of said war by Congressis a direct violation of the US Constitution and thus a violation of the treaty.Fraud vitiatesall agreements.Thereforeno nationis obligated underany other provision of the NATO Treatyand each and every nationat this timethat has in any way violated the above provisions,which includes the United States,is not entitled under its provisions toanything, including mutual defense under Article 5.Agreements stand and fall on the integrity of the parties so-involved, and whenrepeated, blatant and outrageousviolations of same,with intent and to disadvantage otherstake place that has a name in both law and common practice.FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
If there was ever a time where he ever 'hawked' any programs of his or his daughter's, it's been literally years. I certainly can't recall such within recent memory.
FRAUD.Fraud vitiates all agreements, whether in handshake, contract, treaty or otherwise.Go ahead and try to change my mind.
The Parties undertake, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, to settle any international dispute in which they may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered, and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.
The treaty doesn't say anything about "escalatory." It just says the parties will endeavor to act in accordance with the purpose of the UN charter, which is peace. The UN authorized "escalation" in Korea, did it not? So obviously sometimes escalation can be in accordance with the UN charter.Following that precedent, the UN should authorize the use of force against Russia for waging aggressive war aiming at annexation in Europe, a crime for which men were hanged at Nuremberg.
The United States told China today that their moves on the Solomon Islands are a "red line" - half a world away. But Russia is not allowed to have "red lines" on Ukraine joining NATO - right on Russia's doorstep. There is no hypocrite like a neocon globalist hypocrite...
Actually, it was Australia that said that and, yeah, theyre right next door. The Australian PM spoke as though it wasn't just theirs: "Working together with our partners in New Zealand and of course the United States, I share the same red line that the United States has when it comes to these issues," Morrison said over the weekend. "We won't be having Chinese military naval bases in our region on our doorstep."
It's all so boringly predictable.  If you want the author's own opinions on Putin, you could just read his own words: Meh. Putin is a dirtbag and I've said it for more than a decade, including on his own TV network. Just because one side of a conflict is a dirtbag does not make the other an Angel. In fact it is often true that BOTH sides are dirtbags.
KEYWORDS: ccp chechens chechnya china europe fakeinvestments getsomenewkeywords heilputlerfanclub karldenninger nato putinapologist putinpufferparade putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression ukraine xiworshippers zottherussiantrolls
Im on the American team and all those who want to tell me America is no better than Russia or China, are not on my team.
