NATO rules out Ukraine nofly zone Painful decision
20220304
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4043690/posts
No, its an admission that Ukraine's so-called "sovereignty" was really a fraud, and that NATO and the US deep state were just using them to poke and prod Russia.  It was known all along that Russia would not accept a former long-time possession, former soviet state and its neighbor being a NATO member, so Ukrainians were just cannon-fodder in a bigger scheme to keep Germany on the NATO plantation, control energy flows in Europe, poke Russia in the eye, and even embarrass Trump.
The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
And notice which side is issuing all the propaganda, from video-gamr clips passed off as live footage, to the non-martyrdom of those guys on the island, to the baldfaced lies about Russia shelling a nuclear reactor last night.
Ukraine is not NATO. That said, we did agree to protect Ukraine in exchange for their giving up the nuclear weapons they acquired at the fall of the USSR
NATO nations will not impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine, despite pleas from some in Ukraine. Secretary Jens Stoltenberg called it a "painful decision," saying that NATO has a responsibility not to escalate the conflict by engaging Russian forces directly in Ukraine, either on the ground or in the air. Enforcing a no-fly zone would involve NATO planes in Ukraine potentially shooting down Russian planes, Stoltenberg said Friday. President Biden's administration has likewise ruled out such a move, saying it is "not going to happen." RUSSIA INVADES UKRAINE: LIVE UPDATES "We understand the desperation, but we also believe that if we did that, would end up with something that could end in a full-fledged war in Europe involving many more countries and causing much more human suffering," he said. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that the West should consider a no-fly zone, and Ukrainian member of Parliament Lesia Vasylenko said Friday that a no-fly zone is "the only thing we need right NOW." The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
No, failing to help a country under attack doesnt prove it was never a real country.
Enforcing a no-fly zone would involve NATO planes in Ukraine potentially shooting down Russian planes, Stoltenberg said Friday. President Biden's administration has likewise ruled out such a move, saying it is "not going to happen." RUSSIA INVADES UKRAINE: LIVE UPDATES "We understand the desperation, but we also believe that if we did that, would end up with something that could end in a full-fledged war in Europe involving many more countries and causing much more human suffering," he said. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that the West should consider a no-fly zone, and Ukrainian member of Parliament Lesia Vasylenko said Friday that a no-fly zone is "the only thing we need right NOW." The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
All posts made under this handle are, for the intents and purposes of the author, considered satire.
It was known all along that Russia would not accept a former long-time possession, former soviet state and its neighbor being a NATO member, so Ukrainians were just cannon-fodder in a bigger scheme to keep Germany on the NATO plantation, control energy flows in Europe, poke Russia in the eye, and even embarrass Trump.
That said, I am beginning to suspect Russia is having some problems we dont fully understand. I wont rely too heavily on the media accounts or heroics. But I can confidently say, this is not how Russia planned the invasion. They have hundreds of military aircraft in theater that have not left the ground. They have supply lines and heavy armor stalled and sitting. They are engaged in skirmishes with small arms fire everywhere. I am starting to suspect that Russia might have problems that are more than flat tires and old equipment.
Showing strength and resolve is not always going to be pain free or without inconveniance.
Now, as to left wing thinking. Vladimir Putin is a dangerous threatening enemy of the United States. Hes been threatening us with nuclear attack for quite a few years now.
 the liberals are so unspeakably evil they have managed to make the very word literally an oxymoron
The opinions are solely those of the author and are subject to change with out notice.
Are you ok? What has you so pissed off? I made no controversial comments and dont support any sort of military action. Take your meds and cool your jets.
Im not convinced that Ukraine can save itself without some direct military intervention from other nations. But they are, thus far, holding out better than expected with some armament aid. The NATO powers do have tools to cripple Russia if they had the balls to use them.
"We understand the desperation, but we also believe that if we did that, would end up with something that could end in a full-fledged war in Europe involving many more countries and causing much more human suffering," he said. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that the West should consider a no-fly zone, and Ukrainian member of Parliament Lesia Vasylenko said Friday that a no-fly zone is "the only thing we need right NOW." The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
Secretary Jens Stoltenberg called it a "painful decision," saying that NATO has a responsibility not to escalate the conflict by engaging Russian forces directly in Ukraine, either on the ground or in the air. Enforcing a no-fly zone would involve NATO planes in Ukraine potentially shooting down Russian planes, Stoltenberg said Friday. President Biden's administration has likewise ruled out such a move, saying it is "not going to happen." RUSSIA INVADES UKRAINE: LIVE UPDATES "We understand the desperation, but we also believe that if we did that, would end up with something that could end in a full-fledged war in Europe involving many more countries and causing much more human suffering," he said. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that the West should consider a no-fly zone, and Ukrainian member of Parliament Lesia Vasylenko said Friday that a no-fly zone is "the only thing we need right NOW." The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
Doesn't that constitute a surrender? No, its an admission that Ukraine's so-called "sovereignty" was really a fraud, and that NATO and the US deep state were just using them to poke and prod Russia.  It was known all along that Russia would not accept a former long-time possession, former soviet state and its neighbor being a NATO member, so Ukrainians were just cannon-fodder in a bigger scheme to keep Germany on the NATO plantation, control energy flows in Europe, poke Russia in the eye, and even embarrass Trump.
Im sick of people reaching absurd illogical conclusions. Don't really care who you are sick of nor your opinion of what constitutes "illogical conclusions".  By allowing the left-wing to frame your opinionspositions on this conflict by the false propaganda coming from those same left-wing actors, Democrats, Globalists, EU, Democrat Press, Obama, Soros, etc., your opinions on this matter and those that disagree with you have become worthless.
The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
Given events of the last 20 years, cant think of a good reason. At the time of the fall of the USSR, the west had some cred. After the nation building attempts in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the failed exits in both cases by Democrat admins elected by fickle Americans, or stolen if one is inclined to believe, we have zero cred.
If youre going to help then help, its a war and Putin will only respect the risk of a military disaster. But unlike Putin, western nations are very war averse.
In fact, if you now think siding with Russia is a conservative viewpoint, your wacky anti American positions will get us killed.
His military strategy is encirclement and cutting off of the main armed forces in the Ukraine.
The Deep State is going apesht because a lot of their money-laundrring, graft, human smuggling, and clandestine bioweapons labs were in the Ukraine and they dont have backups.
But sorry that doesnt prove the absence of a real country. It just proves NATO made a decision to avoid war.
If Russia doesnt take Ukraine, somehow, or it takes a prolonged efforts with mass casualties, we will better understand what military capability Russia actually has. Has the world over estimated their capabilities?
Theres something wrong in your head if you think Im guided by left wing opinion.
RUSSIA INVADES UKRAINE: LIVE UPDATES "We understand the desperation, but we also believe that if we did that, would end up with something that could end in a full-fledged war in Europe involving many more countries and causing much more human suffering," he said. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that the West should consider a no-fly zone, and Ukrainian member of Parliament Lesia Vasylenko said Friday that a no-fly zone is "the only thing we need right NOW." The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said this week that the West should consider a no-fly zone, and Ukrainian member of Parliament Lesia Vasylenko said Friday that a no-fly zone is "the only thing we need right NOW." The war in Ukraine will likely be "worse" in the coming days, "with more death, more suffering, and more destruction, as the Russian armed forces bring in heavier weaponry and continue their attacks across the country," Stoltenberg said. NATO is strengthening its ties with non-member nations Finland and Sweden, Stoltenberg said. He condemned the Russian attack on a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, calling it "reckless." The head of the International Atomic Energy Administration said that no radiation was released in the attack, and that a fire at the plant was extinguished.
We should ask our ET buddies to step in and F with the Ruskies for us.
"NATO has a responsibility not to escalate the conflict by engaging Russian forces directly in Ukraine, either on the ground or in the air."Doesn't that constitute a surrender?
What i said was logical the posters conclusion was absurd. That deciding not to impose a no fly zone proves no country exists?
What chink? Just curious. I could go on about a certain word there like .....
