NATO to activate defense forces after Russia invasion of Ukraine says peace in Europe shattered
20220224
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4040996/posts
NATO will activate its defensive Response Force in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Secretary Jens Stoltenberg said Thursday. The decision was made by NATO's North Atlantic Council. "Peace on our continent has been shattered," Stoltenberg said. "We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history."
When we bombed Serbia to get BJ Clintons sexcapades off the front page, NATO allies like Italy were warning Serbs when US aircraft took off from Italian bases they knew it was a hoax, and theyd have to live with the outcome while we sat safely on the other side of an ocean.
There is a world war now, and the sides are Good and Evil. My bets are placed on Great Awakening wins over Great Reset.
The decision was made by NATO's North Atlantic Council. "Peace on our continent has been shattered," Stoltenberg said. "We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history."
I dont think NATO has to be concerned while Russia and Ukraine settle their differences.
"NATO". LOL. This means the U.S., or nothing. Trump tried to change that. They opposed him and supported Biden and impotence instead.
Everything will be okay in the end.  If its not okay, its not the end.
I guess the only silver lining is the Biden crime family just lost a big chunk of income.
The JihadJunta: "We are now a nation of Men, Not of Laws. You are not as equal as we are..."
Ukraine is still not our circus and not our monkeys. The Euro-trash started this, let them deal with it. If the Euros want a war with Russia, leave us out.
CBS just an hour ago had a reknowned military history professor for an interview and he used that exact same set of words. Sounds like the talking points have been passed out already.
peace in Europe 'shattered'... Bring it. There is a world war now, and the sides are Good and Evil. My bets are placed on Great Awakening wins over Great Reset.
Sounds like they should have studied History instead of getting comfy with that Status-Quo Bias.
western europe is already a vassal state to russia every since it went green and shut down its nuke and coal plants and imported 30 of their energy from russia ... russia has already won its war with western europe without firing a shot ...
Bring it. There is a world war now, and the sides are Good and Evil. My bets are placed on Great Awakening wins over Great Reset.
What a moron. Way to telegraph your organization's uselessness, stupidity, and abject failure. These people can't be taken seriously and Putin isn't.  I guess the only silver lining is the Biden crime family just lost a big chunk of income.
The left would kill every single one of us and our families if they knew they could get away with it
"We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history." What a moron. Way to telegraph your organization's uselessness, stupidity, and abject failure. These people can't be taken seriously and Putin isn't.  I guess the only silver lining is the Biden crime family just lost a big chunk of income.
History repeats itself except to the extent that it is actively and successfully precluded from doing so.
What defense forces? This is Western Europe where defense forces are as paltry as their defense spending. Are they referring to US defense forces 3000 miles away?
"Peace on our continent has been shattered," Stoltenberg said. "We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history."
"We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history."  Sounds like they should have studied History instead of getting comfy with that Status-Quo Bias.
They intend to murder us.   Prep if you want to live and live like you are prepping for eternal life
Stoltenberg said. We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history.
Im not supporting Putin here, I just wanted to point out the coincidence. Anyone hear someone else using those words?
We now have war in Europe on a scale and of a type we thought belonged to history.
