On March 4 Russia set to impose martial law  Ukraines NSDC secretary
20220302
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4043109/posts
Thanks but I think Ill wait for an official confirmation from Russia itself. But Ukraine thanks you for spreading their propaganda for them.
Yes, because months of Russian lies backed up by morons on this site that there would never be an invasion must leas us to the conclusion that Ukrainian propaganda is the issue.
But 48 hours? They might be off a little on their time like we saw with the invasion of Ukraine but the assessment of what will happen is likely spot on.
I question this too - if he wants to draft a military he should easily be able to get his government to order it without martial law.
The Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, Oleksiy Danilov, has confirmed earlier reports that from March 4, the Russian Federation intends to impose martial law across the country.
Anyone calling for peace can be legally censored and information much more tightly controlled under martial law than currently
Martial law allows the Russian government to control the economy and direct resources that they wouldnt have enough able to do without the power.
If it happens then it is a certain indicator that the war not only goes poorly for Putin but that its opposed at home. Martial law will be needed to put down peaceful protests just like we saw in Ottawa.
The more I read the Nooze these days, the more I come to realize that you can know basic grammer, and how to spell, and still be illiterate.
It has to do with Russia. He is not the only one talking about it, it is being widely discussed among Russians.
Like if someone says global warming will be a crisis in ten years its almost certainly wrong.
Its illegal for the media to call it a war instead of a military operation at least until the MoD calls it that
Its because their economy is about to seize. They are about to default on some national bondsmerely because there is no mechanism to pay international banks.
The Russian must be having a tough go of it if they farmed out the national spokesman job to Ukraine.
The Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, Oleksiy Danilov, has confirmed earlier reports that from March 4, the Russian Federation intends to impose martial law across the country.  The statement came as Danilov was speaking on the air of Ukraine 24 TV, answering questions about the possible application for martial law in Russia.  "First, this is the data available to our intelligence that from March 4, the Russian Federation is set to indeed impose martial law in the country. Id like to see how Moscow and St. Petersburg, where theres a lot of intellegenzia, will react to this, as they understand what is happening in the Russian Federation. Today, if Putin lacks cannon fodder, he can take children hes drafting into the army to deploy here, into our meat grinder. I don't understand why hes doing this," Danilov stressed.
Twice it says the Russian Federation will declare martial law in the country but it doesnt say which one. Presumably the Russian Federation is declaring martial law in the Russian Federation, but when you attribute the fact to a Ukranian, with no explanation, it makes things ambiguous.
If its not martial law it will be a package of new laws for the Duma just short of that, greatly increasing censorship of news about the special operation
The number of deaths released by the Russian ministry of defense was a turning point, people know it is a lie, but what to multiply it by to get to a true number? Surely, they think, the Ukrainian numbers given for Russian dead are just propaganda
There is still a widespread view that what people see on tiktok telegram etc about interviews with POWs and strikes on Russian vehicle columns and so on are faked videos
Im not sure why they need more people with 70 of the Russian military already in Ukraine though.
This has everything to do with casualties and POWs and the resisting attitude of Ukrainians to the special operation
There are anecdotal reports of Russians across the country being called up and asked to sign military contracts to go to Ukraine or join the reserve.
There is an inverse proportional relationship to such a prognostication being true and the time to validate it.
