Pence in upcoming speech There is no room in the party for apologists to Putin
20220305
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4043812/posts
Peter Beinart over at Substack just put out a great article on illustrating how Putin is not alone among the Russian elites in his thinking about Ukraine. So, even if Putin were deposed assassinated, his successor might not be very understanding either.
Mike should make an honest woman of himself and switch to the Demo rat party.
Former Vice President Mike Pence is set to deliver a speech Friday night that will call out Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as those who have suggested that NATOs expansion played a role in his invasion of Ukraine.
Pence will likely be the last in the GOP to know that NO ONE CARES what he says.
Shut up pence. Hope Putin has the goods on you helping the steal. Or what ever. Dont want to hear from you..
Yes, there was no short-term threat from Ukraine to Russia. But we have to remember that NATO is fundamentally about containing Russia. Peter Beinart over at Substack just put out a great article on illustrating how Putin is not alone among the Russian elites in his thinking about Ukraine. So, even if Putin were deposed assassinated, his successor might not be very understanding either.
Putin is a brutal and dangerous guy--and he is a sociopath. But he is not insane. And his strategic concerns about the implications of NATO expansion are no laughing matter. Yes, there was no short-term threat from Ukraine to Russia. But we have to remember that NATO is fundamentally about containing Russia. Peter Beinart over at Substack just put out a great article on illustrating how Putin is not alone among the Russian elites in his thinking about Ukraine. So, even if Putin were deposed assassinated, his successor might not be very understanding either.
Adam Kinzinger, Liz Cheney, Marco Rubio, Lindsey Graham, Ted Cruz and Mitch McConnell all agree with him.
Pence is regarded a little less than low energy Yeb. I cant imagine his polling numbers being high enough to escape the Petri dish of irrelevance.
