Poland plans radical strengthening of its military more than double the size of the military to 250000 soldiers
20211119
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4022475/posts
I shop at Walmart and eat at McDonald's, I just don't tell anyone, like most here.
I want to know if the numbers cited are for the Polish Army or all of the Polish Armed Forces. If it is the former, then yes, the Poles would have the EU's largest standing army.
Poland should wisely use a strong Military to kick the EU out of Poland and send the Muslim "Migrants" the EU loves so much, to EUGermany.They'll fit right in.
Just wait until the Russians launch their winter offensive into Ukraine next month. I want to know if the numbers cited are for the Polish Army or all of the Polish Armed Forces. If it is the former, then yes, the Poles would have the EU's largest standing army.
The bill, which still needs approval from parliament and the president, is aimed at replacing an existing one from 1967. At that time Poland was a member of Warsaw Pact eastern military alliance, under Moscow's control. Since 1999 it has been a member of NATO, and is regularly cited as one of the few alliance members that invest at least 2 percent of its GDP in defense. Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
Since Russia is also considered European at least the part West of the Urals I think the Russians are a little larger.
WARSAW, Poland AP  Poland's ruling party leader presented plans Tuesday for a bill to "defend the fatherland," legislation he said is aimed at "radically" strengthening the military as the country faces migration pressure from its eastern neighbor Belarus. Jaroslaw Kaczynski, who holds the position of deputy prime minister but is undisputedly the most powerful politician in Poland, said the bill is needed due to a deteriorating international situation and also to Poland's geopolitical location. Examples he gave included neighboring "Russia's imperial ambitions" and the hybrid warfare being waged by Belarus against Poland and other European Union nations using migrants. 'If you want peace, prepare for war,'" Kaczynski said at a news conference in Warsaw. He argued that, as a country which lies on the eastern flank of the European Union and NATO, Poland must have a serious deterrent force and the "ability to effectively defend itself for a long time on its own." He noted NATO decisions take time to implement. The bill, which still needs approval from parliament and the president, is aimed at replacing an existing one from 1967. At that time Poland was a member of Warsaw Pact eastern military alliance, under Moscow's control. Since 1999 it has been a member of NATO, and is regularly cited as one of the few alliance members that invest at least 2 percent of its GDP in defense. Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
And I guarantee Poland will spend the Zlotys to arm and equip every one of those soldiers too, unlike the other countries in Europe.
Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
Less Than $696 To Go!!Don't Put Off 'Till TomorrowWhat You Should Do Today!!Please Help "Clean Up" The FReepathon With A Donation For This Quarter Sponsoring FReepers are contributing $10 Each time a New Monthly Donor signs up!  Get more bang for your FR buck!  Click Here To Sign Up Now!
Sponsoring FReepers are contributing $10 Each time a New Monthly Donor signs up!  Get more bang for your FR buck!  Click Here To Sign Up Now!
He argued that, as a country which lies on the eastern flank of the European Union and NATO, Poland must have a serious deterrent force and the "ability to effectively defend itself for a long time on its own." He noted NATO decisions take time to implement. The bill, which still needs approval from parliament and the president, is aimed at replacing an existing one from 1967. At that time Poland was a member of Warsaw Pact eastern military alliance, under Moscow's control. Since 1999 it has been a member of NATO, and is regularly cited as one of the few alliance members that invest at least 2 percent of its GDP in defense. Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers Wowzer - I believe that would make them the largest standing European army 
Oh Poland... How I so wanted to immigrate there and retire. Even had a nice place picked out in Bukovina. It got Californicated.
Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
'If you want peace, prepare for war,'" Kaczynski said at a news conference in Warsaw. He argued that, as a country which lies on the eastern flank of the European Union and NATO, Poland must have a serious deterrent force and the "ability to effectively defend itself for a long time on its own." He noted NATO decisions take time to implement. The bill, which still needs approval from parliament and the president, is aimed at replacing an existing one from 1967. At that time Poland was a member of Warsaw Pact eastern military alliance, under Moscow's control. Since 1999 it has been a member of NATO, and is regularly cited as one of the few alliance members that invest at least 2 percent of its GDP in defense. Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
So if a cow doesnt produce milk, is it a milk dud or an udder failure?
It's wise and great to have a strong Military.Poland should wisely use a strong Military to kick the EU out of Poland and send the Muslim "Migrants" the EU loves so much, to EUGermany.They'll fit right in.
Less Than $916 To Go!!"Youse ain't donated to FR this quarter yet??" "DON'T fuggettaboutit!!""Just Click Here...Capisce?" Sponsoring FReepers are contributing $10 Each time a New Monthly Donor signs up!  Get more bang for your FR buck!  Click Here To Sign Up Now!
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, who holds the position of deputy prime minister but is undisputedly the most powerful politician in Poland, said the bill is needed due to a deteriorating international situation and also to Poland's geopolitical location. Examples he gave included neighboring "Russia's imperial ambitions" and the hybrid warfare being waged by Belarus against Poland and other European Union nations using migrants. 'If you want peace, prepare for war,'" Kaczynski said at a news conference in Warsaw. He argued that, as a country which lies on the eastern flank of the European Union and NATO, Poland must have a serious deterrent force and the "ability to effectively defend itself for a long time on its own." He noted NATO decisions take time to implement. The bill, which still needs approval from parliament and the president, is aimed at replacing an existing one from 1967. At that time Poland was a member of Warsaw Pact eastern military alliance, under Moscow's control. Since 1999 it has been a member of NATO, and is regularly cited as one of the few alliance members that invest at least 2 percent of its GDP in defense. Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
He noted NATO decisions take time to implement. The bill, which still needs approval from parliament and the president, is aimed at replacing an existing one from 1967. At that time Poland was a member of Warsaw Pact eastern military alliance, under Moscow's control. Since 1999 it has been a member of NATO, and is regularly cited as one of the few alliance members that invest at least 2 percent of its GDP in defense. Kaczynski said, speaking alongside Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak, that he believed the changes would also benefit NATO. Kaczynski and Blaszczak presented a plan to increase the defense budget further and to more than double the size of the military to 250,000 soldiers, up from the current 110,000. The changes do not involve a reinstatement of compulsory military service...
