Putin involved in war at level of colonel or brigadier say western sources
20220516
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4063765/posts
KEYWORDS: 1thisisagitprop 2fromarinofreeper 3asitgivesnonames 4forthesources agitpropnonames blueandyellowdrank clownworld dansabbagh givesourcesorshutup globalistpropaganda liztrussapproves maximumdummy maximumneocon maximumwarmongering morebritagitprop morebritgarbage morebritswill nonamedsources peterhitchens putin remf russia
From the above articleRussias military operates in a more top down fashion compared to western counterparts, with instructions typically sent to generals in the field. But Moscows faltering invasion has meant that it has been forced to send generals closer to the frontline, where up to 12 have been killed, according to the Ukrainian armed forces.Ben Barry, a former brigadier in the British army, and a land warfare expert at the International Institute of Strategic Studies, said: A head of government should have better things to do than make military decisions. They should be setting the political strategy rather than getting bogged down in day to day activity.Last weeks failed attempt to cross the Siverskyi Donets river at Bilohorivka led to the destruction of more than 70 Russian vehicles, and the loss of at least one batallions worth of equipment, according to estimates based on aerial photography of the battle site.The defeat was so serious it led some Russian military bloggers to comment on the incompetence of the Russian military to their hundreds of thousands of followers, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a rare sign of internal dissent.
Perhaps they will come to the conclusion that the only way that pontoon bridge is going to be successfully placed across the river at Bilohorivka is if Putin and Gerasimov personally go there and take command of those troops.
Russias military operates in a more top down fashion compared to western counterparts, with instructions typically sent to generals in the field. But Moscows faltering invasion has meant that it has been forced to send generals closer to the frontline, where up to 12 have been killed, according to the Ukrainian armed forces.Ben Barry, a former brigadier in the British army, and a land warfare expert at the International Institute of Strategic Studies, said: A head of government should have better things to do than make military decisions. They should be setting the political strategy rather than getting bogged down in day to day activity.Last weeks failed attempt to cross the Siverskyi Donets river at Bilohorivka led to the destruction of more than 70 Russian vehicles, and the loss of at least one batallions worth of equipment, according to estimates based on aerial photography of the battle site.The defeat was so serious it led some Russian military bloggers to comment on the incompetence of the Russian military to their hundreds of thousands of followers, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a rare sign of internal dissent.
In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
..the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
The Ukraine is losing up to 15,000 men per month to the war. The total Ukrainian casualties, dead and wounded, are likely already at 50,000. The weapons the U.S. and others provide, are not sufficient to sustain the war. The Ukraine has only 3 days reserves of diesel and gasoline left. The main parts of its forces are immobile and are getting surrounded by Russian forces. Their situation is hopeless. https:thedreizinreport.com20220515russia-helps-the-ukraine-meet-its-emissions-reduction-targets Although barely any U.S. or European media mentioned this at all, the past week saw the destruction of the Kremenchug oil refinery, which the Associated Pressciting a Ukrainian officialconveyed was not operational anyway.. ..So, no big deal! Right? The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
The Russian president is helping determine the movement of forces in the Donbas, they added, where last week the invaders suffered a bloody defeat as they tried on multiple occasions to cross a strategic river in the east of Ukraine.
This post brought to you by St. Javelin, the worlds leading distributer of T72 parts
..So, no big deal! Right? The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
We think Putin and Gerasimov are involved in tactical decision making at a level we would normally expect to be taken by a colonel or a brigadierPerhaps they will come to the conclusion that the only way that pontoon bridge is going to be successfully placed across the river at Bilohorivka is if Putin and Gerasimov personally go there and take command of those troops.
As a president you should make sure forces are equipped and trained. Then you just say DO THIS and let them figure out how to do it. Thats their job
And Vladdy was never in the military. Hes always been a pencil pusher at the FSB.
As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
Putin will need to mobilize the Moscow and St Petersburg Tick-Tock mallrats for cannon fodder if he wants to take the entire Donbas.
The Russian president is helping determine the movement of forces in the Donbas, they added, where last week the invaders suffered a bloody defeat as they tried on multiple occasions to cross a strategic river in the east of Ukraine. The sources added that Putin is still working closely with Gen Valery Gerasimov, the commander of the Russian armed forces, in contrast to claims made by Ukraine last week that the military chief had been sidelined. -snip- Moscows armies have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough in the Donbas, where they have been mounting an offensive for a month that has failed several times encircle the smaller Ukrainian forces.
The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
He miscalculated on several levels. His time is short, and he has to find a way to pull out some kind of victory to justify all the losses. And he doesnt have a lot of time to do it.
Putin, once again, is proving he's genius if this true since the Ukrainian army is being grinded down and Ukraine is about out of fuel: https:www.moonofalabama.org202205if-ukraine-is-winning-why-is-the-us-requesting-a-ceasefire.htmlmore The Ukraine is losing up to 15,000 men per month to the war. The total Ukrainian casualties, dead and wounded, are likely already at 50,000. The weapons the U.S. and others provide, are not sufficient to sustain the war. The Ukraine has only 3 days reserves of diesel and gasoline left. The main parts of its forces are immobile and are getting surrounded by Russian forces. Their situation is hopeless. https:thedreizinreport.com20220515russia-helps-the-ukraine-meet-its-emissions-reduction-targets Although barely any U.S. or European media mentioned this at all, the past week saw the destruction of the Kremenchug oil refinery, which the Associated Pressciting a Ukrainian officialconveyed was not operational anyway.. ..So, no big deal! Right? The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
Last weeks failed attempt to cross the Siverskyi Donets river at Bilohorivka led to the destruction of more than 70 Russian vehicles, and the loss of at least one batallions worth of equipment, according to estimates based on aerial photography of the battle site.The defeat was so serious it led some Russian military bloggers to comment on the incompetence of the Russian military to their hundreds of thousands of followers, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a rare sign of internal dissent.
This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
The defeat was so serious it led some Russian military bloggers to comment on the incompetence of the Russian military to their hundreds of thousands of followers, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a rare sign of internal dissent.
https:thedreizinreport.com20220515russia-helps-the-ukraine-meet-its-emissions-reduction-targets Although barely any U.S. or European media mentioned this at all, the past week saw the destruction of the Kremenchug oil refinery, which the Associated Pressciting a Ukrainian officialconveyed was not operational anyway.. ..So, no big deal! Right? The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
https:www.moonofalabama.org202205if-ukraine-is-winning-why-is-the-us-requesting-a-ceasefire.htmlmore The Ukraine is losing up to 15,000 men per month to the war. The total Ukrainian casualties, dead and wounded, are likely already at 50,000. The weapons the U.S. and others provide, are not sufficient to sustain the war. The Ukraine has only 3 days reserves of diesel and gasoline left. The main parts of its forces are immobile and are getting surrounded by Russian forces. Their situation is hopeless. https:thedreizinreport.com20220515russia-helps-the-ukraine-meet-its-emissions-reduction-targets Although barely any U.S. or European media mentioned this at all, the past week saw the destruction of the Kremenchug oil refinery, which the Associated Pressciting a Ukrainian officialconveyed was not operational anyway.. ..So, no big deal! Right? The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
The sources added that Putin is still working closely with Gen Valery Gerasimov, the commander of the Russian armed forces, in contrast to claims made by Ukraine last week that the military chief had been sidelined. -snip- Moscows armies have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough in the Donbas, where they have been mounting an offensive for a month that has failed several times encircle the smaller Ukrainian forces.
Ukraine is running out of smart weapons. The best tactic would have been to disable the front and rear of tank columns, making the rest of them unable to advance. Swamp-like fields on the roadside. Save your ammo but then what do I know?
-snip- Moscows armies have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough in the Donbas, where they have been mounting an offensive for a month that has failed several times encircle the smaller Ukrainian forces.
Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
Although barely any U.S. or European media mentioned this at all, the past week saw the destruction of the Kremenchug oil refinery, which the Associated Pressciting a Ukrainian officialconveyed was not operational anyway.. ..So, no big deal! Right? The oil tanks at Kremenchug had been damaged previously, but the facilityas one of the Ukraines only three functioning refineries at the start of the war, and one of only two large oneshas just lost its production section thanks to at least six Russian cruise missiles.  This size of refinery would take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild.Regional authorities say the gas will run out completely in a few days.With the Lisichansk refinery also destroyed, and the Odessa refinerys fuel tanks all well blown....the one avenue now for supplying the Ukraine and its army with ready fuel, is via tanker trains coming from Moldova. As Ive written before, these trains are loaded at the port of Giurgiuleti, then moved over Soviet-gauge Moldovan track into the Ukraine. Poland and Slovakia dont use the same track, so sourcing from that direction is not an option, unless you want to transfer the fuel to a new train at the borderridiculously time-consuming. Russia has hit and possibly disabled one of two Odessa-region bridges used by these fuel trains. In short, the fuel line into the Ukraine, is hanging on a thread, and fully at Russias mercy. Send more Javelins!
Vladimir Putin has become so personally involved in the Ukraine war that he is making operational and tactical decisions at the level of a colonel or brigadier, according to western military sources. The Russian president is helping determine the movement of forces in the Donbas, they added, where last week the invaders suffered a bloody defeat as they tried on multiple occasions to cross a strategic river in the east of Ukraine. The sources added that Putin is still working closely with Gen Valery Gerasimov, the commander of the Russian armed forces, in contrast to claims made by Ukraine last week that the military chief had been sidelined. -snip- Moscows armies have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough in the Donbas, where they have been mounting an offensive for a month that has failed several times encircle the smaller Ukrainian forces.
President helping determine movement of Russian soldiers, say sources, as head of UK armed forces says Ukraine is winning. Vladimir Putin has become so personally involved in the Ukraine war that he is making operational and tactical decisions at the level of a colonel or brigadier, according to western military sources. The Russian president is helping determine the movement of forces in the Donbas, they added, where last week the invaders suffered a bloody defeat as they tried on multiple occasions to cross a strategic river in the east of Ukraine. The sources added that Putin is still working closely with Gen Valery Gerasimov, the commander of the Russian armed forces, in contrast to claims made by Ukraine last week that the military chief had been sidelined. -snip- Moscows armies have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough in the Donbas, where they have been mounting an offensive for a month that has failed several times encircle the smaller Ukrainian forces.
Ben Barry, a former brigadier in the British army, and a land warfare expert at the International Institute of Strategic Studies, said: A head of government should have better things to do than make military decisions. They should be setting the political strategy rather than getting bogged down in day to day activity.Last weeks failed attempt to cross the Siverskyi Donets river at Bilohorivka led to the destruction of more than 70 Russian vehicles, and the loss of at least one batallions worth of equipment, according to estimates based on aerial photography of the battle site.The defeat was so serious it led some Russian military bloggers to comment on the incompetence of the Russian military to their hundreds of thousands of followers, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a rare sign of internal dissent.
Moscows armies have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough in the Donbas, where they have been mounting an offensive for a month that has failed several times encircle the smaller Ukrainian forces.
