Putin loses TWO more colonels in Ukraine including his best paratroop commander as death toll among the high ranks hits 48
20220529
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4067116/posts
Heres the first video. The ladies from 0:00 to around 0:14 are saying, among other things, Yes, of course we waited for you and the smiling blonde in the pink cream coat Everyone wants to see, hug, and kiss you! The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
KEYWORDS: blueandyellowdrank britagitprop britpropaganda ciaagitprop clownworld cuffingthewarcarrot dailyfail liztruss liztrussapproves maximumagitprop maximumpropaganda mi6agitprop notwinning peterhitchens putin russia swillstewart thedailyfail thedailywarfap ukpropaganda ukrainicorns war warfap willstewart
Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
So, let me put this into context. Russia is fighting across a broad front and is taking on Urkrainian troops crouching in heavily fortified trenches and bunkers. Since the start of the Special Military Operation aka invasion on February 24th, Russia has taken most of the southern coast of Ukraine. The battle for Mariupol stands as the most consequential urban battle of the 21st century. At the same time, Russia and the militias of the Republics of Donetsk and Luhnask are nearing the complete defeat of Ukrainian forces based in the Donbas. Besides Mariupol, Russia has taken control of major cities in the Donbas and adjacent regions, such as Vasilevka in the Zaporozhye region, Kherson, Lyman, Popasna. Russia now has surrounded Sievierodonetsk and trapped several thousand Ukrainian troops. My point? Russia has accomplished this against well armed, NATO trained forces fighting from defensive positions. The Ukrainians had artillery and some dronesmissiles. Russia has achieved all of this in less than two months.
Large columns of Russian hardware were seen passing north through or near Lugansk, evidently to seal the deal around Severodonetsk-Lisichansk. At least one video per day is coming out of Ukrainian units mostly, of the Territorial Defense militia justifying their retreat andor promising to no longer fight under the given awful conditions no heavy weapons, no clear guidance or direction, no medical support, etc. etc. The cannon-fodder is getting restless. It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
Besides Mariupol, Russia has taken control of major cities in the Donbas and adjacent regions, such as Vasilevka in the Zaporozhye region, Kherson, Lyman, Popasna. Russia now has surrounded Sievierodonetsk and trapped several thousand Ukrainian troops. My point? Russia has accomplished this against well armed, NATO trained forces fighting from defensive positions. The Ukrainians had artillery and some dronesmissiles. Russia has achieved all of this in less than two months.
Russian forces now physically control at least three kilometers likely quite a bit more of the main road running through Soledar into the Ukrainian army bastion at Lisichansk. Krasnyi Liman is now fully under Russian control. Large columns of Russian hardware were seen passing north through or near Lugansk, evidently to seal the deal around Severodonetsk-Lisichansk. At least one video per day is coming out of Ukrainian units mostly, of the Territorial Defense militia justifying their retreat andor promising to no longer fight under the given awful conditions no heavy weapons, no clear guidance or direction, no medical support, etc. etc. The cannon-fodder is getting restless. It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
"Well, yes, but they are losing!!! I tell you they are losing."  - Zelensky fanboi
Two more Russian colonels have been killed in Russias war in Ukraine - including the countrys 'best paratroop commander'. Lieutenant colonel Alexander Dosyagayev, 34, was a commander of an airborne assault battalion of the 104th paratrooper regiment. Troops from his 104th air assault regiment were reportedly in Bucha, the scene of alleged rape and torture atrocities committed by Vladimir Putins forces earlier in the war. His battalion based in Pskov had been recognised as the best in Russia in its extensive combat training and military discipline.
I dont think thats likely as soon as NATO countrys leaders start getting voted out off office then theyll be replaced with new leaders who have a mandate to improve the lot of the common people. That means getting back on the Russian oil teat. The two weakest players are Germany, whos economy is forty-seven percent dependent on exports which requires Russian gas, Italy, which is always in crisis, and Turkey which is again the sick man of Europe. Frankly, Im shocked Turkey hasnt already caved as their money is worthless and any offer of help, likely in the form of free gas, should make them switch sides. Anybody have a clue why Turkey is still backing Ukraine? It cant be arms sales alone as Im sure the Russians can out bid Ukraine.
Don't pick a fight with an old guy. If he is too old to fight, he'll just kill you.   
Troops from his 104th air assault regiment were reportedly in Bucha, the scene of alleged rape and torture atrocities committed by Vladimir Putins forces earlier in the war. His battalion based in Pskov had been recognised as the best in Russia in its extensive combat training and military discipline.
His battalion based in Pskov had been recognised as the best in Russia in its extensive combat training and military discipline.
https:thedreizinreport.com20220528what-the-hell-is-going-on-here The below two videos both evidently taken by Russian or Donetsk soldiers are from the town of Svetlodarsk, the center of a massively fortified, Ukrainian salient in Donetsk territory since 2014 or 2015. The town was evacuated without a fight by Ukrainian forces a few days ago, after coming under threat of encirclement from the northeast. Heres the first video. The ladies from 0:00 to around 0:14 are saying, among other things, Yes, of course we waited for you and the smiling blonde in the pink cream coat Everyone wants to see, hug, and kiss you! The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
The up-to-16,000 figure above is up from my prior 8000-9000 figure. This reflects current estimates from Russian war correspondents on the ground. Russian forces now physically control at least three kilometers likely quite a bit more of the main road running through Soledar into the Ukrainian army bastion at Lisichansk. Krasnyi Liman is now fully under Russian control. Large columns of Russian hardware were seen passing north through or near Lugansk, evidently to seal the deal around Severodonetsk-Lisichansk. At least one video per day is coming out of Ukrainian units mostly, of the Territorial Defense militia justifying their retreat andor promising to no longer fight under the given awful conditions no heavy weapons, no clear guidance or direction, no medical support, etc. etc. The cannon-fodder is getting restless. It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
Lieutenant colonel Alexander Dosyagayev, 34, was a commander of an airborne assault battalion of the 104th paratrooper regiment. Troops from his 104th air assault regiment were reportedly in Bucha, the scene of alleged rape and torture atrocities committed by Vladimir Putins forces earlier in the war. His battalion based in Pskov had been recognised as the best in Russia in its extensive combat training and military discipline.
Youre posting 3 days old propaganda. Katsaps were ordered to take Donbas by May 31 by Pedo Putin and today theyre going backwards! Poor Putin misses another deadline LOL!
The Ukie colonels are safe in Kiev, drinking The Good Stuff and playing piano with zElenskyy - while their men are getting shelled to pieces in the Donbass...
The below two videos both evidently taken by Russian or Donetsk soldiers are from the town of Svetlodarsk, the center of a massively fortified, Ukrainian salient in Donetsk territory since 2014 or 2015. The town was evacuated without a fight by Ukrainian forces a few days ago, after coming under threat of encirclement from the northeast. Heres the first video. The ladies from 0:00 to around 0:14 are saying, among other things, Yes, of course we waited for you and the smiling blonde in the pink cream coat Everyone wants to see, hug, and kiss you! The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Interesting Ukraine isnt reporting their military being taken down. So I agree this is likely propaganda.
At least one video per day is coming out of Ukrainian units mostly, of the Territorial Defense militia justifying their retreat andor promising to no longer fight under the given awful conditions no heavy weapons, no clear guidance or direction, no medical support, etc. etc. The cannon-fodder is getting restless. It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
Videos at link. https:thedreizinreport.com20220528what-the-hell-is-going-on-here The below two videos both evidently taken by Russian or Donetsk soldiers are from the town of Svetlodarsk, the center of a massively fortified, Ukrainian salient in Donetsk territory since 2014 or 2015. The town was evacuated without a fight by Ukrainian forces a few days ago, after coming under threat of encirclement from the northeast. Heres the first video. The ladies from 0:00 to around 0:14 are saying, among other things, Yes, of course we waited for you and the smiling blonde in the pink cream coat Everyone wants to see, hug, and kiss you! The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Yeah but, Zelensky isnt losing any of his military though. LOL I hope none of you war monger guys ever made fun of Q, because this is no different.
The two weakest players are Germany, whos whose economy is forty-seven percent dependent on exports which requires Russian gas ...Meaningless andor deliberately misleading statement, conflatinglinking "economy" with "exports" with "which requires Russian gas."Regards,
Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Russia has achieved all of this in less than two months.  "Well, yes, but they are losing!!! I tell you they are losing."  - Zelensky fanboi
The Daily Mail is fun reading. Based on their reports, is Putin now drafting the Volksturm? Is he at that last, desperate stage, of getting children and old men into the army?
The town was evacuated without a fight by Ukrainian forces a few days ago, after coming under threat of encirclement from the northeast. Heres the first video. The ladies from 0:00 to around 0:14 are saying, among other things, Yes, of course we waited for you and the smiling blonde in the pink cream coat Everyone wants to see, hug, and kiss you! The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
The ladies from 0:00 to around 0:14 are saying, among other things, Yes, of course we waited for you and the smiling blonde in the pink cream coat Everyone wants to see, hug, and kiss you! The ladies from around 0:15 to 0:26 are also elated. The one on the right says, We awaited you for so long. Then, the man behind them says rough translation, cannot be translated literally, You made it here, good job guys Wonderful, wonderful. The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
https:thedreizinreport.com20220526donbass-up-to-16000-ukrainian-personnel-about-to-be-cut-off-in-one-or-more-cauldrons-in-lugansk The up-to-16,000 figure above is up from my prior 8000-9000 figure. This reflects current estimates from Russian war correspondents on the ground. Russian forces now physically control at least three kilometers likely quite a bit more of the main road running through Soledar into the Ukrainian army bastion at Lisichansk. Krasnyi Liman is now fully under Russian control. Large columns of Russian hardware were seen passing north through or near Lugansk, evidently to seal the deal around Severodonetsk-Lisichansk. At least one video per day is coming out of Ukrainian units mostly, of the Territorial Defense militia justifying their retreat andor promising to no longer fight under the given awful conditions no heavy weapons, no clear guidance or direction, no medical support, etc. etc. The cannon-fodder is getting restless. It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
Krasnyi Liman is now fully under Russian control. Large columns of Russian hardware were seen passing north through or near Lugansk, evidently to seal the deal around Severodonetsk-Lisichansk. At least one video per day is coming out of Ukrainian units mostly, of the Territorial Defense militia justifying their retreat andor promising to no longer fight under the given awful conditions no heavy weapons, no clear guidance or direction, no medical support, etc. etc. The cannon-fodder is getting restless. It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
The war ends when theres a peace treaty or an agreed cessation of hostilities. If, however the war just drags on, it wont stop until one side is thoroughly beaten and cant go on, or one side withdraws. But, and this has been the wild card since day one, if Ukraine decides to keep up the fight regardless and NATO continues to supply arms, then Russia will eventually be ground down.
Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
The older folks starting from 0:27, also seem pleased. The white-haired lady says rough translation, to get the point across, Well, you know what we had to live with here.  The man next to her adds, So we waited, waited with impatience. On satellite? TV, we watch Russian channels, and we track where is the theater of military operations, where is it, where is it moving to Like generals who track where the forces are, where they will pass We sweated for every soldier, for all of them. Im sorry, I cant process this. What did this guy say? He sounds like hes speaking from occupied France in late summer 1944, awaiting the Yanks with a bottle of champagne that he had buried under his chicken coop when the Krauts moved into town. There is smoke coming out of my ears, and I dont think its from my fourth booster shot. Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Doesnt he know, its a big no-no to pick up Russian broadcasts on Ukrainian territory? Someone charge this guy with treason, please. Hes disloyal, like like Tucker Carlson and Matt Gaetz! The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Ukraine needs to face reality to end conflict, talk to Putin: Zelenskyy May 27, 2022 8:58am EDThttps:www.foxnews.comworldukraine-reality-conflict-putin-zelenskyy?intcmptwfnc
If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
I dont remember the globalists shaking the world harder than right now - and probably more as the midterms come and they realize it is slipping away.
The last few seconds of the video shows four local boys posing with Donetsk soldiers, the Victory Bannerthe flag of the Red Armys 150th Rifle Division, raised over the Reichstag in 1945, and now flown over all territories newly under control of Russian, Donetsk, andor Lugansk forcesand at left what may be the given units colors. Heres the second video: The little girl relates, I ran with my grandmother to see the flag We sat over there. I was so happy. I dont know how to convey it in words. She then relates how she was studying in Ukrainian but now expects to be studying in Russian obviously the language she and 95 percent of the Donbass speaks at home and in the course of routine business. Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
Of course, what you dont see, off camera, is the Russian gun pointed at her grandmothers head. One wrong word, girl, and babushka is toast. LOL, sure. To be fair, public opinion is nowhere 100 percent in one direction. However, Im guessing most of those who were just fine under Ukrainian rule for sure, the appointed mayor and his family and a bunch of other officials and their families got out with the retreating Ukrainian forces. Just as happened in this same part of the world, when the Germans retreated in 1943. If any of this is a surprise to you, perhaps its finally, finally time to ditch the double facemask and unplug from the Lamestream Media?
https:sonar21.computting-the-war-in-ukraine-in-context So, let me put this into context. Russia is fighting across a broad front and is taking on Urkrainian troops crouching in heavily fortified trenches and bunkers. Since the start of the Special Military Operation aka invasion on February 24th, Russia has taken most of the southern coast of Ukraine. The battle for Mariupol stands as the most consequential urban battle of the 21st century. At the same time, Russia and the militias of the Republics of Donetsk and Luhnask are nearing the complete defeat of Ukrainian forces based in the Donbas. Besides Mariupol, Russia has taken control of major cities in the Donbas and adjacent regions, such as Vasilevka in the Zaporozhye region, Kherson, Lyman, Popasna. Russia now has surrounded Sievierodonetsk and trapped several thousand Ukrainian troops. My point? Russia has accomplished this against well armed, NATO trained forces fighting from defensive positions. The Ukrainians had artillery and some dronesmissiles. Russia has achieved all of this in less than two months.
It appears likely that various fools in the Kiev area have hogged all those generously-donated NATO antitank weapons, as those things clearly are not being supplied to Territorial Defense battalions deployed to the east. This is what happens when you just hand the junk out with no controls. Saint Zelensky has admitted to casualties of as high as 100 dead per day. The truth usually comes out, one way or another.
