Putins Rule Weakening Preparation for Power Struggle Underway Snyder
20220725
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4080852/posts
People seem to think that perhaps the Russian political class is made up of fine, reasonable people. I guess Putin is the problem, huh? Once Putin is gone, all the other Russian politicians will gladly leave Ukraine, sell the world lots of oil and just be jolly good fellows.
"Usually the news coverage of such pronouncements focuses on their content. It is tempting to get caught up in the Russian fear propaganda. But the real story is that people aside from Putin now feel authorized to make such proclamations. Before the war there was less of this," Snyder said. He further argued that this "doom propaganda" shows loyalty to Putin while also possibly preparing "for a power struggle after Putin falls." "If Russia loses the war, the people saying radical things now will have protected themselves. For my part, I tend to see the drastic proclamations as evidence that important Russians think that Russia is losing," Snyder said. "I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
But the reality is that Putin is bad but not the only bad guy. If he dies, nothing is likely to change. The Putin deathwatch seems like a waste of time.
A kleptocracy--if they can keep it.   Think of it as the Cantillon Effect in action.
The notion that the next ruler of Russia is gonna be a nice friendly guy is laughable on its face.
"I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
Snyder pointed in a Twitter thread a sign that Putin is "losing control" is that some former Russian officials such as Dmitry Medvedev spoke about the consequences that await Ukraine and the West. Medvedev, Putin's staunch ally who served as Russia's former president, recently warned that the West's response to the Russian war in Ukraine could result in the Eastern European country losing "the remnants of state sovereignty and disappear from the world map." "Usually the news coverage of such pronouncements focuses on their content. It is tempting to get caught up in the Russian fear propaganda. But the real story is that people aside from Putin now feel authorized to make such proclamations. Before the war there was less of this," Snyder said. He further argued that this "doom propaganda" shows loyalty to Putin while also possibly preparing "for a power struggle after Putin falls." "If Russia loses the war, the people saying radical things now will have protected themselves. For my part, I tend to see the drastic proclamations as evidence that important Russians think that Russia is losing," Snyder said. "I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
Do you really believe the poll? Really? If I was in Russia and was polled I would be pro-Putin also, to avoid being arrested.
"The Political left is the Garden of Eden of incompetence" - Marx the Smarter Groucho
When The Ballot Box No Longer Counts, The Ammunition Box Does. What's In Your Ammo Box?
Yale University history professor Timothy Snyder on Saturday said that Russian President Vladimir Putin's ruling is "weakening" and noted that preparation for a power struggle is underway. Snyder pointed in a Twitter thread a sign that Putin is "losing control" is that some former Russian officials such as Dmitry Medvedev spoke about the consequences that await Ukraine and the West. Medvedev, Putin's staunch ally who served as Russia's former president, recently warned that the West's response to the Russian war in Ukraine could result in the Eastern European country losing "the remnants of state sovereignty and disappear from the world map." "Usually the news coverage of such pronouncements focuses on their content. It is tempting to get caught up in the Russian fear propaganda. But the real story is that people aside from Putin now feel authorized to make such proclamations. Before the war there was less of this," Snyder said. He further argued that this "doom propaganda" shows loyalty to Putin while also possibly preparing "for a power struggle after Putin falls." "If Russia loses the war, the people saying radical things now will have protected themselves. For my part, I tend to see the drastic proclamations as evidence that important Russians think that Russia is losing," Snyder said. "I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
Shoot, if NewsWeak says its true, it must be TRUE!In this conflict, Russia's primary weaponry is artillery. Ukraine and the West's weapon of choice is fiction.
Medvedev, Putin's staunch ally who served as Russia's former president, recently warned that the West's response to the Russian war in Ukraine could result in the Eastern European country losing "the remnants of state sovereignty and disappear from the world map." "Usually the news coverage of such pronouncements focuses on their content. It is tempting to get caught up in the Russian fear propaganda. But the real story is that people aside from Putin now feel authorized to make such proclamations. Before the war there was less of this," Snyder said. He further argued that this "doom propaganda" shows loyalty to Putin while also possibly preparing "for a power struggle after Putin falls." "If Russia loses the war, the people saying radical things now will have protected themselves. For my part, I tend to see the drastic proclamations as evidence that important Russians think that Russia is losing," Snyder said. "I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
Currently Putins popularity in Russia the only place that matters is around 80. Synder is up in the night.
He further argued that this "doom propaganda" shows loyalty to Putin while also possibly preparing "for a power struggle after Putin falls." "If Russia loses the war, the people saying radical things now will have protected themselves. For my part, I tend to see the drastic proclamations as evidence that important Russians think that Russia is losing," Snyder said. "I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
Professor's always want their opinions to be made known - Snyder is no different...neither is his opinion.
"If Russia loses the war, the people saying radical things now will have protected themselves. For my part, I tend to see the drastic proclamations as evidence that important Russians think that Russia is losing," Snyder said. "I'm not convinced Medvedev, who for years was seen as the liberal alternative to Putin, believes the antisemitic, anti-Polish, anti-Western hate speech he publishes on Telegram. He's creating a profile that might be useful later just as his technocrat profile was once useful," the Yale professor added.
In this conflict, Russia's primary weaponry is artillery. Ukraine and the West's weapon of choice is fiction.
We are already in a revolutionary period, and the Rule of Law means nothing. It's "whatever".
Most likely it will be a ferocious Russian nationalist who will make Putin look like a lap dog in comparison.
Most likely it will be a ferocious Russian nationalist who will make Putin look like a lap dog in comparison.  Yep! Exactly correct. Communist rulers never get "nicer" just meaner.
My dad had a Delta 88. That was a car. It was like driving your living room.
Tim Snyder is an interesting read on Ukrainian history. Elsewhere, hes no more insightful than anyone else. He called Trump a fascist. Thats just lazy and, frankly, stupid.
Liberals are hoping for Gorbachev 2.0. They may get Stalin 2.0. I see Putin as Brezhnev 2.0. Bad news but not the worst that Russia could produce.
