Putin smacks down Russia spy chief over backing Ukraine separatist regions video and Vlad looks awful
20220816
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4086062/posts
They all know that they are walking on eggshells with Putin, if they say the wrong thing. Putin has long been a sociopathic serial killer, but now he is on an orgiastic bloodbath spree.
Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
 Luke 12:51 Think ye, that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, no but separation.
He looked the same to me. He is over 70 you know. Looking awful is the norm.
Russian leader Vladimir Putin gave his stammering spy chief a tongue-lashing at a security council meeting Tuesday, schooling him in a discussion about Moscow recognizing the independence of two separatist-controlled regions of Ukraine. The director of the Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia seemed to goof after a testy exchange with Putin, and said he supported absorbing the breakaway states into the Russian federation before backtracking and saying he supported their independence. Russias recognition of the self-declared Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Luhansk Peoples Republic has been viewed as the possible first step of Russias expected invasion of Ukraine. Putin is seen in a viral video telling intelligence director Sergei Naryshkin to speak plainly multiple times, interrupting and speaking over him as he pushes the spy chief to see if he supports recognizing Donetsk and Luhanks sovereignty. Speak, speak, speak  plainly, a visibly annoyed Putin says, according to a translation by journalist Peter Liakhov. Naryshkin stumbles over his words I will support the proposal about the recognition of Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Putin is seen in a viral video telling intelligence director Sergei Naryshkin to speak plainly multiple times, interrupting and speaking over him as he pushes the spy chief to see if he supports recognizing Donetsk and Luhanks sovereignty. Speak, speak, speak  plainly, a visibly annoyed Putin says, according to a translation by journalist Peter Liakhov. Naryshkin stumbles over his words I will support the proposal about the recognition of Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Russias recognition of the self-declared Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Luhansk Peoples Republic has been viewed as the possible first step of Russias expected invasion of Ukraine. Putin is seen in a viral video telling intelligence director Sergei Naryshkin to speak plainly multiple times, interrupting and speaking over him as he pushes the spy chief to see if he supports recognizing Donetsk and Luhanks sovereignty. Speak, speak, speak  plainly, a visibly annoyed Putin says, according to a translation by journalist Peter Liakhov. Naryshkin stumbles over his words I will support the proposal about the recognition of Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Also, I dont feel the USA has any leg to stand on, when denigrating the appearance or mental acuity another countrys leader at this point in time.
He looked the same to me. He is over 70 you know. Looking awful is the norm. I can speak to that.
Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
That article and video are from just before the war started. There have been a lot of officials in Moscow purged since then.
Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Speak, speak, speak  plainly, a visibly annoyed Putin says, according to a translation by journalist Peter Liakhov. Naryshkin stumbles over his words I will support the proposal about the recognition of Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Naryshkin stumbles over his words I will support the proposal about the recognition of Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
This thread has been brought to you by George Soros.  For all your globalist warmongering needs, turn to George Soros. also sponsored by Pfizer
I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
The director of the Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia seemed to goof after a testy exchange with Putin, and said he supported absorbing the breakaway states into the Russian federation before backtracking and saying he supported their independence. Russias recognition of the self-declared Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Luhansk Peoples Republic has been viewed as the possible first step of Russias expected invasion of Ukraine. Putin is seen in a viral video telling intelligence director Sergei Naryshkin to speak plainly multiple times, interrupting and speaking over him as he pushes the spy chief to see if he supports recognizing Donetsk and Luhanks sovereignty. Speak, speak, speak  plainly, a visibly annoyed Putin says, according to a translation by journalist Peter Liakhov. Naryshkin stumbles over his words I will support the proposal about the recognition of Putin then interjects again. I will support? Or I support? he says, telling him to speak plainly again. I support the proposal Naryshkin said. Putin fired back: Then say it like that! Yes or no. I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples Republics into the Russian Federation, the spy chief then said. Putin laughed at that stumble. Were not talking about that, Putin says, according to the translation. Were not discussing that. Were talking about recognizing their independence or not. Yes, Naryshkin concludes after the dressing down. I support the proposal to recognize their independence. Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
Heh...independence first, followed by a sham referendum, followed by annexation. Its the old SovietPutin playbook.
Russia deployed troops into the two pro-Moscow regions, sparking President Joe Biden to announce new sanctions against its former Cold War foe.
