Putin calls on Ukrainian military to seize power to better negotiate with Russia
20220225
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4041439/posts
Putin may have just discovered that he has bitten off more than is convenient. Ukraine may be his Tar Baby.
"Take power into your own hands, it will be easier for us to reach agreement."
It would appear that the Ukrainian military is putting up a stiff costly resistance and the Russians would now like to negotiate. As casualties mount Russian morale in the field and back home is not very high. Putin is beginning to experience the consequences of his monumentally bad decision and no doubt is getting bad looks from his previously compliant cronies.
Putin calling Ukrainians who oppose him Nazis is like Biden calling Americans who oppose him domestic terrorists and racists.
Russian President Vladimir Putin called on the Ukrainian military to seize power in their country on Friday, a day after Moscow launched an invasion of its southern neighbour. "I once again appeal to the military personnel of the armed forces of Ukraine: do not allow neo-Nazis and Ukrainian radical nationalists to use your children, wives and elders as human shields," Putin said at a televised meeting with Russia's security council. "Take power into your own hands, it will be easier for us to reach agreement."
I noted Putin messaging denazification of Ukraine yesterday and referring to Nazi elements in Ukraine. I assume that is for Russian domestic consumption because Russians still have a bad taste historically of suffering from the Nazi military machine in WW2. Yet, Putin is the chief fossil fuel energy supplier to Germany, the country where Nazism originated
 Putin may have just discovered that he has bitten off more than is convenient. Ukraine may be his Tar Baby. 
I once again appeal to the military personnel of the armed forces of Ukraine: do not allow neo-Nazis and Ukrainian radical nationalists to use your children, wives and elders as human shields, Putin said at a televised meeting.
He wants Ukrainians to take all the casualties because he knows that if enough Russians are killed and maimed it will be trouble for him. Not necessarily insurmountable trouble, but trouble nonetheless.
I hope Russias military takes charge and executes Putin before he starts a world war.
DemocRATS - when they speak, they lie when they are silent, they are stealing the American Dreams
"I once again appeal to the military personnel of the armed forces of Ukraine: do not allow neo-Nazis and Ukrainian radical nationalists to use your children, wives and elders as human shields," Putin said at a televised meeting with Russia's security council. "Take power into your own hands, it will be easier for us to reach agreement."
