Putin tells West to immediately meet Russias demands on Ukraine
20211223
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4023834/posts
The swallowing of Ukraine by the DC deep-state has been a corrupt disaster for the USA as whole.  Their neocon anti-Russia propaganda, particularly used against Trump for 3 years, has been so pervasive, many conservatives unwittingly have it has a default setting in their brains.
APTOPIX Russia Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
Theyd do well to heed what Putins saying.....he generally does what he says when hes put in the position hes been warning about all along....his red line means that.
It is not going to happen where I live, but many cities are ripe for the picking. And the ComDems are just like the rest of the Commie Btards.
Historically, Russia is both a paranoid country as well as one that seeks respect. The latter could be that it was never fully accepted in European circles.True, because European Nations' main focus since the middle ages has been to Control Russia and use Russian Resources including the Russian Population to decide the outcome of the unending European Wars.
Hard to argue with him. Look how we reacted to the Soviets putting missiles in Cuba. Why would we not expect the Russians to do the same, when we go in their backyard.
I make the deal. The Russians promise hands off on states already in NATO, in exchange for our pledging that Ukraine will never be a NATO member. Just as we did with Austria in exchange for the Soviets leaving their sector of the country after the war.
We have clearly and precisely let them know that any further NATO expansion eastward is unacceptable, Putin said. APTOPIX Russia Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
Their neocon anti-Russia propaganda, particularly used against Trump for 3 years, has been so pervasive, many conservatives unwittingly have it has a default setting in their brains.
Never heard that perspective before.  The swallowing of Ukraine by the DC deep-state has been a corrupt disaster for the USA as whole.  Their neocon anti-Russia propaganda, particularly used against Trump for 3 years, has been so pervasive, many conservatives unwittingly have it has a default setting in their brains.
NATO is well past its expiration date. The Europeans should be able to defend Europe.
The west will gauge whether or not they can call Putins gambit a bluff or actual threat. I suspect they will punt in someway, trying to make the Russian border buildup cost Putin over time without giving Putin all he wants.
The Russian leader welcomed talks with the U.S. that are set to start in Geneva next month as a positive move, but warned that Moscow expects the discussion to produce quick results.  Russian President Vladimir Putin urged the West on Thursday to immediately meet Russias demand for security guarantees precluding NATOs expansion to Ukraine, saying the U.S. is on the threshold of our home. Speaking during a marathon annual news conference, the Russian leader welcomed talks with the U.S. that are set to start in Geneva next month as a positive move, but warned that Moscow expects the discussion to produce quick results. We have clearly and precisely let them know that any further NATO expansion eastward is unacceptable, Putin said. APTOPIX Russia Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
How can you be at two places at once when you are nowhere at all?
PUTIN: We are not the ones that deploy missiles next to the U.S. borders. Thats the other way around...What would Americans do if we went to the border between Canada and the U.S. or to the border with Mexico and deploy our missiles there?
Munich with a fake president that lacks the backbone of a Neville Chamberlain . . .Hmmm, I wonder what the result will be?
Texas is not where you were born, but a Free State of Heart, Mind  Attitude!
Speaking during a marathon annual news conference, the Russian leader welcomed talks with the U.S. that are set to start in Geneva next month as a positive move, but warned that Moscow expects the discussion to produce quick results. We have clearly and precisely let them know that any further NATO expansion eastward is unacceptable, Putin said. APTOPIX Russia Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
Jeeze. Forever war, inc, is chomping at the bit. Spend that ammo! Well make moar!!!
Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
Frankly, I understand Russias position. Historically, Russia is both a paranoid country as well as one that seeks respect. The latter could be that it was never fully accepted in European circles.
Ukraine joining NATO would put German troops just about where they were in 1942-3. Never heard that perspective before.  The swallowing of Ukraine by the DC deep-state has been a corrupt disaster for the USA as whole.  Their neocon anti-Russia propaganda, particularly used against Trump for 3 years, has been so pervasive, many conservatives unwittingly have it has a default setting in their brains.
As soon as Biden wakes up he get right on it , forget Harris shes out of town
Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
Russian President Vladimir Putin urged the West on Thursday to immediately meet Russias demand for security guarantees precluding NATOs expansion to Ukraine, saying the U.S. is on the threshold of our home. Speaking during a marathon annual news conference, the Russian leader welcomed talks with the U.S. that are set to start in Geneva next month as a positive move, but warned that Moscow expects the discussion to produce quick results. We have clearly and precisely let them know that any further NATO expansion eastward is unacceptable, Putin said. APTOPIX Russia Putin Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during his annual news conference in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 23, 2021. AP PhotoAlexander Zemlianichenko Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliances military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders? Putin said angrily. No, its the U.S. who came to our home with its missiles, they are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any strike weapons systems near our home?
I do not know what our issue is with Ukrainewhy do we have such a hard on for that country and all the shenigans we have played a part in there...
What could we get in exchange? He sounds desperate.Carter gave up the neutron bomb and got nothing.
True, because European Nations' main focus since the middle ages has been to Control Russia and use Russian Resources including the Russian Population to decide the outcome of the unending European Wars.
Not in favor of Ukraine becoming part of NATO, but we should tell the homicidal tyrant running Russia to go  himself.
