Report Ukraine Claims to Have Distributed 10000 Automatic Rifles Since Russian Invasion
20220225
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4041221/posts
The Russians are expecting a cakewalk. Ukrainians should have been blooded through almost a decade of war no one else was paying or fighting for them. The Russians may end up being surprised. At the same time, the level of Russian reprisals against civilians may roll up any resistance quickly. Just after WWII, the UPA took 200K dead before winding down. Well see if the current crop have the stomach for this level of sacrifice.
Ukrainians will go guerilla on them, with IEDs, ambushes, assassinations, etc. It will be worse than what Russia suffered in Afghanistan. This will take on the elements of a civil war, which is the most brutal, most unforgiving, most cruel type of fight there is.
The Soviets booby-trapped a lot of the buildings in Kiev before the Nazis arrived then started blowing them up after they were occupied by the Germans.
Automatic rifles. No. Bolt action with scopes are more effective. Take them down one at a time over time.
If Ukrainians are up to it they could turn this into Afghanistan 2.0 for the Russians in the long run. But do they have the will ?
Its not like as if the Russians were invading America where there are 434 million firearms in civilian possession.
No they dont want that. They want to topple the government and install a puppet regime, who can then begin to placate and pacify the populace. Resistance will be strong but more likely out in the countryside rather than in large modern cities like Kiev. Nobody wants another Beirut.
It was one of the main reasons cited for the reprisals that are known as Babi Yar.
I cant say what I really think, but Id point you to read about Holodomor. They might remember that one.
Report was current this morning - 10,000 guns is a drop in the bucket against 150,000 plus air, artillery etc. Veteran Russian units are likely not even deployed yet.
A Ukrainian journalist, citing the countrys Interior Ministry, reported on Thursday that the country has distributed 10,000 automatic rifles to civilians since Russian leader Vladimir Putin ordered a full-scale assault on Ukraine.
And more! They alone completely demoralized the German army in Russia... Every officer was a rabbit in hiding from these soldiers.
The real question is does the Ukrainian citizenry want street combat in Kiev? Judging by the clogged highways moving out of Ukraine, I think not.
