Rising gas prices arent the Putin price hike Theyre the Biden weakness tax
20220311
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4045954/posts
The last time we had this level of inflation was 40 years ago, and the Fed discount rate was close to 20.
This needs to be made into a sticker, too...Friday Funnies You will only be happy if you just relax and believe what you are told. Robert W Malone MD, MSSee today's. It's gas, CDC, and muzzle related...
Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
"I get it now. The insane media orgasm over Ukraine is to focus the anger at Putin and away from biden s failures." The hardest thing to explain is the glaringly evident which everybody had decided not to see. --Ayn Rand
Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
These scumbags will stop at nothing, its the oil companies because they have the leases and dont want to drill, its Russia, cant wait to put these pri in trial
If oil prices were still negative or under $30, Putin wouldnt had anyone to sell his oil to, except the Chinese, whose economy we could also crash. That was under Trump. And, Trump would have actually attacked the Russians if they crossed into Ukrainian territory.
Friday Funnies You will only be happy if you just relax and believe what you are told. Robert W Malone MD, MSSee today's. It's gas, CDC, and muzzle related...
But as reluctant as he was to ban Russian oil, it took Biden no time at all to start blaming Russia for rising gasoline prices. Since Russian President Vladimir Putin began his military buildup at Ukrainian borders . . . the price of gas at the pump in America went up 75 cents, Biden said Tuesday in his announcement of the oil ban. When asked what he could do about rising prices, he replied, Cant do much right now. Russia is responsible. The White House even came up with a slogan  Putin price hike  and tried to make it trend as a hashtag. This is the PutinPriceHike in action, White House communications director Kate Bedingfield tweeted. This is disgusting. Biden is refusing to send Polish MiG fighter jets to Ukraine to try to stop Russia from carrying out atrocities such as the bombing Wednesday of a maternity hospital. But he is willing to take political advantage of the suffering of the Ukrainian people, and use it as political cover for his massive domestic policy failures. Biden blames Russia for a 75-cent rise in gas prices. But the price has risen $1.85 since he took office. The week before Bidens inauguration, the price of a gallon of regular gas in the United States was $2.46 at this writing it is $4.32. Before the war in Ukraine, Biden presided over the largest year-over-year price rise in at least 30 years. What drove those record price spikes? We can start with Bidens war on fossil fuels. Upon taking office, Biden implemented a policy of energy disarmament. He rejoined the Paris climate agreement, canceled the Keystone XL pipeline, suspended all oil and gas leases in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and began working on his pledge to ban all new oil and gas permitting on public lands and waters. He came into office having promised that his administration would end fossil fuel. When you announce your intention to tax and regulate the fossil fuel industry out of existence, investors and workers listen. The results are less production  and higher prices. Then there is his American Rescue Plan  the $1.9 trillion social spending boondoggle disguised as pandemic relief. It shoveled so much money into the economy that the demand side overheated while the supply side could not keep up  unleashing a supply-chain crisis, the worst inflation in 40 years and a record labor shortage, with more than 11 million unfilled jobs. The economic headwinds Biden unleashed have hit the oil and gas industry as hard as every other business in America. Its hard to drill for oil and gas when you cant find workers. Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
What drove those record price spikes? We can start with Bidens war on fossil fuels. Upon taking office, Biden implemented a policy of energy disarmament. He rejoined the Paris climate agreement, canceled the Keystone XL pipeline, suspended all oil and gas leases in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and began working on his pledge to ban all new oil and gas permitting on public lands and waters. He came into office having promised that his administration would end fossil fuel. When you announce your intention to tax and regulate the fossil fuel industry out of existence, investors and workers listen. The results are less production  and higher prices. Then there is his American Rescue Plan  the $1.9 trillion social spending boondoggle disguised as pandemic relief. It shoveled so much money into the economy that the demand side overheated while the supply side could not keep up  unleashing a supply-chain crisis, the worst inflation in 40 years and a record labor shortage, with more than 11 million unfilled jobs. The economic headwinds Biden unleashed have hit the oil and gas industry as hard as every other business in America. Its hard to drill for oil and gas when you cant find workers. Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
Seriously, if I was the store operator, I would take them off and put them on the counter for resale.
This is disgusting. Biden is refusing to send Polish MiG fighter jets to Ukraine to try to stop Russia from carrying out atrocities such as the bombing Wednesday of a maternity hospital. But he is willing to take political advantage of the suffering of the Ukrainian people, and use it as political cover for his massive domestic policy failures. Biden blames Russia for a 75-cent rise in gas prices. But the price has risen $1.85 since he took office. The week before Bidens inauguration, the price of a gallon of regular gas in the United States was $2.46 at this writing it is $4.32. Before the war in Ukraine, Biden presided over the largest year-over-year price rise in at least 30 years. What drove those record price spikes? We can start with Bidens war on fossil fuels. Upon taking office, Biden implemented a policy of energy disarmament. He rejoined the Paris climate agreement, canceled the Keystone XL pipeline, suspended all oil and gas leases in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and began working on his pledge to ban all new oil and gas permitting on public lands and waters. He came into office having promised that his administration would end fossil fuel. When you announce your intention to tax and regulate the fossil fuel industry out of existence, investors and workers listen. The results are less production  and higher prices. Then there is his American Rescue Plan  the $1.9 trillion social spending boondoggle disguised as pandemic relief. It shoveled so much money into the economy that the demand side overheated while the supply side could not keep up  unleashing a supply-chain crisis, the worst inflation in 40 years and a record labor shortage, with more than 11 million unfilled jobs. The economic headwinds Biden unleashed have hit the oil and gas industry as hard as every other business in America. Its hard to drill for oil and gas when you cant find workers. Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
President Biden had to be dragged, kicking and screaming, into banning Russian oil imports. Even then, he still fell short  imposing a ban that restricts US imports, rather than sanctions to restrict Russian exports to the entire world. Big difference. And it came only after companies began self-sanctioning  divesting Russian energy. Biden simply made virtue out of necessity. But as reluctant as he was to ban Russian oil, it took Biden no time at all to start blaming Russia for rising gasoline prices. Since Russian President Vladimir Putin began his military buildup at Ukrainian borders . . . the price of gas at the pump in America went up 75 cents, Biden said Tuesday in his announcement of the oil ban. When asked what he could do about rising prices, he replied, Cant do much right now. Russia is responsible. The White House even came up with a slogan  Putin price hike  and tried to make it trend as a hashtag. This is the PutinPriceHike in action, White House communications director Kate Bedingfield tweeted. This is disgusting. Biden is refusing to send Polish MiG fighter jets to Ukraine to try to stop Russia from carrying out atrocities such as the bombing Wednesday of a maternity hospital. But he is willing to take political advantage of the suffering of the Ukrainian people, and use it as political cover for his massive domestic policy failures. Biden blames Russia for a 75-cent rise in gas prices. But the price has risen $1.85 since he took office. The week before Bidens inauguration, the price of a gallon of regular gas in the United States was $2.46 at this writing it is $4.32. Before the war in Ukraine, Biden presided over the largest year-over-year price rise in at least 30 years. What drove those record price spikes? We can start with Bidens war on fossil fuels. Upon taking office, Biden implemented a policy of energy disarmament. He rejoined the Paris climate agreement, canceled the Keystone XL pipeline, suspended all oil and gas leases in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and began working on his pledge to ban all new oil and gas permitting on public lands and waters. He came into office having promised that his administration would end fossil fuel. When you announce your intention to tax and regulate the fossil fuel industry out of existence, investors and workers listen. The results are less production  and higher prices. Then there is his American Rescue Plan  the $1.9 trillion social spending boondoggle disguised as pandemic relief. It shoveled so much money into the economy that the demand side overheated while the supply side could not keep up  unleashing a supply-chain crisis, the worst inflation in 40 years and a record labor shortage, with more than 11 million unfilled jobs. The economic headwinds Biden unleashed have hit the oil and gas industry as hard as every other business in America. Its hard to drill for oil and gas when you cant find workers. Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
Thinking Caps are no longer being issued but there must be a warehouse full of them somewhere.
The other day I was putting gas into my car when I noticed how several stickers where Biden points and says I did that had been removed.
So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
We need to repeal RCV wherever it's in use and go back to dumb voting machines.
Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
I get it now. The insane media orgasm over Ukraine is to focus the anger at Putin and away from biden s failures.
borrow  spend liberalism has been proven to be a bigger failure than tax  spend liberalism was. Needless borrow  spend stimulus in 2008 did nothing except keep the price of gas from falling to $1.50 to keep us OUT of recession, instead driving up gas price to $4  causing a crash. The housing market was not the problem, nor was the bond market the problem. Democrats claimed their 2008 election-buying stimulus checks would avert a Bush recession Federal Reserve had raised its funds rate over 400 between 2004  2006 to put the brakes on the Bush recovery to slow the economy THRU HOUSING to keep wages from rising, ie reduce demand for labor said Bernanke in summer of 2006.....so Bush did not cause a slowdown  the slowdown was intentionally caused by the Fed policy. Democrat stimulus combined with Fed reversing  slashing rates in 2008, led to a surge in gas prices and crashing consumer confidence  spending, when the unemployment rate rose to 7.5. But by the time Obama took office in 2009, the price of gas was $1.85 and the recession was over much earlier than expected.....except that Obamainstead of keeping his promise to raise taxes and cut spending...did the exact opposite after the Fed had cut to 0 in late 2008........which with falling gas prices, was all the stimulus Obama needed....but when combined with Feds QE2 -Obamas $1trillion shovel ready jobs bill and Obamacare did nothing but cause gas and food prices to double while the Fed was claiming there was zero inflation, because core inflation excludes food  energy prices people pay often, but overweights the price of homeswhich is not a consumer price at all.......it wasnt until late 2013 with austerity budgets and the end of QE2 that the economy actually recovered from recession caused by the Fed and Democrats. The bailouts were completely unnecessary
The hardest thing to explain is the glaringly evident which everybody had decided not to see. --Ayn Rand
Then there is his American Rescue Plan  the $1.9 trillion social spending boondoggle disguised as pandemic relief. It shoveled so much money into the economy that the demand side overheated while the supply side could not keep up  unleashing a supply-chain crisis, the worst inflation in 40 years and a record labor shortage, with more than 11 million unfilled jobs. The economic headwinds Biden unleashed have hit the oil and gas industry as hard as every other business in America. Its hard to drill for oil and gas when you cant find workers. Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
Biden blames Russia for a 75-cent rise in gas prices. But the price has risen $1.85 since he took office. The week before Bidens inauguration, the price of a gallon of regular gas in the United States was $2.46 at this writing it is $4.32. Before the war in Ukraine, Biden presided over the largest year-over-year price rise in at least 30 years. What drove those record price spikes? We can start with Bidens war on fossil fuels. Upon taking office, Biden implemented a policy of energy disarmament. He rejoined the Paris climate agreement, canceled the Keystone XL pipeline, suspended all oil and gas leases in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and began working on his pledge to ban all new oil and gas permitting on public lands and waters. He came into office having promised that his administration would end fossil fuel. When you announce your intention to tax and regulate the fossil fuel industry out of existence, investors and workers listen. The results are less production  and higher prices. Then there is his American Rescue Plan  the $1.9 trillion social spending boondoggle disguised as pandemic relief. It shoveled so much money into the economy that the demand side overheated while the supply side could not keep up  unleashing a supply-chain crisis, the worst inflation in 40 years and a record labor shortage, with more than 11 million unfilled jobs. The economic headwinds Biden unleashed have hit the oil and gas industry as hard as every other business in America. Its hard to drill for oil and gas when you cant find workers. Bidens defenders say it is unfair to blame him because gas prices were artificially low when he took office last year because of the pandemic. Sorry, when the first confirmed covid case hit our shores in January 2020, gas was $2.59 a gallon  not much more than when Biden took office. It never rose above $3.04 during all of Donald Trumps presidency.Biden broke that threshold in four months  long before Putin invaded Ukraine. So, the prewar rise in gas prices is the tax we pay for Bidens disastrous climate and social welfare policies. And the rest? Instead of the Putin price hike, his administration should call it the Biden weakness tax. It is no coincidence that Putin invaded Ukraine just months after Bidens catastrophic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which projected weakness on the world stage. Putin took his measure of Biden and did not believe his threats to impose severe consequences on Russia if it invaded Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that if we had imposed crippling sanctions earlier, Putin would not have invaded. If you had started sanctions months ago, there would not have been war, he told members of Congress last week. Rising gas prices are the price we pay for a failure of deterrence  a failure driven by Bidens weakness. Biden has still not learned from his mistakes. Even Elon Musk  the founder of the worlds most famous electric car company  says we need to drill for more oil and gas at home. But Biden has not announced any plan to increase domestic production. Instead, he is considering asking Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to increase their production to replace Russian oil. Why would he want to give energy jobs to people in Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia rather than workers in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska? Why would he replace our dependence on one rogue regime with dependence on two others Iran and Venezuela? Biden needs to tell his partys climate radicals that the war on fossil fuels will have to wait until we stop Putins war on Ukraine. Instead, he cynically is using Putins war, and Ukraines suffering, to deflect blame for his disastrous policies at home and abroad. That is a disgrace.
