Russias cauldron tactic may be tipping Donbas battle in its favour
20220527
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4066719/posts
Im sure there is more than a little bit of the defense armaments companies wanting a real-world test of their weapons.
Its not a great bookarticle whatever. Its not bad, but the original aspect of it doesnt add to the body of work about what went on there.
It does appear that if Ukrainian forces in the East face betting encircled, they need to withdraw to me defensible positions before that happens.
Volodymyr Zelenskiy rarely gives casualty figures but Ukraines president said last Sunday that 50 to 100 Ukrainian troops die on Donbas frontlines each day, meaning perhaps 3,000 a month in the grisly war of attrition.Wounded will typically be three or perhaps four times as much, a serious loss for a Donbas defence force estimated at 30,000 before the war began, although the numbers increased following Ukraines mass mobilisation.Russian forces have secured more terrain in the past week than efforts earlier in May, reported the Institute for the Study of War on Tuesday, in particular approaching the frontline city of Sievierodonetsk and in villages nearby.
Russia intended to take Kiev and other major cities. Thats not happening. Population of Kiev in 2021: 2.96 million. Russian force that threatened Kiev: 40,000.
That encirclement and cauldron technique happened in a big scale at least 20 or 30 times in WWII. That is what the krauts were trying to do in the Battle of the Bulge.
It's hard to "Believe all women" when judges say "I don't know what a woman is".
A kleptocracy--if they can keep it.   Think of it as the Cantillon Effect in action.
UKR units leave their dead where they fall. Captured men have stated they are ordered to count missing troops as  deserters so their families receive no pensions.
KEYWORDS: 10percent4bigguy 40billionwasted bidenbotsbelow bidencartelcentral bidenscartelcentral bidenspiggybank cauldron donbas guardianisconceding itstheguardian jonfactnewspreston jonfakenewspreston kolomoisky neocons4biden neoconzhazthesadz ohtheguardian russia surrenderzelensky ukesarelosing uketards ukraine ukraineslushfund
The Russian Defense Ministry does a daily briefing, and the counts of UKA and  nationalist fighters killed has been in the range of 200-300 per day, at minimum. Thus Zelenskys count is low. The final Donbas fall is going to be catastrophic with estimated 15K troops encircled with no retreat order and few options
From 5000 miles away it looks like evacuation 2.0 to me. Nevermind the evacuation is on Russian buses to unknown locations. On a serious note, it is interesting that Ukraine seems to refuse any tactical retreats. Even when it is obvious theyre about lose a bunch equipment and men. Indicates to me the decision makers arent close to the field.
Freedom ultimately means the right of other people to do things that you disagree with. T. Sowell 
6 The Germans numbered well over 100K, but more important, the Italians and Hungarians and Croatians and Romanians sent huge numbers of men. Remember, this was a paycheck and food and the Great Depression didnt end like a light switch was flipped. Anyway, the German High Command had to always position those armies to keep the Italians between the rest, or they would start killing each other. The Soviets knew it and always knew where the Italians were. Consequence  this battle won the war. Long before serious US involvement. Germany lost 100s of thousands of troops to death or capture. No country can survive that.
Its weird to see so many conservatives on Russias side. The war has clearly gone much worse for Russia than it had planned, and Im glad that Western aid to Ukraine has played a role in that. Russia intended to take Kiev and other major cities. Thats not happening.
Russia must be doing better than what they were trying to make us believe if leftist a-holes at The Guardian are writing this.
Yeah but if the war was going Russias way they would occupy Kiev and all of Ukraine by now, and Zelensky would be dead
Russian forces have secured more terrain in the past week than efforts earlier in May, reported the Institute for the Study of War on Tuesday, in particular approaching the frontline city of Sievierodonetsk and in villages nearby.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
2 An astonishing number of horses were present and essentially decided the battle. Germans brought horses not suited to the weather. The Russians brought steppe ponies, far sturdier breed. These animals hauled the vast majority of supplies.
Russia wanted the whole enchilada, but now figures half a loaf is better than none.
The encirclement of the German 6th Army at Stalingrad in mid-November 1942 and its final collapse in February 1943 was a signature defeat for Hitler, as more than 100,000 of his soldiers were marched off into captivity. Frank Ellis tackles this oft-told tale from the unique perspective of the German officers and men trapped inside the Red Army's ever-closing ring of forces. This approach makes palpable the growing desperation of an army that began its campaign confident of victory but that long before the end could see how hopeless their situation had become. Highlighting these pages are three previously unpublished German army division accounts, translated here for the first time by Ellis. Each of these translations follows the combat experiences of a specific divisionthe 76th Infantry, the 94th Infantry, and the 16th Panzerand take readers into the cauldron or Kessel that was Stalingrad. Together they provide a ground-level view of the horrific fighting and yield insights into everything from tactics and weapons to internal disputes, the debilitating effects of extreme cold and hunger, and the Germans' astonishing sense of duty and the abilities of their junior leaders.
The number of POWs is not announced but is over 10,000 based on regional reporting.
Highlighting these pages are three previously unpublished German army division accounts, translated here for the first time by Ellis. Each of these translations follows the combat experiences of a specific divisionthe 76th Infantry, the 94th Infantry, and the 16th Panzerand take readers into the cauldron or Kessel that was Stalingrad. Together they provide a ground-level view of the horrific fighting and yield insights into everything from tactics and weapons to internal disputes, the debilitating effects of extreme cold and hunger, and the Germans' astonishing sense of duty and the abilities of their junior leaders.
All but one of the bridges out have been blown. If they are not careful they will have another Mariupol on their hands.
Ukraine is all about M.I.C. Moolah. Big War doesnt care if we send billions in weapons to the Ukes, or blow them all up in a huge pile. So long as they make NEW billions to replace them for our arsenal.
1 It was all about oil. And of course still is. Stalingradtodays Volgograd was the chokepoint of flow of oil north to Moscow from the Caspian Sea. Hitler knew it. Stalin knew it. It was this, not the name of the city, that compelled the Russians to refuse to yield.
If they do, can they deploy enough heavy weapons in time to stop the Russians?
The Stalingrad CauldronInside the Encirclement and Destruction of the 6th ArmyFrank EllisThe encirclement of the German 6th Army at Stalingrad in mid-November 1942 and its final collapse in February 1943 was a signature defeat for Hitler, as more than 100,000 of his soldiers were marched off into captivity. Frank Ellis tackles this oft-told tale from the unique perspective of the German officers and men trapped inside the Red Army's ever-closing ring of forces. This approach makes palpable the growing desperation of an army that began its campaign confident of victory but that long before the end could see how hopeless their situation had become. Highlighting these pages are three previously unpublished German army division accounts, translated here for the first time by Ellis. Each of these translations follows the combat experiences of a specific divisionthe 76th Infantry, the 94th Infantry, and the 16th Panzerand take readers into the cauldron or Kessel that was Stalingrad. Together they provide a ground-level view of the horrific fighting and yield insights into everything from tactics and weapons to internal disputes, the debilitating effects of extreme cold and hunger, and the Germans' astonishing sense of duty and the abilities of their junior leaders.
After several weeks of deadlock, Russias military appears to have found a way to advance in the Donbas  pounding it with such intense, unsophisticated artillery that Ukraines exhausted defenders are having to yield.Volodymyr Zelenskiy rarely gives casualty figures but Ukraines president said last Sunday that 50 to 100 Ukrainian troops die on Donbas frontlines each day, meaning perhaps 3,000 a month in the grisly war of attrition.Wounded will typically be three or perhaps four times as much, a serious loss for a Donbas defence force estimated at 30,000 before the war began, although the numbers increased following Ukraines mass mobilisation.Russian forces have secured more terrain in the past week than efforts earlier in May, reported the Institute for the Study of War on Tuesday, in particular approaching the frontline city of Sievierodonetsk and in villages nearby.
Wounded will typically be three or perhaps four times as much, a serious loss for a Donbas defence force estimated at 30,000 before the war began, although the numbers increased following Ukraines mass mobilisation.Russian forces have secured more terrain in the past week than efforts earlier in May, reported the Institute for the Study of War on Tuesday, in particular approaching the frontline city of Sievierodonetsk and in villages nearby.
If that is our side then I would hate to think what our enemies would do to us.
Wanting to make America great isnt an insult unless youre trying to make it worse! ULTRAMAGA!!
3 The Romanian oil fields fueled the 6th Army. Russia, as always, had infinite fuel.
My suspicion has always been that this war is pretty much going Russias way and has been since the beginning. The Globalists have milked the whole deal and scored $40B from the US and a lot of cool equipment that can probably be sold afterwards. The Globalists wanted Ukraine to win, of course, but that wasnt going to happen. So they just made the best of things and ran a scam. But the game is just about over now.
Ive always thought that to actually defeat Russia, Western forces from other countries would need to intervene.
4 Hitler was not a moron. The 6th Army was the victim of high level politics. Herman Goering told Hitler there was no reason to dispatch another army to break the encirclement because the Luftwaffe could provide entirely sufficient supplies from the air. It could not. It wasnt even close, but Hitler had to listen to the advice of his experts and thats what he was told.
5 The Russians had a spy in the German High Command and he had a communications channel to another spy in Switzerland, who erected big antennas and often Stalin knew of High Command orders before the 6th Army did.
We recognized Zelensky, Kolomoisky, and the Biden cartel as the corrupt, disgusting scammers and scoundrels who would start and support a war for personal gain.
