Russia says it pulls back more troops amid Ukraine standoff
20220216
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4038747/posts
Russia has held these practice sessions every year. We do the same. Joe needed to show he's on the ball after his Afghanistan failure. So he thought Russia Russia Russia would do the trick.Alas...the story of Hillary and her spy campaign begins to unfold....and would seem like Joe might want to talk about something else....instead of provoking Russia.
And Biden will get the credit for a Diplomatic Breakthrough. Putin will have accomplished the following: NATO will be a shadow force, as a shadow security force paid for by the US. Putin will occupy the eastern half of Ukraine to the banks of the Dneipper River, without firing a shot. He will also own Crimea and his Naval Base will be Russian owned forever. Ukraine will have a new Government with a Soviet style President, hand picked by Putin. In other words, Putin will get all that he wants, without firing a shot, and Biden will be able to shout to America that he Saved the Day through diplomacy. In other words, Peace in Our Time. Then the Democrats will win the mid-terms and further screw the US. At least that is the plan. However, plans have a way of going to poo in a hurry. All speculation, of course. Maybe God has a different plan in mind.
On Wednesday, the Russian Defense Ministry released a video showing a trainload of armored vehicles moving across a bridge away from Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014. It said the movement was part of a return of forces to their permanent bases. A day earlier, the ministry reported the start of a pullback of troops following military exercises near Ukraine. And Russian President Vladimir Putin signaled he wanted a diplomatic path out of the crisis, emphasizing that he did not want war and would rely on negotiations to achieve his key goal of keeping Ukraine from joining NATO.
Russia said Wednesday it was returning more troops and weapons to bases, yet another gesture apparently aimed at easing fears it is planning to invade Ukraine, even as the U.S. said the threat of an attack remained. On Wednesday, the Russian Defense Ministry released a video showing a trainload of armored vehicles moving across a bridge away from Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014. It said the movement was part of a return of forces to their permanent bases. A day earlier, the ministry reported the start of a pullback of troops following military exercises near Ukraine. And Russian President Vladimir Putin signaled he wanted a diplomatic path out of the crisis, emphasizing that he did not want war and would rely on negotiations to achieve his key goal of keeping Ukraine from joining NATO.
The only way you know a commie is lying is when they open their pieholes.p
We were told by reliable sources that today was the the day Russia would invade. Just like we were told by reliable sources that truckers would commit terrorist acts against the Super Bowl.
defacto admission from NATO that Ukraine was not a part of their future plans. Source ?
I think it is pretty clear that Putin got what he wanted: defacto admission from NATO that Ukraine was not a part of their future plans. Having a NATO country on Russias front porch was existentially unacceptable to Putin. It was bad enough that he had to accept the admission of the Baltic states. Ukraine was simply a bridge too far for NATO.
A day earlier, the ministry reported the start of a pullback of troops following military exercises near Ukraine. And Russian President Vladimir Putin signaled he wanted a diplomatic path out of the crisis, emphasizing that he did not want war and would rely on negotiations to achieve his key goal of keeping Ukraine from joining NATO.
Russia will say that if Ukraine gives up half its country then they wont invade. Such a peaceful plan.
I also think that Biden and NATO had to give up something for the current stand down. It may be weeks or even months before we learn what the nature and cost of the Wests capitulation is, but rest assured, Putin would not have walked away without his pound of flesh.
Alas...the story of Hillary and her spy campaign begins to unfold....and would seem like Joe might want to talk about something else....instead of provoking Russia.
No one can deny Putin got the shuttle diplomacy hed been requesting for so long......nation leaders scurried to take their seats at the table.
Putin gets way more by scoffing at Bidens wag the dog attempts to start a war than he would ever get by invading.
I was wondering that too. What happened to the invasion? Was it exchanged for an insurrection in Canada?
If anything, Biden got the best of Putin, which is probably a goal of Putin, if he didnt get anything from his border stunt.
