Russia Ukraine Biden warns Russia against Ukraine red lines
20211204
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4018194/posts
US has been sending troops and armament into Ukraine under Biden.....and under Obama as well. Ukraines a pawn to the US and Russia is quite aware of NATOS advances.
If Russia does invade Ukraine and China makes a move on Taiwan, the first thing that happens is resident biden craps his drawers. Actually, at that point with so many Puppet Regimes around the world, the puppet masters get the world war they seem to crave.  Puppet Regimes: Mostly Western Europe and what was formaly known as the Free World. The countries mostly effected by the Chinese Flu, with weak leaders and following the rules put in place by lil despots like Fauci.
Joe Biden has warned that he will not accept "red lines" set by Moscow as fears mount that Russia is planning an imminent invasion of Ukraine. The US president said he will make it "very, very difficult" for Russia to invade its neighbour. Meanwhile, US media has reported that intelligence officials fear an invasion could begin in early 2022. It comes as Ukraine says Russia has boosted its military at the border and amassed some 94,000 troops there. A video call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr Biden to ease tensions is expected this week.
Must wonder where Joe is going to recruit an all-volunteer military force to fight Russia or China. The US government has piss off its own citizens.
It comes as Ukraine says Russia has boosted its military at the border and amassed some 94,000 troops there. A video call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr Biden to ease tensions is expected this week.
...and Iran and NK creating chaos as well in an effort to overwhelm AmericanNATO forces.
In politicians we get what we deserve, usually the best that money can buy, guaranteed.
I would assume the CCP and Putin have had discussions regarding divvying up the American carcass. A new Molotov Ribbentrop type understanding with the US playing the role of Poland. I fully expect them to be coordinating as they cement their spheres of influence in this new evolving world order. If Putin does move on Ukraine, it will be damned cold in those NATO countries relying on Russian natural gas this winter.
The only drugs Joe does are the anti-dementia and propping up to give a speech kind.
Biden should adopt Obamas rule about red lines: This a red line ... oops ... This a red line ... oops This a red line ... oops This a red line ... etc etc etc
Im sure Russia remembers the ObamaOBiden red lines and is getting a good chuckle out of this. Democrats lie as you and I breath, because if they stop doing so they die. I read an article on that, Pelosi on Possibility Court Overturns Roe: Its Really ScaryAnd I Say That as a Practicing Catholic, and you can give that a look at CNSnews. 82 is a little old in life to still be practicing something, you either know how to be a good Catholic by now or you dont and Catholics dont kill babies you . Xiden makes the same claim, as did Teddy Kennedy, and there is a special corner of hell reserved for all such CINOs catholic in name only. They get tortured by babies there. Ha! Most Democrats are beholden to communist China now, but some old guard are still paid off by Russian patrons. Biden is both, as he just likes money and doesnt care where it comes from.
Joe Biden does the damage now that communist China prepaid him for via Hunter over the past few years.
But Joe would be happy to send Hunter to sit down and discuss the matter over some "white" lines.
Bidens worse than a fool if he puts missiles in Ukraine....one step in that direction and it will surely be war.
somRead more at: https:economicti Astronomers see white dwarf 'switch on and off' for first time
Russia has no desire to invade Ukraine. Why would you believe neo-con, neo-lib snake oil? That Russia finds all our propping up, sending weapons, provocative crap in Ukraine tiresome is more of what is going on.
LOL,. you know that kid in school that always got bullied? Well thats Biden. They are messing with him, Xi and Putin are poking him with a stick, testing his resolve. If Trump was there, they wouldnt be messing with him. Say what you want about Trump, but he is a LEADER, not a leader. There is a difference.
Meanwhile, US media has reported that intelligence officials fear an invasion could begin in early 2022. It comes as Ukraine says Russia has boosted its military at the border and amassed some 94,000 troops there. A video call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr Biden to ease tensions is expected this week.
IF Russia does invade Ukraine, how likely would it be that China makes a move on Taiwan at the same time ??
"The problem with Socialism is that eventually you run out of other people's money."  M. Thatcher  
IF Russia does invade Ukraine, how likely would it be that China makes a move on Taiwan at the same time?
If I were Ukraine, Taiwan or Nato I would be worried, the United States is weak now.
A video call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr Biden to ease tensions is expected this week.
 Puppet Regimes: Mostly Western Europe and what was formaly known as the Free World. The countries mostly effected by the Chinese Flu, with weak leaders and following the rules put in place by lil despots like Fauci.
No red lines.But Joe would be happy to send Hunter to sit down and discuss the matter over some "white" lines.
Putin is going to take SouthernEastern Ukraine up to the Dnieper river. The only question is whether hes going to try to take Odessa and cut off Ukraine entirely from the Black Sea.
Add a few kids for Joe to sniff, and Russia invades, Joe will.protest, get a billion and thats that..
The US president said he will make it "very, very difficult" for Russia to invade its neighbour. Meanwhile, US media has reported that intelligence officials fear an invasion could begin in early 2022. It comes as Ukraine says Russia has boosted its military at the border and amassed some 94,000 troops there. A video call between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr Biden to ease tensions is expected this week.
