Russia Turkey back plan to export grains Ukraine doubtful
20220608
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4069582/posts
"...both Moscow and Ankara said the West should ease sanctions on Moscow to allow the export of Russian Ukrainian grains..."
Even if Russia manages to hold on to Donbas and Lugansk, which is not a foregone conclusion by a long shot, it will be a pyrrhic victory that they will regret for a long, long time.
Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil.. If the third world is starved by US demanded sanctionsthis is why
Russia also demanded that Ukraine remove mines from the Black Sea and both Moscow and Ankara said the West should ease sanctions on Moscow to allow the export of Russian grains amid an escalating world food crisis. While food exports are technically exempt from the sanctions, Russia claims that restrictions on its ships and banks make it impossible to deliver its grain to global markets. Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil
Russia claims that restrictions on its ships and banks make it impossible to deliver its grain to global markets
This close Turk-Russian relationship is the real reason Turkey is blocking the Swedes and Finns from NATO.
So, the Ukraine produces about 11.5 of grain exports, world wide. From all the propaganda it sounded like they were producing all of it.
"The Political left is the Garden of Eden of incompetence" - Marx the Smarter Groucho
Yes, but the situation was a good way to spread more Give billions to the Ukraine propaganda for a few days. On to the next one. No one will remember the last one.
Russia could just send their troops back home to Russia where they belong, and that would probably result in the sanctions being eased, but then Putins pride would be hurt, so hes willing to make every Russian sacrifice instead.
Of course it is not going to get limited to LDNR anymore. Nobody is going to let a hostile regime to stay on the Russian border anymore. And given the level of NATO involvement, it is going to be much more humiliating for NATO than Afghanistan.
Freedom ultimately means the right of other people to do things that you disagree with. T. Sowell 
Ukraine is still exporting grain crops via Romanian ports, which continue to operate normally, in particular, Constanta as reported by DW, DW April 2022. It is predicted that 1.5million tons mmt of Ukrainian grain will be exported out of Romanian ports in May alone and it is anticipated that 3mmt can be exported in the near future. Reuters May 2022, Reuters 24 April 2022
And those mines that Ukraine planted are illegal under international law.So they'd rather have it rot than ship it??
Russia has done nothing but complain about the sanctions since they were first issued. Which will never succeed in lifting the sanctions.
"For they that sleep with dogs, shall rise with fleas" John Webster, "The White Devil" 1612.
Russia is not complaining, but explaining. Ukrainian position puts lie to the claims that Russia is blocking their exports.
This ship has long sailed. If the Ukrainians obeyed the Minsk agreements, Donbas and Lugansk could have been still theirs. Until the collapse of the Istanbul talks they had the chance to keep the rest. Now theyre quite out of options.
Although the throughput will not be the same level as Odessa for example. Even Lithuania has said that it can help to export Ukrainian grain through its railway network and ports. Additionally, the use of the Danube as a transportation waterway to EU ports is being done via barges from inland ports, along with proposals for the use of Adriatic ports, HINA 24 May 2022
Russia and Turkey voiced support Wednesday for a safe corridor in the Black Sea to allow Ukrainian grain exports, but Kyiv rejected the proposal, saying it was not credible. The European Union accused Moscow of weaponizing food supplies to gain an advantage in the war. Russia also demanded that Ukraine remove mines from the Black Sea and both Moscow and Ankara said the West should ease sanctions on Moscow to allow the export of Russian grains amid an escalating world food crisis. While food exports are technically exempt from the sanctions, Russia claims that restrictions on its ships and banks make it impossible to deliver its grain to global markets. Ukraine is one of the worlds largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil
