Russia moves troops to Belarus for joint exercises near Ukraine border
20220118
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4030428/posts
This news was supplemented by a reports that Venezuela and Cuba had decided to apply for membership in the CSTO a military alliance led by Russia of former Soviet states. A Venezuelan spokesman cited the inalienable right of sovereign states to determine their own military alliances and foreign policy.
We listened to Russia Russia throughout they years from the leftist media....and here we are again. I do wonder when they have these talks and meet just what are they planning.
If we had a real president then perhaps something could be done but for now we just have to sit back and be thankful our boys arent dying over there.
Kiev is reasonably close to Belarus border, going near Chernobyl, with the Dnieper river being a natural stopping point if Putin invades.
why isn't NATO'SUS in Ukraine Nd throughout the countries bordering Russia activities also being reported? Last time I checked that was 8k from Estonia to Bulgaria, up from 0,2k pre 2015. Do you have any updates ? Latest figures ?
Last time I checked that was 8k from Estonia to Bulgaria, up from 0,2k pre 2015. Do you have any updates ? Latest figures ?
Elementary. The Belarusian border is very close to Kiev. Far closer than the eastern Donbas region. That is a serious message to Ukraine, whether idiots like Wendy Sherman get it or not.
The joint military exercises, named United Resolve, are to take place as Russia also musters forces along Ukraines eastern border, threatening a potential invasion that could unleash the largest conflict in Europe for decades. Wendy Sherman, Jens Stoltenberg, the Russian deputy foreign minister, Alexander Grushko, and the Russian deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin at the meeting. Nato chief warns of real risk of conflict as talks with Russia over Ukraine end Read more Social media videos from Belarus appeared to show artillery and other military vehicles arriving on flatbed carriages owned by the Russian state railway company, and Alexander Volfovich, the head of Belaruss security council, said in a briefing that troops were already arriving before exercises scheduled for February. Some military analysts have suggested Russia could send its forces through Belarus in the case of a broad invasion, effectively stretching out Ukraines defences by taking advantage of the two countries nearly 700-mile border. Others believe Belarus would not play a serious role in the conflict if Russia were to launch an attack on Ukraine. The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has responded to international pressure and isolation by strengthening ties with Russia, giving vocal support for Putins military buildup as he receives diplomatic and economic support from the Kremlin to battle western sanctions. He has also abandoned his countrys supposedly neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict and publicly endorsed Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea.
Move likely to stoke invasion fears as war games also planned near borders of Nato members Poland and Lithuania Russia has begun moving troops to Ukraines northern neighbour Belarus for joint military exercises, in a move likely to increase fears in the west that Moscow is preparing for an invasion. The joint military exercises, named United Resolve, are to take place as Russia also musters forces along Ukraines eastern border, threatening a potential invasion that could unleash the largest conflict in Europe for decades. Wendy Sherman, Jens Stoltenberg, the Russian deputy foreign minister, Alexander Grushko, and the Russian deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin at the meeting. Nato chief warns of real risk of conflict as talks with Russia over Ukraine end Read more Social media videos from Belarus appeared to show artillery and other military vehicles arriving on flatbed carriages owned by the Russian state railway company, and Alexander Volfovich, the head of Belaruss security council, said in a briefing that troops were already arriving before exercises scheduled for February. Some military analysts have suggested Russia could send its forces through Belarus in the case of a broad invasion, effectively stretching out Ukraines defences by taking advantage of the two countries nearly 700-mile border. Others believe Belarus would not play a serious role in the conflict if Russia were to launch an attack on Ukraine. The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has responded to international pressure and isolation by strengthening ties with Russia, giving vocal support for Putins military buildup as he receives diplomatic and economic support from the Kremlin to battle western sanctions. He has also abandoned his countrys supposedly neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict and publicly endorsed Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea.
Ping. Also heads up, China and North Korea are also building up their forces near Taiwan and the DMZ.
Theres no reason to be afraid at all. None of these countries are coming for us but merely bullying their neighbors.
While we see much of Russia military activity why isnt NATOSUS in Ukraine Nd throughout the countries bordering Russia activities also being reported?
The exercise, dubbed Operation Woke Weasel were in response to threatening moves made by President Rachel Dick Levene
The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has responded to international pressure and isolation by strengthening ties with Russia, giving vocal support for Putins military buildup as he receives diplomatic and economic support from the Kremlin to battle western sanctions. He has also abandoned his countrys supposedly neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict and publicly endorsed Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea.
And in other news, Chinese Generals began operations with their Mexican counterparts in Baja California, to support the new Mexifornia Republic which recently broke away from the United States.
How much of this news we do see is to instill yet further fear? How much is propaganda war?
Russia has begun moving troops to Ukraines northern neighbour Belarus for joint military exercises, in a move likely to increase fears in the west that Moscow is preparing for an invasion. The joint military exercises, named United Resolve, are to take place as Russia also musters forces along Ukraines eastern border, threatening a potential invasion that could unleash the largest conflict in Europe for decades. Wendy Sherman, Jens Stoltenberg, the Russian deputy foreign minister, Alexander Grushko, and the Russian deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin at the meeting. Nato chief warns of real risk of conflict as talks with Russia over Ukraine end Read more Social media videos from Belarus appeared to show artillery and other military vehicles arriving on flatbed carriages owned by the Russian state railway company, and Alexander Volfovich, the head of Belaruss security council, said in a briefing that troops were already arriving before exercises scheduled for February. Some military analysts have suggested Russia could send its forces through Belarus in the case of a broad invasion, effectively stretching out Ukraines defences by taking advantage of the two countries nearly 700-mile border. Others believe Belarus would not play a serious role in the conflict if Russia were to launch an attack on Ukraine. The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has responded to international pressure and isolation by strengthening ties with Russia, giving vocal support for Putins military buildup as he receives diplomatic and economic support from the Kremlin to battle western sanctions. He has also abandoned his countrys supposedly neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict and publicly endorsed Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea.
Some military analysts have suggested Russia could send its forces through Belarus in the case of a broad invasion, effectively stretching out Ukraines defences by taking advantage of the two countries nearly 700-mile border. Others believe Belarus would not play a serious role in the conflict if Russia were to launch an attack on Ukraine. The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has responded to international pressure and isolation by strengthening ties with Russia, giving vocal support for Putins military buildup as he receives diplomatic and economic support from the Kremlin to battle western sanctions. He has also abandoned his countrys supposedly neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict and publicly endorsed Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea.
Russia has no interest in non-Russian ethnicity parts of Ukraine, which means anywhere other than Donbas.
Wendy Sherman, Jens Stoltenberg, the Russian deputy foreign minister, Alexander Grushko, and the Russian deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin at the meeting. Nato chief warns of real risk of conflict as talks with Russia over Ukraine end Read more Social media videos from Belarus appeared to show artillery and other military vehicles arriving on flatbed carriages owned by the Russian state railway company, and Alexander Volfovich, the head of Belaruss security council, said in a briefing that troops were already arriving before exercises scheduled for February. Some military analysts have suggested Russia could send its forces through Belarus in the case of a broad invasion, effectively stretching out Ukraines defences by taking advantage of the two countries nearly 700-mile border. Others believe Belarus would not play a serious role in the conflict if Russia were to launch an attack on Ukraine. The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has responded to international pressure and isolation by strengthening ties with Russia, giving vocal support for Putins military buildup as he receives diplomatic and economic support from the Kremlin to battle western sanctions. He has also abandoned his countrys supposedly neutral stance on the Ukraine conflict and publicly endorsed Russias 2014 annexation of Crimea.
