Russia pulls some troops back from Ukraine border slams invasion reports
20220215
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4038480/posts
Russia said Tuesday it is pulling back some of its troops from Ukraines borders as it slammed reports of an invasion as ostentatious hysteria by the West. Weve always said the troops will return to their bases after the exercises are over. This is the case this time as well, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said, according to Reuters. However, it was unclear how many units were being withdrawn after a build-up of an estimated 130,000 Russian troops to the north, east and south of Ukraine. Peskov also accused the US of fueling the crisis by warning repeatedly of an invasion  to the point where Peskov said President Vladimir Putin had joked about it. He asks us to find out if the exact time, to the hour, of the start of the war has been published. Its impossible to be understanding of this manic information madness, he said.
Russia pulls some troops back from Ukraine border, slams invasion reports Russia said Tuesday it is pulling back some of its troops from Ukraines borders as it slammed reports of an invasion as ostentatious hysteria by the West. Weve always said the troops will return to their bases after the exercises are over. This is the case this time as well, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said, according to Reuters. However, it was unclear how many units were being withdrawn after a build-up of an estimated 130,000 Russian troops to the north, east and south of Ukraine. Peskov also accused the US of fueling the crisis by warning repeatedly of an invasion  to the point where Peskov said President Vladimir Putin had joked about it. He asks us to find out if the exact time, to the hour, of the start of the war has been published. Its impossible to be understanding of this manic information madness, he said.
He asks us to find out if the exact time, to the hour, of the start of the war has been published. Its impossible to be understanding of this manic information madness, he said.
If true this is a good thing. I dont want to see war. Putin has put himself in a box..if he backs off he looks ridiculous to the Russians..if he goes forward he risks all kinds of economic problems. This all should have been straightened out last March.
However, it was unclear how many units were being withdrawn after a build-up of an estimated 130,000 Russian troops to the north, east and south of Ukraine. Peskov also accused the US of fueling the crisis by warning repeatedly of an invasion  to the point where Peskov said President Vladimir Putin had joked about it. He asks us to find out if the exact time, to the hour, of the start of the war has been published. Its impossible to be understanding of this manic information madness, he said.
Thats what I thought. Just a dress rehearsal. Bluffing. Putin might be for real next time. Maybe not though. He wants to keep us guessing.
Some Freepers yesterday were claiming this invasion is all a hoax to make Joe Bidet look like a hero. This seems to confirm that.I actually didn't see anyone here claiming this was a real thing.
Peskov also accused the US of fueling the crisis by warning repeatedly of an invasion  to the point where Peskov said President Vladimir Putin had joked about it. He asks us to find out if the exact time, to the hour, of the start of the war has been published. Its impossible to be understanding of this manic information madness, he said.
Weve always said the troops will return to their bases after the exercises are over. This is the case this time as well, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said, according to Reuters. However, it was unclear how many units were being withdrawn after a build-up of an estimated 130,000 Russian troops to the north, east and south of Ukraine. Peskov also accused the US of fueling the crisis by warning repeatedly of an invasion  to the point where Peskov said President Vladimir Putin had joked about it. He asks us to find out if the exact time, to the hour, of the start of the war has been published. Its impossible to be understanding of this manic information madness, he said.
Some Freepers yesterday were claiming this invasion is all a hoax to make Joe Bidet look like a hero. This seems to confirm that. If so, then sound the barf alert. All I know is I'll trust what the Russians say any day over Bidet.
Oh please, Putin was never going to invade, and I dont ever believe we seriously ever considered asking Ukraine to join NATO. All Kabuki Theater.
Imminent my rear. The only thing that is imminent is Bidens folding like a cheap tent.
What bluff? The Russians have denied all along that they were not invading Ukraine. Another manufactured crisis.
Its all theater. Putin had his reasons for moving troops, the truth is hidden from us, everyone who isnt Putin is just guessing. It would take a lot more than some talk talk to make Sleepy Joe look like some sort of hero.
The president is the one pushing it, backed by Obama etc., all the usual suspects.
The narrative will now be Biden pulled the invasion back from the brink, his foreign policy is SO FABULOUS!! San Fran Nan was already spewing this garbage, NOTHING will bring Joe back from his dismal presidency, people SEE what a bumbling mess he is. People SEE his absolute incompetence, people feel the inflation everyday, there is NOTHING these idiots can do to make Joe look better NOTHING!!
Could have been a hoax or a Putin head fake, we will know next week. Maybe, this is a Biden head fake all alone.
And our criminal fake news including Fox went along with the dangerous narrative to help pull Brandons walnuts out of the free fall poll numbers out of the fire!
As long as Hillary Clinton remains free, the USA will never have equal justice under the law
Thats what I heard as well but that sounds ridiculous. What country announces a specific date to invade another? Like Putin says in the article what is the exact time and hour we are invading?
Wait! Don't tell me! Let me guess!The morons believe that Putin was afraid of Biden and therefore backed down???
