Russias RIA Novosti was told by an LNR official that Ukraine inflicted a massive strike on the air defense unit that covers Luhansk Might be a sign that Ukraine is now shifting HIMARS strikes towards Russian air defenses
20220713
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4077967/posts
Considering residents therein describe it as an open air gulag where Russian troops beat you if they suspect wrong-think, then theyre hardly free and independent now.
Zman has lost the war, lost a generation, screwed his country - and for what? But hell be ok, not to worry.
If the Russians are losing thousands of troops just to take one small city in Ukraine with no strategic value, and that only after weeks of combat, why would they be dumb enough to start a war with countries with actual modern military weapons?
So no, I get no gratification over the idea of my tax dollars killing people on the other side of the planet.
The Ukrainian Army was probably the best fighters in the entire European Continent. Theyre mostly gone now.
The Russian Starshe Eddy channel says that the sound of Russian air defenses was audible before the explosion in Luhansk tonight and notes that high-precision weapons are extremely dangerous. Pretty clear Russian air defense dont have an answer to HIMARS.
Ukrainian troops have dealt a massive blow to the military air defense unit, which ensures the security of Luhansk, said an officer of the Peoples Militia of the LPR Marochko
Russia's RIA Novosti was told by an LNR official that Ukraine inflicted a massive strike on the air defense unit that covers Luhansk. Might be a sign that Ukraine is now shifting HIMARS strikes towards Russian air defenses.
I dont like people dying and would rather my tax dollars not go to killing people especially people who never did anything to me or my country. Putin isnt the one keeping out southern border open, Putin isnt the one who tried to fire me for not getting a vaccine I didnt need.
I grouse about tax dollars being wasted but then I see those taxes at work here and am gratified.
Gee, if true, I sure hope Russia takes it with a grain of salt, and doesnt decide to pop a few EMPs over Europe, America and Hawaii.
