Russian air defense shot down plane with Western arms for Ukraine near Odessa  top brass
20220416
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4055639/posts
MOSCOW, April 16. TASS. Russian air defense units have brought down a military transport plane carrying Western arms outside Odessa, Russian Defense Ministry Spokesman Major-General Igor Konashenkov said on Saturday. "Near Odessa Russian anti-aircraft defense forces have shot down a Ukrainian military transport plane, which was delivering a large shipment of arms supplied to Ukraine by Western counties," he said. In addition, according to Konashenkov, operational and tactical aviation destroyed 67 areas of concentration of Ukrainian military personnel and hardware in the past 24 hours.
But Soros puppet and homo-erotic dancer Zelensky is not willing to give up the any territory because he is told by NATO  USA that they will support Ukraine.
I cant help but notice that the pro-Putin supporters on FR talk about homosexual issues quite a bit.
And for the nationality of the crew -- does this matter? There are British and American operatives there, some are getting killed. The one reported today is below
"The enemy has overrun us. We are blowing up everything. Vive la France!"Dien Bien Phu last message
When the first reports of Russias admitting that Moskva had sunk came out, I checked out the TASS website. There was no mention of Moskva. Then clicked on Latest Ukraine News nothing. But when I searched for Moskva there it was the admission that she had sunk while being towed in heavy weather after bad fires. If you didnt know, TASS certainly wasnt going to tell you.
You lost any credibility with such ad-hominems, the last refuge of people who cant win on reason and sound argument.
Russia doe NOT want to occupy Ukraine by wining the war. Ukraine is bigger than Texas. I drove across Texas in my car. I saw how big it is. Russia is not over-populated country and does not have enough soldiers to occupy all of Ukraine. Russia simply wants to reclaim Donbas and control of Black sea, the territory which belonged to Russia in the past. But Soros puppet and homo-erotic dancer Zelensky is not willing to give up the any territory because he is told by NATO  USA that they will support Ukraine. Zelensky would rather see Ukraine residential buildings, power plants, water systems etc destroyed because of his ego rather than reach a agreement with Russia.
I dont think either side is winning at this point. The odds favor Russia, but underdogs sometimes pull out a victory. Well have a better idea in a few weeks.
Ukraine is or has won the propaganda war but I think Russia will still pull out a victory at the end of the day. And I bet we lose in the long run as the US will cough up most of the money to help rebuild Ukraine.
"Near Odessa Russian anti-aircraft defense forces have shot down a Ukrainian military transport plane, which was delivering a large shipment of arms supplied to Ukraine by Western counties," he said. In addition, according to Konashenkov, operational and tactical aviation destroyed 67 areas of concentration of Ukrainian military personnel and hardware in the past 24 hours.
Supply crates containing munitions and other explosive material bound for Ukraine are loaded at Dover Air Force Base in March 2022.
Thats what Soviets do. The lose ships, airplanes, tanks, generals, lieutenants, soldiers. They retaliate by destroying hospitals, maternity wards ,theaters and killing civilians.
Russia doe NOT want to occupy Ukraine by wining the war. Ukraine is bigger than Texas. I drove across Texas in my car. I saw how big it is. Russia is not over-populated country and does not have enough soldiers to occupy all of Ukraine. Russia simply wants to reclaim Donbas and control of Black sea, the territory which belonged to Russia in the past.
One morning I shot an elephant in my pajamas. How he got in my pajamas, I dont know.
Minus, of course, the Washington district of cartels Biden Pelosi Kerry Romney crime Famalies cut.
I suspect even Mariupol is much more livable than the crew quarters aboard the Moskva. I dont know about the wireless service, though. Do you think the wireless aboard the Moskva is better than that in Odessa?
Blockade of Cuba by USA was OK by neocons, but Russia must tolerate NATO weapons on its border!
Russia wants the natural resources of Donbas it doesnt give a sh!t about Donbas otherwise. Control the Black Sea? Turkey closes the Bosphorus and the Black Sea is the Black Lake. Besides, Russia has Black Sea ports: Taman Novorossiysk Sochi and Tuapse. Spend some bucks and develop them.
Significance: this is the first time Russians did this -- and this is because the cargo plane decided to cut time by going over the Black Sea direct to Ukraine, the usual route is to Poland and then on the ground. Likely reason: whatever the cargo was was considered urgent.  And for the nationality of the crew -- does this matter? There are British and American operatives there, some are getting killed. The one reported today is below
Half of Ukraine cities are now un-livable. Power plants bombed out, water supply gone. Okay they might still get wireless phone service.
this is the first time Russians did this -- and this is because the cargo plane decided to cut time by going over the Black Sea direct to Ukraine, the usual route is to Poland and then on the ground. Likely reason: whatever the cargo was was considered urgent.  And for the nationality of the crew -- does this matter? There are British and American operatives there, some are getting killed. The one reported today is below
In addition, according to Konashenkov, operational and tactical aviation destroyed 67 areas of concentration of Ukrainian military personnel and hardware in the past 24 hours.
