Russians hand control of Chornobyl nuclear plant back to Ukraine IAEA says
20220331
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4051296/posts
One explanation would be they forced Ukraine to defend the bright shiny object of Kiev, while losing ground in the East... not that that is what happened, but could have been the plan.
The Russian forces, which had held the nuclear facility since Feb. 24, in writing returned control of the Chornobyl plant to Ukrainian personnel, the IAEA said in a press release. The agency added that it has not been able to confirm reports of Russian forces receiving high doses of radiation while being in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone.
Multiple convoys of Russian troops in the area have also moved back toward Kremlin-allied Belarus on Ukraines northern border, Kyiv told the IAEA. The Russian forces, which had held the nuclear facility since Feb. 24, in writing returned control of the Chornobyl plant to Ukrainian personnel, the IAEA said in a press release. The agency added that it has not been able to confirm reports of Russian forces receiving high doses of radiation while being in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone.
Mass  Mass the effects of overwhelming combat power at the decisive place and time. Synchronizing all the elements of combat power where they will have decisive effect on an enemy force in a short period of time is to achieve mass. Massing effects, rather than concentrating forces, can enable numerically inferior forces to achieve decisive results, while limiting exposure to enemy fire.
By trying to attack from every possible direction at the same time, the Russians ignored the military principle of mass.
Okay, so I'm assuming that some will explain this as all being part of the Russian "master plan"...but I don't get it.Today's situation report at thesaker.is lays out a pretty plausible explanation of their actions thus far.
Yes. The description the Ukrainian forces gave yesterday as they moved out into the suburbs formerly occupied by Russia, tends to confirm that... they are running... lots and lots of abandoned equipment.
- Russian troops that took over the Chornobyl nuclear power plant have transferred control back to Ukraine, the International Atomic Energy Agency said. - The IAEA said those Russian troops moved two convoys toward Kremlin-allied Belarus, while a third convoy left the nearby city of Slavutych, also toward Belarus. - The agency added that it has not been able to confirm reports of Russian forces receiving high doses of radiation while being in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone. Russian troops that took over the Chornobyl nuclear power plant last month have transferred control back to Ukraine, the International Atomic Energy Agency said Thursday, citing information from Ukraine. Multiple convoys of Russian troops in the area have also moved back toward Kremlin-allied Belarus on Ukraines northern border, Kyiv told the IAEA. The Russian forces, which had held the nuclear facility since Feb. 24, in writing returned control of the Chornobyl plant to Ukrainian personnel, the IAEA said in a press release. The agency added that it has not been able to confirm reports of Russian forces receiving high doses of radiation while being in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone.
The only logic behind the Russian efforts at Kyiv would be if they thought it would actually fall. Otherwise, if they never really did plan to take Kyiv, theyd have been better off concentrating their best units and just driving west from the Donbass.
Okay, so I'm assuming that some will explain this as all being part of the Russian "master plan"...but I don't get it. By trying to attack from every possible direction at the same time, the Russians ignored the military principle of mass. That also handed the advantage of interior lines to the Ukrainians, which made it much easier for Ukrainian reinforcement to get where they were needed more quickly. The only logic behind the Russian efforts at Kyiv would be if they thought it would actually fall. Otherwise, if they never really did plan to take Kyiv, they'd have been better off concentrating their best units and just driving west from the Donbass.
 Plan B - Encircle the city and use artillery to bring it to submission. Ukrainians picked off the supply convoys and the besiegers couldnt proceed and that plan failed
I get the feeling Russia is the tough guy who practices a lot, looks good, but has never been in a match.
"...some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again... " CSL
Today's situation report at thesaker.is lays out a pretty plausible explanation of their actions thus far.
By trying to attack from every possible direction at the same time, the Russians ignored the military principle of mass. That also handed the advantage of interior lines to the Ukrainians, which made it much easier for Ukrainian reinforcement to get where they were needed more quickly. The only logic behind the Russian efforts at Kyiv would be if they thought it would actually fall. Otherwise, if they never really did plan to take Kyiv, they'd have been better off concentrating their best units and just driving west from the Donbass.
 Plan C - Refocus on the east, but leave enough troops to pin down the large Ukrainian force in Kiev. It turns out a small force is even more vulnerable than a large one and that plan failed.
Apparently, Unity of Command as well. Each axis of advance was their own fiefdom, with no one General in charge of the whole operation.
The agency added that it has not been able to confirm reports of Russian forces receiving high doses of radiation while being in the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone.
The only logic behind the Russian efforts at Kyiv would be if they thought it would actually fall. Otherwise, if they never really did plan to take Kyiv, they'd have been better off concentrating their best units and just driving west from the Donbass.
There are reports that Russian conscripts were ordered to dig trenches in the area and hit the irradiated layers. Many had to be taken to Belarus due to radiation sickness.
They obviously thought that the Ukrainian army would not put up much resistance and that Zelinsky would flee into exile, leaving them free to reinstall their puppet.
Putin is going to get totally destroyed on this in the short and long term, however.. He does have a lot of freepers supporting him. Maybe he can use their support for something.
 Plan A - March into Kiev just like the Americans did in Baghdad and Kabul. Ukrainians resisted and that plan failed
Dont forget Biden tried to get Zelenzky to flee, which would have meant a Ukrainiain collapse.
