Russian tank attack in eastern Ukraine kills 2 Americans Canadian and Swede
20220724
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4080574/posts
One can be a citizen of, say, Germany and yet sign up to serve in the Italian military.
Were the Americans, Canadian and Swede on a picnic at the time? Maybe listening to loud rap music that offended the Russian neighbors?
Everything after that was directed against whoever the survivors were that lived to tell this story.
at least six Russian tanks were supported by 4 armored personnel carriers with up to 70 infantrymen.
Ukraine is a death trap for those who choose to fight there I am characterizing it as a death trap for Americans that would be considered Domestic Terrorists by our own government agencies because of their military service or conservative or patriotic views.
...they were ambushed by Russian tanks, Miroshnichenko said. The first shell injured Luke. Three guys, Edward, Emile, and Bryan, they immediately attempted to help Luke, to do first aid, and evacuate him from this spot. Then the second shell killed them all. Another soldier named Finn, the report notes, was injured in his left arm and leg. Another soldier named Oskar received numerous injuries and both moved to the evacuation point independently. Russian forces continued to bombard the group with heavy artillery corrected by drones for more than two hours, according to the report. Only several hours later did it ease up enough for a team to move in and recover the bodies of the foreign fighters. The report said that at least six Russian tanks were supported by 4 armored personnel carriers with up to 70 infantrymen.
Two Americans, a Canadian and a Swedish citizen were killed this week when a Russian tank opened fire on them during an hourslong battle at the frontline in the eastern Donetsk region, their commander confirmed exclusively to POLITICO. ...they were ambushed by Russian tanks, Miroshnichenko said. The first shell injured Luke. Three guys, Edward, Emile, and Bryan, they immediately attempted to help Luke, to do first aid, and evacuate him from this spot. Then the second shell killed them all. Another soldier named Finn, the report notes, was injured in his left arm and leg. Another soldier named Oskar received numerous injuries and both moved to the evacuation point independently. Russian forces continued to bombard the group with heavy artillery corrected by drones for more than two hours, according to the report. Only several hours later did it ease up enough for a team to move in and recover the bodies of the foreign fighters. The report said that at least six Russian tanks were supported by 4 armored personnel carriers with up to 70 infantrymen.
Apparently bombs have the targets names on them so they know precisely who to kill. Must be smart bombs! SMDH.
Yet stars and pols go there on a regular basis to do photo ops with Zelensky
Did they get Mark Levin? I assume, of course, that he is over there on the front lines since hes so gung ho. Surely hes not a chickenhawk.
Another soldier named Finn, the report notes, was injured in his left arm and leg. Another soldier named Oskar received numerous injuries and both moved to the evacuation point independently. Russian forces continued to bombard the group with heavy artillery corrected by drones for more than two hours, according to the report. Only several hours later did it ease up enough for a team to move in and recover the bodies of the foreign fighters. The report said that at least six Russian tanks were supported by 4 armored personnel carriers with up to 70 infantrymen.
Russian forces continued to bombard the group with heavy artillery corrected by drones for more than two hours
The report said that at least six Russian tanks were supported by 4 armored personnel carriers with up to 70 infantrymen.
The warmth and goodness of Gaia is a nuclear reactor in the Earth's core that burns Thorium
In the US military there are quite a few citizens of other countries serving within our ranks. They are not US citizens, and they retain the citizenship of their home countries.
Do you have a hard time believing the story because most people die from artillery, or do you have a better reason for saying it cant be right?
Well, that settles it. Im not going to take my summer vacation within range of a Russian tank.
Russian forces continued to bombard the group with heavy artillery corrected by drones for more than two hours, according to the report. Only several hours later did it ease up enough for a team to move in and recover the bodies of the foreign fighters. The report said that at least six Russian tanks were supported by 4 armored personnel carriers with up to 70 infantrymen.
...they were ambushed by Russian tanks, Miroshnichenko said. The first shell injured Luke. Three guys, Edward, Emile, and Bryan, they immediately attempted to help Luke, to do first aid, and evacuate him from this spot. Then the second shell killed them all. If this quote is accurate, it only took two tank shells.  Everything after that was directed against whoever the survivors were that lived to tell this story.
Bullshit narrative. They died from artillery but the Ukrainians are trying to make it sound heroic.
Two Americans, a Canadian and a Swedish citizen were killed this week ...  Another soldier named Finn, So which is it? Citizens or soldiers???
Well, if you believe the Ukrainian propagandists. Sounds more like the Ukrainians were using them as cannon fodder.
If this quote is accurate, it only took two tank shells.  Everything after that was directed against whoever the survivors were that lived to tell this story.
