Russians in Germany clash over the war in Ukraine  DW Documentary
20220517
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4063884/posts
Barricades, strict regulations, and thousands of police on duty: German authorities predicted May 9 would get heated. Commemorated as "Victory Day in many former Soviet countries, the date marks 77 years since the surrender of Nazi Germany. But due to the war in Ukraine, the occasion took on a whole new meaning. The divide between Putins opponents and supporters was brought into sharp focus. Authorities banned the display of Russian and Ukrainian flags in the hopes of avoiding escalation. But emotions were running high at dueling protests, with demonstrators breaking out in verbal confrontations over Russias war in Ukraine. DW reporter Oxana Evdokimova shows the divisions in the Russian-speaking community in Berlin and why many Russians in Germany support Putin and the military aggression in Ukraine.
The war in Ukraine is driving a wedge between Russian speakers in Germany. Putins critics and supporters are fiercely divided. The conflict came to a head on May 9, which marked 77 years since Nazi Germany's surrender. Barricades, strict regulations, and thousands of police on duty: German authorities predicted May 9 would get heated. Commemorated as "Victory Day in many former Soviet countries, the date marks 77 years since the surrender of Nazi Germany. But due to the war in Ukraine, the occasion took on a whole new meaning. The divide between Putins opponents and supporters was brought into sharp focus. Authorities banned the display of Russian and Ukrainian flags in the hopes of avoiding escalation. But emotions were running high at dueling protests, with demonstrators breaking out in verbal confrontations over Russias war in Ukraine. DW reporter Oxana Evdokimova shows the divisions in the Russian-speaking community in Berlin and why many Russians in Germany support Putin and the military aggression in Ukraine.
The majority of the Russian-Germans are negative about German public TV news....preferring Moscows angle on things. You can shop in most German grocery stores and find an aisle with Russian products at least before the sanctions started up.
The Russians and Germans disagree about this...the Germans say there are around 1.5 million Russian immigrants in the country. The Russians hype 3.5 million mostly counting Russian Jews and the Germans who returned to Germany after their ancestors came to Russia 300 years ago...into the German number.
I might even go and suggest that 60-percent of the make-up of the AfD Party is probably ethnic Russian-German.
