Russia warns Czechia against supplying Ukraine with weapons of Soviet origin
20220417
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4055793/posts
Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
Lipavsk said the diplomatic letter sent by Russia was another method of trying to halt Czech support for Ukraine through false information. Military and other aid for Ukraine is unambiguously in the Czech Republic's strategic interest, he added. "In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
"In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
Could be. But there has never been a culture of Russian generals taking out leadership. To the contrary, Russian military culture, especially its brass, has always been very subservient.
I think the generals will start thinking that, and more - that THEY CAN BE STOPPED by how badly it goes with Ukriane, and then let Putin take the fall.
but I doubt all of Russian leadership is willing to see their country go nuclear winter.
LOL!! Like saying the warranty on the bombs will be voided or dont tear off the mattress tags.
"We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
Either Russia is demanding Czech Republic to abide by an agreement made with a nation that no longer exists, or Russia is claiming to be a representative of or the actual incarnation of the Soviet Union. Each carries its own implications.
If the SHTF and they attack a NATO country weve got them conventional wise. THEN they go nuclear. We can wait a week after their first strike to decide how hard to hit back. Id take out Iran for good measure while were at it. Norks? Let the Works deal with it. Taiwan? Chicos are not stupid. Russians are. Comes with the paranoia.
Lipavsk called the Russian demand "nonsense," and said the Czech Foreign Ministry would not react to it. There is no clause banning re-export of weapons from the former Soviet Union, he added. Earlier this week, Russia officially warned the United States and other countries that supporting Ukraine with military aid would prolong the conflict and could cause "unforeseeable consequences." Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Friday that Moscow had sent similar warnings regarding sending weapons to Ukraine to "all countries," presumably meaning all NATO members. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999. Lipavsk said the diplomatic letter sent by Russia was another method of trying to halt Czech support for Ukraine through false information. Military and other aid for Ukraine is unambiguously in the Czech Republic's strategic interest, he added. "In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
"Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
This source provides news from Czechia Czech Republic in English targeted for non-Czech expats living in Czechia.
Putin can threaten, but I think the generals will take him out if he demands they sacrifice Russia for his glory.
alas, there is no more soviet anything, so all things made with that logo are now curious curios!!
No ifs but when. They wont let Japan get nukes and NATO grow with Finland and Sweden
Many nations right now are simply joining up, NaTo or not, and this they know.
Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
Earlier this week, Russia officially warned the United States and other countries that supporting Ukraine with military aid would prolong the conflict and could cause "unforeseeable consequences." Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Friday that Moscow had sent similar warnings regarding sending weapons to Ukraine to "all countries," presumably meaning all NATO members. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999. Lipavsk said the diplomatic letter sent by Russia was another method of trying to halt Czech support for Ukraine through false information. Military and other aid for Ukraine is unambiguously in the Czech Republic's strategic interest, he added. "In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
The US and NATO should tell Putin that under the Budapest Memorandum, we are obligated to come to Ukraines aid.
As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
They can stop now and get a slap on the wrist and let Putin take the fall.
The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
And that If Ukraine is not successful at defending their country with the weapons we are providing, then we will either get directly involved or provide Ukraine with nuclear missiles to replace those they gave up.
hrough a diplomatic letter, Russia has warned the Czech Republic against supplying other countries with weapons of Soviet origin without its consent, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsk told journalists this afternoon. Lipavsk called the Russian demand "nonsense," and said the Czech Foreign Ministry would not react to it. There is no clause banning re-export of weapons from the former Soviet Union, he added. Earlier this week, Russia officially warned the United States and other countries that supporting Ukraine with military aid would prolong the conflict and could cause "unforeseeable consequences." Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Friday that Moscow had sent similar warnings regarding sending weapons to Ukraine to "all countries," presumably meaning all NATO members. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999. Lipavsk said the diplomatic letter sent by Russia was another method of trying to halt Czech support for Ukraine through false information. Military and other aid for Ukraine is unambiguously in the Czech Republic's strategic interest, he added. "In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
When you give or dell me something, its mine to do with as I please.
As the Czech Republic continues to arm Ukraine, Russia has told the country that it cannot transfer Soviet-made weapons without its consent. hrough a diplomatic letter, Russia has warned the Czech Republic against supplying other countries with weapons of Soviet origin without its consent, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsk told journalists this afternoon. Lipavsk called the Russian demand "nonsense," and said the Czech Foreign Ministry would not react to it. There is no clause banning re-export of weapons from the former Soviet Union, he added. Earlier this week, Russia officially warned the United States and other countries that supporting Ukraine with military aid would prolong the conflict and could cause "unforeseeable consequences." Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Friday that Moscow had sent similar warnings regarding sending weapons to Ukraine to "all countries," presumably meaning all NATO members. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999. Lipavsk said the diplomatic letter sent by Russia was another method of trying to halt Czech support for Ukraine through false information. Military and other aid for Ukraine is unambiguously in the Czech Republic's strategic interest, he added. "In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
Right they are chess players, not 72 virgin death cult martyrs. Thats why 50 years of MAD worked during the cold war.
Im sure there are some diehard nationalists but I doubt all of Russian leadership is willing to see their country go nuclear winter. They struck first and they have little to lose if they were to back down. It would be different if all of NATO were marching into Moscow and they all risked execution or trials. They arent. They can stop now and get a slap on the wrist and let Putin take the fall.
Sending weapons to Ukraine will not prolong the war. It will allow Ukraine to end it faster.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Friday that Moscow had sent similar warnings regarding sending weapons to Ukraine to "all countries," presumably meaning all NATO members. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999. Lipavsk said the diplomatic letter sent by Russia was another method of trying to halt Czech support for Ukraine through false information. Military and other aid for Ukraine is unambiguously in the Czech Republic's strategic interest, he added. "In early March, the Russian ambassador announced to a Czech deputy foreign minister that Russia was expecting terrorist attacks against convoys carrying Western weapons in Ukraine," Lipavsk said. "We interpret this as a clear threat that Russia itself was and is preparing sabotage. The Russian side has further announced that it will be unable to prevent this sabotage, which we understand as another in a series of threats sent by Russia." "Russia was passing similar messages to our allies from the EU and NATO," Lipavsk added, noting that since the start of the war, Russia has been trying to deter EU and NATO countries from providing aid to Ukraine. Over the past seven weeks, the Czech Republic has provided Ukraine with weapons, tanks, armored vehicles, and other military aid. As of April 6, the total value of military aid donated to Ukraine was estimated to be worth 1.1 billion crowns. The Czech Defence Ministry has not specified the exact type or amount of material for security reasons. Last week, Reuters reported that the Czech Republic sent Soviet-licensed T-72 tanks and Czechoslovak-made BMP-1 armored vehicles to Ukraine. According to local server Echo24, the country has also supplied Ukraine with Czechoslovak RM70 multiple rocket launchers. The BMP-1 vehicles were previously owned by Germany. A clause in the contract transferring their ownership to the Czech Republic required German permission if sending them to another country, which was granted. According to Lipavsk, however, no such agreement exists between the Czech Republic and Russia for weapons produced by or licensed from the former Soviet Union.
Putins behavior toward them lately may be putting a final nail in the coffin of that thinking.
