Russia Authorizes Putins Request For Military Deployment Outside Russia
20220222
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4040528/posts
TANGENT The European Union and United Kingdom announced Tuesday sanctions packages against Russia in light of Putins recognition, targeting Russian oligarchs and banks. The U.S. is expected to announce sanctions of its own Tuesday afternoon.
I loathe Biden and hold him in contempt but its utter nonsense to think that the most useless administration in American history could successfully manipulate Putin into invading Ukraine.
You should be apologizing for defending BidenObamaSorosnoe-con foreign policy. We fomented a revolution in 2014 that caused a civil war in Ukraine. Those in Donbass don't want to part of a government that was formed illegally. I don't see any reason they should have to be. Then, Biden pushed the Ukrainian government to launch an offensive in Donbass. Of course, those in Donbass were going to turn to Russia for assistance.  All this meddling is doing is increasing oil and gas prices and pushing Russian into a deeper alliance with China. It's detrimental to our national interest.
That is their problem They arent over here saving us from Biden. And they never will be.
Now that its here wheres their apologies or admissions that they were wrong? You should be apologizing for defending BidenObamaSorosnoe-con foreign policy. We fomented a revolution in 2014 that caused a civil war in Ukraine. Those in Donbass don't want to part of a government that was formed illegally. I don't see any reason they should have to be. Then, Biden pushed the Ukrainian government to launch an offensive in Donbass. Of course, those in Donbass were going to turn to Russia for assistance.  All this meddling is doing is increasing oil and gas prices and pushing Russian into a deeper alliance with China. It's detrimental to our national interest.
And here you are cheering on the Russian kids who are going to die trying to steal Ukraine for the crime boss in Moscow.
All this meddling is doing is increasing oil and gas prices and pushing Russian into a deeper alliance with China. It's detrimental to our national interest.
I agree which is why I object to anyone proposing that this was some clever action by an administration populated by senile pants poopers, whores, affirmative action hires, and sexual degenerates.
Remember the peanut gallery on FR these past few weeks making jokes about the people who thought an invasion of Ukraine was taking place?
KEY BACKGROUND Putin recognized the Russian-backed separatist states of Donetsk and Luhansk Monday, earning widespread condemnation for violating international law as the states are within Ukraines internationally recognized borders. Donetsk and Luhansk declared independence from Ukraine in 2014, both proclaiming themselves as Peoples Republic, and have been propped up by Russia. Putin warned Monday there would be a bloodbath if the Ukrainian government resisted Russias support of the two rebel states. Jon Finer, the White Houses deputy national security advisor, said Tuesday morning the U.S. believes Putins actions Monday marked the beginning of an invasion in Ukraine and a Russian invasion is already underway. TANGENT The European Union and United Kingdom announced Tuesday sanctions packages against Russia in light of Putins recognition, targeting Russian oligarchs and banks. The U.S. is expected to announce sanctions of its own Tuesday afternoon.
Then, Biden pushed the Ukrainian government to launch an offensive in Donbass. Of course, those in Donbass were going to turn to Russia for assistance.  All this meddling is doing is increasing oil and gas prices and pushing Russian into a deeper alliance with China. It's detrimental to our national interest.
All this nonsense is doing is driving up gas prices further and pushing Russian into an alliance with China.
They are invading Ukrainian held territory and they were most certainly NOT invited to do so.
Ive been listening to discussion of Ukraines vast resources and strategic materials that the world depends on.
Most Americans dont want their kids dying for Ukraine.What is the return? Our blood for what?
The DPR and LPR don't want to be part of a Ukrainian government that formed illegally via revolution in 2014. It shouldn't be any of our business. All this nonsense is doing is driving up gas prices further and pushing Russian into an alliance with China.
The US somehow tricked Russia into attacking Ukraine? You're ignorant. We encouraged Ukraine to launch an offensive in Donbass. Those in that region are pro-Russian and sought out assistance from Russia. The DPR and LPR don't want to be part of a Ukrainian government that formed illegally via revolution in 2014. It shouldn't be any of our business. All this nonsense is doing is driving up gas prices further and pushing Russian into an alliance with China.
You're ignorant. We encouraged Ukraine to launch an offensive in Donbass. Those in that region are pro-Russian and sought out assistance from Russia. The DPR and LPR don't want to be part of a Ukrainian government that formed illegally via revolution in 2014. It shouldn't be any of our business. All this nonsense is doing is driving up gas prices further and pushing Russian into an alliance with China.
We have precious things to lose and nothing to win. I dont play sob story world politics. In fact your post disgusts me. Sounds like Pelosi.
TOPLINE The upper house of the Russian parliament approved President Vladimir Putins request to use military force outside of Russia, adding to fears of a full-scale invasion of Ukraine may come soon. KEY BACKGROUND Putin recognized the Russian-backed separatist states of Donetsk and Luhansk Monday, earning widespread condemnation for violating international law as the states are within Ukraines internationally recognized borders. Donetsk and Luhansk declared independence from Ukraine in 2014, both proclaiming themselves as Peoples Republic, and have been propped up by Russia. Putin warned Monday there would be a bloodbath if the Ukrainian government resisted Russias support of the two rebel states. Jon Finer, the White Houses deputy national security advisor, said Tuesday morning the U.S. believes Putins actions Monday marked the beginning of an invasion in Ukraine and a Russian invasion is already underway. TANGENT The European Union and United Kingdom announced Tuesday sanctions packages against Russia in light of Putins recognition, targeting Russian oligarchs and banks. The U.S. is expected to announce sanctions of its own Tuesday afternoon.
The only way to stop Putin would be American and NATO forces in Western Ukraine.
