Russia showing clear casualty aversion as troops forced to retreat from Kharkiv
20220503
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4059851/posts
With the amount of bombers and artillery Russia has. Im suprised they just havent flattened everything.
Militarily and legally speaking, theyve made the strategic decision to not engage as though this were an actual war...so far.
The Russia s tried for years to "flatten" Chechnya, which is more than twenty times smaller than Ukraine, and still couldn't do it. Chechnya had less than 2 Million people and is smaller than our smallest state, Rhode Island. Grozny was about the size of Providence, RI. Even Mariupol is twice the size of Grozny. And Russia LOST the first Chechen War. Ukraine is 35X the area and over 20 times the population.  Russia has expended far more effort, troops, armor, artillery, bombs and missiles in Ukraine than they did in Chechnya, and have inflicted far more damage. Pushing the 2nd Chechen War as some proof that Russia is "holding back" and they could have made all Ukraine look like Grozny is ridiculous.
Not sure if its 20k dead Russians. I think its more likely to be 10k.
Im not talking about flattening the whole country, im talking about the sliver of land in the South and East.
Russia has expended far more effort, troops, armor, artillery, bombs and missiles in Ukraine than they did in Chechnya, and have inflicted far more damage. Pushing the 2nd Chechen War as some proof that Russia is "holding back" and they could have made all Ukraine look like Grozny is ridiculous.
We never hear about Ukrains retreats - most people know the ground fighting consists of advance and retreat many times over for both sides - thus the nature of war.
Oh dear, the Putin golden idol worshippers will have to crawl over more broken glass to prop up his regime now
Thats because Russia is still classifying their invasion of Ukraine as a special military operation.
Once Putin goes under anesthesia sayonara Putin. From the operating room he goes straight to the mortuary. Patrushev will be Russias new boss. And dont be surprised if he announces a ceasefire and blames everything on Putin.
I had some sympathies for some of Russia's positions... until they started a G-d-damned war.
I would think that every soldier ever born, except maybe the great Audie Murphy, would be casualty averse.
A Trump win would have denied putin and his shirtless fan boy club the oppurtunity to invade Ukraine.
Ruling class noticed our total lack of pushback for how the election  Covid was handled.
They also said Russian gains in Donbas had been "minimal at best" and "quite frankly anaemic", and Vladimir Putin's troops appeared to be displaying a risk aversion to casualties.
KEYWORDS: abortion blueandyellowdrank brainwashedukies chechens chechnya clownworld colinfreeman kettledinthedonbas kharkiv kharkov mi6agitprop moldova obamacare odesa odessa plannedparenthood putin putinsbuttboys putinworshippers righttolife rubleisat71 russia russianaggression soroswindowlickers thesmellygraph thetelegraph transnistria ukraine ukrainicorns war zottherussiantrolls
The Russia s tried for years to "flatten" Chechnya, which is more than twenty times smaller than Ukraine, and still couldn't do it. I'm really curious as to where some posters are getting this idea. You guys can't have any actual military experience.
Chechnya had less than 2 Million people and is smaller than our smallest state, Rhode Island. Grozny was about the size of Providence, RI. Even Mariupol is twice the size of Grozny. And Russia LOST the first Chechen War. Ukraine is 35X the area and over 20 times the population.  Russia has expended far more effort, troops, armor, artillery, bombs and missiles in Ukraine than they did in Chechnya, and have inflicted far more damage. Pushing the 2nd Chechen War as some proof that Russia is "holding back" and they could have made all Ukraine look like Grozny is ridiculous.
A Ukrainian counter-offensive pushed Russian forces 25 miles east of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city, US officials said on Monday night. They also said Russian gains in Donbas had been "minimal at best" and "quite frankly anaemic", and Vladimir Putin's troops appeared to be displaying a risk aversion to casualties.
I read the Ukrainians are 220km west of the road and rail junctions supporting the Russians Izyum offensive. However, I read the orcs did reach the Severyskyi Donets river and threw a pontoon bridge over it. But I assume Ukrainian artillery will wait for some Russians to cross before blowing it.
I'm really curious as to where some posters are getting this idea. You guys can't have any actual military experience.
Theyre showing defeat aversion. Kharkiv is unattainable. Theyre putting their forces where they can win.
From where are you guys getting the idea that a place as large as Ukraine can be "flattened" by an army as small as Russia's? That's not even remotely in the realm of possibility. The Russia s tried for years to "flatten" Chechnya, which is more than twenty times smaller than Ukraine, and still couldn't do it. I'm really curious as to where some posters are getting this idea. You guys can't have any actual military experience.
Vladimir Putin's troops appeared to be displaying a risk aversion to casualties. Well, nobody wants to go into a risky situation, especially where there's a good chance of getting killed.
After 20,000 KIAMIA in 2 months, most of the RuZZians don't want to even be in Ukraine.
If the rumors about Putins health are true, he may be retiring to a nice grave sometime soon. And maybe helped along by some generals.
