Russia might not be able to take Kyiv Western officials say desperate Putin is trying to recruit mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya to replace up to 7000 dead soldiers with Kremlins senior generals killed as they are forced to the front
20220318
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4047685/posts
But can the Ukes win? Yes. Lots of lethal aid coming from NATO countries. Continue to attrit the soviets for the next 10 days. When the soviets no longer have the offensive counter attack. Do not be surprised to see mass surrenders of soviet troops.
Officials cautioned against ruling out Putin ordering a bloody direct attack in an attempt to end Ukrainian resistance.But they cited the deaths of four senior generals as a sign things are not going well  because top-ranking officers would not usually have to get in harms way to provide close-up supervision of troops.They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
3. It might take much longer than expected, but unless there is mutiny and a coup in the Kremlin, the fall of Ukraine will only be a matter of time.
You defeat the enemy in the field you win the war. pootie cant do this with his inept cowardly army no matter how big it is.
NOTE REGARDING 3: This remark should not be taken as my siding with Russia, its just a recognition of what is perceive to be real. I would be ecstatic if Putin were to give up and withdraw and am cheering Ukraines brave fighters on.
Bombing and shelling civilian targets is an admission you cant beat the enemy in the field.
Was under the impression that Russia was a very big nation with a very big army...this story doesnt seem to reconcile with that impression...hmmm.
KEYWORDS: chechens chechnya chrisjewers ciaagitprop dailyfail davidwilcock hateamericafirst kyiv mi6agitprop pedosforputin punkhitler putin putinisntdesperate putinlovertrollsonfr putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression scottritter syria thedailyfail ukraine zottherussiantrolls
Pootie was too nice in the first 3-7 days to avoid civilian casualities. Now it is far too late.
2 weeks ago I might have agreed with you. A week ago maybe. Now, no.
Cant be true The Ukrainians are clones of Russians and welcomed them into the cities, the rest is a video game simulation from a Soros run studio. Putin calling his own people traitors and scum must be a deep fake video. Plus we shouldnt get involved because Putin bringing Syrian commandos into Europe is none of our business. s
That sounds like that classic Looney Toons skit, where a great asks volunteers to step forward, but they all step back except the slow guy.
1. It is. Except Russia is not sending her best soldiers to Ukraine, most of them are recently trained conscripts.
RE: Was under the impression that Russia was a very big nation with a very big army...
I could tell right from the title this was a UK Daily Propaganda article. They are embarrassing themselves.
This is true. It was not so long ago that the Russian government was giving couples days off so that they could go homeand procreate. https:www.nbcnews.comidwbna20268426
Intelligence suggests Vladimir Putins troops are only making small advances without a major strategic breakthrough in the face of fierce and mobile Ukrainian resistance.US sources have suggested that Moscow has suffered around 7,000 dead so far and there are questions over whether the occupying force could absorb the additional losses they would suffer if they tried to storm the well-prepared capital.Officials cautioned against ruling out Putin ordering a bloody direct attack in an attempt to end Ukrainian resistance.But they cited the deaths of four senior generals as a sign things are not going well  because top-ranking officers would not usually have to get in harms way to provide close-up supervision of troops.They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
The soviets do not have infinite supplies of troops and materiel. They have lost much of both in the past 3 weeks with little to show for it.
Russia has been dying since the days of the Soviet Union. Every generation, it loses 20 of the population, because they arent replacing themselves.
The article is still an improvement in the department of reality. Two weeks ago their number of Russian dead was 12,000.
Look, it simple. If you want to know whats happening, just ask Kamala. So proud:
Russia has been dying since the days of the Soviet Union. Every generation, it loses 20 of the population, because they arent replacing themselves.All that vodka and nihilism brought by communism.
Click here to view the full articleRussia may not be able to mount an all-out attack on Kyiv as its demoralized troops suffer increasing casualties and become bogged down outside the Ukrainian capital, Western officials suggested today.Intelligence suggests Vladimir Putins troops are only making small advances without a major strategic breakthrough in the face of fierce and mobile Ukrainian resistance.US sources have suggested that Moscow has suffered around 7,000 dead so far and there are questions over whether the occupying force could absorb the additional losses they would suffer if they tried to storm the well-prepared capital.Officials cautioned against ruling out Putin ordering a bloody direct attack in an attempt to end Ukrainian resistance.But they cited the deaths of four senior generals as a sign things are not going well  because top-ranking officers would not usually have to get in harms way to provide close-up supervision of troops.They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
Hate to break it to you this is all spin and BS. There is very little objective journalism nowadays.
Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
But Russia is poor, does not have the money for sophisticated equipment. It just relies on the nukes to scare the sht out of Bidens pants.
3. It might take much longer than expected, but unless there is mutiny and a coup in the Kremlin, the fall of Ukraine will only be a matter of time....
But they cited the deaths of four senior generals as a sign things are not going well  because top-ranking officers would not usually have to get in harms way to provide close-up supervision of troops.They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
The spec forces, who were supposed to take over Ukraine in just few days obviously failed. Now this mass of poorly trained draftees, who were never supposed to fight, are supposed to win this war. Kind of hard!
There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
From a recent National Review article: Subsequently asked by a radio host to elaborate in laymans terms, for people who dont understand whats going on, Harris took her exposition all the way down to the studs. So, Ukraine is a country in Europe, she floated, before proceeding as if by laymans terms, her interlocutor had meant that she should assume he didnt know what a country was. It exists next to another country called Russia. Russia is a bigger country. Russia is a powerful country. Russia decided to invade a smaller country called Ukraine. So, basically, thats wrong, and it goes against everything that we stand for.
Russian ground forces always relied on quantity, not quality! Most of Russian army was and still is a bunch of semiliterate, poorly trained draftees who have no idea where they are and what are they supposed to do. They are required to parade around and intimidate just by the sheer of numbers.
Russia may not be able to mount an all-out attack on Kyiv as its demoralized troops suffer increasing casualties and become bogged down outside the Ukrainian capital, Western officials suggested today.Intelligence suggests Vladimir Putins troops are only making small advances without a major strategic breakthrough in the face of fierce and mobile Ukrainian resistance.US sources have suggested that Moscow has suffered around 7,000 dead so far and there are questions over whether the occupying force could absorb the additional losses they would suffer if they tried to storm the well-prepared capital.Officials cautioned against ruling out Putin ordering a bloody direct attack in an attempt to end Ukrainian resistance.But they cited the deaths of four senior generals as a sign things are not going well  because top-ranking officers would not usually have to get in harms way to provide close-up supervision of troops.They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
2. Dont expect instant victory in a war of attrition. Russia still has dangerous weapons up her sleeve she has not used - For example, CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
 I am an extremely responsible person. When something goes wrong, my boss asks if I was responsible.
US sources have suggested that Moscow has suffered around 7,000 dead so far and there are questions over whether the occupying force could absorb the additional losses they would suffer if they tried to storm the well-prepared capital.Officials cautioned against ruling out Putin ordering a bloody direct attack in an attempt to end Ukrainian resistance.But they cited the deaths of four senior generals as a sign things are not going well  because top-ranking officers would not usually have to get in harms way to provide close-up supervision of troops.They are getting pretty bogged-down around Kyiv. No doubt small gains are being made incrementally, but Ukrainian resistance is fierce and mobile, theysaid.The sort of tactics the Ukrainians have used have been remarkably effective. An ill-judged ground assault on a city as well-prepared as Kyiv would be a very costly business.There comes a point where even Russia has to count the cost of casualties.Sources also confirmed that Russia is seeking to recruit additional forces in the form of mercenaries from Syria and Chechnya  also seen as a sign that its battleplans are failing.Explosive drone footage today captured the moment a Russian soldier leapt from his tank as it came under aerial bombardment from Ukrainian anti-tank missiles, as videos show how Kyiv continues to resist Putins forces.
