Russian troops withdrawn from Chernobyl with acute radiation sickness report
20220331
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4051190/posts
Another batch of irradiated terrorists who seized the Chernobyl zone was brought to the Belarusian Radiation Medicine Center in Gomel today, Yaroslav Yemelianenko wrote on Facebook. Have you dug trenches in the Red Forest, bhes? Now live the rest of your short life with this. There are rules for handling this area. They are mandatory because radiation is physics  it works regardless of status or shoulder ranks, he wrote.
They were only planning to be there for a couple of days after which the Ukrainian government would collapse. That was the plan or what counts as planning in the Russian army.
Have you dug trenches in the Red Forest, bhes? Now live the rest of your short life with this. There are rules for handling this area. They are mandatory because radiation is physics  it works regardless of status or shoulder ranks, he wrote.
Several hundred Russian troops have been withdrawn from the Chernobyl nuclear facility in Ukraine after suffering from acute radiation sickness and are being treated in Belarus, according to reports. The Pentagon confirmed earlier that the Russian forces began to pull out from the defunct facility, which was taken on the first day of the invasion, after a pledge by the Kremlin to scale back its offensive. But an employee at the Public Council at the State Agency of Ukraine for Exclusion Zone management said the soldiers had fled while irradiated and bused to a medical facility in Gomel, Belarus, the Mirror reported. Another batch of irradiated terrorists who seized the Chernobyl zone was brought to the Belarusian Radiation Medicine Center in Gomel today, Yaroslav Yemelianenko wrote on Facebook. Have you dug trenches in the Red Forest, bhes? Now live the rest of your short life with this. There are rules for handling this area. They are mandatory because radiation is physics  it works regardless of status or shoulder ranks, he wrote.
"The enemy has overrun us. We are blowing up everything. Vive la France!"Dien Bien Phu last message
All posts made under this handle are, for the intents and purposes of the author, considered satire.
The whole plant was entombed in thousands of tons of concrete. There is no way you can make anything useful from that mess.
But an employee at the Public Council at the State Agency of Ukraine for Exclusion Zone management said the soldiers had fled while irradiated and bused to a medical facility in Gomel, Belarus, the Mirror reported. Another batch of irradiated terrorists who seized the Chernobyl zone was brought to the Belarusian Radiation Medicine Center in Gomel today, Yaroslav Yemelianenko wrote on Facebook. Have you dug trenches in the Red Forest, bhes? Now live the rest of your short life with this. There are rules for handling this area. They are mandatory because radiation is physics  it works regardless of status or shoulder ranks, he wrote.
Or, they were searching for nuclear materials in all he wrong places. The plant has been producing electricity for decades without serious illnesses, so what were the Russians up to? Part of it was functional - the part the Russians were involved in was not.
Not by speeches  majority decisions will the great issues of the day be decided but by Blood  Iron
The Pentagon confirmed earlier that the Russian forces began to pull out from the defunct facility, which was taken on the first day of the invasion, after a pledge by the Kremlin to scale back its offensive. But an employee at the Public Council at the State Agency of Ukraine for Exclusion Zone management said the soldiers had fled while irradiated and bused to a medical facility in Gomel, Belarus, the Mirror reported. Another batch of irradiated terrorists who seized the Chernobyl zone was brought to the Belarusian Radiation Medicine Center in Gomel today, Yaroslav Yemelianenko wrote on Facebook. Have you dug trenches in the Red Forest, bhes? Now live the rest of your short life with this. There are rules for handling this area. They are mandatory because radiation is physics  it works regardless of status or shoulder ranks, he wrote.
Russia never really was great at war. They just keep throwing bodies at the problem until the other side gets tired of killing them.
I never understood why they took that in the first place. They were only planning to be there for a couple of days after which the Ukrainian government would collapse. That was the plan or what counts as planning in the Russian army.
