Russia looks to block Western arms supplies to Ukraine officials warn airstrike offensive will increase
20220603
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4068223/posts
A top Ukrainian official warned Thursday that Russia is looking to ramp up its offensive in southern Ukraine and block Western arms supplies as the war carries on for nearly 100 days.Russia is expected to increase air and missile strikes as it attempts to advance in the southern regions of Ukraine along the Black Sea.Brigadier General Oleksiy Gromov, Deputy Chief of the Main Operations Department of the General Staff of Ukraines armed forces, told reporters during a briefing that officials assess Russia will specifically target civilian infrastructure and military facilities.Gromov said Russia is looking to hasten its pace in southern Ukraine where it has made slow, incremental gains and establish a landbridge that connects western Russia with the Kremlin-backed breakaway region in Moldova known as Transnistria.Russia has been ramping up the intensity of its invasion and has focused its efforts on claiming complete control over eastern and southern Ukraine.
Sadly I agree. Once the Neocons some here took over the Republican Party, our days of being a superpower were numbered. It didnt have to end this quick, but the Neocons, in their INSANE attempt to punish Putin have left the US and Europe looking like TOTAL IDIOTS, while RUSSIA, of all countries, winds up being the one who can be counted on for delivering essential goods to the rest of the world.
Russia will try to get there before the Western weapons do. It's a race. Because none of those weapons are going to Donbas. They are going to Kharkiv and Odessa.
Just think of the word SWIFT and youll understand why the US is no longer a world superpower.
Gromov said Russia is looking to hasten its pace in southern Ukraine where it has made slow, incremental gains and establish a landbridge that connects western Russia with the Kremlin-backed breakaway region in Moldova known as Transnistria.Russia has been ramping up the intensity of its invasion and has focused its efforts on claiming complete control over eastern and southern Ukraine.
Yeah the ukes have bern in full retreat for so long that russia has reached the polish border...
I challenge anyone to explain how Putin is more dangerous and more of a threat to our freedom, security and prosperity than Soros, Biden, Obama, Schwab of the WEF, the UN, WHO, Fauci, Pelosi, Schumer, to name a few.
But I'm also pretty sure they will if Ukraine does not surrender it this summer when the Russia army arrives. Russia will try to get there before the Western weapons do. It's a race. Because none of those weapons are going to Donbas. They are going to Kharkiv and Odessa.
Russia has been ramping up the intensity of its invasion and has focused its efforts on claiming complete control over eastern and southern Ukraine.
About time that the Russians started treating this like a war and LEVELING anyone, anywhere, who is trying to get more Ukrainians killed. That will likely result is a quick ending of the Neocon War of Aggression, and not to the Neocon liking.
Ukes are in full retreat. Thats the reason for the predicted surge. Russkies will surge into the areas evacuated by the Ukes.
We are going to lose the whole of that region. over 23rds of the earths population will line up against us.
BTW. I am not taking a swipe at you as you are aware. But theyll be along any minute.
Absolutely, but theyre still weeping that we dont want to start World War 3 over a country that served as nothing more than a PIGGY BANK for the Democrats.
Russia built the beautiful city of Odessa. They carved it out of marshlands and swamp. I am pretty sure they would rather not reduce it to rubble. But I'm also pretty sure they will if Ukraine does not surrender it this summer when the Russia army arrives. Russia will try to get there before the Western weapons do. It's a race. Because none of those weapons are going to Donbas. They are going to Kharkiv and Odessa.
The mobile rocket launcher package consists of 1 vehicle and 6 rockets. And it is nowhere near the front is it even in Ukeland yet?. You wouldnt know that from the tons of articles written about how Uke could now strike into Russia and how Putin is now shakin in his boots. Yea, sure. Its theater to whip up war fever in the US.
Because none of those weapons are going to Donbas. They are going to Kharkiv and Odessa.
Russia is expected to increase air and missile strikes as it attempts to advance in the southern regions of Ukraine along the Black Sea.Brigadier General Oleksiy Gromov, Deputy Chief of the Main Operations Department of the General Staff of Ukraines armed forces, told reporters during a briefing that officials assess Russia will specifically target civilian infrastructure and military facilities.Gromov said Russia is looking to hasten its pace in southern Ukraine where it has made slow, incremental gains and establish a landbridge that connects western Russia with the Kremlin-backed breakaway region in Moldova known as Transnistria.Russia has been ramping up the intensity of its invasion and has focused its efforts on claiming complete control over eastern and southern Ukraine.
But this move by Russia just puts Lie! to the excuse it only wanted to liberate Donbas.
My hatred of NeconsGlobalists exceeds my love of Ukraine or any other country, other than the US
I am pretty sure they would rather not reduce it to rubble. But I'm also pretty sure they will if Ukraine does not surrender it this summer when the Russia army arrives. Russia will try to get there before the Western weapons do. It's a race. Because none of those weapons are going to Donbas. They are going to Kharkiv and Odessa.
True, as that was the case in February. But Russia just started another offensive in the North and this time theyre coming in and will stay as long as needed until The Ukraine is again divided up between neighboring countries, so as to NEVER again be a threat to regional peace.
Truly sad. The Russians entered Ukraine in peace with a 40 mile long convoy carrying flowers and gifts only to have those warmongering homo globo neocons go scorched earth on them.
I doubt we have until the next general elections for POTUS..maybe not until the next mid term election.
Watch Pakistan. Sri Lanka is already done for unless the Russians move in and rescue them, which they are doing.
So, those of us who opposed the invasion in the first place are now war whores?
 I don't have sufficient information to make an informed opinion said no lefty ever.
They should be taking out all those nice new weapons coming across the border as soon as they do cross it.
Brigadier General Oleksiy Gromov, Deputy Chief of the Main Operations Department of the General Staff of Ukraines armed forces, told reporters during a briefing that officials assess Russia will specifically target civilian infrastructure and military facilities.Gromov said Russia is looking to hasten its pace in southern Ukraine where it has made slow, incremental gains and establish a landbridge that connects western Russia with the Kremlin-backed breakaway region in Moldova known as Transnistria.Russia has been ramping up the intensity of its invasion and has focused its efforts on claiming complete control over eastern and southern Ukraine.
The people who control the Ukrainian Government, on the other hand, seek to subjugate me and control my life.
