Russian grandmaster Sergey Karjakin banned from chess for 6 months over Ukraine stance
20220323
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4048982/posts
Shameful and disgusting. Even during the Cold War, we did not ban Soviet Athletes or require them to denounce their country in order to participate. Of course, we had actual adults in charge then as opposed to now.
All of the bureaucratic silliness and pompous pronouncements that used to be in COVID headlines is now appearing in Russian stuff. I feel holier than thou just reading these articles. Can only imagine what the bureaucrats feel. The sphincters must tingle with delight.
Another Russian Grandmaster, Putin supporter Sergei Shipov, was not banned. Shipov's comments were deemed "slightly different and less provocative". Heck, FR has policies banning threats, racism, etc. and it's up to FR to decide when and where "the line" has been crossed and how to discipline violators. My opinion that FR should enforce it's ban on racism more vigorously IMO not doing so drives off many would be FReepers is only that: My opinion. It is the Mods' decision.
Doesnt this sound just like the war against anti-vaxers. Fascism is becoming more virulent every day.
The Crimea-born Grandmaster, who switched from representing Ukraine to Russia in 2009, now faces being stripped of his place in the upcoming Candidates Tournament in June. The 6-month ban is due to run until Wednesday, September 21.
That's the difference between the Cold War era and today. This new incompetence is going to get us in deep trouble.
yup, the real danger is the media causing these moral panics one after the next and whipping people up into a totalitarian mob frenzy
Banning cancel culture now appears to have crossed the ocean and gone viral Internationally....between sanctions and banning, more sactions and such - well arent we just the picture of freedom and the light on the shinning hill.....and so it goes.
Current USA, as re-directed by 0bama, well lets just agree I do not want this board and myself to get canceled
This will be all over on 6 months, and forgotten. Well be on the next crisis by then.
Heck, FR has policies banning threats, racism, etc. and it's up to FR to decide when and where "the line" has been crossed and how to discipline violators. My opinion that FR should enforce it's ban on racism more vigorously IMO not doing so drives off many would be FReepers is only that: My opinion. It is the Mods' decision.
The world has undergone a tragic shift. We used to punish people based on examining two elements: the unlawful act and the mental process behind the act. Today the disfavored group can be punished for the wrong thoughts without having acted unlawfully but, if the right thoughts are present, unlawful acts will be excused, if not praised. So chess players, oligarchs, January 6 Rally participants deserve punishment for thoughts alone while Antifa, BLM rioters, shoplifters and illegal immigrants are ignored no matter how illegal their actions. Thoughtcrime a la Orwell has arrived.
