Russia says it chases British destroyer out of Crimea waters with warning shots bombs
20210623
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/3970356/posts
The political Left is the Garden of Eden of Incompetence - Marx the Smarter Groucho
Russia says it chases British destroyer out of Crimea waters with warning shots, bombs Oh no! Don't tell me Britain almost lost their one destroyer! Besides, does the Crimea still belong to the Ukraine?
MOSCOW, June 23 Reuters - Russia said on Wednesday it had fired warning shots and dropped bombs in the path of a British warship to chase it out of waters Moscow claims in the Black Sea off the coast of the Crimea peninsula. Britain rejected Russia's account of the incident, saying it believed any shots fired were a pre-announced Russian "gunnery exercise", and that no bombs had been dropped. But it confirmed that its destroyer, HMS Defender, had sailed through what it described as waters belonging to Ukraine. The ship was "conducting an innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law", Britain's Ministry of Defence said in a statement. Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesman said: "It's incorrect to say either that it was fired upon or that the ship was in Russian waters." MORE AT LINK
Good night have a good session with Crimea its just bazaar. OK, so they had designs on pulling a fast one and turning Sevastopol into a NATO navy base. There was never more than about a 1 chance of that happening since its been a Russian Navy base since the late 1700s.
The Democrap Party is the enemy of freedom.They use all the seductions and deceits of the Bolshevics
Those arent Ukrainian waters anymore. Crimea is Russian and its never going to be a NATO base short of nuclear war.. If the British position is correct, they could sail right into Sevastopol harbor, or simply start landing troops on the beach with the permission of Ukraine.
The Russian Navy has over twice the tonnage of the British Navy. The largest British ships are destroyers. I dont think its the Russians who need to be careful.
To: Whenifhow null and void aragorn EnigmaticAnomaly kalee Kale AZ .44 MAG Baynative bgill ...
Yes, none of our business anyway. Half the Ukraine along with Crimea is mostly ethnic Russian. Its time to follow the example of Czechoslovakia and split in two.
The ship was "conducting an innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law", Britain's Ministry of Defence said in a statement. Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesman said: "It's incorrect to say either that it was fired upon or that the ship was in Russian waters." MORE AT LINK
A tweet from the HMS Defender account on Tuesday said it was leaving the Ukrainian port of Odessa, accompanied by the Dutch frigate HNLMS Evertsen. https:www.cnn.com20210623europerussia-warning-shots-hms-defender-uk-denial-intlindex.html
Oh no! Don't tell me Britain almost lost their one destroyer! Besides, does the Crimea still belong to the Ukraine?
Britain rejected Russia's account of the incident, saying it believed any shots fired were a pre-announced Russian "gunnery exercise", and that no bombs had been dropped. But it confirmed that its destroyer, HMS Defender, had sailed through what it described as waters belonging to Ukraine. The ship was "conducting an innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law", Britain's Ministry of Defence said in a statement. Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesman said: "It's incorrect to say either that it was fired upon or that the ship was in Russian waters." MORE AT LINK
Learn to read a map. British destroyer visited Ukrainian city of Odessa in the Black Sea. A tweet from the HMS Defender account on Tuesday said it was leaving the Ukrainian port of Odessa, accompanied by the Dutch frigate HNLMS Evertsen. https:www.cnn.com20210623europerussia-warning-shots-hms-defender-uk-denial-intlindex.html
And The Free World has a senile idiot at the helm. Great. At least no mean Tweets or something.
Those arent Ukrainian waters anymore. Crimea is Russian and its never going to be a NATO base short of nuclear war  Learn to read a map. British destroyer visited Ukrainian city of Odessa in the Black Sea. A tweet from the HMS Defender account on Tuesday said it was leaving the Ukrainian port of Odessa, accompanied by the Dutch frigate HNLMS Evertsen. https:www.cnn.com20210623europerussia-warning-shots-hms-defender-uk-denial-intlindex.html
Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesman said: "It's incorrect to say either that it was fired upon or that the ship was in Russian waters." MORE AT LINK
A coup government may not claim the protection of the same constitution it overthrew. 
