Russia withdraws its fighter jets from the peninsula after cotton in Crimea  NATO report
20220827
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4088681/posts
Russia has also increased the number of its tactical anti-aircraft missile systems in Crimea to counter further attacks by Ukraine, such as drones. "Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles are a difficult target for Russian air defense systems," the NATO report says. Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
For all these reasons the Russian air force has shown itself very poorly this war.
KEYWORDS: 10percent4biden angrybidenbois4war angryfrwarpimps angryneocons angryputinstooges another40billion bidenbandwagonbois blooddancers dubioussources globalistpropaganda greatreset ithinkshesbiased lunaticfringe notamericasfight warpimpsonfr
Around our borders is a grouping of Russian aircraft - more than 400 combat aircraft. Also, 360 helicopters, of which more than 150 are strike ones, such as the K52, Ihnat emphasized.
"Russia is likely to deploy its air force in Crimea to prevent further attacks by Ukraine," the report says. Despite these maneuvers, the Crimean Belbek airfield near Sevastopol remains "Russia's most important airfield for providing air support in southern Ukraine and over the Black Sea," NATO intelligence officials write. About 32 Russian fighter jets are still stationed there. These are mainly Su-27 fighters, but there are also a small number of modern Su-35s and MiG-31BM fighters based in Belbek. Russia has also increased the number of its tactical anti-aircraft missile systems in Crimea to counter further attacks by Ukraine, such as drones. "Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles are a difficult target for Russian air defense systems," the NATO report says. Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
Ukraine is making it much harder for Russian operations in the south east part of the country and Crimea. Its hard to fight without effective air cover and key bridges and logistics getting blown to bits every few days. I have no idea when or how, Ukraine's moves make it look like they really want to take back Kherson and have a eye on Crimea.
But wait they cant do this! there is a big air offensice in the works!:
Well between Ukrainian AA fire and Russias stellar record of aviation maintenance, the actual number of available airframes is probably half that
on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
- in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
Whatever fighters they have in the Crimea....they are probably being given status for operational hourspartsmaintenance. So if they move them, they are are genuinely worried about losing what limited operational fighters they have in the overall inventory.
At the same time, on the Independence Day of Ukraine, the Russian occupiers attacked 58 settlements.
As Ukrainian News Agency earlier reported, on August 25, the number of air alarms in Ukraine approached 200.
"Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles are a difficult target for Russian air defense systems," the NATO report says. Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
The Crimea is probably not possible, but depending on the condition of Ukrainian forces, clearing the West Bank of the Dnieper is doable and desirable.
Ukraine is winning! Russian Air Force cant fly out of these bases now. The Invaders is being pushed out. Ukraine super weapons are turning the tide. Soon they Russians will be in full retreat! No Russian Planes will fly over sacred Ukraine! The end of Russia is nearIt will be over in a few weeks. They are running out of planes, men, and shells. CRIMEA will be free again! Then Donbas and all UkraineThen The march to take all Russian lands on Black Sea! Ukraine needs to punish Russia for its invasion by seizing lands to pay for the occupation that the Putinists have inflicted upon them. The final Victory is coming soonJust send a few more Billion and maybe 200,000 US military advisors to win the war, once and for all. To not stand with Ukraine is to stand with Putin!
Ihnat also said that Russian aviation on Independence Day of Ukraine made about 200 aircraft sorties, but most often did not release missiles from them.
The speaker said that the Air Force shot down Russian drones and helicopters on August 24, but the enemy on Independence Day showed increased activity in the sky.
Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
A source told the official that the largest air military operation in the last thirty years is being prepared in the next few weeks. The air operation will be carried out by massive aviation forces in close cooperation with formations and units of other branches of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation.
This is stated in a secret NATO report dated August 22, which was available to Business Insider. Now 10 Russian aircraft have already been transferred from Crimea to the territory of the Russian Federation: six Su-35S fighters and four MiG-31BM interceptors. "Russia is likely to deploy its air force in Crimea to prevent further attacks by Ukraine," the report says. Despite these maneuvers, the Crimean Belbek airfield near Sevastopol remains "Russia's most important airfield for providing air support in southern Ukraine and over the Black Sea," NATO intelligence officials write. About 32 Russian fighter jets are still stationed there. These are mainly Su-27 fighters, but there are also a small number of modern Su-35s and MiG-31BM fighters based in Belbek. Russia has also increased the number of its tactical anti-aircraft missile systems in Crimea to counter further attacks by Ukraine, such as drones. "Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles are a difficult target for Russian air defense systems," the NATO report says. Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
Ihnat said that the aggressor state conducts patrols of the airspace of Belarus, Russia, the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, as well as the waters of the Black and Azov Seas, for which it uses tactical aviation. In the sky, there are constantly l-22 relay aircraft and -50 long-range radar detection aircraft, said the spokesman for the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
After the explosions in the occupied Crimea, the Russian army began to withdraw its fighter jets from the peninsula, which were stationed there. Such measures are being taken to prevent further attacks from Ukraine. This is stated in a secret NATO report dated August 22, which was available to Business Insider. Now 10 Russian aircraft have already been transferred from Crimea to the territory of the Russian Federation: six Su-35S fighters and four MiG-31BM interceptors. "Russia is likely to deploy its air force in Crimea to prevent further attacks by Ukraine," the report says. Despite these maneuvers, the Crimean Belbek airfield near Sevastopol remains "Russia's most important airfield for providing air support in southern Ukraine and over the Black Sea," NATO intelligence officials write. About 32 Russian fighter jets are still stationed there. These are mainly Su-27 fighters, but there are also a small number of modern Su-35s and MiG-31BM fighters based in Belbek. Russia has also increased the number of its tactical anti-aircraft missile systems in Crimea to counter further attacks by Ukraine, such as drones. "Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles are a difficult target for Russian air defense systems," the NATO report says. Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
Despite these maneuvers, the Crimean Belbek airfield near Sevastopol remains "Russia's most important airfield for providing air support in southern Ukraine and over the Black Sea," NATO intelligence officials write. About 32 Russian fighter jets are still stationed there. These are mainly Su-27 fighters, but there are also a small number of modern Su-35s and MiG-31BM fighters based in Belbek. Russia has also increased the number of its tactical anti-aircraft missile systems in Crimea to counter further attacks by Ukraine, such as drones. "Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles are a difficult target for Russian air defense systems," the NATO report says. Recall: on August 9, explosions occurred at the Saki air base of the Russian armed forces in Novofedorovka in the occupied Crimea. The occupation "authorities" of the peninsula declared a state of emergency and evacuation of the population. Officially, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that ammunition detonated at the airfield. At the same time, as a result, more than half of the aircraft of the Black Sea fleet of the aggressor country were disabled. Such data was announced on condition of anonymity by a representative of Western intelligence, noting that Ukraine is now consistently achieving a "kinetic effect" deep in the rear of Russia. Also on August 17, the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that after explosions at a number of Russian military facilities in Crimea, the invaders began urgently moving their aircraft deep into the peninsula and to permanent airfields on the territory of the Russian Federation. In particular, the flight of at least 24 aircraft and 14 helicopters was recorded. As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
Russia Concentrates More Than 700 Aircraft And Combat Helicopters On Border With Ukraine - AFU Air Force
This thread has been brought to you by George Soros.  For all your globalist warmongering needs, turn to George Soros. also sponsored by Pfizer
As previously reported by OBOZREVATEL:  on the afternoon of August 16, black smoke rose over a military air base in the village of Gvardeyskoye near Simferopol. Local residents said that several explosions were heard there. In the Crimea, it was assumed that there was a drone attack on an ammunition depot, but officially the invaders are silent - in Russia, after the explosions and losses at an airbase in Crimea, a new head of the Black Sea Fleet was appointed. They became Vice Admiral Viktor Sokolov, who replaced Admiral Igor Osipov a day after the latter's resignation.
The more success the Ukrainians have on the battlefield the more the Russian desire to show goodwill increases.
The Russian Federation has accumulated about 400 aircraft and 360 combat helicopters around the borders with Ukraine. The speaker of the Command of the Air Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Yurii Ihnat stated this at a briefing on Thursday, August 25.
From the article: Russia is pulling all its fighter jets out of Crimea after a series of strikes on its military outposts there, secret NATO report says. A few days ago one of the Russian bases in Crimea was hit by either HIMARS or drones and took out a bunch of planes. Russia can not afford to have aircraft deployed at bases without effective anti-air or anti-missile defense, so they had to pull them back. Ukraine is making it much harder for Russian operations in the south east part of the country and Crimea. Its hard to fight without effective air cover and key bridges and logistics getting blown to bits every few days. I have no idea when or how, Ukraine's moves make it look like they really want to take back Kherson and have a eye on Crimea.
