Russia reasserts right to use nuclear weapons in Ukraine
20220326
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4049871/posts
The comments on Saturday prompted Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, in an appearance by video link at Qatars Doha Forum to warn that Moscow was a direct threat to the world.
Another interesting part of the story is that it is coming from this man. He is supposedly a moderate. And the analysis that they might nuke the scattered uke force is wrong. This was aimed directly at NATO if we decide to intervene.
The point he is making is that conventional attacks are also an act of war. This is aimed at NATO and us. If we for example decided to do a no fly zone and started hitting Russian SAM sites and shooting down planes. Theyll nuke us. And if we hit SAM sites inside Russia, its a near certainty.
"Senior politician Dmitry Medvedev says Moscows nuclear doctrine does not require enemy state to use such weapons first"
The Kremlin again raised the spectre of the use of nuclear weapons in the war with Ukraine as Russian forces struggled to hold a key city in the south of the country. Dmitry Medvedev, a former Russian president who is deputy chairman of the countrys security council, said Moscow could strike against an enemy that only used conventional weapons while Vladimir Putins defence minster claimed nuclear readiness was a priority. The comments on Saturday prompted Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, in an appearance by video link at Qatars Doha Forum to warn that Moscow was a direct threat to the world.
Putti has more flexibility now that the election is over and homobama has a third term.
 KE.  NP.  N.C.  12 Promoting Afro Heritage diversity will destroy the democrats
KEYWORDS: chechens chechnya kiev kremlin moscow moskow nuclearweapons putin putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression ukraine zottherussiantrolls
Im not much of a weatherman, but isnt the Ukraine west of Russia? Wouldnt that fallout carry west to east over Russia? I imagine the Russians wouldnt be real pleased with Putin.
Americans and their current leaders are cruising along in mock safety thinking that the Ukraine war will end when some battle line becomes stationary, in other words when Russia takes over none, part, or all of Ukraine. Its a false sense of security. Putin and Russia are pulling punches. The uncommitted Russian reserve is substantial enough to conquer multiple Ukraines, and wreck havoc on Americas population. Thats right. Right here.
Theres gotta be more to this war than the usual conflict acceleration. Why would Rasputin want to go whole hog on destroying Ukraine? Which is a fact whether some want to believe it or not. Gots to be a group behind the scene pulling strings.
1214 - 930am -rampage begins... 1215 - 1030am - Obamawhy's advance team scouts photo-op locations.
Nothing new. After the Nazi invasion it has been a centerpiece of their doctrine that a conventional attacker hitting them at home or causing another existential threat will have their homeland obliterated the same day. Only pentagon idiots and neocons salivate for a conventional fight with Russia and imagine they will accept a conventional defeat and go home and launch a color revolution.
The further a society drifts from the truth, the more it will hate those that speak it.
Professional patient.  No longer mostly dead. Again. It's getting to be a habit. 
The countries outside of Russia will then have a moral obligation to attack Russia as the unjust aggressor that it is.
Somebody should tell this f- off that the use of nuckear weapons anywhere is an act of war. Ditto chemical and biological weapons.
Many folks thought the whole invasion thing was just gamesmanship. kgb vlad has never shied away from killing people.
Dmitry Medvedev, a former Russian president who is deputy chairman of the countrys security council, said Moscow could strike against an enemy that only used conventional weapons while Vladimir Putins defence minster claimed nuclear readiness was a priority. The comments on Saturday prompted Ukraines president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, in an appearance by video link at Qatars Doha Forum to warn that Moscow was a direct threat to the world.
Biden - There's going to be a new world order out there and we've got to lead it
The only way you know a commie is lying is when they open their pieholes.p
They intend to murder us.   Prep if you want to live and live like you are prepping for eternal life
The fact that we have a failing, weak president means that Russia will fear no repercussions if it uses the weapons.
The effects of nuclear weapons are felt far from the area where they are used. The use of a nuclear bomb in Ukraine is an act of hostility to the surrounding countries, to all of Europe, to the entire continent, to Asia, to Russia and to the world.
IIRC, America once had a policy of nuclear retaliation for chemical or biological attacks. It also makes sense to have a policy launch if any enemy has launched. The implied threat of either policy seems it can help keep peace. I do not see anything extraordinary about Russias statements generally. The timing can seem disturbing though.
Will Russia pull up short of moving out of Ukraine? The answer lies in the egos of Russias leaders. Putin committed himself to winning this fight. Now his credibility is on the line. I dont see anything stopping Putin, especially a scatter-brained old man.
