Russian MP predicted what war with Ukraine would be like
20220324
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4049215/posts
Youre probably right. I cant believe how gullible people are and somehow get convinced that Putins the good guy.
Id be surprised if hes still alive. That was a brutal filleting of Russia, its oligarchs, its military, and the whole russian culture.
A good friend tried to argue with me that Putin is a white hat that is out to destroy the deep state and Klaus Schwab. They take the opposite side because Soros and company are against the invasion like that somehow means they have to be opposite in everything.
Little do they know that theyre being played and the democrats will just use this against our side. Sad times...
Not a single soldier or officer will have the slightest idea of why the hell they are here and for whose yachts and palaces they are fighting.
Im pro-America too. Im just not down with Dictators invading their neighbors. The more invaders left dead in Ukraine, the better.
Its fine to be skeptical but to the point that you not you in particular are just delusional and absent of reality is pretty amazing.
The Russians are getting slaughtered all over Ukraine and it will end in humiliation for them.
Also of note is that Renault has suspended its operations in Russia. Thats significant, almost 40 of Russias auto production.
Maybe we are just pro Ukraine because we dont like seeing other countries invaded by an outside force. What would you do if your home was invaded?
Why are you Pro Ukrainian Nationalists so God Damn insecure, that you have to name call us Pro American skeptics?
Its pretty sad what FR has become infected with. I wish they would bring on the ban hammer.
These guys think they are pro American. The come on here and shill for the Russians and think we cant see brought it. They spout anti American stuff all day long. They support one country invading another without provocation. They support medieval sieges, destroying cities as if they are crusaders.
I guess now it makes sense why some freepers will only post Kremlin approved comments. They dont want to be arrested.
And on the propaganda front, Putin just doesnt have anything that can compete with this:
But Comrade Putin is holding his best for last. Kiev is bait, the Russians are methodically picking off the Ukes and avoiding civilian casualties. What you see on Twitter is propaganda...yada, yada, yada.
I am surprised how loud they are on an American conservative forum. I guess we are seeing their true selves. And they have the nads to refer to others as trolls, when they have been Orcs all along.
Nothing wrong with being a nationalist. Im an America first American Nationalist. So is Trump and many freepers. I want to see Russia punished for invading a sovereign country in an attempt to steal their resources and wealth, and hope Ukraine will derail Putins dreams of rebuilding a Soviet empire. I havent followed your comments, but many here have gone way beyond being skeptical of America and the MSM, they are rooting for Russia, and in many cases against America.
Yeah and he is now on prison for speaking the truth. Amazing that there are freepers here that would do the same to him putin puffers they are.
Sad, but I saw this coming when FR's Q-infection metastasized in late 2019early 2020. I suspect it's terminal.
Its all his fault. He jinxed Russia with his predictions! Arrest him! Sure enough, he is being investigated by Russias Ministry of Truth for daring to publish the report of Russia bombing the maternity hospital. Maybe theyll toss him in jail for that.
