Russianbacked officials try to solidify rule in Ukraine
20220613
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4070660/posts
At one of the central squares in the city of Kherson, Russian bands played a concert to celebrate Russia Day, the holiday that marks Russia's emergence as a sovereign state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, according to Russia's state news agency RIA Novosti. In the neighboring Zaporizhzhia region, Moscow-installed officials raised a Russian flag in Melitopol's city center.
Apparently, BobL can't be bothered to update it.And notice that he never bothered to mention to what other countries he was considering moving. They never do!Regards,
And notice that he never bothered to mention to what other countries he was considering moving. They never do!Regards,
Kremlin-installed officials in occupied southern Ukraine celebrated Russia Day on Sunday and began issuing Russian passports to residents in one city who requested them, as Moscow sought to solidify its rule over captured parts of the country. At one of the central squares in the city of Kherson, Russian bands played a concert to celebrate Russia Day, the holiday that marks Russia's emergence as a sovereign state after the collapse of the Soviet Union, according to Russia's state news agency RIA Novosti. In the neighboring Zaporizhzhia region, Moscow-installed officials raised a Russian flag in Melitopol's city center.
In the neighboring Zaporizhzhia region, Moscow-installed officials raised a Russian flag in Melitopol's city center.
Oh I see you were so upset about ongoing conflict in Ukraine that you wanted Russia to invade and devastate the country.
There is no peace there just because Russia is trying to Russify some of the devastated areas theyve captured.
Well you wrote a long profile at least I read it. Apparently, BobL can't be bothered to update it.And notice that he never bothered to mention to what other countries he was considering moving. They never do!Regards,
Sadly the places that I was considering now look to be going to hell even faster, and the US was slowed a lot by Manchin holding the line on the Filibuster and packing the courts thats when its fully over in the US. So I watch and wait.
There seems to be peace in those cities from what Ive seen, and they will likely stay that way for a very long time.
My hatred of NeconsGlobalists exceeds my love of Ukraine or any other country, other than the US
Why do some people want perpetual violence? I do understand the Neocons wanting that, since its money in their pockets, but I do struggle as to why violence is so important for others.
I dont believe FR is full of paid propagandists, but for you to make such fraudulent statements, something weird is going on with you.
