Russia says wounded Ukrainian soldiers will be evacuated from Azovstal to Russianoccupied territories of Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts
20220516
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4063694/posts
Each of us has lost and is steadily losing weight. Personally, I have lost 20 kg., There are those who have lost about 25 kg and at the same time they have to perform combat missions.
Perhaps a better question is what happens to Azovs  those that surrendered so far seem to be regular army.
Naturally Pooty will allow the International Red Cross to verify the condition of these prisoners of war?
They are constantly sick, although there is practically nothing to vomit. Metoclopromide and ondocetron have already ended a month ago.
So what happens with those that arent wounded?They can walk out any time with a white flag and be identified. It's that last thing they don't want.
Most likely long enough for the Bidet supporters to claim their grand prizes the American taxpayers are paying for.
Putin has also stated that Russia will identify everyone at Azovstal.That is what is going on.
According to the Russian Ministry of Defence, a ceasefire at Azovstal has already begun and a humanitarian corridor has been opened to transport wounded Ukrainian soldiers to a hospital in Russian-occupied Novoazovsk, a town located in the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts.
All this is a consequence of the lack of not just high-calorie nutrition, but also nutrition in principle. We eat minuscule. But the lack of drinking water adds to the criticality of the situation. there is a lot of rust, pathogenic bacteria in our water, and the hardness of the water itself is great.
They can walk out any time with a white flag and be identified. It's that last thing they don't want.
I think there are a fair amount of foreign mercenaries there, who are not covered under the Geneva Convention.
The European Commission is set to offer buyers new guidance on how to pay for gas, satisfying President Vladimir Putins demands.
The Russian Ministry of Defence says that an agreement has been reached regarding the evacuation of wounded Ukrainian soldiers from the besieged Azovstal plant in Mariupol to the Russian-occupied territories of Ukraine.On 16 May, an agreement has been reached regarding the evacuation of the wounded soldiers as a result of negotiations with the Ukrainian military personnel blocked at the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol.According to the Russian Ministry of Defence, a ceasefire at Azovstal has already begun and a humanitarian corridor has been opened to transport wounded Ukrainian soldiers to a hospital in Russian-occupied Novoazovsk, a town located in the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts.
Thanks Mew, interesting, Russia is open for business.Natural Gas at a reasonable price, if you're willing to pay for it.I assume you didn't post it because it's Bloomberg.
Below is a description of the situation inside Azovstal, posted by a Uke physician inside a couple of days ago. Google translation, not trying to fix it sorry!, names of medications are likely mistranslated.
You saved me the effort  I was going to post this but noticed yours. And of course I did not have Ukrainian Pravda.
Putin showing kindness.Not necessarily.Putin has stated he is interested in dealing with the Nazis in Azovstal, and non Nazi Prisoners Of War and Non Combatants will be treated in accordance with all Geneva Conventions.Putin has also stated that Russia will identify everyone at Azovstal.That is what is going on.
The Azov nazis insisted they be sent to a third country not Russia, so theyre being sent to...the Donetsk Peoples Republic.
Since these negotiation are now local, rather than through Kyiv, it doesnt seem likely that Kyiv can keep them from surrendering.
Being among my brothers, I have long noticed the appearance of the smell of acetone, complaints of headaches and fainting.
Interestingly, I found a Ukrainian source Ukrayinska Pravda Ukrainian Truth, aggregated by Yahoo for this, making it Unimpeachable by the FR Ukraine Squad. Snicker!!
The wounded, in turn, need enhanced nutrition, since normal wound healing requires as many proteins and carbohydrates as possible, because tissues have nothing to regenerate from. And if we also take into account the fact that wounds fester, and this takes the lions share of immunity and strength, then the chances of recovery are negligible.
Lets note that DNR  unlike Russia  has death penalty, so yes, there is a bit of difference.
Exactly.The Azov Nazis were trying to escape after using assorted Ukrainians as Human Shields.Russia was having none of it, so it took time and a careful operation, which always has a cost attached.
I was going to ping you, but I see it's not necessary.Interestingly, I found a Ukrainian source Ukrayinska Pravda Ukrainian Truth, aggregated by Yahoo for this, making it Unimpeachable by the FR Ukraine Squad. Snicker!!
Russia was having none of it, so it took time and a careful operation, which always has a cost attached.
Not necessarily.Putin has stated he is interested in dealing with the Nazis in Azovstal, and non Nazi Prisoners Of War and Non Combatants will be treated in accordance with all Geneva Conventions.Putin has also stated that Russia will identify everyone at Azovstal.That is what is going on.
On 16 May, an agreement has been reached regarding the evacuation of the wounded soldiers as a result of negotiations with the Ukrainian military personnel blocked at the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol.According to the Russian Ministry of Defence, a ceasefire at Azovstal has already begun and a humanitarian corridor has been opened to transport wounded Ukrainian soldiers to a hospital in Russian-occupied Novoazovsk, a town located in the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts.
We need to repeal RCV wherever it's in use and go back to dumb voting machines.
Natural Gas at a reasonable price, if you're willing to pay for it.I assume you didn't post it because it's Bloomberg.
Or that Zel fired the commander of National guard today? it seems not over Azovstal, but over Donbass main theatre.
Meanwhile...The European Commission is set to offer buyers new guidance on how to pay for gas, satisfying President Vladimir Putins demands.
Per DNR reports, first group 9 surrendered to negotiate surrender of the larger 50 group, which included not just wounded. The process continues, naturally.
Putin has stated he is interested in dealing with the Nazis in Azovstal, and non Nazi Prisoners Of War and Non Combatants will be treated in accordance with all Geneva Conventions.
Putin has stated he is interested in dealing with the Nazis in Azovstal, and non Nazi Prisoners Of War and Non Combatants will be treated in accordance with all Geneva Conventions.Putin has also stated that Russia will identify everyone at Azovstal.That is what is going on.
The fortitude of the guys who are at the same time in positions cannot be expressed in words. But their eyes are full of hope and faith that we will be rescued soon.
Prolonged use leads to dysbacteriosis, a violation of the acidity of the stomach. And all this in the complete absence of medicines and antibiotics.
The Azov Nazis were trying to escape after using assorted Ukrainians as Human Shields.Russia was having none of it, so it took time and a careful operation, which always has a cost attached.
