RussiaUkraine War President Putin ready to send delegation to Minsk for talks with Ukraine says Kremlinmore details
20220225
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4041483/posts
The problem for Putin is, once people in Russia realize they have been lied to, they will not believe anything from him, and this could snowball into a situation with mass protests.
there is no fall back position, theres no rally point, there is no LZ... theyre on their own.
there is no fall back position, there's no rally point, there is no LZ... we're on our own. FJB
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet for talks and indicated that he would be willing to discuss Ukraines neutral status, which would mark a dramatic shift for a country that currently seeks membership in both NATO and the European Union. Putins press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, said he considered demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine to be an inseparable component of the countrys neutrality.
I really don't think they want occupation, just to force NATOs hand to commit never to allowing Ukraine to join. The problem is, they just made their case much tougher if this doesn't go their way.
Just about every statement Putin has put out about this thing over the last weeks has been a deception to gain a momentary advantage.
I said some time ago, that Russia will probably win the invasion, but will lose the occupation. I really don't think they want occupation, just to force NATOs hand to commit never to allowing Ukraine to join. The problem is, they just made their case much tougher if this doesn't go their way.
Putin would make a great Democrat. Just smear your opponents as Nazis when you cant make your case.
Putins press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, said he considered demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine to be an inseparable component of the countrys neutrality.
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.
Putin has flooded Russia with propaganda about what is going on and what his aims are.
We will not attack Ukraine, we are merely conducting exercises, our troops are now leaving to go home to their regular bases, we are just putting peacekeepers within LPRDPR to prevent violence and on and on.
Its not going to be a happy occupation for Putin. It will be a very disgruntled population.
I said some time ago, that Russia will probably win the invasion, but will lose the occupation.
As Russian troops entered the outskirts of the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on Friday, Russian officials indicated that Moscow was willing to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with their Ukrainian counterparts. But early indicators suggest that Moscow still seeks the full surrender of the Ukrainian government. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet for talks and indicated that he would be willing to discuss Ukraines neutral status, which would mark a dramatic shift for a country that currently seeks membership in both NATO and the European Union. Putins press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, said he considered demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine to be an inseparable component of the countrys neutrality.
In fact, it is a response to the proposal of the Ukrainian president who stated that he wants talks and open to neutrality.
Putin is beginning to realize that he has made a colossal, mistake, the invasion is not going well, the casualties are high, moral in the Russian army and among civilians is low, people are angry and Putins cronies, who three days ago were slobbering over him, are not looking him in the eye or are giving him dirty looks. IMHO Putin will be deposed in less than a year.
...the invasion is not going well, the casualties are high, moral in the Russian army and among civilians is low, people are angry and Putins cronies, who three days ago were slobbering over him, are not looking him in the eye or are giving him dirty looks. IMHO Putin will be deposed in less than a year.
Yeah, because the last Minsk treaty worked so well. This is a ploy so he can tell his people he tried.
But early indicators suggest that Moscow still seeks the full surrender of the Ukrainian government. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet for talks and indicated that he would be willing to discuss Ukraines neutral status, which would mark a dramatic shift for a country that currently seeks membership in both NATO and the European Union. Putins press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, said he considered demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine to be an inseparable component of the countrys neutrality.
