Russia China open bridge to boost trade as Moscow grapples with Ukraine sanctions
20220610
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4070112/posts
But we will still grovel at their feet for all those cheap labor items brought here.
Well we sure did give it all to China for years and they have run with it. So of course Europe is going to get on that bandwagon in time and tide. No oceans to cross.
Were led by a group of anti-Americans and our populace is pretty much just along for the ride. The populace has been effectively and deliberately dumbed-down on world and American history and civics, theyre practically amoral and half are on psychotropic drugs and a third of them are not even citizens of the USA.
"In today's divided world, the Blagoveshchensk-Heihe bridge between Russia and China carries a special symbolic meaning," Yuri Trutnev, the Kremlin representative in the Russian Far East, was quoted by the news agency as saying. China, which buys Russian natural resources and agricultural goods, has criticized Western sanctions on Moscow.
Biden, the globalists, and the neocons are just driving Russia away from the West into the ChiComs arms. What a pack of treasonous fools.
The alliance of Russia and China is a natural answer of Humanity to the existential threat of globalism.
For example, Ukrainian ambassador to Germany is crying about Germans trade.. since beginning of the war for liberation in the Ukraine, it increased by 60.
China, which buys Russian natural resources and agricultural goods, has criticized Western sanctions on Moscow.
Our treasonous, mercantile coastal leads have sold out of America to China. That being said America is the only truly fortress nation with mountain ranges along both the east and west coasts, an arctic wasteland to the north and swamps all over the southern gulf coast. It would be hard to invade us and we have more guns and god-given natural resources than any country.
"Well we sure did give it all to China for years and they have run with it. So of course Europe is going to get on that bandwagon in time and tide. No oceans to cross." Our treasonous, mercantile coastal leads have sold out of America to China. That being said America is the only truly fortress nation with mountain ranges along both the east and west coasts, an arctic wasteland to the north and swamps all over the southern gulf coast. It would be hard to invade us and we have more guns and god-given natural resources than any country.
Well it could be to enslave the soyboys to sell as sex toys to the perverted Afghanis for weapons.
Not the least bit surprised - frankly if China continus to rebound their economy in the future all roads will lead to China in their belt and road agenda Russias just being smart getting in on that bandwagon.....whil our own country lags further and further behind.
I suspect when the things settle, this bridge will also be helpful for the Chinese trade with Europe.
Russia and China announced the opening of a new bridge with "special symbolic meaning" Friday in hopes of bolstering trade as Moscow continues to feel the effects of sanctions imposed by the west over its invasion of Ukraine. The bridge now linking Blagoveshchensk, Russia, to Heihe, China, over the Amur river will slash the travel distance of Chinese goods into western Russia by 930 miles, giving a boost to trade flow with Beijing that Moscow believes will grow to $200 billion by 2024, according to Reuters. "In today's divided world, the Blagoveshchensk-Heihe bridge between Russia and China carries a special symbolic meaning," Yuri Trutnev, the Kremlin representative in the Russian Far East, was quoted by the news agency as saying. China, which buys Russian natural resources and agricultural goods, has criticized Western sanctions on Moscow.
Why would they even want to invade us - aside from the illegals - when were self destructing via this administration.
The bridge now linking Blagoveshchensk, Russia, to Heihe, China, over the Amur river will slash the travel distance of Chinese goods into western Russia by 930 miles, giving a boost to trade flow with Beijing that Moscow believes will grow to $200 billion by 2024, according to Reuters. "In today's divided world, the Blagoveshchensk-Heihe bridge between Russia and China carries a special symbolic meaning," Yuri Trutnev, the Kremlin representative in the Russian Far East, was quoted by the news agency as saying. China, which buys Russian natural resources and agricultural goods, has criticized Western sanctions on Moscow.
 Luke 12:51 Think ye, that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, no but separation.
"Why would they even want to invade us - aside from the illegals - when were self destructing via this administration." Well it could be to enslave the soyboys to sell as sex toys to the perverted Afghanis for weapons.
