Russian Defence Ministry found evidence of USfunded biolabs in Ukraine deadly pathogens destroyed
20220307
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4044583/posts
This was one, funded by the US Department of Defense, on a former State Department webpage:
Cant believe anything these days, so much propaganda. But this would not surprise me after finding out we paid for the development of covid.
Admitting that the purpose of the labs is known and this conspiracy relies on the public's ignorance takes the fun out of it.
No need to suspect, it says right there in the excerpt that the info is sourced from the Russian Defense Ministry.
Additionally, the sight was used for training space circus aliens in workshops such as How to Top Light Speed and Making Light of Uncertainty. Both crowd pleasers.
Actually, it just goes to show that the DS employs people to infiltrate conservative sites.
Yeah, it doesnt really sound like this Kharkiv Diagnostic Laboratory is some level-4 biosafety lab if the equipment was this cheap:
Considering what the left and government have proved theyre willing to do, I find this claim credible.
How come I believe this? Perhaps the last 2 years of the world being turned upside down for a virus that could be cured wproven medicines?
I do believe that the Russians could have proved the existence of such labs without invading, and this after the fact justification doesnt cut it.
We received documentation from employees of Ukrainian biological laboratories in the course of a special operation hidden facts emergency cleaning by the Kiev regime of traces implemented on Ukraine was biological program funded bu the US Department of Defense we received documentation of Ukrainian biological laboratories on the emergency destruction on February 24 of especially dangerous anthrax pathogens tularemia cholera and other deadly diseases now documents are being analyzed. Russian specialists of the troops of radiation chemical and biological protection is obviously the beginning of a specially military operation for that there were serious concerns about the disclosure introduction of secret biological experiments on the territory of Ukraine the received documents confirm that the biological laboratory in the immediate vicinity of the territory of Russia was carried out development of biological weapons components to prevent tampering facts of violations by the United States and Ukraine of the first Convention on the prohibition of bacteriological biological Ithaca strong weapons Ukrainian Ministry of Health sent to all biolaboratories an indication of the emergency liquidation of the stored stocks of hazardous pathogensI found this on Bitchute, however, I could not find it on YouTube.
 This was one, funded by the US Department of Defense, on a former State Department webpage:
This would not surprise me at all. However, since Russia is losing the Propaganda war...badly, I strongly suspect this to be propaganda.
The Russians left nukes in Ukraine at the end, probably left Biological Warfare stocks too.
...and it is furthermore confirmed this is where SARS Covid19 originated. Chinese data back this up.
Basically I dont trust Putin, Biden, CIA or NIH and especially dont trust the media.
I dont know why supposedly sane people dont believe that U S has these labs. If you look at the old docs of locations, and then pin them on a map, then look at locations bombed in the invasion start....
 Yeah, it doesnt really sound like this Kharkiv Diagnostic Laboratory is some level-4 biosafety lab if the equipment was this cheap:
I wouldnt give the benefit of the doubt to the DoD, CIA, or the NIH, and after Wuhan lab, I could actually believe this. Who knows the truth on the biological weapons gain of function labs in Ukraine.
