Russian official claims US directly participating in Ukraine fight as Victory Day nears
20220508
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4061474/posts
the USA administration goaded Russia into this war and has since been inflaming it by all available meansAt one time, the US would stand for peace and trying diplomacy between nations in order to avoid war.There has been ZERO effort by the US to find a peaceful solution in Ukraine.
Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless, and that Russia has carried out an unprovoked act of aggression. The conflict has killed thousands in Ukraine, and more than five million people have fled the country. Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
There has been ZERO effort by the US to find a peaceful solution in Ukraine.
Does the way this sentence was constructed remind anyone of the way the 2020 election steal has been reported over and over?The same people who stole the 2020 election are responsible for installing Zelensky so the corrupt gravy train would continue.
However, the United States and its NATO allies have repeatedly said they will not take part in fighting themselves, in order to avoid becoming parties to the conflict. U.S. officials have said the United States has provided intelligence to Ukraine to help counter the Russian assault, but have denied that this intelligence includes precise targeting data. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless, and that Russia has carried out an unprovoked act of aggression. The conflict has killed thousands in Ukraine, and more than five million people have fled the country. Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
Hes right. They cant help themselves. This is all a carry over from the Russia hoax of 2016.
If the United States keeps pushing, Russia will retaliate with nuclear weapons and NOBODY can win such a war.
So is this russian dude going to have a look at history and let us know that providing them arms against Germany in the Lend Lease program in WWII was a bad idea then too? Is he going to compare our actions against theirs in Korea, Vietnam, and the Middle East? I need to buy more popcorn and stream more video of russian tanks blowing up.
Russias most senior lawmaker on Saturday accused Washington of coordinating military operations in Ukraine, which he said amounted to direct U.S. involvement in military action against Russia. Washington is essentially coordinating and developing military operations, thereby directly participating in military actions against our country, Vyacheslav Volodin wrote on his Telegram channel. Washington and European members of the transatlantic NATO alliance have supplied Kyiv with heavy weapons to help it resist a Russian offensive that has resulted in the occupation of parts of eastern and southern Ukraine but failed to take Kyiv. However, the United States and its NATO allies have repeatedly said they will not take part in fighting themselves, in order to avoid becoming parties to the conflict. U.S. officials have said the United States has provided intelligence to Ukraine to help counter the Russian assault, but have denied that this intelligence includes precise targeting data. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless, and that Russia has carried out an unprovoked act of aggression. The conflict has killed thousands in Ukraine, and more than five million people have fled the country. Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
Does the way this sentence was constructed remind anyone of the way the 2020 election steal has been reported over and over?
 Luke 12:51 Think ye, that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, no but separation.
Millions will die because Democrats want to change the subject from their utter incompetence, corruption and governing failures.
Things are heating up for them to develop excuses why their special op is a flop.
Ukraine cannot win against Russia. It is absurd to suggest it. All it can do is keep getting more Ukrainians killed and continue the destruction of its own country.
Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
USA will wind up fighting WW3 and millions of Europeans AND AMERICANS will die, for nothing
There has been ZERO effort by the US to find a peaceful solution in Ukraine. Zero effort? The sick US deep-state and its neocon ideologues made sure the war happened, and are now trying to inflame it.  Mark my words - so complete is their control of government, our institutions and the media, The USA will need to undergo its own kind of "de-nazification" to remove the influence of these people.
VIDEO: Two more Raptor-class patrol boats struck by Ukrainian Bayraktar TB2 attack drones near Snake Island
"We put all our politicians in prison as soon as they are elected. Dont you?" Why? "It saves time.
The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
Irritating people are the grit from which we fashion our pearl. I provide the grit. You're Welcome.
From the Dims standpoint, it will be better to have a nuclear war and nationwide martial law rather than acknowledge Joes incapacity.
Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019.
Zero effort? The sick US deep-state and its neocon ideologues made sure the war happened, and are now trying to inflame it.  Mark my words - so complete is their control of government, our institutions and the media, The USA will need to undergo its own kind of "de-nazification" to remove the influence of these people.
The same people who stole the 2020 election are responsible for installing Zelensky so the corrupt gravy train would continue.
Mark my words - so complete is their control of government, our institutions and the media, The USA will need to undergo its own kind of "de-nazification" to remove the influence of these people.
Don't worry. I've been reassured by many here that Russian nukes will certainly malfunction and fall on their own cities.
I think theyre scared witless that Durham will reveal there was no Russian hacking of the DNC emails. This is to keep minds poisoned.
Things are heating up..... Don't worry. I've been reassured by many here that Russian nukes will certainly malfunction and fall on their own cities.
At one time, the US would stand for peace and trying diplomacy between nations in order to avoid war.There has been ZERO effort by the US to find a peaceful solution in Ukraine.
U.S. officials have said the United States has provided intelligence to Ukraine to help counter the Russian assault, but have denied that this intelligence includes precise targeting data. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless, and that Russia has carried out an unprovoked act of aggression. The conflict has killed thousands in Ukraine, and more than five million people have fled the country. Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
the USA administration goaded Russia into this war and has since been inflaming it by all available means
Washington and European members of the transatlantic NATO alliance have supplied Kyiv with heavy weapons to help it resist a Russian offensive that has resulted in the occupation of parts of eastern and southern Ukraine but failed to take Kyiv. However, the United States and its NATO allies have repeatedly said they will not take part in fighting themselves, in order to avoid becoming parties to the conflict. U.S. officials have said the United States has provided intelligence to Ukraine to help counter the Russian assault, but have denied that this intelligence includes precise targeting data. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless, and that Russia has carried out an unprovoked act of aggression. The conflict has killed thousands in Ukraine, and more than five million people have fled the country. Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
Washington is essentially coordinating and developing military operations, thereby directly participating in military actions against our country, Vyacheslav Volodin wrote on his Telegram channel. Washington and European members of the transatlantic NATO alliance have supplied Kyiv with heavy weapons to help it resist a Russian offensive that has resulted in the occupation of parts of eastern and southern Ukraine but failed to take Kyiv. However, the United States and its NATO allies have repeatedly said they will not take part in fighting themselves, in order to avoid becoming parties to the conflict. U.S. officials have said the United States has provided intelligence to Ukraine to help counter the Russian assault, but have denied that this intelligence includes precise targeting data. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless, and that Russia has carried out an unprovoked act of aggression. The conflict has killed thousands in Ukraine, and more than five million people have fled the country. Volodin said foreign advisers had been working in Ukraine since what he called the coup detat, in an apparent reference to President Volodymyr Zelenskiys democratic election in 2019. The rhetoric comes just days ahead of what is known in Russia as Victory Day  the May 9 commemoration of the former Soviet efforts against the Nazis in World War Two. There is speculation Russian President Vladimir Putin will send a warning to the West when he speaks at a parade in Moscows Red Square. There is also expected to be a flyover by the Il-80 doomsday command plane for the first time since 2010.
