Russian separatist warlord who led NeoNazi Sparta mob is shot dead during battle in eastern Ukraine town in fresh blow to Putins floundering invasion Vladimir Zhoga
20220306
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4044222/posts
With what he has done so far he has ensured the hatred of the Ukrainians for at least three generations. Don't be surprised if the ethnic Russians are 'encouraged' to leave Ukraine after this is over. He can't occupy the place forever.
The nation which can prefer disgrace to danger is prepared for a master and deserves one. Hamilton
And all those airplanes were sending them? The Russians will crater every useable airfield in Ukraine, leaving only NATO bases from which they can operate.
When only the losses of one side are considered newsworthy, it's easy to think the other side is winning.In truth, Twitter is going to have a meltdown in the coming weeks. The bulk of the Ukranian army, which has been stationed on the east fighting the DPRLPR breakaway factions since 2014, is facing total annihilation. They'll be surrounded in the Donbas kessel, cut off, and wiped out after which the Russian army will regroup and take Kiev from the south.And all those airplanes were sending them? The Russians will crater every useable airfield in Ukraine, leaving only NATO bases from which they can operate.
Apparently everybody's a nazi if you believe the accusations in the media . Or maybe it was the "Neo-Nazis" versus the "Nazis". Or maybe the media is publishing the same kind of BS they pushed for years, trying to destroy President Trump, and way too many people still haven't caught on...
...I would not be surprised by at least a small nuke on Kyiv.With what he has done so far he has ensured the hatred of the Ukrainians for at least three generations. Don't be surprised if the ethnic Russians are 'encouraged' to leave Ukraine after this is over. He can't occupy the place forever.
  sleep with one eye open o ---      
To my knowledge, Zhoga was a communist. But then so is the DailyMail editorial board.
In truth, Twitter is going to have a meltdown in the coming weeks. The bulk of the Ukranian army, which has been stationed on the east fighting the DPRLPR breakaway factions since 2014, is facing total annihilation. They'll be surrounded in the Donbas kessel, cut off, and wiped out after which the Russian army will regroup and take Kiev from the south.And all those airplanes were sending them? The Russians will crater every useable airfield in Ukraine, leaving only NATO bases from which they can operate.
Zhoga's kill was yesterday confirmed in a Telegram channel post from Denis Pushilin, head of the breakaway DPR.
Putin's floundering invasionWhen only the losses of one side are considered newsworthy, it's easy to think the other side is winning.In truth, Twitter is going to have a meltdown in the coming weeks. The bulk of the Ukranian army, which has been stationed on the east fighting the DPRLPR breakaway factions since 2014, is facing total annihilation. They'll be surrounded in the Donbas kessel, cut off, and wiped out after which the Russian army will regroup and take Kiev from the south.And all those airplanes were sending them? The Russians will crater every useable airfield in Ukraine, leaving only NATO bases from which they can operate.
Russian separatist warlord who led Neo-Nazi 'Sparta' mob is shot dead during battle in eastern Ukraine town in fresh blow to Putin's floundering invasion...  Sparta' covered the evacuation of civilians, mostly women and children. The Nazis opened fire on them... Apparently everybody's a nazi if you believe the accusations in the media . Or maybe it was the "Neo-Nazis" versus the "Nazis". Or maybe the media is publishing the same kind of BS they pushed for years, trying to destroy President Trump, and way too many people still haven't caught on...
Freedom ultimately means the right of other people to do things that you disagree with. T. Sowell 
Russian warlord Vladimir Zhoga, who headed the Neo-Nazi 'Sparta Battalion', was killed in Volnovakha, Ukraine, following the eleventh day of Russia's invasion as Putin's troops fail to make big wins. Zhoga's kill was yesterday confirmed in a Telegram channel post from Denis Pushilin, head of the breakaway DPR.
1 Vlad said he was invading to save people from Ukranian Nazis and his guy is a Nazi. 2 Hes dead.
Or maybe the media is publishing the same kind of BS they pushed for years, trying to destroy President Trump, and way too many people still haven't caught on...
I have no doubt Putin will conquer Ukraine and be its master. It is a personal war for him and he will throw into it whatever resources are needed. At no point will he step back and say hey, this is costing way too much, and quit. If it gets really bad for him, I would not be surprised by at least a small nuke on Kyiv.
"Shoeless Joe" played for the White Sox  "Clueless Joe" lives in the White House...
After years of unabated lies, I distrust every interpretation from the MSM A.K.A the propaganda outlet for the Global Deep State.
At this rate, there will be 50,000 Russian casualties by the first day of summer. The Soviet Union called it quits after 8 years in Afghanistan with only 13,000 casualties despite having 2x the population of modern day Russia.
I thought the Ukrainians were the nazis and the separatists were the good guys according to Puti-poon. ??
Or maybe it was the "Neo-Nazis" versus the "Nazis". Or maybe the media is publishing the same kind of BS they pushed for years, trying to destroy President Trump, and way too many people still haven't caught on...
A leader of a rebel military group in the so-called Donetsk People's Republic DPR, blamed for brutal war crimes and shooting Ukrainian POWs since its formation in 2014, was shot dead in battle. Russian warlord Vladimir Zhoga, who headed the Neo-Nazi 'Sparta Battalion', was killed in Volnovakha, Ukraine, following the eleventh day of Russia's invasion as Putin's troops fail to make big wins. Zhoga's kill was yesterday confirmed in a Telegram channel post from Denis Pushilin, head of the breakaway DPR.
