Russias huge losses are due to Ukraine creating killing machine soldiers in top secret biolabs as the Kremlin  has found evidence
20220721
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4079948/posts
I think the biggest surprise for Russia was that Ukraine actually shot back when invaded Show me any country in history that did not fire back when invaded. Even the weakest countries fight back.
And those doping that they are still given in order to generally NEUTRALIZE the LAST TRACES OF HUMAN CONSCIOUSNESS and turn them into the most cruel and deadly MONSTERS also confirm this. In addition, she said in her opinion, in the test tubes of U.S. MILITARY LABORATORIES, you need to look for bird and swine flu, coronavirus and monkeypox, because of their particular interest in the origin of viruses and pathogens of animal origin, then disguising them as natural pathogens and the natural occurrence of an epidemic  this is such a stealth maneuver when, preferring to remain unnoticed, they actually create unforeseen situations in different regions of the world. excerpt
Their secret lab killing machines are men who wear dresses and combat boots, who want everyone tl refer to them as miss so and so and who want to marry each other. The Russian soldiers laugh themselves to death when they encounter them
The only thing worse than having something taken from you is to have it returned broken. 
2- Russian lawmakers baselessly claim their army is up against biologically modified Ukrainian super soldiers
Kremlin officials have said that Ukraine are creating super soldiers on top secret experiments where they are testing performance enhancing drugs making their soldiers MORE DEADLY, in a bizarre claim. Russian officials have the Ukraine are hiding their biolaboratories making soldiers so vicious this is contributing to Russias huge losses which are most likely going to add to Moscows justification to continue with the conflict in Europe. IrIrina Yarovaya, deputy chair of the State Duma, in Moscow said the Ukraine are conducting experiments in biolabs where they are creating more vicious soldiers. And those doping that they are still given in order to generally NEUTRALIZE the LAST TRACES OF HUMAN CONSCIOUSNESS and turn them into the most cruel and deadly MONSTERS also confirm this. In addition, she said in her opinion, in the test tubes of U.S. MILITARY LABORATORIES, you need to look for bird and swine flu, coronavirus and monkeypox, because of their particular interest in the origin of viruses and pathogens of animal origin, then disguising them as natural pathogens and the natural occurrence of an epidemic  this is such a stealth maneuver when, preferring to remain unnoticed, they actually create unforeseen situations in different regions of the world. excerpt
Jennifer Doudna from the University of California, Berkeley, introduces her labs groundbreaking work. They found that a protein called Cas9 acts like a precision tool that can be programmed to cut double stranded DNA, repair breaks and correct genetic mutations. They removed a gene from black mice and turned the offspring into white mice, most of them. This was seven years ago. Think what they can do now.
Yep, Ruzzia desperate for excused as to why the war drags on even though they won in April.
Even better, the Russians are so technologically outclassed by opposing nations providing support, even the chicoms are sitting back, mouth agape wondering right now if they should have used chinese components in their own military equipment. The Russians lose here, even if they win.
https:www.youtube.comwatch?vqECgqd6wJb0Feb 24, 2015 - World Economic Forum's youtube channel Jennifer Doudna from the University of California, Berkeley, introduces her labs groundbreaking work. They found that a protein called Cas9 acts like a precision tool that can be programmed to cut double stranded DNA, repair breaks and correct genetic mutations. They removed a gene from black mice and turned the offspring into white mice, most of them. This was seven years ago. Think what they can do now.
Heh, heh. We dont need biolabs for that. I was one. We were trained the old fashioned way: hard.
Russian officials have the Ukraine are hiding their biolaboratories making soldiers so vicious this is contributing to Russias huge losses which are most likely going to add to Moscows justification to continue with the conflict in Europe. IrIrina Yarovaya, deputy chair of the State Duma, in Moscow said the Ukraine are conducting experiments in biolabs where they are creating more vicious soldiers. And those doping that they are still given in order to generally NEUTRALIZE the LAST TRACES OF HUMAN CONSCIOUSNESS and turn them into the most cruel and deadly MONSTERS also confirm this. In addition, she said in her opinion, in the test tubes of U.S. MILITARY LABORATORIES, you need to look for bird and swine flu, coronavirus and monkeypox, because of their particular interest in the origin of viruses and pathogens of animal origin, then disguising them as natural pathogens and the natural occurrence of an epidemic  this is such a stealth maneuver when, preferring to remain unnoticed, they actually create unforeseen situations in different regions of the world. excerpt
They removed a gene from black mice and turned the offspring into white mice, most of them. This was seven years ago. Think what they can do now.
These statements are from Irina Yarovaya, deputy chair of the State Duma, in Moscow. She said the Ukraine are creating more vicious soldiers.
I wonder how long before proof is offered with clips from a 90s edited Jean-Claude Van Damme movie as well.
2020:  The year of unreported truths 2021: My main take away from this year? Trust no one.
RNA Therapeutics and DNA Editing  Jennifer Doudna https:www.youtube.comwatch?vqECgqd6wJb0Feb 24, 2015 - World Economic Forum's youtube channel Jennifer Doudna from the University of California, Berkeley, introduces her labs groundbreaking work. They found that a protein called Cas9 acts like a precision tool that can be programmed to cut double stranded DNA, repair breaks and correct genetic mutations. They removed a gene from black mice and turned the offspring into white mice, most of them. This was seven years ago. Think what they can do now.
DNI Ratcliffe told us that the Chinese were doing the same thing. Not a shocker.
IrIrina Yarovaya, deputy chair of the State Duma, in Moscow said the Ukraine are conducting experiments in biolabs where they are creating more vicious soldiers. And those doping that they are still given in order to generally NEUTRALIZE the LAST TRACES OF HUMAN CONSCIOUSNESS and turn them into the most cruel and deadly MONSTERS also confirm this. In addition, she said in her opinion, in the test tubes of U.S. MILITARY LABORATORIES, you need to look for bird and swine flu, coronavirus and monkeypox, because of their particular interest in the origin of viruses and pathogens of animal origin, then disguising them as natural pathogens and the natural occurrence of an epidemic  this is such a stealth maneuver when, preferring to remain unnoticed, they actually create unforeseen situations in different regions of the world. excerpt
Man you guys are desperate. This is the 4th time I have seen this ridiculous article posted over the last couple of days.
I think the biggest surprise for Russia was that Ukraine actually shot back when invaded. It reminds me of the Bruce Lee line in Enter the Dragon when Oharra broke the board in a show of strength, Boards dont hit back.
Show me any country in history that did not fire back when invaded. Even the weakest countries fight back.
"For they that sleep with dogs, shall rise with fleas" John Webster, "The White Devil" 1612.
Russia thought they were going to overrun the Ukraine in a matter of days, now its a matter of trying to avoid complete and total humiliation. They may eventually conquer the nation, but at a price so devastating it may destroy Russia as an independent nation. Even better, the Russians are so technologically outclassed by opposing nations providing support, even the chicoms are sitting back, mouth agape wondering right now if they should have used chinese components in their own military equipment. The Russians lose here, even if they win.
In addition, she said in her opinion, in the test tubes of U.S. MILITARY LABORATORIES, you need to look for bird and swine flu, coronavirus and monkeypox, because of their particular interest in the origin of viruses and pathogens of animal origin, then disguising them as natural pathogens and the natural occurrence of an epidemic  this is such a stealth maneuver when, preferring to remain unnoticed, they actually create unforeseen situations in different regions of the world. excerpt
And those doping that they are still given in order to generally NEUTRALIZE the LAST TRACES OF HUMAN CONSCIOUSNESS and turn them into the most cruel and deadly MONSTERS also confirm this.
Feb 24, 2015 - World Economic Forum's youtube channel Jennifer Doudna from the University of California, Berkeley, introduces her labs groundbreaking work. They found that a protein called Cas9 acts like a precision tool that can be programmed to cut double stranded DNA, repair breaks and correct genetic mutations. They removed a gene from black mice and turned the offspring into white mice, most of them. This was seven years ago. Think what they can do now.
