Russian forces in Kherson cut off from supplies from Crimea after bridge attacks
20220831
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4089789/posts
Also, how much ammunition you expend in defense is generally determined by how intense the attacks are. I don't believe Ukraine has the offensive combat power at Kherson that the Russians did at Mariupol, so it is going to take longer for the Russians to exhaust their munitions. I'm not saying the Ukrainians won't retake Kherson, because I believe they will eventually. I'm just saying that it isn't a magic bullet that can necessarily force a quick victory. A lot will depend on how determined the Russians will be to hold it despite the unfavorable geographic and logistic situation.
Not to worry USA Marshall Plan 2.0 will rush in and rebuild them even though our own are self destructing as we speak.
3rd Army Corps is composed of troops with a reported average age of 36. Some troops are reportedly in their sixties.
Kherson may be cutoff from large scale reinforcement and supply, but Mariupol hung on for months after being cut off. And unlike Mariupol, Kherson can still be supplied with at least some things across the river, or by airdrops. Also, how much ammunition you expend in defense is generally determined by how intense the attacks are. I don't believe Ukraine has the offensive combat power at Kherson that the Russians did at Mariupol, so it is going to take longer for the Russians to exhaust their munitions. I'm not saying the Ukrainians won't retake Kherson, because I believe they will eventually. I'm just saying that it isn't a magic bullet that can necessarily force a quick victory. A lot will depend on how determined the Russians will be to hold it despite the unfavorable geographic and logistic situation.
Kremlin leadership wants the 3rd Army Corps to deploy as cohesive units to prevent the low morale of veteran combat units from affecting the new troops. This move will lead to degraded veteran units eventually being combined or subsumed into other units with deleterious impacts on the careers of the officers whose units are disbanded.
A Great victory for Ukraine! Rolling back the invades as we speak. They will be in Kherson in days if not hours. The Russians without the re-supply will fold up fast-they may fight like tigers for a while until the vodka runs out, then we will see a massive surrender like the Germans at Stalingrad. This is the war winning offensive of the Hero-Army of Ukraine. The Wonder weapons and tools given by America and the west has changed everything. Russia is lostits only a question of days now. When the Russian army is forced to surrenderthat will end Russias will to fight! Putin put his men in a dangerous place and now they will face the brave people of Ukraine for justice! My Timeline is: September 5, Kherson battle starts, September 17, Kherson taken by Ukraine army, September 29th Surrender of Russian Army. October 4, Invasion of Crimea, October 12, The sinking of the Russian Black Sea Fleet. October 30, Surrender of all Russian forced in Greater Ukraine. This action isnt the endits the Beginning of the end!
KEYWORDS: 0iqputintroll 0iqputintrolls 0iqrussiantroll 0iqrussiantrolls 10percent2biden another44billion bidenbandwagonbois chechens chechnya crimea crymeabridge deadrussianhomos deadrussians deathtochechnya deathtoputin deathtorussia europe1stamericalast fakenukethreat fakenukethreats fridiots4demwars globalistpropaganda happybirthday hateamericafirst isaidbudlight kerchbridge learnhowtopost mugabeforemaga nolink notamericaswar notputinscountry notrussiascrimea nyuknyuknyuk oopsididitagain pedosforputin pootykilledjfk putinatemyhomework putinlovertrollsonfr putinsbuttboys putinworshippers ramzankadyrov russia russianaggression russianhomos russianimplosion russiansuicide scottritter sergeishoigu shortbusjoestartsww3 tacticalretreat taxpayersbendover tdaw timratbotsonfr ttdaw ukraine vladtheimploder wagnergroup yevgenyprigozhin zottherussiantrolls zzelenskyytrollsonfr
We must remain calm and not interfere with our military, Yanushevich stated. There is a lot of information, but right now it is important to maintain informational silence in order to not harm our army. On Aug. 29, the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched a counteroffensive against occupied territory in the south of Ukraine, forcing a Donetsk puppet militia, along with a Russian paratrooper unit, to flee their positions. The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
There is a lot of information, but right now it is important to maintain informational silence in order to not harm our army. On Aug. 29, the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched a counteroffensive against occupied territory in the south of Ukraine, forcing a Donetsk puppet militia, along with a Russian paratrooper unit, to flee their positions. The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
NATO analysis of the 3rd Army Corps is that if it deploys as a cohesive entity it will likely be used to hold and defend positions which will free up veteran combat units for offensive operations.
On Aug. 29, the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched a counteroffensive against occupied territory in the south of Ukraine, forcing a Donetsk puppet militia, along with a Russian paratrooper unit, to flee their positions. The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
Indications of exactly how the 3rd will be deployed are apparently the source of much conflict between the Red Army leadership and the Kremlin.
I think the Ukrainians are counting on the airdrops or ferry efforts...to take out more cargo planes, and ferries.
The great offensive has been a slaughter of the UFA.  Says whom, Comrade Achilles? The Russians?
Leadership on the ground in Ukraine wants these new and inexperienced forces deployed as replacements who will take up positions with more experienced troops.
As a result of these actions, the Russian army was cut off from the supply of weapons and personnel from the territory of Crimea and the left-bank part of Kherson Oblast, Yanushevich explained. He also confirmed that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have launched an offensive in all directions in southern Ukraine, but added that the authorities can only provide official information from the military. We must remain calm and not interfere with our military, Yanushevich stated. There is a lot of information, but right now it is important to maintain informational silence in order to not harm our army. On Aug. 29, the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched a counteroffensive against occupied territory in the south of Ukraine, forcing a Donetsk puppet militia, along with a Russian paratrooper unit, to flee their positions. The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
I'm not saying the Ukrainians won't retake Kherson, because I believe they will eventually. I'm just saying that it isn't a magic bullet that can necessarily force a quick victory. A lot will depend on how determined the Russians will be to hold it despite the unfavorable geographic and logistic situation.
The 3rd Army Corps is deploying with thirty to forty year old equipment that has been recently serviced and made adequate for action.
The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
According to Yanushevich, Ukrainian strikes have completely decommissioned almost all the major bridges in the region - Antonivskyi road and railway, as well as the Nova Kakhovka Dam Bridge. As a result of these actions, the Russian army was cut off from the supply of weapons and personnel from the territory of Crimea and the left-bank part of Kherson Oblast, Yanushevich explained. He also confirmed that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have launched an offensive in all directions in southern Ukraine, but added that the authorities can only provide official information from the military. We must remain calm and not interfere with our military, Yanushevich stated. There is a lot of information, but right now it is important to maintain informational silence in order to not harm our army. On Aug. 29, the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched a counteroffensive against occupied territory in the south of Ukraine, forcing a Donetsk puppet militia, along with a Russian paratrooper unit, to flee their positions. The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
He also confirmed that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have launched an offensive in all directions in southern Ukraine, but added that the authorities can only provide official information from the military. We must remain calm and not interfere with our military, Yanushevich stated. There is a lot of information, but right now it is important to maintain informational silence in order to not harm our army. On Aug. 29, the Armed Forces of Ukraine launched a counteroffensive against occupied territory in the south of Ukraine, forcing a Donetsk puppet militia, along with a Russian paratrooper unit, to flee their positions. The Ukrainian militarys Operational Command South stressed that citizens should refrain from posting about the movements of the Armed Forces on social media.
He also confirmed that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have launched an offensive in all directions in southern Ukraine, but added that the authorities can only provide official information from the military.
Its more effective if you post multiple articles less than five minutes apart per their timestamps.
Leadership on the ground in Ukraine also covets the fresh equipment of the 3rd Army Corps to replace losses for front-line units.
You understand you are responding to nonsense, right? The great offensive has been a slaughter of the UFA.
