Russian Troops Achieve Breakthrough In Popasna East Ukraine
20220524
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4065807/posts
3. By making Putin pay, this prevents his future adventures and keeps American markets safe.
If Ukraine is to change its borders, it must have an All-Ukrainian referendum. It is also specified what this is in the Constitution, in 72nd article.
5. By not putting American soldiers there, the USA saves on American lives in future wars.
Is that a win? Yes, it is  surviving against a behemoth is a win.
could this have been prevented  YES, if Trump was President, then Putin wouldnt have dared invaded.
Z can not negotiate for any deal. He does and the radicals will kill his ass in a second.
Could Ukraine invade Russia? Nope, it doesnt have the capability, it would lose home-field advantage and morale.
Fighting is reportedly ongoing in the villages of Volodymyrivka and Soledar, which are located along the main supply route for thousands of Ukrainian soldiers in Lysychansk and Severodonetsk, reported Inkerman. Following the capture of the town of Popasna, the Russian General Staff devoted most of its available resources in Eastern Ukraine to this part of the front.If the Russian advance continues, they will be in a position to fully encircle thousands of Ukrainian troops, added Inkerman.Russia also now completely controls the coastal city of Mariupol in Donbass with approximately 2,000 Ukrainian troops having surrendered. The land bridge to Crimea for the Kremlin is now complete.
Please Follow us onGab,Minds,Telegram,Rumble,Gab TV,GETTRRussian forces have achieved a significant breakthrough in the area of Popasna, East Ukraine against Ukrainian forces. Fighting is reportedly ongoing in the villages of Volodymyrivka and Soledar, which are located along the main supply route for thousands of Ukrainian soldiers in Lysychansk and Severodonetsk, reported Inkerman. Following the capture of the town of Popasna, the Russian General Staff devoted most of its available resources in Eastern Ukraine to this part of the front.If the Russian advance continues, they will be in a position to fully encircle thousands of Ukrainian troops, added Inkerman.Russia also now completely controls the coastal city of Mariupol in Donbass with approximately 2,000 Ukrainian troops having surrendered. The land bridge to Crimea for the Kremlin is now complete.
Putin errs when he claims the dissolution of the USSR was the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century.
40 billion well spent. Ukraine has em all by the short and curlies now. Next theyll march to Siberia in December.
Is it a breakthrough? No. Is it a Russian victory? a minor one, yes.Can they translate this to something more? Well, that depends.
Constitution..Scmonztatution. They don't mean anything, anymore. Look at the US!EXTREME SARCASM ALERT! You are correct
in the east it looks like they have slowly advanced.Will this lead to encirclement? Perhaps - but as you see in the map below, they've been trying to do this since March 2022 and failed. Is it a breakthrough? No. Is it a Russian victory? a minor one, yes.Can they translate this to something more? Well, that depends.
The Russian Revolution of 1917 holds that distinction. Putin holds particular scorn for Lenin. I think he sees him in a way approximating the way conservatives in America might see Obama - not only a wretched leftist, but as an ideologue who hated traditional Russia, its culture, its religion, its borders - and tried to re-organize them all
Strength is the only thing foreign leaders respect and Trump was as strong as they come. We all slept a lot better because he was president.
Russian forces have achieved a significant breakthrough in the area of Popasna, East Ukraine against Ukrainian forces. Fighting is reportedly ongoing in the villages of Volodymyrivka and Soledar, which are located along the main supply route for thousands of Ukrainian soldiers in Lysychansk and Severodonetsk, reported Inkerman. Following the capture of the town of Popasna, the Russian General Staff devoted most of its available resources in Eastern Ukraine to this part of the front.If the Russian advance continues, they will be in a position to fully encircle thousands of Ukrainian troops, added Inkerman.Russia also now completely controls the coastal city of Mariupol in Donbass with approximately 2,000 Ukrainian troops having surrendered. The land bridge to Crimea for the Kremlin is now complete.
this is as of May 19thRussia has given up in the north around Kharkiv and retreated.in the east it looks like they have slowly advanced.Will this lead to encirclement? Perhaps - but as you see in the map below, they've been trying to do this since March 2022 and failed. Is it a breakthrough? No. Is it a Russian victory? a minor one, yes.Can they translate this to something more? Well, that depends.
Russia also now completely controls the coastal city of Mariupol in Donbass with approximately 2,000 Ukrainian troops having surrendered. The land bridge to Crimea for the Kremlin is now complete.
Article 2 The sovereignty of Ukraine extends throughout its entire territory. Ukraine is a unitary state. The territory of Ukraine within its present border is indivisible and inviolable.
Russias capture of the Severodonetsk region would see the whole of Luhansk Oblast placed under Russian occupation, the Ministry of Defence has warned. The operation, which is currently Moscows main focus, is only one part of their campaign to seize the Donbas.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
Putin holds particular scorn for Lenin. I think he sees him in a way approximating the way conservatives in America might see Obama - not only a wretched leftist, but as an ideologue who hated traditional Russia, its culture, its religion, its borders - and tried to re-organize them all
KEYWORDS: 10percent4bigguy agitprop biden4highgasprices biden4nobabyformula biden4sanctions bidenscartelcentral bidenspiggybank bidenswar chechens chechnya heymomlookatme hunterscashcow natoisnwo pedosforputin putinlovertrollsonfr putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression scottritter ukenazis ukraine zmansnazis zottherussiantrolls
Will this lead to encirclement? Perhaps - but as you see in the map below, they've been trying to do this since March 2022 and failed. Is it a breakthrough? No. Is it a Russian victory? a minor one, yes.Can they translate this to something more? Well, that depends.
CRZ - Zelenskyy is blocked by the Ukrainian constitution  linesarticles 2nd and 73rd of Constitution of Ukraine cover that exact question.
On Feb 22, everyone believed me included that Ukraine would last at best a few days, maybe a week.
If so, and especially if they are not allowed to retreat by politicians, then the bulk of the Ukraine army can only hide in bunkers until Russia decides to assault them. And for Russia, that must be a slow process, because assault on such positions is very costly.
Russia has given up in the north around Kharkiv and retreated.in the east it looks like they have slowly advanced.Will this lead to encirclement? Perhaps - but as you see in the map below, they've been trying to do this since March 2022 and failed. Is it a breakthrough? No. Is it a Russian victory? a minor one, yes.Can they translate this to something more? Well, that depends.
If the Russian advance continues, they will be in a position to fully encircle thousands of Ukrainian troops, added Inkerman.Russia also now completely controls the coastal city of Mariupol in Donbass with approximately 2,000 Ukrainian troops having surrendered. The land bridge to Crimea for the Kremlin is now complete.
Ukraine operations within Russia seem to consist of burning strategic buildings and installations. The most recent is a large but old manufacturing building. The building was very large and burned furiously requiring many many firefighters to try to control.
This was as of April 13ththis is as of May 19thRussia has given up in the north around Kharkiv and retreated.in the east it looks like they have slowly advanced.Will this lead to encirclement? Perhaps - but as you see in the map below, they've been trying to do this since March 2022 and failed. Is it a breakthrough? No. Is it a Russian victory? a minor one, yes.Can they translate this to something more? Well, that depends.
4. In addition, this holds out the possibility that the next rulers of Russia will stop the military madness
Now, 3 months later, they have repelled a Russian attempted takeover of Kyiv, have pushed Putins army from around Kharkiv and prevented them from getting close to Odessa and have held ground in the east.
 KWE.  NP.  N.C.  12 Promoting Afro Heritage diversity will destroy the democrats
The noose is tightening, Donbass cauldron becoming 3 or 4 separate cauldrons pennypacks best I can tell. Still a lot of slow, steady, uneven work to be done. Russians are doing this methodically in order to win the peace in the East, not just the war. Phase 2 resolution is finally taking shape. Im sure Z is figuring out his options, but isnt showing his hand other than reaching out to Poland, which will not work out well for Poland.
Knowing Biden is weak China and Russia fly nuclear capable bombers over the Sea of Japan while he is visiting the country. That kind of stunt would have had severe consequences in a Trump presidency.
The question is - how well does Russia control the air? We hear no reports about Ukraine air-force or helicopter movements. If so, that means that re-supply to Ukraine forces in the East would be extremely difficult, and offensive operations would be absolutely impossible.
1. Putin since 2000 has threatened his neighbours, invading Georgia in 2008 when Georgia  Ukraine were rejected from joining NATO by Germany and France and Ukraine in 2014.
Russian troops are just 25km away from encircling Ukraines elite special forces in a potential major victory for Vladimir Putin in the Donbas.
2. Putin has taken Russia down the path of we need to win against them militarily, when he could have follower Germany and Japans path of winning economically. The latter approach would have worked well for Russia. But Putin didnt do that and has damaged Russia
