Russia accused of double crossing Ukraine over deal to free fighters trapped in Azovstal steelworks
20220519
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4064433/posts
Russia has been accused of double crossing Ukraine as officials moved to pull back on an agreement to free captured troops from the Azovstal steelworks. Moscow had agreed to exchange hundreds of members of the Azov Regiment  the Ukrainian unit holed up in the Soviet-era steel mill  in a prisoner swap earlier this week. However Russias parliament has now announced it will vote on a resolution to prevent the exchange of Nazi war criminals today  with some members calling for the Azov troops to be executed. Ukraines deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar dismissed the threats as internal propaganda, adding that an exchange procedure will take place as Kyiv abandons the steelworks after more than 80 days. But experts have decried the move as underhand and claimed it could scupper Ukraines bid to free the 600 soldiers  some of whom are still at the plant in Mariupol. There are at least 250 Azov fighters who were evacuated on Monday, some of whom were seriously wounded. Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
There are at least 250 Azov fighters who were evacuated on Monday, some of whom were seriously wounded. Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
Prisoners of war are seldom exchanged in any way. They are released after the war ends.
In the Russo Japan war of the very early 1900s, the concept of parole existed. Captured officers could be turned loose to return home if they gave parole  promised never to return to the battlefield against that particular enemy . . . forever. A famous case exists of a Russian naval officer who gave parole at the battle of Port Arthur. Returned home. Could not find work. Re-entered the Navy and was sent with the fleet to fight the Japanese. He was part of the destroyed Russian fleet at Tsushima. Captured and was lucky bureaucracy mistook his name and did not see that hed been captured before.
Amazing, how many here on FR decry what they call Western propaganda but lap up the Russian propaganda, like a kitten drinks warm milk.
It is a pity that we find the most thorough, descriptive stories and photos from foreign news sources. Our American news is sophomoric.
You know thats the actual point of my handle, right? Now go come up with a decent and original insult. You can do it!
Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
Most know nothing about Azov, but are eager to believe they are nazis, because the Russians say so.
Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
Maybe we could send Adam shift, that bug eyed freak , that could scare them into compliance, or at least script write another propaganda bs product to weasel what is wanted.
Retards. Azov surrendered. You cant release these nazis or they will return to the battlefield. There was never an agreement. They are POWs, and some are war criminals now.
However Russias parliament has now announced it will vote on a resolution to prevent the exchange of Nazi war criminals today  with some members calling for the Azov troops to be executed. Ukraines deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar dismissed the threats as internal propaganda, adding that an exchange procedure will take place as Kyiv abandons the steelworks after more than 80 days. But experts have decried the move as underhand and claimed it could scupper Ukraines bid to free the 600 soldiers  some of whom are still at the plant in Mariupol. There are at least 250 Azov fighters who were evacuated on Monday, some of whom were seriously wounded. Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
The unwounded are conventional POWs and theres no reason to send them back so they can rejoin a battlefield.
The USA press should be more concentrated on why the government of our own country is driving everyone into poverty.
KEYWORDS: 1therewas 2noagreementas 3theysurrendered blueandyellowdrank clownworld dailyfail franeyisaclown jamesfraney liztruss mi6dailymail peterhitchens russia surrendered ukraine
But experts have decried the move as underhand and claimed it could scupper Ukraines bid to free the 600 soldiers  some of whom are still at the plant in Mariupol. There are at least 250 Azov fighters who were evacuated on Monday, some of whom were seriously wounded. Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
They are all a bunch of inveterate liars and cheats. Barbarians in the truest sense if the term
Ukraines deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar dismissed the threats as internal propaganda, adding that an exchange procedure will take place as Kyiv abandons the steelworks after more than 80 days. But experts have decried the move as underhand and claimed it could scupper Ukraines bid to free the 600 soldiers  some of whom are still at the plant in Mariupol. There are at least 250 Azov fighters who were evacuated on Monday, some of whom were seriously wounded. Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
In this case, its pretty clear the only people being discussed for exchange are those severely wounded who could not return to the battlefield after an exchange. Sending them home just burdens the enemy with their care, forever.
Maybe we should send over Alex vindman from Vermont , or his twin, or Victoria to straighten this out.
The Soviets did not release German troops after WW II until 1949, with the war ending 1945.
He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
Dwight Eisenhower refused to release German POWs after the Germans surrendered and the war was over. This is largely an outrage. The reason given was famine in Germany and sending those POWs back there would worsen the famine.
Moscow had agreed to exchange hundreds of members of the Azov Regiment  the Ukrainian unit holed up in the Soviet-era steel mill  in a prisoner swap earlier this week. However Russias parliament has now announced it will vote on a resolution to prevent the exchange of Nazi war criminals today  with some members calling for the Azov troops to be executed. Ukraines deputy defence minister Hanna Malyar dismissed the threats as internal propaganda, adding that an exchange procedure will take place as Kyiv abandons the steelworks after more than 80 days. But experts have decried the move as underhand and claimed it could scupper Ukraines bid to free the 600 soldiers  some of whom are still at the plant in Mariupol. There are at least 250 Azov fighters who were evacuated on Monday, some of whom were seriously wounded. Seven buses carrying an unknown number of Ukrainian troops also left the plant last night. But all of them remain inside Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory. Vyacheslav Volodin, the chairman of Russias parliament, insisted Azov members should be excluded from any prisoner exchange deal. He added: They are war criminals, and we must do everything to bring them to justice. He has ordered the defence and security committees to prepare draft legislation to that effect, according to a post on the Russian parliaments website. Fellow MP Leonid Slutsky, a Russian negotiator in stalled peace talks with Ukraine, branded the evacuated troops animals in human form and called for them to be tried and executed.
Other stories say that well over a thousand Ukrainian fighters surrendered. Could there be even more remaining in the tunnels??
Why does ANYONE trust Putin for any reason? He reneged on the Protection part of the agreement for Ukraine to give up nukes. He said for weeks that he wasnt going to attack Ukraine, all the time building what turns out to be a decades-long overestimated Russian army, and then attacking. And now someone trusts him in a deal that includes the release of part of the Ukrainian Mega Military elite for some Russian plebe?? Are you kidding me? Hes in the hospital. Lots of things happen in hospitals.
