Russia declares plans to grab more land in Ukraine
20220721
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4079868/posts
There are people here who don't believe Russia has the ability to do this, and many in fact believe Ukraine will push Russia out completely. Naive. And listening to too much US State DeptCIANATOUkrainian propaganda. Which everyone must acknowledge is the best in the history of man. Up there with the devil his own self.
Russia's top diplomat noted that when Russia and Ukraine in March discussed a possible deal to end the fighting, Our readiness to accept the Ukrainian proposal was based on the geography of March 2022.Now its a different geography, Lavrov said, repeating Moscow's claims that the United States and Britain were encouraging Ukraine to expand the hostilities.With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia's geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of Zelenskyy or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.
They swear up and down that Russia cant do it one minute, then post an article accusing them of being ogres that are doing what they proclaimed Russia is too inept to do a few minutes later to get sympathy.
Well, they will have the US military on speed dial. No need for them to spend their money on it. I really wonder what they are paying Putin with for him to do this.
My repetitious posting on this should be nauseous by now but Im as nauseated with how Ukraine is just kicking Ruskie a$$ and showing that mentally ill cancerous pimple Putin who is the real boss.
Then the EU will have a military. Well, they will have the US military on speed dial. No need for them to spend their money on it. I really wonder what they are paying Putin with for him to do this.
Putin has said He wants to link up with Transnistria and his puppets on state TV parrot this wet dream, but its not going to happen.
With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia's geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of Zelenskyy or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.
KYIV, Ukraine AP  Ukrainian forces on Wednesday damaged a bridge that is key to supplying Russian troops in southern Ukraine, where Russias foreign minister said Moscow will consolidate its territorial gains.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told state-controlled RT television and the RIA Novosti news agency that Russia plans to retain control over broader areas beyond eastern Ukraine, including the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions in the south, and will make more gains elsewhere.Lavrov's remarks and the Ukrainian missile attack on the strategically important Kherson region bridge indicated the nearly five-month war could broaden after unfolding mostly in eastern Ukraine since April.Russia's top diplomat noted that when Russia and Ukraine in March discussed a possible deal to end the fighting, Our readiness to accept the Ukrainian proposal was based on the geography of March 2022.Now its a different geography, Lavrov said, repeating Moscow's claims that the United States and Britain were encouraging Ukraine to expand the hostilities.With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia's geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of Zelenskyy or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.
Now its a different geography, Lavrov said, repeating Moscow's claims that the United States and Britain were encouraging Ukraine to expand the hostilities.With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia's geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of Zelenskyy or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.
Russia doesnt have the ability to take Odessa. They did back in February, but then they wastesd too much of their resources and the element of surprise on Kiev and Kharkiv.
The exact figure is yet to be determined since two-thirds of the countrys maritime area passed to de facto Russian control following Moscows illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014. Ukraines state energy company Naftogaz is preparing 2021 to explore 32 remaining blocks.
Its pretty clear Russia will take whatever it wants and there is nothing the Ukraine can do about it.
I suspect that Russia is just establishing a negotiating position with this threat. If Ukraine agrees to cede the eastern provinces they will probably drop these threats.
A dem asked what side I was for in Ukraine, I said "I'm against the commies" -- He got real pissed!
Can we please just stop giving these crooks money and build a wall on the southern border before its too late?
That Russia seeks to provide security to both eastern areas and Crimea seems reasonable to me. LOL, invading Ukraine and causing millions of refugees and massive devastation "seems reasonable" to you. Okay.
And will continue to do so until the entire EU has joined NATO. Then the EU will have a military. Well, they will have the US military on speed dial. No need for them to spend their money on it. I really wonder what they are paying Putin with for him to do this.
Lavrov's remarks and the Ukrainian missile attack on the strategically important Kherson region bridge indicated the nearly five-month war could broaden after unfolding mostly in eastern Ukraine since April.Russia's top diplomat noted that when Russia and Ukraine in March discussed a possible deal to end the fighting, Our readiness to accept the Ukrainian proposal was based on the geography of March 2022.Now its a different geography, Lavrov said, repeating Moscow's claims that the United States and Britain were encouraging Ukraine to expand the hostilities.With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia's geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of Zelenskyy or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.
Most of Putin really needs to assimilate 40 million white Ukrainians. European Russia is dying demographically. Killed off by the high abortion rate of Russian women and the drunkenness of Russian men.
Russia will never allow these areas to be wrested from them, If there is any risk of that we will be looking at WW3.
Russia declares plans to grab more land in Ukraine Take me to your daddy's farm.
It is inconceivable to me that anyone could be so foolish as to imagine Russia abandoning either the warm-water port in Crimea or the Russian populated eastern areas.
It is better to light a single flame thrower then curse the darkness.  A bunch of them is better yet
Can we please just stop giving these crooks money and build a wall on the southern border No offense, but I see many people arguing this point, as if the only two things the US can spend money on is Ukraine or the southern border. The bulk of aid sent to Ukraine is in the form of military equipment, such as howitzers or HIMARS that have no relevant use on our southern border
The line has been drawn...everyone needs to cool off and face reality.. every side comes to this with unclean hands. To save us from destruction compromises must be made. The same sort of compromises that rescued us during the Cuban Missile Crises... both sides swallowed hard and moved on...
And listening to too much US State DeptCIANATOUkrainian propaganda. Which everyone must acknowledge is the best in the history of man. Up there with the devil his own self.
The Kherson Bridge is 3 Himars strikes away from being swiss cheese and there are 4 more bridges after that... and then he have to take a City on 1,000,000 people, which is 900,000 more people than any city he has take since March.
KEYWORDS: bidencartel communism energy gas landgrab naturalresources nwo oil oilandgas putinsbuttboys russia schwab soros sovietrussia sovietunion ukraine zotsoviettrolls
No need for them to spend their money on it. I really wonder what they are paying Putin with for him to do this.
... the right of the peopIe to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed
The exact volumes of gas currently lying deep underneath the Black Sea are not yet known. Rough estimates predict that the Ukrainian shelf may contain more than two trillion cubic meters of gas.
You lack discernment, its a learned ability... so there is hope for you my FRiend.
That Russia seeks to provide security to both the eastern areas and Crimea seems reasonable to me. These areas are populated by ethnic Russians and recent history proves they are at risk from the questionable leadership in Kiev.
Correct! Russkies are pathetic owners of Crimea and are going downhill from there. Ukie partisans have Rus stalemated. Thanks stupid Putin. Idiot!
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told state-controlled RT television and the RIA Novosti news agency that Russia plans to retain control over broader areas beyond eastern Ukraine, including the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions in the south, and will make more gains elsewhere.Lavrov's remarks and the Ukrainian missile attack on the strategically important Kherson region bridge indicated the nearly five-month war could broaden after unfolding mostly in eastern Ukraine since April.Russia's top diplomat noted that when Russia and Ukraine in March discussed a possible deal to end the fighting, Our readiness to accept the Ukrainian proposal was based on the geography of March 2022.Now its a different geography, Lavrov said, repeating Moscow's claims that the United States and Britain were encouraging Ukraine to expand the hostilities.With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia's geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of Zelenskyy or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.
Naive. And listening to too much US State DeptCIANATOUkrainian propaganda. Which everyone must acknowledge is the best in the history of man. Up there with the devil his own self.
Seems those Russians just have no idea theyve lost the war. I I mean all the media says so. Better retreat before Zelensky drops his drawers and give the world the second verse with his penis piano.
