The Rebranded Reopening Of McDonalds In Moscow On Russia Day Is Symbolic
20220612
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4070532/posts
Its rebranded reopening on Russia Day is symbolic because it signifies that not much has really changed in the country since the start of its ongoing special military operation in Ukraine apart from the departure of most Western brands. Inflation is an issue there like everywhere else nowadays, but if one wasnt paying attention to the news, then theyd have no idea that the most intense conflict since World War II is presently playing out in the region. That just goes to show what an excellent job the authorities have done in retaining a sense of normality despite the chaos of the global systemic transition. The same cant be said for many Western countries, where energy prices have skyrocketed and thus hit average folks very hard. Thousands of small and medium-sized business are closing or facing the threat thereof, while in Russia the worlds most well-known fast food franchise successfully reopened under a different brand and thus retained the jobs of those 62,000 people who are employed there. Politics aside, thats an impressive achievement that most people in the US-led West probably didnt think was possible due to how much theyve been brainwashed about Russia over the past 100 days. Another point to be made is that while the average Russian patriotically supports their civilization-state and especially its foreign policy in the face of the unprovoked military threats against it from US-led NATO, most arent so political as to boycott the reopening of a rebranded Western fast food restaurant like McDonalds. Thats why Vkusno i Tochkas symbolic opening on Russia Day was widely attended by many people who patronized its 15 locations across Europes most populous city. By contrast, many Westerners are trying to cancel everything connected to Russia in their countries. This observation speaks to the pragmatic and peaceful nature of the Russian people who dont believe in punishing other people or their companies for political reasons. To be sure, many feel betrayed by those brands abandoning their customers for purely political reasons connected to the pressure put upon them by their governments, but they dont hold enough of a grudge not to visit these locations when they reopen like what just happened with the rebranded McDonalds. Its under the control of a Russian businessman now, but its practically the exact same company apart from its ownership. The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
The notion that Russian people would boycott a popular fast food restaurant for any reason is just dumb, and a good example of just how distorted Western "values" have become.
The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
What a Effn joke this whole thing is. And the stupidity on this forum proves how gullible people are.
Laughing here. The Russians got the restaurants, the menu, the employees and the customers of over 800 former McDonalds in Russia and the businesses continue thriving with satisfied Russian customers.
Very true - once the Ukraine supporters in our government finish off the consumption of meat in the West, one will have to travel to non-Western countries, like Russia, if they want to taste meat again.
"They say that we were Cold Warriors. Yes, and a bloody good show, too." - Robert Conquest 
They said just tasty. I think a better translation would be tasty, Period. Sometimes the idiom suffers in translation.
If I was Putin I would ban anything that even looks like a McDonalds. That stuff will kill you.
But dont worry, the soy products with 25 other ingredients will taste fine, when youre hungry enough that is.
MacDonalds is the worst sht anyone can eat for a price only the stupid Californians would pay for.
The same cant be said for many Western countries, where energy prices have skyrocketed and thus hit average folks very hard. Thousands of small and medium-sized business are closing or facing the threat thereof, while in Russia the worlds most well-known fast food franchise successfully reopened under a different brand and thus retained the jobs of those 62,000 people who are employed there. Politics aside, thats an impressive achievement that most people in the US-led West probably didnt think was possible due to how much theyve been brainwashed about Russia over the past 100 days. Another point to be made is that while the average Russian patriotically supports their civilization-state and especially its foreign policy in the face of the unprovoked military threats against it from US-led NATO, most arent so political as to boycott the reopening of a rebranded Western fast food restaurant like McDonalds. Thats why Vkusno i Tochkas symbolic opening on Russia Day was widely attended by many people who patronized its 15 locations across Europes most populous city. By contrast, many Westerners are trying to cancel everything connected to Russia in their countries. This observation speaks to the pragmatic and peaceful nature of the Russian people who dont believe in punishing other people or their companies for political reasons. To be sure, many feel betrayed by those brands abandoning their customers for purely political reasons connected to the pressure put upon them by their governments, but they dont hold enough of a grudge not to visit these locations when they reopen like what just happened with the rebranded McDonalds. Its under the control of a Russian businessman now, but its practically the exact same company apart from its ownership. The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
I wonder if the Josserands are still exporting cattle to the Black Sea area? If so, then the meat that would be consumed at Micky Zs might be from Texas feed lots. What a Effn joke this whole thing is. And the stupidity on this forum proves how gullible people are.
Another point to be made is that while the average Russian patriotically supports their civilization-state and especially its foreign policy in the face of the unprovoked military threats against it from US-led NATO, most arent so political as to boycott the reopening of a rebranded Western fast food restaurant like McDonalds. Thats why Vkusno i Tochkas symbolic opening on Russia Day was widely attended by many people who patronized its 15 locations across Europes most populous city. By contrast, many Westerners are trying to cancel everything connected to Russia in their countries. This observation speaks to the pragmatic and peaceful nature of the Russian people who dont believe in punishing other people or their companies for political reasons. To be sure, many feel betrayed by those brands abandoning their customers for purely political reasons connected to the pressure put upon them by their governments, but they dont hold enough of a grudge not to visit these locations when they reopen like what just happened with the rebranded McDonalds. Its under the control of a Russian businessman now, but its practically the exact same company apart from its ownership. The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
McDonalds sold its Russian businesses to a local entrepreneur late last month who symbolically reopened a rebranded version in Moscow on Russia Day, which is a national holiday that falls on 12 June. The logo has changed and the new name will be Vkusno i Tochka, which RT reports as roughly translating to Just Tasty. Nevertheless, considering the fact that its literally the exact same with respect to excellent service, locally sourced ingredients, and even price, most Russians will probably still refer to it as McDonalds. Its rebranded reopening on Russia Day is symbolic because it signifies that not much has really changed in the country since the start of its ongoing special military operation in Ukraine apart from the departure of most Western brands. Inflation is an issue there like everywhere else nowadays, but if one wasnt paying attention to the news, then theyd have no idea that the most intense conflict since World War II is presently playing out in the region. That just goes to show what an excellent job the authorities have done in retaining a sense of normality despite the chaos of the global systemic transition. The same cant be said for many Western countries, where energy prices have skyrocketed and thus hit average folks very hard. Thousands of small and medium-sized business are closing or facing the threat thereof, while in Russia the worlds most well-known fast food franchise successfully reopened under a different brand and thus retained the jobs of those 62,000 people who are employed there. Politics aside, thats an impressive achievement that most people in the US-led West probably didnt think was possible due to how much theyve been brainwashed about Russia over the past 100 days. Another point to be made is that while the average Russian patriotically supports their civilization-state and especially its foreign policy in the face of the unprovoked military threats against it from US-led NATO, most arent so political as to boycott the reopening of a rebranded Western fast food restaurant like McDonalds. Thats why Vkusno i Tochkas symbolic opening on Russia Day was widely attended by many people who patronized its 15 locations across Europes most populous city. By contrast, many Westerners are trying to cancel everything connected to Russia in their countries. This observation speaks to the pragmatic and peaceful nature of the Russian people who dont believe in punishing other people or their companies for political reasons. To be sure, many feel betrayed by those brands abandoning their customers for purely political reasons connected to the pressure put upon them by their governments, but they dont hold enough of a grudge not to visit these locations when they reopen like what just happened with the rebranded McDonalds. Its under the control of a Russian businessman now, but its practically the exact same company apart from its ownership. The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
"I wouldnt want to eat a hamburger that registered on a Geiger counter." That's because the secret ingredient in the Secret Sauce is Polonium 210.
Excellent opportunity for the Russian business owner.McDonald's has only been established there for over 30 years.And, it was 850 stores.D'oh! Stupid cucks.
The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
Personally, I think its great that Ill be able to get a shot of vodka with my Big Vlad Meal.
Interesting name. Vkusno means tasty and Tochka means dot, also a period at the end of a sentence.
This observation speaks to the pragmatic and peaceful nature of the Russian people who dont believe in punishing other people or their companies for political reasons. To be sure, many feel betrayed by those brands abandoning their customers for purely political reasons connected to the pressure put upon them by their governments, but they dont hold enough of a grudge not to visit these locations when they reopen like what just happened with the rebranded McDonalds. Its under the control of a Russian businessman now, but its practically the exact same company apart from its ownership. The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
If so, then the meat that would be consumed at Micky Zs might be from Texas feed lots. What a Effn joke this whole thing is. And the stupidity on this forum proves how gullible people are.
"The Gardens was founded by men-sportsmen-who fought for their country" Conn Smythe, 1966      
Quit being so dramatic, its only 3.6 Roentgen, which the local party official tells me is the equivalent of a chest x-ray.
There's A War Going On?Kyiv Enjoys Its Freedom! Ukrainians Flock To Beaches In And Soak Up The Sun On The Banks Of The Dnieper....Enjoyed 34 Celsius Heat
My hatred of NeconsGlobalists exceeds my love of Ukraine or any other country, other than the US
The Russian people remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures. McDonalds sold its Russian businesses to a local entrepreneur late last month who symbolically reopened a rebranded version in Moscow on Russia Day, which is a national holiday that falls on 12 June. The logo has changed and the new name will be Vkusno i Tochka, which RT reports as roughly translating to Just Tasty. Nevertheless, considering the fact that its literally the exact same with respect to excellent service, locally sourced ingredients, and even price, most Russians will probably still refer to it as McDonalds. Its rebranded reopening on Russia Day is symbolic because it signifies that not much has really changed in the country since the start of its ongoing special military operation in Ukraine apart from the departure of most Western brands. Inflation is an issue there like everywhere else nowadays, but if one wasnt paying attention to the news, then theyd have no idea that the most intense conflict since World War II is presently playing out in the region. That just goes to show what an excellent job the authorities have done in retaining a sense of normality despite the chaos of the global systemic transition. The same cant be said for many Western countries, where energy prices have skyrocketed and thus hit average folks very hard. Thousands of small and medium-sized business are closing or facing the threat thereof, while in Russia the worlds most well-known fast food franchise successfully reopened under a different brand and thus retained the jobs of those 62,000 people who are employed there. Politics aside, thats an impressive achievement that most people in the US-led West probably didnt think was possible due to how much theyve been brainwashed about Russia over the past 100 days. Another point to be made is that while the average Russian patriotically supports their civilization-state and especially its foreign policy in the face of the unprovoked military threats against it from US-led NATO, most arent so political as to boycott the reopening of a rebranded Western fast food restaurant like McDonalds. Thats why Vkusno i Tochkas symbolic opening on Russia Day was widely attended by many people who patronized its 15 locations across Europes most populous city. By contrast, many Westerners are trying to cancel everything connected to Russia in their countries. This observation speaks to the pragmatic and peaceful nature of the Russian people who dont believe in punishing other people or their companies for political reasons. To be sure, many feel betrayed by those brands abandoning their customers for purely political reasons connected to the pressure put upon them by their governments, but they dont hold enough of a grudge not to visit these locations when they reopen like what just happened with the rebranded McDonalds. Its under the control of a Russian businessman now, but its practically the exact same company apart from its ownership. The point in drawing attention to this is to dispel the US-led Western Mainstream Medias MSM false portrayal of the Russian people as some kind of brainwashed zombies who are obsessed with political virtue signal due to how deeply indoctrinated they supposedly are by the Kremlin. The reality is that its actually the Western people that are brainwashed by their own governments, yet theyre unable to realize this because of how difficult it is for them to obtain reliable information from alternative sources after their authorities either censored Russian media or made it impossible for it to operate. The pragmatism of the Russian people isnt adversely influenced by their medias support of the special operation in Ukraine unlike what the US-led Western MSM claims. Its true that key influencers articulate a never-ending number of reasons for why their compatriots should stand in solidarity with their civilization-state during this pivotal moment in its history, but that hasnt resulted in them wanting to politically boycott  let alone cancel  the rebranded reopening of the worlds most popular American fast food restaurant. All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
If the Golden Arches geniuses keep making brilliant decisions like that they will be history in no time.
All of this is so symbolic because it was on full display during Russia Day, which celebrates their countrys Declaration of State Sovereignty from the erstwhile Soviet Union. It comprehensively discredits the US-led Western MSMs narrative about Russia and its people, who remain open-minded and non-biased towards their geopolitical opponents people and companies despite those twos governments attempting to punish them for purely political reasons. The takeaway is that its the West, not Russia, thats immorally playing politics by trying to cancel people, companies, and even entire cultures.
Kyiv Enjoys Its Freedom! Ukrainians Flock To Beaches In And Soak Up The Sun On The Banks Of The Dnieper....Enjoyed 34 Celsius Heat
