The Ukrainian military has hit the Russian cruiser Moskva by Neptune missiles causing serious damage to the warship
20220414
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4054844/posts
Have you ever been to Ukraine? It is a beautiful country with beautiful people. Have you ever been to Washington, DC?
What we wish is for the Russian people to prevail. And that requires freeing themselves from strongmen like Putin.
Unless that American is conservativer-than-thou and want to virtue signal that he is against something Biden is for.
Maksym Marchenko, the head of the Odesa regional military administration, announced this on Telegram, Ukrinform reports."It has been confirmed that the missile cruiser Moskva went today exactly where it was sent by our border guards on Snake Island. The Neptune missiles guarding the Black Sea caused very serious damage to the Russian ship," Marchenko said.The cruiser Moskva is part of the 30th Surface Ship Division of the Russian Black Sea Fleet.
There will come the day when people realize that the Ukies are a basket of snakes I like that basket of snakes part. The Rooskies should GTFO or be fatally bitten. This works for me.
It seems to me that it is the snakes who attacked another nation on February 24th. The snakes may be winning, but their victims are giving them a hell of a battle. Im rooting for the underdog!!
During the Cold War the enemy of the West wasn't the Russian people. It was the Nomenclatura. Of whom the Russian people were just as much victims as were the Poles or the Czechs. I'm not sure if it's appropriate to refer to Putin and his thugs by the same name, but they're no better, and arguably worse. What we wish is for the Russian people to prevail. And that requires freeing themselves from strongmen like Putin.
"Ammunition stockpiles aboard a Russian ship that was famously defied by Ukrainian troops early in the war have detonated, according to a statement from the Russian defence ministry. Either by Ukraine's anti-ship missiles good or by accident even better, another bad day for the Russian Navy.
"It has been confirmed that the missile cruiser Moskva went today exactly where it was sent by our border guards on Snake Island. The Neptune missiles guarding the Black Sea caused very serious damage to the Russian ship," Marchenko said.The cruiser Moskva is part of the 30th Surface Ship Division of the Russian Black Sea Fleet.
The cruiser Moskva is part of the 30th Surface Ship Division of the Russian Black Sea Fleet.
If you find yourself in a confusing situation, simply laugh knowingly and walk away - Jim Ignatowsk
Either by Ukraine's anti-ship missiles good or by accident even better, another bad day for the Russian Navy.
I'm not sure if it's appropriate to refer to Putin and his thugs by the same name, but they're no better, and arguably worse. What we wish is for the Russian people to prevail. And that requires freeing themselves from strongmen like Putin.
There will come the day when people realize that the Ukies are a basket of snakes and will wish the Russians prevailed. Neither one of them is worth one drop of American blood or treasure, though.
"Ammunition stockpiles aboard a Russian ship that was famously defied by Ukrainian troops early in the war have detonated, according to a statement from the Russian defence ministry. I hope this is true it would be great, but I recall 3 weeks they claim to have sunk the same ship that attacked that island. Perhaps this is a different ship, I don't know. Perhaps its the same ship and they damaged it the first time and scored a direct hit this time. I believe nothing at this point.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the U S of A, and to the REPUBLIC for which it stands.
A Russian source is saying the Moskva has sunk and that the explosion was from a Ukrainian Neptun missile strike. Apparently, Ukraine flew a TB2 UCAV to distract the ship while it was targeted by the Neptun. The ship rolled onto its side after the strike.
There will come the day when people realize that the Ukies are a basket of snakes...
Related to this, Russia says ammo aboard famed warship detonated BBC. "Ammunition stockpiles aboard a Russian ship that was famously defied by Ukrainian troops early in the war have detonated, according to a statement from the Russian defence ministry. Either by Ukraine's anti-ship missiles good or by accident even better, another bad day for the Russian Navy.
There will come the day when people realize that the Ukies are a basket of snakes and will wish the Russians prevailed.During the Cold War the enemy of the West wasn't the Russian people. It was the Nomenclatura. Of whom the Russian people were just as much victims as were the Poles or the Czechs. I'm not sure if it's appropriate to refer to Putin and his thugs by the same name, but they're no better, and arguably worse. What we wish is for the Russian people to prevail. And that requires freeing themselves from strongmen like Putin.
It's the 14th in Ukraine right now, hence tomorrow's date for the U.S.Related to this, Russia says ammo aboard famed warship detonated BBC. "Ammunition stockpiles aboard a Russian ship that was famously defied by Ukrainian troops early in the war have detonated, according to a statement from the Russian defence ministry. Either by Ukraine's anti-ship missiles good or by accident even better, another bad day for the Russian Navy.
2. More likely, the drone was used for targeting, possibly for decoying jamming or dropping chaff, then Russian antimissile defenses were saturated by multiple missiles. If the ship really was sunk, then the Russian Navys history of poor damage control was a factor in her loss.
