Thousands arrested in Russia for protesting Ukraine war
20220303
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4043308/posts
One of the videos shows a mother named Ekaterina Zvizion talking to her seven-year-old daughter Sofia, while a metal cage separates the two after they were arrested near the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. "I watched videos that showed the horrific and inhuman bombing in Kharkov, and I realized I could no longer sit and pretend nothing was happening....
Keep this in mind when TWOTs on MSM say things like: There is not such thing as an innocent Russian  they are all guilty. Or, Google a CCP tool and Apple stop payment systems in Russia.
The Kremlin disapproved of the protests and had many of the demonstrators arrested. Videos released in recent days show mothers trying to explain to their frightened little children who have been arrested why they are behind bars. Most of the children were arrested when they went with their parents to lay flowers at the Ukrainian embassy and carried posters that read "No to War." One of the videos shows a mother named Ekaterina Zvizion talking to her seven-year-old daughter Sofia, while a metal cage separates the two after they were arrested near the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. "I watched videos that showed the horrific and inhuman bombing in Kharkov, and I realized I could no longer sit and pretend nothing was happening....
Funny your handle is the designation of a Russian navy ship. Did you serve in the Russian navy or are you just a fan of the ship?
Opposing the naked aggression of a totalitarian government led by a KGB agent does not make you a NeoCon, not unless Ronald Reagan was a NeoCon.
Just like Canada and the US. Experiencing repression in America itself I find that the leftist propaganda the height of hypocrisy and unpersuasive.
I never heard any of this BS when we did it to Iran, or opposed removing sanctions when Obama wanted to do it, nor did any of us oppose Trump when he was raising tariffs and threatening sanctions on other countries as a way to pressure them to do what he wants--like North Korea. I heard Tucker Carlson saying this BS that you are here repeating and it is utterly retarded. Since when did we become anti-sanctions?
Funny your handle is the designation of a Russian navy ship. And your handle reminds one of a clogged toilet. A special interest of yours?  But I don't mind the juvenile repartee with neocons and MSM dupes. Please carry on. I'll be here.
Yeah, if your shitty Q-conspiracy blog or Liberaltarian blog doesnt report it, it didnt really happen.
Were they housed in a separate juvy cell, or put in with genpop adults, I wonder.
Will XiJinBiden be able to go as far as True-dolt and Ontario Premier Thug Ford did, up here? Seizing assets trucks and having his Stasi RCMP trash them before finally returning them to the owners? And, of course, their bank accounts got taken by the banks happily and True-dolt. The money WONT be returned!
But I don't mind the juvenile repartee with neocons and MSM dupes. Please carry on. I'll be here.
Demonstrations have expanded in recent days to 100 cities across Russia, with tens of thousands of protesters carrying signs and reading slogans against the war, while others laid wreaths near the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. The Kremlin disapproved of the protests and had many of the demonstrators arrested. Videos released in recent days show mothers trying to explain to their frightened little children who have been arrested why they are behind bars. Most of the children were arrested when they went with their parents to lay flowers at the Ukrainian embassy and carried posters that read "No to War." One of the videos shows a mother named Ekaterina Zvizion talking to her seven-year-old daughter Sofia, while a metal cage separates the two after they were arrested near the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. "I watched videos that showed the horrific and inhuman bombing in Kharkov, and I realized I could no longer sit and pretend nothing was happening....
Over 6,500 Russian citizens have been arrested over the past week after protesting against Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Demonstrations have expanded in recent days to 100 cities across Russia, with tens of thousands of protesters carrying signs and reading slogans against the war, while others laid wreaths near the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. The Kremlin disapproved of the protests and had many of the demonstrators arrested. Videos released in recent days show mothers trying to explain to their frightened little children who have been arrested why they are behind bars. Most of the children were arrested when they went with their parents to lay flowers at the Ukrainian embassy and carried posters that read "No to War." One of the videos shows a mother named Ekaterina Zvizion talking to her seven-year-old daughter Sofia, while a metal cage separates the two after they were arrested near the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow. "I watched videos that showed the horrific and inhuman bombing in Kharkov, and I realized I could no longer sit and pretend nothing was happening....
After what has been done to the January 6 protesters, the US has no moral standing criticizing the heavy handed suppression of dissidents in other countries.
So, the money laundering country of Europe gets invaded and all humanity in Russia must suffer, indiscriminately? I never heard any of this BS when we did it to Iran, or opposed removing sanctions when Obama wanted to do it, nor did any of us oppose Trump when he was raising tariffs and threatening sanctions on other countries as a way to pressure them to do what he wants--like North Korea. I heard Tucker Carlson saying this BS that you are here repeating and it is utterly retarded. Since when did we become anti-sanctions?
If the ACTUAL President of the US were still in Office PDJT, as a serf in PRC Politically Repressive Canada, I would ask that PDJT invade this country and free it. I would not be unhappy about being a part of USNA United States of NORTH America. Just leave Quebec to be its own banana, er, maple syrup Republic. It would sure beat the hell out of being part of True-dolts dictatorship!
The only way you know a commie is lying is when they open their pieholes.p
Mind, I dont support Putin. But, if Soros, SeanPenn, BeijingBiden, etal demand I agree with them  Im skeptical.
So, the money laundering country of Europe gets invaded and all humanity in Russia must suffer, indiscriminately?
And your handle reminds one of a clogged toilet. A special interest of yours?  But I don't mind the juvenile repartee with neocons and MSM dupes. Please carry on. I'll be here.
