Three Russian soldiers raped my mother and sister The fourth made me watch Hundreds of cases of rape by Russian soldiers in Ukraine
20220513
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4063064/posts
On 12 April, President Zelenskyy said that hundreds of rapes committed by Russian soldiers have been reported. Taking into account the numbers that appeared in the media, this is by no means an exaggeration. Psy.for.peace psychologist Vasylysa Levchenko told CNN journalist about 50 reports of rape by Russian soldiers, while Ukraines Ombudsperson hotline psychologist Oleksandra Kvitko said that she alone received 70 such reports. Ukraines Commissioner of the Verkhovna Rada for Human Rights Liudmyla Denisova regularly receives information on new cases of rape which are made public only with the consent of the victims.
She was shot at point-blank range. Almost half of her head was missing, Andrii, the tragic womans stepfather, told the news outlet
I didnt see any direct interviews with victims. All were at least second-hand or based on reports.
The Russian Army most typically rapes their recruits. Nothing like brutality to instill brutality in the troops.
This is not to make an excuse. They acted like animals in the period after the capture of Berlin.
The only prisoners Ive seen tortured and killed, for example, were Russians captured by Ukrainians. The Russians have learned a lesson of WW2 from the Americans in the West: treat POWs well, and enemy soldiers are much more likely to surrender. This is, in fact, happening. But the one-sided propaganda here in the West is beyond belief.
There is no question Russian troops brutalized Russian women in post-war Germany. But they had seen a lot of brutal Nazi behavior over the preceding 4 years of total scorched-earth warfare. Atrocities galore. They were pissed beyond measure. American had never seen anything like their war experience, outside of perhaps Georgia during Shermans march to the sea. For all Russians, that is their living memory: scorched earth war to the death, on their home soil. They took it out on the Germans, there is no doubt.
The Russian army has always been notorious for rape. And they dont care if its enemy territory or allied territory.
It wasnt known as The Rape of Berlin for nothing. The Russians !$^ anything and everything, from children to grannies. Some very horrific reports.
Just the pontoon bridge story, for example. Id compare it to making an entire propaganda schtick out of a photo of landing craft blown up on Normandy Beach in the first wave. Disaster on D-Day! Invasion Doomed! Ignoring all the other landing craft successfully unloading troops.
european women have been terrorized by roving rape gangs ever since the muslim refugees were imported... reports were disallowed or buried
Karina Yershova, who lost her nails in the apparent fight for her life, was discovered dumped in a garden in the besieged Kyiv suburb, the Telegraph reported Wednesday.
But here is where we veer down 2 separate paths. Americans still remember Russians that way, as if they are in 2022 still the Red Army of May 1945. They are not.
Rather, todays Russians, in fact, the past couple of generations, were raised on Great Patriotic War movies where the Russians always attempted to be decent humans, even in war. The brutality was airbrushed out of their history. This has had a deep effect. Todays Russian soldiers see themselves the way we think of USA WW2 G.I.s. That is, good soldiers, tough, but always treating prisoners honorably and so on.
This is part of the reason for the extreme cog. diss. seen here on the Freep. Many or most old Cold Warriors I was one, active duty in the 1980s, Russian Studies major at UVA 79 still seem stuck in a 1945 time warp when thinking about Russian soldiers on the modern battlefield.
