Top Russian biologist turns on Putins propaganda insisting claims of USfunded Ukrainian biowarfare labs researching Black Death anthrax and cholera are pure lies and absurd fakes
20220312
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4046149/posts
 2022 - VOTE THE BUMS  OUT  ALL OF THEM! RE-ELECT NO ONE!!!
The Pidor Putin Patrol will be along shortly to call you rude names because you dared to criticize the official Russian narrative.
There is no writing this off as Russian propaganda. The propaganda is much thicker on our side.
'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
But Moscow State University microbiologist Dr Yevgeny Levitin analysed the documentation allegedly seized by the invasion force - and strongly criticised the Russian claims. From a scientific perspective, he says the claims are 'absurd fakes' and 'a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way'. In a sign of rising dissent in Moscow over the war, he went public with his critique and wrote an open letter with other unnamed graduates of his top university to major state and other pro-Kremlin media outlets in Russia... 'They published pure lies. This is a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way,' he said of the bio-weapons. 'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.' He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
Since weve already admitted both the labs exist and that biological weapons are in those labs, I can only surmise that this persons fingerprints must be on them.
The people here spreading Russian and anti-American lies sicken me. And while innocents are murdered by that Russian pig in a dirty war.
'They published pure lies. This is a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way,' he said of the bio-weapons. 'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.' He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
This is funny...first Russia said they were fighting Nazis, the its bio labs, then they said there was no invasion! They even lie about the Olympics ffs.
From a scientific perspective, he says the claims are 'absurd fakes' and 'a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way'. In a sign of rising dissent in Moscow over the war, he went public with his critique and wrote an open letter with other unnamed graduates of his top university to major state and other pro-Kremlin media outlets in Russia... 'They published pure lies. This is a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way,' he said of the bio-weapons. 'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.' He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
A Moscow microbiologist has accused the Kremlin of 'pure lies' and 'propaganda' in claiming Ukraine had secret US-funded biowarfare labs which they claim could attack Russia... But Moscow State University microbiologist Dr Yevgeny Levitin analysed the documentation allegedly seized by the invasion force - and strongly criticised the Russian claims. From a scientific perspective, he says the claims are 'absurd fakes' and 'a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way'. In a sign of rising dissent in Moscow over the war, he went public with his critique and wrote an open letter with other unnamed graduates of his top university to major state and other pro-Kremlin media outlets in Russia... 'They published pure lies. This is a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way,' he said of the bio-weapons. 'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.' He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
Yes of course, but now theyre on here saying Klaus Schwab once kissed a mooses sister while eating pierogies, and we all know Justin Trudeau had pierogies at a pancake house in Kiev in which WEF flyers were posted by someone resembling John McCain.
Well, at best, they are Wuhan-style biolabs even if they weren't designed to produce bioweapons. What American would want one of those near a city they lived in? There is no writing this off as Russian propaganda. The propaganda is much thicker on our side.
Look, the DS media operatives made Hunters laptop with dates,video,names and times a  non-issue, so this bio lab story probably wont last 2 weeks.
The deep state will never forgive Russia for abandoning communism. That is why they hate them.
What American would want one of those near a city they lived in? There is no writing this off as Russian propaganda. The propaganda is much thicker on our side.
The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
Dont forget, Russia and Ukraine were one country during the Cold War and until 8 years ago when HillaryObama overthrew their government, were friendly countries towards each other, so the chances of this guy being a Fauchi in regard to doing his research in other countries is quite high.
Another top Kremlin bio-weapons expert, Samhail Hydeski concurred, stating Its all lies, lies, I tell you! Dont educate yourselfski , trust your Vice Presidentski for facts - Da! She is truth-teller!.
Who knows what the whole truth is. What we do know however is that Ukraine is being controlled by very dark people. The Bidens are just some of those people. To be fair it appears that Lindsey Graham is also one of them. He and his buddy John McCain were very involved.
He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
They will continue to believe uncritically in these conspiracies and will cling to any evidence, no matter how irrational or how much it fails to prove anything, to buttress their already entrenched prejudices and beliefs.
In a sign of rising dissent in Moscow over the war, he went public with his critique and wrote an open letter with other unnamed graduates of his top university to major state and other pro-Kremlin media outlets in Russia... 'They published pure lies. This is a deliberate lie, which is not justified in any way,' he said of the bio-weapons. 'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.' He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
Oh the Russian scientist is involved because Russia and Ukraine were once a single country, so the scientist must have been involved.
An actual microbiologist. At a major university. In Russia. But what does he know, right?
It is not possible to reason with these Putinists. The same behavior Ive seen from Jehovahs Witnesses, Mormons when I talk about Joseph Smiths provable lies, Scientologists, and other cultists, I also see in these Putinists. It is the same exact cycle. Not a discussion. Not a debate of any kind.
Yup The deep state will never forgive Russia for abandoning communism. That is why they hate them.
'This will become obvious to any person who takes the trouble to simply carefully read the documents attached to the allegation of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine.' He suggested other Russian scientists were scared to speak out on the propaganda, but agreed with him... The paperwork attatched to the Russian allegations show laboratories existed in Poltava and Kharkiv, but they were not involved in bio-warfare, contrary to the claims of Konashenkov, Russia's frontman on the war, Dr Levitin said. The pathogens under research were not potential bio-weapons. 'They are used in any epidemiological institute, in any microbiological laboratory, even in any sanitary and epidemiological station where samples are sown,' he said... But Dr Levitin said it was normal to get rid of strains every six months but none of these were dangerous. He explained that it was not sinister, but a matter of international medical research that some labs in Ukraine would be funded by the US.
Intel now threatening top Russian biologists!!! I dont believe ONE WORD of any of this propaganda I fully believe we have labs in Ukraine I am now wondering what other corrupt countries Fauci has these labs in!! Our government is OUT OF CONTROL, we are living under oligarchs who are NOW arresting GOLD STAR mothers BASTARDS!!!
