Tribulation Rising The Globalists Need a War
20220326
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4049799/posts
I suspect the Poles and the Balkan States wouldnt mind a crack at an overextended Russia.
 It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen. 
Why cant they just let China and Russia stay out as the isolationalists. Maybe they are allowing China.
Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
The conflict could also abruptly end before this periodical hits your mailbox. Russia is paying an economic price that is staggering. But most analysts feel Russia will do to Ukraine what they did to Aleppo, Syria: Virtually wipe her off the map. The Bear Is Out of Hibernation Ronald Reagan, in his peace through strength, forced the Russian bear into hibernation years ago. Not any longer. Hes come out of his den, hes angry, and hes a ruthless destroyer. Society became fear-based two years ago with the pandemic, which opened the door for government overreach and dependence on government. More and more, the world longs for a governmental leader, a Mr. Fix-It. Right now, such a person is not prominent. He may be obscure at this time, but he is waiting in the wings. Not one world capital can boast of a successful leader. That is why this headline captivated my attention, posted to Fox News, digital: Saving Ukraine: Looking for a World Leader to Stand Up. Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
Not one world capital can boast of a successful leader. That is why this headline captivated my attention, posted to Fox News, digital: Saving Ukraine: Looking for a World Leader to Stand Up. Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
So you have to ask.. is Putin evil, yes. How about the puppet and deep state they will install if Putin is out.
Ive been looking for the Mr. Fix-it to make an appearance. Thought for awhile it might be the Pope. But he will probably be just a useful idiot.
Actually, Putin needs a war because the territory in his crosshairs wont come quietly. The rest of the West is placing negligible sums of cash on the collection plate in hopes the doughty fighters of Ukraine will ward off the Russian bear so that it doesnt come closer to their door.
Biden was out talking about new world order. Russia and maybe China are standing between Biden, Soros n co and their reality of nwo. COVID gaven them the ultimate tactic and best of all.. the majority of it under a Republican prez. I know they are still giddy over that. Lockdown America was a complete success.
They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
Ronald Reagan, in his peace through strength, forced the Russian bear into hibernation years ago. Not any longer. Hes come out of his den, hes angry, and hes a ruthless destroyer. Society became fear-based two years ago with the pandemic, which opened the door for government overreach and dependence on government. More and more, the world longs for a governmental leader, a Mr. Fix-It. Right now, such a person is not prominent. He may be obscure at this time, but he is waiting in the wings. Not one world capital can boast of a successful leader. That is why this headline captivated my attention, posted to Fox News, digital: Saving Ukraine: Looking for a World Leader to Stand Up. Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
My dad had a Delta 88. That was a car. It was like driving your living room.
We do not know where the Russia Ukraine conflict is heading in Eastern Europe. In a worst-case scenario, Russia will try to seize much of its old territory. The Baltics are in the bears sites, as well as Poland, Romania, and Hungary. And while Ukraine has fought the good fight and, she cannot overpower Putins military. The conflict could also abruptly end before this periodical hits your mailbox. Russia is paying an economic price that is staggering. But most analysts feel Russia will do to Ukraine what they did to Aleppo, Syria: Virtually wipe her off the map. The Bear Is Out of Hibernation Ronald Reagan, in his peace through strength, forced the Russian bear into hibernation years ago. Not any longer. Hes come out of his den, hes angry, and hes a ruthless destroyer. Society became fear-based two years ago with the pandemic, which opened the door for government overreach and dependence on government. More and more, the world longs for a governmental leader, a Mr. Fix-It. Right now, such a person is not prominent. He may be obscure at this time, but he is waiting in the wings. Not one world capital can boast of a successful leader. That is why this headline captivated my attention, posted to Fox News, digital: Saving Ukraine: Looking for a World Leader to Stand Up. Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
Society became fear-based two years ago with the pandemic, which opened the door for government overreach and dependence on government. More and more, the world longs for a governmental leader, a Mr. Fix-It. Right now, such a person is not prominent. He may be obscure at this time, but he is waiting in the wings. Not one world capital can boast of a successful leader. That is why this headline captivated my attention, posted to Fox News, digital: Saving Ukraine: Looking for a World Leader to Stand Up. Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
Ukraine is immensely larger than Aleppo. This just cannot happened, Putin has not enough loads and bombs.
The Bear Is Out of Hibernation Ronald Reagan, in his peace through strength, forced the Russian bear into hibernation years ago. Not any longer. Hes come out of his den, hes angry, and hes a ruthless destroyer. Society became fear-based two years ago with the pandemic, which opened the door for government overreach and dependence on government. More and more, the world longs for a governmental leader, a Mr. Fix-It. Right now, such a person is not prominent. He may be obscure at this time, but he is waiting in the wings. Not one world capital can boast of a successful leader. That is why this headline captivated my attention, posted to Fox News, digital: Saving Ukraine: Looking for a World Leader to Stand Up. Weapons of Mass Distraction? Some feel this conflict is a weapon of mass distraction planned by the World Economic Forum and George Soros. They need a constant crisis. They instigated a plandemic and now have orchestrated a war, all to destabilize. America and capitalism must be taken down for a new world order to rise. Ukraines President Zelensky is a lackey of the World Economic Forum, and in his heart, may have as much loyalty to this...
