Trump warns world war could be next as Russia continues invasion in Ukraine
20220227
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4041856/posts
VP is after the natural resources in Ukraine and by stickiness to the phony script he might get some of it.
If VP goes off-script because it always was just an excuse and whips out some big boy weapons and starts parting the waters on
The Hill, 22622: A new CAPS-Harris Poll survey released Friday found that 62 percent of those polled believed Putin would not be moving against Ukraine if Trump had been president
Time for them to step up and handle things themselves. America can and should sit this one out.
Europes wars have been pushing borders back and forth for over a thousand years, and they never needed our help in doing it.
I just think its a shame that this is going on. Its something that should not be going on, Trump said.
Just think. A few blown up roads to entrap Russian tanks. Flood the fields so they wont escape. Sitting ducks.
So the whole Ukraine joins NATO excuse is BS as Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia already are NATO and are all the same distance from Moscow.
When asked if he had a message to Putin, the president said: I have no message.
I am not buying the joining NATO excuse or the Ukraine historically is Russian territory excuse.
Biden is letting Russia attack Ukraine because Ukraine stopped paying Hunter his millions for doing nothing. See what happens when you stop paying millions to the bidens for doing nothing. Continue paying them or they will sic the Russians on you.
You never think a war is going to come out of it, he continued. All of a sudden, you end up in a world war.
Want him at the head of the US should war break out, not like that mealy mouthed FDR at the start.
That said, it is the overhyped rhetoric that will make this more serious than it has to be.
EXCLUSIVE: ORLANDO, Fla.  Former President Trump warned that Russias multi-front invasion in Ukraine could lead to "world war" and told Fox News Digital that the Biden administration is going to have to "do a lot more than just sanctions" to stop Russian President Vladimir Putin.
That would give him a nice fat buffer between the new border and Moscow that lots of folks say he is worried about if Ukraine joins NATO.
It was only 100 years ago that Woodrow Wilson stuck our nose in where it didnt belong, and the American people have paid the price ever since.
Good Trump said this. Maybe the war will end now because when Trump speaks the RATS and RINOs have to do the opposite to prove Trump wrong.
While the USA was spending its treasure and blood protecting the Euros, the Euros were building wealth and at the same time complaining about us.
You got that right. Until the Japs and the Nazis screwed with us. And then we reacted.
Almost like the world is getting back to normal now that Trump isnt President anymore
That would also be an attack on three existing NATO countries which would trigger a B-I-G fat very real war.
If VP sticks to his scripted excuse that Ukraine historically is Russian territory then the situation might be contained.
Thousands of people, I mean, this can lead to much bigger than this one area, Trump warned. This could lead to a lot of other countries and can lead to world war.
