Ukraine 7 vanity
20220614
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4070854/posts
Ukraine 7 vanity Its been nearly two months in this series of pro-Putinpro-Russia vanity Ukraine threads. Things are progressing favorably for Russia in this special operation to liberate the pro-Russian Eastern sections of Ukraine. Although Ukraine is currently estimating a 10-1 kill ratio in favor of Ukraine, my pro-Russian sources are more accurately describing the 10-1 kill ratio in favor of Russia. Russia is accomplishing this with drones and superior artillery. A favorite source is Intel Slava on Telegram social media which posts about the war from Russias perspective. The motivations for the United States having this proxy war in Ukraine have not been adequately explored. It is senseless to knock down Russia as a geopolitical rival because the net effect is that both countries are ostensibly weakened relative to China. If one was into creating geopolitical rivals I am not as I am in favor of limited global trade barriers it would seem that China would be the one to target. It seems to me that the primary motivation behind US involvement in this conflict is to line the pockets of the military industrial complex. By donating weapons to Ukraine the US simultaneously spares American military deaths and feeds its political donors at Raytheon, L-3 and other military contractors. Although this viewpoint is very disagreeable, this conflict is enhancing the weapon making abilities of American military contractors. This is a similar motivation as with the vaxx mandates which lined the pockets of the political donors in the pharmaceutical industrial complex. Corruption is alive and well in the United States and we need politicians who dont care about lining their pockets at the expense of the American people. It is now just a waiting game. Eventually Ukraine will surrender. The sooner they do it the less land they will lose to Russia. The farther West Russia goes the less interested it is in acquiring additional territory. But it will take the land if Zelensky remains stubborn.
Their oil revenues now exceed the costs of the war, and have since the onset.
Following the trade barriers both the US and Russia have supply chain problems. Surely you would acknowledge the rubles rally?
KEYWORDS: 10percent4bigguy 12percent4bigguy agitprop angryneoconsbelow blueandyellowdrank clownworld itsthecommiesbro kremlinpropaganda neocons4biden propaganda sovietrussia ukraine ukraineislosing ukrainewelfarestate ukrainicorns wrongsideofthistoo zelenskypuffers zottheneocons zotthetraitors
I suppose Russia has no financial worries, and their military is as strong as ever?
When are you going to stop spreading disinfo? We already know a lot of that money isnt going anywhere near Ukraine, and we will find out more and more of it isnt.
Do some research you fool. Financial war, not nukes. They are kicking our ass right now because dolts like you are in charge.
Its been nearly two months in this series of pro-Putinpro-Russia vanity Ukraine threads. Things are progressing favorably for Russia in this special operation to liberate the pro-Russian Eastern sections of Ukraine. Although Ukraine is currently estimating a 10-1 kill ratio in favor of Ukraine, my pro-Russian sources are more accurately describing the 10-1 kill ratio in favor of Russia. Russia is accomplishing this with drones and superior artillery. A favorite source is Intel Slava on Telegram social media which posts about the war from Russias perspective. The motivations for the United States having this proxy war in Ukraine have not been adequately explored. It is senseless to knock down Russia as a geopolitical rival because the net effect is that both countries are ostensibly weakened relative to China. If one was into creating geopolitical rivals I am not as I am in favor of limited global trade barriers it would seem that China would be the one to target. It seems to me that the primary motivation behind US involvement in this conflict is to line the pockets of the military industrial complex. By donating weapons to Ukraine the US simultaneously spares American military deaths and feeds its political donors at Raytheon, L-3 and other military contractors. Although this viewpoint is very disagreeable, this conflict is enhancing the weapon making abilities of American military contractors. This is a similar motivation as with the vaxx mandates which lined the pockets of the political donors in the pharmaceutical industrial complex. Corruption is alive and well in the United States and we need politicians who dont care about lining their pockets at the expense of the American people. It is now just a waiting game. Eventually Ukraine will surrender. The sooner they do it the less land they will lose to Russia. The farther West Russia goes the less interested it is in acquiring additional territory. But it will take the land if Zelensky remains stubborn.
The motivations for the United States having this proxy war in Ukraine have not been adequately explored. It is senseless to knock down Russia as a geopolitical rival because the net effect is that both countries are ostensibly weakened relative to China. If one was into creating geopolitical rivals I am not as I am in favor of limited global trade barriers it would seem that China would be the one to target. It seems to me that the primary motivation behind US involvement in this conflict is to line the pockets of the military industrial complex. By donating weapons to Ukraine the US simultaneously spares American military deaths and feeds its political donors at Raytheon, L-3 and other military contractors. Although this viewpoint is very disagreeable, this conflict is enhancing the weapon making abilities of American military contractors. This is a similar motivation as with the vaxx mandates which lined the pockets of the political donors in the pharmaceutical industrial complex. Corruption is alive and well in the United States and we need politicians who dont care about lining their pockets at the expense of the American people. It is now just a waiting game. Eventually Ukraine will surrender. The sooner they do it the less land they will lose to Russia. The farther West Russia goes the less interested it is in acquiring additional territory. But it will take the land if Zelensky remains stubborn.
It is now just a waiting game. Eventually Ukraine will surrender. The sooner they do it the less land they will lose to Russia. The farther West Russia goes the less interested it is in acquiring additional territory. But it will take the land if Zelensky remains stubborn.
Precisely. There are no good guys involved, except some poor Ukes caught in the middle of this poo-fest. The idea that a war involving a country whose leadership was provably grifting with Hunter Biden and The Big Guy long before the war, is somehow in the interests of the overall US, is laughable.
The US would have been better off without financing Ukraine and without tariffs on Russia. I am very much pro America in all of this. American neutrality would have benefited us.
I believe in American neutrality in this. I think would be more accurate to say that I am both Pro-Ukraine and Pro-RussiaI want both nations to thrive, which will only happen with Ukraine surrender.
The soviets were a sledgehammer.... the russians are a shiv. You are not the brightest bulb in the marque. It is not pre Reagan. I hate that our sides SMART GUYS are morons. Post turtles. Fighting the last war. Ignoramuses. Dolts. Dullards.
It seems to me that the primary motivation behind US involvement in this conflict is to line the pockets of the military industrial complex. By donating weapons to Ukraine the US simultaneously spares American military deaths and feeds its political donors at Raytheon, L-3 and other military contractors. Although this viewpoint is very disagreeable, this conflict is enhancing the weapon making abilities of American military contractors. This is a similar motivation as with the vaxx mandates which lined the pockets of the political donors in the pharmaceutical industrial complex. Corruption is alive and well in the United States and we need politicians who dont care about lining their pockets at the expense of the American people. It is now just a waiting game. Eventually Ukraine will surrender. The sooner they do it the less land they will lose to Russia. The farther West Russia goes the less interested it is in acquiring additional territory. But it will take the land if Zelensky remains stubborn.
Youre quite a liar in claiming neutrality. You seem to have forgotten what you wrote in the op.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire, or both.
Russia is making a profit off burning Ukraine to the ground, and the west is paying it.
