Ukraine says Russia wants to split nation calls for more arms
20220327
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4050101/posts
Im sure arming criminals and nazis will be fine. The Ukraine is probably just selling the weapons on the black market anyway.
I dont know why Freepers keep posting news about this war. Nobody here believes anything reported from any source anyway and the thread quickly devolves into dueling Youre just a RussianUkrainian stooge!
Eastern Ukraine, which is largely ethnically Russian east of the river, would likely leave ukraine, IMO.
We need the soil of the Donbass region for farming. NATO must roll in and free Donbass of the Russian invaders and settlers sent there illegally by Stalin. The UKRs will need to authorize the clearing operation.
The two Russian speaking provinces were guaranteed a vote on independence under Minsk II, IIRC.
No more forcing people not to speak their native tongue and attacking those who you want to submit to the other way.
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy urged the West to give Ukraine tanks, planes and missiles to help fend off the Russian forces, which the Kyiv government said were increasingly targeting fuel and food depots. Meanwhile, U.S. officials continued efforts to soften comments on Saturday from U.S. President Joe Biden, who said in a fiery speech in Poland that Russian leader Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
Russia wants to split Ukraine into two, as happened with North and South Korea, Ukraines military intelligence chief said on Sunday, vowing total guerrilla warfare to prevent a carve up of the country. President Volodymyr Zelenskiy urged the West to give Ukraine tanks, planes and missiles to help fend off the Russian forces, which the Kyiv government said were increasingly targeting fuel and food depots. Meanwhile, U.S. officials continued efforts to soften comments on Saturday from U.S. President Joe Biden, who said in a fiery speech in Poland that Russian leader Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
Ecce Crucem Domiip!  Fugite partes adversae! Vicit Leo de tribu Juda, Radix David! Alleluia! 
Unfortunately, those cruise missiles are being used sparingly and only a few have been reported in the Livi area. None near any other western border.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
And much is being destroyed along along the Polish border, that includes many foreign fighters barracks.Ivan has some very accurate cruise missiles and spies relaying information.
This story was largely ignored by ABC  CBS  NBC  CNN  Ask yourself why
Nothing but more Ukrainian propaganda. Ukraine was given Russian territories in 1954 as a Soviet appeasement. Those territories have always thought of themselves as Russian and not Ukrainian. Using Korea as an example is nothing but emotional propaganda meant to suck in the feeble minded.
The best solution is still a vote. Eastern Ukraine, which is largely ethnically Russian east of the river, would likely leave ukraine, IMO.
Splitting it is a good idea. It will put an end to this. You want to be with Europe? Live in the west. You prefer Russia? Live in the east.
Joe is already on board for splitting Ukraine up. He said so before Putin invaded.
Meanwhile, U.S. officials continued efforts to soften comments on Saturday from U.S. President Joe Biden, who said in a fiery speech in Poland that Russian leader Vladimir Putin cannot remain in power.
Most US aid is being held up before it crosses into Ukraine by US bureaucrats.
Biden - There's going to be a new world order out there and we've got to lead it
