Ukraine mayor abducted by Russian troops released from captivity officials say
20220317
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4047360/posts
The news that Melitopol Mayor Ivan Fedorov was no longer in Russian hands was announced by Andriy Yermak, the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine. "Mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov has been released from Russian captivity," he wrote in a Telegram post. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, the deputy head of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office, confirmed on Facebook that Zelenskyy had spoken with Fedorov. Ukraine Defense Ministry posted a video of the president talking to the mayor via cellphone. "We do not abandon ours," Zelenskyy said, the ministry said in a tweet. In an earlier post, he said a "special operation aiming to free the mayor of Melitopol" had just been successfully completed. Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
"We do not abandon ours," Zelenskyy said, the ministry said in a tweet. In an earlier post, he said a "special operation aiming to free the mayor of Melitopol" had just been successfully completed. Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
"Mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov has been released from Russian captivity," he wrote in a Telegram post. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, the deputy head of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office, confirmed on Facebook that Zelenskyy had spoken with Fedorov. Ukraine Defense Ministry posted a video of the president talking to the mayor via cellphone. "We do not abandon ours," Zelenskyy said, the ministry said in a tweet. In an earlier post, he said a "special operation aiming to free the mayor of Melitopol" had just been successfully completed. Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
A Ukrainian mayor who was abducted by Russian forces last week has been released from captivity, officials said Wednesday. The news that Melitopol Mayor Ivan Fedorov was no longer in Russian hands was announced by Andriy Yermak, the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine. "Mayor of Melitopol Ivan Fedorov has been released from Russian captivity," he wrote in a Telegram post. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, the deputy head of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office, confirmed on Facebook that Zelenskyy had spoken with Fedorov. Ukraine Defense Ministry posted a video of the president talking to the mayor via cellphone. "We do not abandon ours," Zelenskyy said, the ministry said in a tweet. In an earlier post, he said a "special operation aiming to free the mayor of Melitopol" had just been successfully completed. Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
Rumor is that he was exchanged for some of those captured Russian conscripts that Putin promised the mothers of Russia would not be sent to the Ukrainian front.
Kyrylo Tymoshenko, the deputy head of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office, confirmed on Facebook that Zelenskyy had spoken with Fedorov. Ukraine Defense Ministry posted a video of the president talking to the mayor via cellphone. "We do not abandon ours," Zelenskyy said, the ministry said in a tweet. In an earlier post, he said a "special operation aiming to free the mayor of Melitopol" had just been successfully completed. Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
In an earlier post, he said a "special operation aiming to free the mayor of Melitopol" had just been successfully completed. Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
Theory - if it was a trade, it was because Putin wants to keep conscripts from talking to relatives and friends about what was really happening in the invasion, esp. The resistance to them.
Fedorov was taken March 11 while at a crisis center in Melitopol and was led out the building with a plastic bag over his head, the Ukrainian parliament said.
Ukraine mayor abducted by Russian troops released from captivity, officials sayDoes he "love Big Brother" now?Regards,
