Ukraines president told Biden to calm down Russian invasion warnings saying he was creating unwanted panic report
20220128
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4033433/posts
Waiting for the renewed calls of Trump Russia collusion if this was all just a setup to embarrass the eff out of this administration leading into midterms.
Russias surface area ensures their oil and gas will outlast everyone elses. Putin knows this. He knows Russian dominance is inevitable. So he has no desire to interfere with inevitability by creating excuse for war.
Yep. The wells gone dry in Afghanistan. No more $1B a WEEK to divy up. That $500M Ukraine got this year was a pittance. Joes 10 was only $50M. Cant live on that!!
The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
However, Zelensky told Biden in the call that Ukraine did not agree with the US assessment, and that it was bringing panic that could later bring economic hardship to Ukraine, CNN reported, citing a senior Ukrainian official. Zelensky also told Biden to "calm down the messaging," CNN reported, citing the official. The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
Zelensky also told Biden to "calm down the messaging," CNN reported, citing the official. The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
Biden told Zelensky on Thursday that a Russian invasion could happen as soon as February, when the ground freezes over, tweeted Emily Horne, White House National Security Council spokesperson. However, Zelensky told Biden in the call that Ukraine did not agree with the US assessment, and that it was bringing panic that could later bring economic hardship to Ukraine, CNN reported, citing a senior Ukrainian official. Zelensky also told Biden to "calm down the messaging," CNN reported, citing the official. The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
According to Bob Gates, Secretary of Defense under Obama said in his book, Joe Biden has been wrong about every foreign policy issue for the last 40 years.
The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
I want my war! Give it to me, now! I want it, I want it! Cmon man!!
Biden and Zelensky spoke by phone Thursday amid rising tensions between Russia  which is amassing tens of thousands of troops at Ukraine's border  Ukraine, the US, and NATO. Biden told Zelensky on Thursday that a Russian invasion could happen as soon as February, when the ground freezes over, tweeted Emily Horne, White House National Security Council spokesperson. However, Zelensky told Biden in the call that Ukraine did not agree with the US assessment, and that it was bringing panic that could later bring economic hardship to Ukraine, CNN reported, citing a senior Ukrainian official. Zelensky also told Biden to "calm down the messaging," CNN reported, citing the official. The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
Besides, imagine how much easier it will be than it already is to suppress public dissent if there was a good ol war against Russia going.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told President Joe Biden to "calm down the messaging" about the threat of a Russian invasion because it was stirring panic, CNN reported, citing an unnamed Ukrainian official. Biden and Zelensky spoke by phone Thursday amid rising tensions between Russia  which is amassing tens of thousands of troops at Ukraine's border  Ukraine, the US, and NATO. Biden told Zelensky on Thursday that a Russian invasion could happen as soon as February, when the ground freezes over, tweeted Emily Horne, White House National Security Council spokesperson. However, Zelensky told Biden in the call that Ukraine did not agree with the US assessment, and that it was bringing panic that could later bring economic hardship to Ukraine, CNN reported, citing a senior Ukrainian official. Zelensky also told Biden to "calm down the messaging," CNN reported, citing the official. The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The official White House readout of Biden's call did not mention Zelensky's reported concern. The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
It seems pretty obvious Biden is trying to draw attention away from his many domestic failures with his rhetoric about the Ukraine and Russia.
Just like with the Russian collusion nonsense, the Biden regime is pushing a false narrative and creating a Russian boogeyman to achieve its agenda. In this case, its to give the media a story to distract the public from the Biden regime's failures and, likely, to pay off defense contractors that are producing weapons for Ukraine.
Biden NEEDS this war to happen, so he can get his polls back up. .......................
Damn Lindsey Graham and all the idiots that bought into all this propaganda, hook, line and sinker. Just like with the Russian collusion nonsense, the Biden regime is pushing a false narrative and creating a Russian boogeyman to achieve its agenda. In this case, its to give the media a story to distract the public from the Biden regime's failures and, likely, to pay off defense contractors that are producing weapons for Ukraine.
The former Obozo White House staff is doing all it can to defer current internal problems they created for Biden.
He got a lot of civilians needlessly killed in Afghanistan too, including all the people the Taliban now have free reign to murder as they please.
KEYWORDS: bidencorrupt bidenlies bidenphoneconvo billbostock brandon4war brandonswar businessinsider dementia dementiajoe notaperfectcall releasethetranscript ukraine war whosincontrol
Big Pharma, Big Tech and the US Chamber of Commerce have all gotten their payoff from Biden - the defense industry wants theirs now, too.
imagine how much easier it will be TO WIN IN NOVEMBER if there was a good ol war against Russia going.
The official told CNN that the call "did not go well." The White House told the network that characterization was false and that anonymous sources were "leaking falsehoods."
One might suspect Biden of knowing it, too, but his Green wackos would never allow this narrative to exist. They will persuade him oil and gas dont matter.
But Obama chose Biden as VP for his foreign policy expertise! Both of them are idiots!
"When we see the image of a baby in the womb, we glimpse the majesty of God's creation." Pres. Trump
The difference now is Biden has real power to get people killed as POTUS, he got 13 Soldiers killed in Afghanistan, he could be causing thousands to get killed in Ukraine, all because these liberal nut jobs are trying to make Biden look tough before the 2022 midterm elections.
