Ukraine war Chernobyl scarred by Russian troops damage and looting
20220604
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4068492/posts
Maybe they thought the computers where those toilet things they heard so much about back home
The explosion of a reactor at Chernobyl spread radiation across Europe in 1986. The decommissioned plant, north of Kyiv, lies near the Belarus border and was quickly occupied by Russian troops after their 24 February invasion. Russian forces controlled the plant for five weeks before withdrawing on 31 March.
Its what, 125 miles from the Russian border? Id take this disinfo with a couple of boulders of salt.
A brief elevation in radiation levels occurred during spring wildfire season - an annual occurrence.
Why would there be 1,000 computers at an entombed nuclear plant? And if they were really lucky, they were IBMIntel XT 286s!
Ukraine says the Russian army looted or damaged more than 1,000 computers at the Chernobyl nuclear power station
The Daily Mail said the Russian soldiers in Chernobyl picked their noses and ate boogers...
The decommissioned plant, north of Kyiv, lies near the Belarus border and was quickly occupied by Russian troops after their 24 February invasion. Russian forces controlled the plant for five weeks before withdrawing on 31 March.
Serously, the fact of idiot Russians digging trenches at Chernobyl is well documented. The 800-1200 dead claim is backed up by the fact the Russian positions were uncontested and then their retreat from Chernobyl was all their idea.
And around 800-1200 Soviet troops were made to dig trenches in the area. Lots of them are now dead and the survivors wish they were.
The losses caused by the Russian occupation - now ended - are put at more than 1.6bn hryvnia 44m $54m. The explosion of a reactor at Chernobyl spread radiation across Europe in 1986. The decommissioned plant, north of Kyiv, lies near the Belarus border and was quickly occupied by Russian troops after their 24 February invasion. Russian forces controlled the plant for five weeks before withdrawing on 31 March.
Point is, any radiation from the plant irradiates Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. Thats why it was so important for Russia to gain control to prevent a Ukrainian false flag attack on the plant and release of radiation.
Chernobyl's information director Vitaliy Medved said nuclear equipment was not damaged and "regarding radiation safety everything is OK". The losses caused by the Russian occupation - now ended - are put at more than 1.6bn hryvnia 44m $54m. The explosion of a reactor at Chernobyl spread radiation across Europe in 1986. The decommissioned plant, north of Kyiv, lies near the Belarus border and was quickly occupied by Russian troops after their 24 February invasion. Russian forces controlled the plant for five weeks before withdrawing on 31 March.
Utter idiocy to order troops to dig in at a lethally radioactive nuclear disaster site.
Those Ukrainians had to have taken lessons from the Dems. Nobody can be that malicious and transparent at lying without lots of study.
Ukraine says the Russian army looted or damaged more than 1,000 computers at the Chernobyl nuclear power station and stole trucks and radiation dosimeters. Chernobyl's information director Vitaliy Medved said nuclear equipment was not damaged and "regarding radiation safety everything is OK". The losses caused by the Russian occupation - now ended - are put at more than 1.6bn hryvnia 44m $54m. The explosion of a reactor at Chernobyl spread radiation across Europe in 1986. The decommissioned plant, north of Kyiv, lies near the Belarus border and was quickly occupied by Russian troops after their 24 February invasion. Russian forces controlled the plant for five weeks before withdrawing on 31 March.
Part of the plant is still operational and the containment facility is under constant monitoring.
At the end of April, the IAEA visited the site and observed radiation levels in the exclusion zone, including the infamous trenches, at about the same levels observed since 1986.
Chernobyl is a few miles from the border withBiaoru. The army of Putin invaded northern Ukraine via Biaorus
