Ukraine rebels mobilise sic troops amid fears Russia seeking pretext to invade
20220219
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4039677/posts
Thank the Clintons for Suckering Ukraine to give up their Nukes . Russia have invaded just like they did in Crimea.
In Ukraine...you can only own a gun for hunting. And thats why their using toy guns for practice.
I wonder if Ukrainians know there is a war going on in the US and spend all day thinking about it?
I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers," Pushilin said. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need."
Separatist leaders in eastern Ukraine ordered a full military mobilization Saturday amid a spike of violence in the war-torn region and fears in the West that Russia might use the strife as a pretext for an invasion. Denis Pushilin, the head of the pro-Russia separatist government in Ukraine's Donetsk region, released a statement announcing a full troop mobilization. A similar announcement quickly followed from his counterpart in the Luhansk region. Pushilin cited an immediate threat of aggression" from Ukrainian forces, accusations that Ukrainian officials vehemently denied earlier. I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers," Pushilin said. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need."
Pushilin cited an immediate threat of aggression" from Ukrainian forces, accusations that Ukrainian officials vehemently denied earlier. I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers," Pushilin said. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need."
Probably should read up some more on Kazakhstan also so I can talk intelligently on whats going on over there.
Russia has invaded and here are the shock troops . these are Russian Plants whose are doing Chaos so KGB Putin has an Excuse to Invade . Russia Moved millions of Russians into Ukraine during the Soviet era just like In Crimea which Russia invaded under the Same Phony pretext. Thank the Clintons for Suckering Ukraine to give up their Nukes . Russia have invaded just like they did in Crimea.
If you are vaccinated, you cannot get COVID from someone who is not vaccinated. Lighted up Karen!
Denis Pushilin, the head of the pro-Russia separatist government in Ukraine's Donetsk region, released a statement announcing a full troop mobilization. A similar announcement quickly followed from his counterpart in the Luhansk region. Pushilin cited an immediate threat of aggression" from Ukrainian forces, accusations that Ukrainian officials vehemently denied earlier. I appeal to all the men in the republic who can hold weapons to defend their families, their children, wives, mothers," Pushilin said. Together we will achieve the coveted victory that we all need."
