Ukraine says it destroyed Russian military convoy outside of Kyiv
20220227
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4041997/posts
If all these reports are real, it appears that this is a major military defeat for Russia. Putin might just lash out with a nuclear strike or two. Hes reportedly put the nations nuclear forces on high alert. Some brave souls near to him who still love their country need to do the right thing and take him out now.
Regional officials earlier reported buildings and houses on fire in the town, which lies between the key airfield of Gostomel and Kyiv. Elsewhere, a local journalist reports what he says is a video of two Russian helicopters being shot down.
Looks like some A-10s went off on them. That was more than a Javelin attack??
One thing that surprised me is that Russia does not have total air superiority in Ukraine. They did in Syria so they used that to their advantage.
A Lie Can Travel Halfway Around the World Before the Truth Puts On its Shoes.
Look at the area the Russian unit got annihilated. Lots of cover for defenders and limited room of manuevre for the vehicles. The Ukrainians picked the right spot to attack the convoy.
Today, another Russian convoy was totally destroyed in Bucha near Kyiv. Many vehicles were captured: 9K35 Strela-10 AD system, many destroyed and abandoned BMD-2, BTR-D, BTR-82A, R-149 series command vehicle, as well as a BREM-K and a fuel truck.
"If the new crime be, to believe in God, let us all be criminals" -Sheen 
The fact that Russia is agreeing at the Belarus border shows that Putin is losing the war, not Ukraine.
Graphic: Bucha, Kyiv region. Dozens of Russian tanks, trucks and soldiers destroyed by Ukranian Soldiers.
Moscow, Shabolovskaya. People are standing in huge queues at ATMs for Putins stability and prosperity.
On the approaches to Kyiv, in the town of Bucha, more than 100 units of enemy equipment were destroyed, a Ukrainian government account posts on Telegram, along with videos of burning or charred tanks and other armored vehicles. Regional officials earlier reported buildings and houses on fire in the town, which lies between the key airfield of Gostomel and Kyiv. Elsewhere, a local journalist reports what he says is a video of two Russian helicopters being shot down.
Elsewhere, a local journalist reports what he says is a video of two Russian helicopters being shot down.
Huge queues gather in front of ATMs in Moscow and other Russian cities. The photo was taken at 5 oclock in the morning.
Ukraine says a lot, but theyre also meeting with Russia on the Belarus border, a country openly siding with Russia, not their Polish border or anywhere else, that also says a lot.
Ukraine says it has managed to destroy a column of Russian armored vehicles in the city of Bucha, just outside of Kyiv. On the approaches to Kyiv, in the town of Bucha, more than 100 units of enemy equipment were destroyed, a Ukrainian government account posts on Telegram, along with videos of burning or charred tanks and other armored vehicles. Regional officials earlier reported buildings and houses on fire in the town, which lies between the key airfield of Gostomel and Kyiv. Elsewhere, a local journalist reports what he says is a video of two Russian helicopters being shot down.
"When we see the image of a baby in the womb, we glimpse the majesty of God's creation." Pres. Trump
