Ukraine suggests partisans behind blasts at Russian airbase in Crimea
20220810
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4084455/posts
Note that earlier this year Rep. Doris Matsui D CA was alleged to have pushed through the export license for older Tomahawk missiles to Ukraine.
That is because the Russian forces are increasingly becoming shameful objects of ridicule, for being so haplessly inept, despite their mountains of old Soviet Artillery shells.
Russias GAY Clown Putin has shown the world that Russian forces are not the second best in the world - they are second best in the Ukraine.
It was not immediately clear who was responsible for the blasts on the west coast of the peninsula, in an area of beach resorts. An aide to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky distanced Kyiv from the attack. A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue, said it appeared Ukrainian forces had carried out a strike using a weapon not provided by the United States
A weapon not provided by the US: short range Ukrainian ballistic missile, Thunder-M, 1100 lb warhead, 170 mile range.
So they will counsel the Russians not to smoke around explosives, and not to drink and drive, after their airbases blow up, their ships sink, and their soldiers fill train cars with their dead bodies.
Even more likely is fatigue, carelessness andor taking shortcuts during a time of heavy munition movements in and out of storage areas. It happens.
It is that the Ukraine will blast the Russian occupiers to hell, and then troll them to stop killings themselves.
The adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskiy also suggested Russian incompetence as a possible cause of Tuesday's blasts. They killed one civilian and injured eight, according to the health department in Russia-annexed Crimea. Mykhailo Podolyak, asked by the Dozhd online television channel whether Kyiv was responsible, replied: "Of course not. What do we have to do with this?"
it appeared Ukrainian forces had carried out a strike using a weapon not provided by the United States
A possible high-profile long-range attack on a Russian airbase has led many to wonder if Ukraine has a pocket arsenal of ballistic missiles.
6 months later...donbas still not completely captured, Odessa still not captured, kharkiv still not captured....
When are you NATO window lickers gonna learn, the only b getting slapped is Ukraine in the Donbas.
Mykhailo Podolyak, asked by the Dozhd online television channel whether Kyiv was responsible, replied: "Of course not. What do we have to do with this?"
It has been a tragedy that Putin inflicted on Russia and the Ukraine, but it is becoming a comedy how bad GAY Clown Putin and his Keystone Kop excuse for a military really are, when they are not just oppressing, raping and pillaging civilians. They deserve to be ridiculed, as well as face the formal war crimes charges in The Hague, that are being developed.
A senior Ukrainian official suggested a series of explosions at a Russian air base in Crimea could have been the work of partisan saboteurs, as Kyiv denied any responsibility for the incident deep inside Russian-occupied territory. The adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskiy also suggested Russian incompetence as a possible cause of Tuesday's blasts. They killed one civilian and injured eight, according to the health department in Russia-annexed Crimea. Mykhailo Podolyak, asked by the Dozhd online television channel whether Kyiv was responsible, replied: "Of course not. What do we have to do with this?"
