Ukraine to halt key Russian gas transit to Europe blames Moscow
20220511
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4062182/posts
If they have some years they can adapt and substitute in an imperfect fashion, but you do it at once and its catastrophic. Also coal does not really substitute everything gas is used for, there are a lot of industrial uses you cant just readily replace gas with.
It will take years to wean Germany off of Russian natural gas. That is called reality.
Also Europe isnt all on the same page on sanctions as much as you might guess, despite them wanting to keep up appearances.
"This has honestly been one of the most perplexing things since Russia's invasion began"...  What "invasion"?? Are you talking about the Russian rescue operation in Eastern Ukraine??
The sanctions have done nothing to Russia and in fact has exposed the weakness of the Nato leadership and of course the Biden administration.
I can only surmise what effects this will have on the energy markets in Europe, and whether Ukraine is gambling on this being the key to drawing Europe further into the war with Russia over the matter of energy banking  correctly, I would argue  that Europe lacks the fortitude to fully decouple from Russian gas given how much they've collectively crippled their own natural energy resources to appease the environmentalist greenies. We shall see.
They are moving to reduce reliance on Russian gas but if they did it immediately overnight as you suggest it would absolute destroy their economies.
What's also beyond dispute is the fact that, under any conventional military definition of the term 'invasion', Russia invaded Ukrainian territory.  The above two events are not mutually exclusive.
And who will supply the LNG? The US can eventually, but the Biden Administration is blocking the expansion of supply and infrastructure.
The Germans have said it will take years to construct the infrastructure to handle LNG from other sources. It starts with the ports and then the new pipelines to connect to the existing system.
Why would Ukraine shut off gas supplies to its European allies? It would have devastating effects on their economies and impact their aid to Ukraine, not to mention the 5 million Ukrainian refugees in Europe.
But, losing one-third of Russia's oil will devastate European nations, many of which will end up paying more for Russian oil through a third party.
KYIVLONDON, May 10 Reuters - Ukraine said on Tuesday it would suspend the flow of gas through a transit point which it said delivers almost a third of the fuel piped from Russia to Europe through Ukraine, blaming Moscow for the move and saying it would move the flows elsewhere. Ukraine has remained a major transit route for Russian gas to Europe even after Moscow's invasion. GTSOU, which operates Ukraine's gas system, said it would stop shipments via the Sokhranivka route from Wednesday, declaring "force majeure", a clause invoked when a business is hit by something beyond its control. But Gazprom GAZP.MM, which has a monopoly on Russian gas exports by pipeline, said it was "technologically impossible" to shift all volumes to the Sudzha interconnection point further west, as GTSOU proposed. GTSOU CEO Sergiy Makogon told Reuters that Russian occupying forces had started taking gas transiting through Ukraine and sending it to two Russia-backed separatist regions in the country's east. He did not cite evidence.
Retired USAF air traffic controller.   Father of  USAF pilot.  USAF aviation runs in the family 
That Russia frames it as a special military operation to aid the separatist republics in eastern Ukraine is beyond dispute there's even a good deal of evidence to support their framing of it, at least to some extent.  What's also beyond dispute is the fact that, under any conventional military definition of the term 'invasion', Russia invaded Ukrainian territory.  The above two events are not mutually exclusive.
In what sort of insane world do you directly fund the nation who you want to lose a war?
Its always been a shell game. Ukraine scamming the US and Nato for support and billions of dollars to keep its crooked society intact.
Probably because West Europe which Ukraine depends on said if you want any help from us, don't mess with the gas... at least until warmer weather arrives
Fossil fuels drive every economy. Pres.Zelenskyy is such a brilliant man, cancelling Russian gas that flow thru pipelines in Ukraine to Europe. Zelenskyy will finally show the world how effective green energy is.
Youre surprised Ukraine doesnt collapse the economies of Europe by precipitously shutting off the gas?Because Ukraine needs Europe's help to defend itself. And cutting gas off from Europe, hurts Europe as much as it hurts Russia. Given that many European nations have already sanctioned Russia and have communicated publicly the desire for regime change in the Russian Federation, the continued payment for Russian gas is simply bewildering from the standpoint of consistency.  In what sort of insane world do you directly fund the nation who you want to lose a war?
Well the only reason you are perplexed is because you dont grasp basic economic reality that suddenly shutting off the gas would destroy the economies of Europe.
ZACTLY! Ive been asking this very question for about a month now! Ukraine is facilitating Russias ability to prosecute a war against itself. Either there were a bunch of crooked people or a bunch of profoundly stupid people!
This has honestly been one of the most perplexing things since Russia's invasion began back on February 2022: namely, why Ukraine still allowed Russian gas to flow through pipelines going through its territory.Yes, I would have thought that would have been the first thing they would do.
This has honestly been one of the most perplexing things since Russia's invasion began back on February 2022: namely, why Ukraine still allowed Russian gas to flow through pipelines going through its territory. This is the situation we have today with Ukraine in that Ukraine is not the supplier of any of the gas flowing through those pipes: Russia is. Ukraine and Russia are at war yet Ukraine not only allowed gas to flow  which Russia has to sell to fund itself  but at the same time they've still been getting paid for the transport exactly what sort of mental gymnastics are involved when you have two nations at war where both are continuing to engage in commerce with each other's state-owned enterprises and other nations backing one of the combatants is still simultaneously engaged in commercial transactions with the belligerent they claim is at fault and don't want to win? I can only surmise what effects this will have on the energy markets in Europe, and whether Ukraine is gambling on this being the key to drawing Europe further into the war with Russia over the matter of energy banking  correctly, I would argue  that Europe lacks the fortitude to fully decouple from Russian gas given how much they've collectively crippled their own natural energy resources to appease the environmentalist greenies. We shall see.
Ukraine has remained a major transit route for Russian gas to Europe even after Moscow's invasion. GTSOU, which operates Ukraine's gas system, said it would stop shipments via the Sokhranivka route from Wednesday, declaring "force majeure", a clause invoked when a business is hit by something beyond its control. But Gazprom GAZP.MM, which has a monopoly on Russian gas exports by pipeline, said it was "technologically impossible" to shift all volumes to the Sudzha interconnection point further west, as GTSOU proposed. GTSOU CEO Sergiy Makogon told Reuters that Russian occupying forces had started taking gas transiting through Ukraine and sending it to two Russia-backed separatist regions in the country's east. He did not cite evidence.
Because Ukraine needs Europe's help to defend itself. And cutting gas off from Europe, hurts Europe as much as it hurts Russia. Given that many European nations have already sanctioned Russia and have communicated publicly the desire for regime change in the Russian Federation, the continued payment for Russian gas is simply bewildering from the standpoint of consistency.  In what sort of insane world do you directly fund the nation who you want to lose a war?
Zelensky has been winking at Putin all the while this war game charade plays itself out.
Youre surprised Ukraine doesnt collapse the economies of Europe by precipitously shutting off the gas?
This has honestly been one of the most perplexing things since Russias invasion began back on February 2022:
"This has honestly been one of the most perplexing things since Russia's invasion began back on February 2022: namely, why Ukraine still allowed Russian gas to flow through pipelines going through its territory."Because Ukraine needs Europe's help to defend itself. And cutting gas off from Europe, hurts Europe as much as it hurts Russia.
Oil sells itself and Russia won't have a problem finding other buyers. But, losing one-third of Russia's oil will devastate European nations, many of which will end up paying more for Russian oil through a third party.
Well the only reason you are perplexed is because you dont grasp basic economic reality that suddenly shutting off the gas would destroy the economies of Europe. Europeans themselves have said so. Then said Europeans should shut their mouths about engaging in proxy wars with Russia if they have no interest in actually decoupling from Russian gas that is funding the same invasion they like to virtue signal about opposing.
Given that many European nations have already sanctioned Russia and have communicated publicly the desire for regime change in the Russian Federation, the continued payment for Russian gas is simply bewildering from the standpoint of consistency.  In what sort of insane world do you directly fund the nation who you want to lose a war?
But Gazprom GAZP.MM, which has a monopoly on Russian gas exports by pipeline, said it was "technologically impossible" to shift all volumes to the Sudzha interconnection point further west, as GTSOU proposed. GTSOU CEO Sergiy Makogon told Reuters that Russian occupying forces had started taking gas transiting through Ukraine and sending it to two Russia-backed separatist regions in the country's east. He did not cite evidence.
Yes, I would have thought that would have been the first thing they would do.
Then said Europeans should shut their mouths about engaging in proxy wars with Russia if they have no interest in actually decoupling from Russian gas that is funding the same invasion they like to virtue signal about opposing.
KEYWORDS: alreuters chechens chechnya china clownworld communism energyschadenfreude forcemajeure gazprom gtsou naftogaz naturalgas pavelpolityuk putinacommie putinsbuttboys putinworshippers putlims reuters russia russianaggression sovietunion susannatwidale taiwan ukraine warofthekeywords xisbuttboys zottherussiantrolls
Not perplexing. The Ukes get transit fees for moving that gas. Stop the gas  stop the fees.
Not inconsistent at all. Germany depends on Russia for more than 50 of its natural gas supply. Shutting it off immediately without any alternate supply and the lack of infrastructure to accept supplies from other sources would devastate the German economy, the largest in Europe. Domestically, the political blowback would be unacceptable to the current leadership. And there would be a ripple effect throughout Europe.
This has honestly been one of the most perplexing things since Russia's invasion began back on February 2022: namely, why Ukraine still allowed Russian gas to flow through pipelines going through its territory. Probably because West Europe which Ukraine depends on said if you want any help from us, don't mess with the gas... at least until warmer weather arrives
This is the situation we have today with Ukraine in that Ukraine is not the supplier of any of the gas flowing through those pipes: Russia is. Ukraine and Russia are at war yet Ukraine not only allowed gas to flow  which Russia has to sell to fund itself  but at the same time they've still been getting paid for the transport exactly what sort of mental gymnastics are involved when you have two nations at war where both are continuing to engage in commerce with each other's state-owned enterprises and other nations backing one of the combatants is still simultaneously engaged in commercial transactions with the belligerent they claim is at fault and don't want to win? I can only surmise what effects this will have on the energy markets in Europe, and whether Ukraine is gambling on this being the key to drawing Europe further into the war with Russia over the matter of energy banking  correctly, I would argue  that Europe lacks the fortitude to fully decouple from Russian gas given how much they've collectively crippled their own natural energy resources to appease the environmentalist greenies. We shall see.
Because Ukraine needs Europe's help to defend itself. And cutting gas off from Europe, hurts Europe as much as it hurts Russia.
GTSOU CEO Sergiy Makogon told Reuters that Russian occupying forces had started taking gas transiting through Ukraine and sending it to two Russia-backed separatist regions in the country's east. He did not cite evidence.
GTSOU, which operates Ukraine's gas system, said it would stop shipments via the Sokhranivka route from Wednesday, declaring "force majeure", a clause invoked when a business is hit by something beyond its control. But Gazprom GAZP.MM, which has a monopoly on Russian gas exports by pipeline, said it was "technologically impossible" to shift all volumes to the Sudzha interconnection point further west, as GTSOU proposed. GTSOU CEO Sergiy Makogon told Reuters that Russian occupying forces had started taking gas transiting through Ukraine and sending it to two Russia-backed separatist regions in the country's east. He did not cite evidence.
