Ukraine agrees to meet with Russia at Belarus border
20220228
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4042140/posts
This was announced like 6 hours ago. Silence since then. That may be good news in that they are really talking.
Putin is not in control. This is a coup. The generals are throwing this on purpose to sink him.
21 years on Free Republic, 121021! More than 5000 replies and still not shutting up!
If its not a trap or a stall for time to bring up reinforcements, wheres the cease fire pending the talks?
The tractor stealing the Russian tank with the soldier running after it is my favorite so far ..who know what the story is behind it but its a hoot .
The results will depend on how much freedom to maneuver Brandon is willing to give Zelensky.
The two sides have agreed to meet on Monday at the Pripyat river on the border, north of Chernobyl, the spokesperson said, an area that is currently under Russian military control. The Russian delegation includes officials from Russia's foreign and defense ministries as well as the presidential administration. The talks would be the first between the two sides since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion on Thursday, but Zelenskyy in a televised address said he had little hope of a breakthrough.
Russians arent sending a serious delegation. This is more about regrouping and buying some time to rearm and resupply.
A Lie Can Travel Halfway Around the World Before the Truth Puts On its Shoes.
Ukraine and Russia have mutually agreed to meet for talks held at a location on Belarus border in an attempt to end Moscows invasion as Russian troops continue to attack. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy agreed to send a delegation to meet with Russian negotiators during a phone call Sunday with Belarus' authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko, a spokesperson for Ukraine's president's office announced. The two sides have agreed to meet on Monday at the Pripyat river on the border, north of Chernobyl, the spokesperson said, an area that is currently under Russian military control. The Russian delegation includes officials from Russia's foreign and defense ministries as well as the presidential administration. The talks would be the first between the two sides since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion on Thursday, but Zelenskyy in a televised address said he had little hope of a breakthrough.
IMHO the best deal that Putin can now get is what they got from the Afghans. That the Ukrainians wont harass the Russians if they withdraw to their borders.
If Putin supposedly has 70 of his military equipment there, how much reinforcements can he send? More conscripts that have no training or will to fight.
This is a trap. Putin is just buying time to send reinforcements. Anyone seriously thinks a megalomaniac like Putin with the Soviet military behind him is going to negotiate with a little Ukraine ?
Better yet, the ukraines can tell Russia that the people of Ukraine will accept the Russian surrender if they turn over Putin to be tried as a war criminal.
" When you can't make them see the light, make them feel the heat."  -Ronald Reagan
The talks would be the first between the two sides since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion on Thursday, but Zelenskyy in a televised address said he had little hope of a breakthrough.
The only way you know a commie is lying is when they open their pieholes.p
yeah, that is what I was thinking what do you discuss? Russia, you pull back to your border, and we will stop fighting.
This is a trap. Putin is just buying time to send reinforcements. Anyone seriously thinks a megalomaniac like Putin with the Soviet military behind him is going to negotiate with a little Ukraine ?  Putin is not in control. This is a coup. The generals are throwing this on purpose to sink him.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy agreed to send a delegation to meet with Russian negotiators during a phone call Sunday with Belarus' authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko, a spokesperson for Ukraine's president's office announced. The two sides have agreed to meet on Monday at the Pripyat river on the border, north of Chernobyl, the spokesperson said, an area that is currently under Russian military control. The Russian delegation includes officials from Russia's foreign and defense ministries as well as the presidential administration. The talks would be the first between the two sides since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion on Thursday, but Zelenskyy in a televised address said he had little hope of a breakthrough.
