Ukraine President Zelensky proposes to meet with Putin as tensions with Russia grow
20220219
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4039791/posts
Offering to meet Putin is a great idea. Even if nothing comes of it, he can say he tried
No matter, the military-industrial complex here is salivating. As you write, "Not my monkeys. Not my circus."
Zelensky likely did not get a favorable response from NATO and the EU to his request that they give him a firm answer to Ukraine joining both, yes or no.
Try to imagine the American response if a Chinese led military alliance stationed troops and missiles on the American border. This crisis would be over in 10 minutes if Zelensky and Biden came out with a joint statement that Ukraine has no desire to join NATO and that NATO would never accept Ukraine as a member. Ukraines long term sovereignty would best be served if the country adopted a Swiss style foreign policy of neutralism.  although neutralism in the face of true evil is morally absurd
"All we care about is peace," Zelenskyy said. Vice President Harris vows swift and severe sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine  Vice President Harris on Saturday met with Zelenskyy and assured him that the U.S. takes Russian threats against Ukraine seriously and that economic sanctions against Moscow would be "swift and severe" if Russia invades Ukraine.  SNIP
He has made some flip statements, considering he is encircled by the Russian invasion forces. When the West is putting huge economic threats and restrictions against Russia, his commentary, at times, has seemed pollyanish.
He has no option but to accept the best deal Russia is willing to offer.
Not by speeches  majority decisions will the great issues the the day be decided but by Blood  Iro
He's at least proposed to meet with a real potential threat to his freedom, whereas Fidel's son Trudeau, wouldn't even meet with the people whose freedoms he's taken away.
What Stalin did to them should never be forgotten. Payback is impossible unless they develop nukes in which theyll pay too. Think of the Chicoms and what they think of the Japanese after Nankingand much more.
Talking directly with Putin. This shows nothing but weakness! Only war is strength! - Marco Rubio...or any other Senator
As fears grow of a Russian invasion of his country, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is proposing a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.  "I don't know what the president of the Russian Federation wants, that's why I proposed to meet," Zelenskyy said at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday.  "We are ready to sit down and speak. Pick the platform that you like," Zelenskyy said. "What is the point of us shooting and proposing diplomacy at the same time?"  The Kremlin does not yet appear to have responded to Zelenskyy's proposal, as of Saturday afternoon ET.  "All we care about is peace," Zelenskyy said. Vice President Harris vows swift and severe sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine  Vice President Harris on Saturday met with Zelenskyy and assured him that the U.S. takes Russian threats against Ukraine seriously and that economic sanctions against Moscow would be "swift and severe" if Russia invades Ukraine.  SNIP
Between 450-475 million Europeans, 45 million Ukrainians, and 165 million Russians. Between them and their budgets, they should be able to come to some conclusion. The UK and France have nuclear arsenals. Enough assets there for Europe and Asia to figure things out or duke things out. No matter, the military-industrial complex here is salivating. As you write, "Not my monkeys. Not my circus."
"We are ready to sit down and speak. Pick the platform that you like," Zelenskyy said. "What is the point of us shooting and proposing diplomacy at the same time?"  The Kremlin does not yet appear to have responded to Zelenskyy's proposal, as of Saturday afternoon ET.  "All we care about is peace," Zelenskyy said. Vice President Harris vows swift and severe sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine  Vice President Harris on Saturday met with Zelenskyy and assured him that the U.S. takes Russian threats against Ukraine seriously and that economic sanctions against Moscow would be "swift and severe" if Russia invades Ukraine.  SNIP
And now, his demanding in public, as if he has any leverage with the West, something he knows the answer to, again, bizarre. 1. Ukraine is not ready for NATO yet. 2. To bring that up seems questionable if not very undiplomatic. He has been told the answer and NATO certainly will not say soon, which would guarantee an immediate invasion. Im wavering on Zelensky as a serious leader.
"Zelensky is the adult in the room."He's at least proposed to meet with a real potential threat to his freedom, whereas Fidel's son Trudeau, wouldn't even meet with the people whose freedoms he's taken away.
Notice the team representing the US in foreign negotiations. How inspiring! How reassuring! How proud! sc
"I don't know what the president of the Russian Federation wants, that's why I proposed to meet," Zelenskyy said at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday.  "We are ready to sit down and speak. Pick the platform that you like," Zelenskyy said. "What is the point of us shooting and proposing diplomacy at the same time?"  The Kremlin does not yet appear to have responded to Zelenskyy's proposal, as of Saturday afternoon ET.  "All we care about is peace," Zelenskyy said. Vice President Harris vows swift and severe sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine  Vice President Harris on Saturday met with Zelenskyy and assured him that the U.S. takes Russian threats against Ukraine seriously and that economic sanctions against Moscow would be "swift and severe" if Russia invades Ukraine.  SNIP
As quickly as this video was posted it was removed. Copyright infringement or someone doesn't want us to see the raw exchange? RAW: VP HARRIS UKRAINE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY FULL EXCHANGE
Time for Zelensky to go! Putin has won this thing and no one has the stomach to take him on. If anyone fights against him they will be annihilated pure and simple. He has a motivated military and a technological edge at this point.
Ukrainian's long term sovereignty would be best served if the country adopted a Swiss style foreign policy of "neutralism" It's hard for Ukraine to be "neutral" when they are fighting for 8 years against a Russian led insurgency.
Vice President Harris on Saturday met with Zelenskyy and assured him that the U.S. takes Russian threats against Ukraine seriously and that economic sanctions against Moscow would be "swift and severe" if Russia invades Ukraine.  SNIP
The Kremlin does not yet appear to have responded to Zelenskyy's proposal, as of Saturday afternoon ET.  "All we care about is peace," Zelenskyy said. Vice President Harris vows swift and severe sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine  Vice President Harris on Saturday met with Zelenskyy and assured him that the U.S. takes Russian threats against Ukraine seriously and that economic sanctions against Moscow would be "swift and severe" if Russia invades Ukraine.  SNIP
