Ukrainian troops took back 4 villages in the south from Russian occupation military source tells CNN
20220829
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4089307/posts
Someone with some sense needs to help them negotiate a peace. Enough Ukrainians have died, this is ridiculous.
KEYWORDS: alwayschump angryglobohomos angryneoconneds angryneocons armyofderpness blueandyellowdrank bobthemilitarysource chechens chechnya deathtochechnya deathtoputin deathtorussia elmerjneocon elmerjneoconned europe generalpavelapproves hateamericafirst intothegunsdearukies itistolaugh khokholsretreat killthewussians nato neokoolaid nevertrump pavelgoestokherson pedosforputin putinlovertrollsonfr putinsbuttboys putinworshippers runkhokholsrun russia russianaggression scottritter surejan teamsoros thegoatsofkherson theneokoolaid typesonehanded ukiearmyofderpness ukiecannonfodder ukraine ukrainicorns vladtheimploder war werehuntingwussians zottherussiantrolls
Common ground with islamic terrorists-they want to die for allah and we want to arrange the meeting
Many of them were killed and captured, and a lot of Russian military vehicles were destroyed.  We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
That's not entirely...accurate.Igor Strelkov, the man who started Russia's war in Ukraine in 2014, says Ukraine has broken through Russia's defenses in Kherson. He says Ukraine is "surrounding and routing our forces east of Kherson between the Dnipro and Ingulets rivers."
They had one successful punch, everywhere else were taking devasting losses. Air will be available now as well. Its a shame. Nobody seems interested in preserving life.
This would indicate a large salient driven west of Kherson in the direction of the Gulf where the Dnipro and Bug Rivers meet the Black Sea.
We have now liberated four villages. Their first line of defense has been broken through in three places, the military source said. The source said the village names are Nova Dmytrivka, Arkhanhel's'ke, Tomyna Balka and Pravdyne. Many of them were killed and captured, and a lot of Russian military vehicles were destroyed.  We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
The main direction of the attack was on Pravdyne. We hit their infantry from the DNR Donetsk People's Republic and LNR Luhansk People's Republic, and they fled. The Russian landing force fled after them," the source told CNN.  We have now liberated four villages. Their first line of defense has been broken through in three places, the military source said. The source said the village names are Nova Dmytrivka, Arkhanhel's'ke, Tomyna Balka and Pravdyne. Many of them were killed and captured, and a lot of Russian military vehicles were destroyed.  We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
True, but I have my doubts about whether the Russians are capable of counter-counter-attacking at this point.
The source said the village names are Nova Dmytrivka, Arkhanhel's'ke, Tomyna Balka and Pravdyne. Many of them were killed and captured, and a lot of Russian military vehicles were destroyed.  We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
No, that is someone named Max Seddon who is saying that Igor Strelkov said that.
Im going to need a source other than fake news CNN before I even waste my time with this
On the other hand the salient may also be vulnerable to attacks from the east or towards Mykolaiv.
The irony is the folks in the DNR and LNR are from those villages and they dont want to be liberated.
Igor Strelkov, the man who started Russia's war in Ukraine in 2014, says Ukraine has broken through Russia's defenses in Kherson. He says Ukraine is "surrounding and routing our forces east of Kherson between the Dnipro and Ingulets rivers."
On the other hand the salient may also be vulnerable to attacks from the east or towards Mykolaiv. True, but I have my doubts about whether the Russians are capable of counter-counter-attacking at this point.
This thread has been brought to you by George Soros.  For all your globalist warmongering needs, turn to George Soros. also sponsored by Pfizer
Air will be available now as well. From where, Comrade Bulwyf?Explosions Force Russia to Pull Planes From Crimean Airbases
The operation began at night with massive shelling of Russian positions and the rear, the source, who CNN is not naming for security reasons, said. The main direction of the attack was on Pravdyne. We hit their infantry from the DNR Donetsk People's Republic and LNR Luhansk People's Republic, and they fled. The Russian landing force fled after them," the source told CNN.  We have now liberated four villages. Their first line of defense has been broken through in three places, the military source said. The source said the village names are Nova Dmytrivka, Arkhanhel's'ke, Tomyna Balka and Pravdyne. Many of them were killed and captured, and a lot of Russian military vehicles were destroyed.  We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
Ukrainian troops have taken four villages back from Russian occupation in the south near the city of Kherson, a Ukrainian military source tells CNN. Their main target is Kherson, the source added.  The operation began at night with massive shelling of Russian positions and the rear, the source, who CNN is not naming for security reasons, said. The main direction of the attack was on Pravdyne. We hit their infantry from the DNR Donetsk People's Republic and LNR Luhansk People's Republic, and they fled. The Russian landing force fled after them," the source told CNN.  We have now liberated four villages. Their first line of defense has been broken through in three places, the military source said. The source said the village names are Nova Dmytrivka, Arkhanhel's'ke, Tomyna Balka and Pravdyne. Many of them were killed and captured, and a lot of Russian military vehicles were destroyed.  We'll see how it goes from here. Our target is Kherson," according to the source.
All of these reports, from both sides, have to be taken with a massive grain of salt. But I do think Ukraine will eventually recover Kherson.
We hit their infantry from the DNR Donetsk Peoples Republic and LNR Luhansk Peoples Republic, and they fled. The Russian landing force fled after them, the source told CNN.
