Ukraine looks to choke off Russian forces in occupied Kherson IAEA begins risky nuclear power plant trip
20220831
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4089681/posts
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address Tuesday that Ukraine would do what it can to keep the IAEA mission safe but that Russia was still carrying out provocations on areas where the IAEA mission would visit.
In other news, an International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA convoy is believed to have left the Ukrainian capital on a mission to the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southeastern Ukraine on Wednesday morning. Europes largest nuclear power station has become a fighting ground for the conflict, with both sides blaming each other for attacks on and around the complex. Fighting around the facility has sparked fears over the heightened risk of a nuclear disaster. Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address Tuesday that Ukraine would do what it can to keep the IAEA mission safe but that Russia was still carrying out provocations on areas where the IAEA mission would visit.
Europes largest nuclear power station has become a fighting ground for the conflict, with both sides blaming each other for attacks on and around the complex. Fighting around the facility has sparked fears over the heightened risk of a nuclear disaster. Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address Tuesday that Ukraine would do what it can to keep the IAEA mission safe but that Russia was still carrying out provocations on areas where the IAEA mission would visit.
Ill go with PutinTrumpModiXi over the Rothschilds. That is, Ill go with a more sane precious-metals backed society as opposed to a fiat bankster society. And, Ill note that bankster society currently in place and being deposed in realtime in front of us, threads thru a LOT of western societal crap, from politics to pedophilia to the MSMFIBCIAIRSFEDDNCetc.
Ukraines counteroffensive in the south of the country continues to gather pace with its forces again striking bridges leading to the occupied city of Kherson in a bid to choke off supply routes for Russias forces there. In other news, an International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA convoy is believed to have left the Ukrainian capital on a mission to the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southeastern Ukraine on Wednesday morning. Europes largest nuclear power station has become a fighting ground for the conflict, with both sides blaming each other for attacks on and around the complex. Fighting around the facility has sparked fears over the heightened risk of a nuclear disaster. Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his nightly address Tuesday that Ukraine would do what it can to keep the IAEA mission safe but that Russia was still carrying out provocations on areas where the IAEA mission would visit.
I am in full favor of the New World Order where nations peacefully coexist with each other, where the only business is business, not the business of expansionism via war and bloodshed. I prefer this New World Order over the World Order proposed by the likes of Russia, North Korea, Iran, and China and associated third world manure hole countries.
The Bidenistas are insufferable as they post useless crap from British tabloids and leftist outlets like the Daiky Beast and the NYT. I would. It be surprised if these clowns start posting Democratic Underground threads as facts.
"You guys work for Putin." That's a laugh. You work for Biden and his communist fellow travelers.
We must bring Russia to its knees through any means possible, to  protect our Global System of Norms and Liberal Values. - Nathaniel Rothschild Liberal values like LGBTQI Pride month? Transgender indoctrination? Election fixing? Public show trials? Free gender affirming surgeries? Critical Race Theory indoctrination of children? ANTIFA Riots in cities? Forced euthanasia jabs? Arbitrary Business shutdowns?
Hes preferable to these pro-Putin fools. They take great enjoyment out of Russia invading Ukraine, committing atrocities, bombing civilians.
Everything will be okay in the end.  If its not okay, its not the end.
