Ukraine war hits farmers as Russia cuts fertilizer supplies hurting Brazil
20220306
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4044106/posts
We had snow in the first week of May when we first moved here 10 years ago. Rare but it happens. Most people around here don't touch the garden until mid May and then direct seed and in June, put plants like maters  peppers in that they buy at walmart. The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
I'm starting most things indoors to get a head start. Lettuce, peas and komatsumaspinach like thing is the first batch. 72 cell seed starting tray, 24 cell tray, heat mats and grow lights. Lettuce and komatsuma, I dropped 2-3 seeds in each hole because they're for baby greenslettuce salads. One type of lettuce is Ice Queen, an iceberg type. The other three are leaf type and will just get young leaves snipped as needed. Iceberg type will be thinned to single strongest plant by snipping of any others. Might thin leaf lettuce to 1-2 plants. So technically, I planted a lot more than 72 seeds and I don't know exactly how many. The packets have way more than I need and I'll still have enough left for next year. Big ole pea seeds were one per hole because unlike tiny lettuce seeds, it's easy to grab just one. Frost free date isn't until May 5th but these first items should be safe to transplant in a few weeks. The 72 cell tray will be refilled with brassica and greens. Maters  peppers will go in 24 cell tray and will live indoors a while longer than brassicagreens. We had snow in the first week of May when we first moved here 10 years ago. Rare but it happens. Most people around here don't touch the garden until mid May and then direct seed and in June, put plants like maters  peppers in that they buy at walmart. The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
US Company JBS USA Holdings, Inc. is an American food processing company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Brazilian company JBS S.A. The subsidiary was created when JBS entered the U.S. market in 2007 with its purchase of Swift  Company. JBS specializes in Wagyu Beef, the only certified Japanese Cattle distributer on the entire eastern U.S. seaboard  JBS USA is based in Neptune Township, New Jersey.1 Its competitors include Cargill, Smithfield Foods, and Tyson Foods. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSUSAMy meat goats are getting more valuable by the day and I also plan to grow as many veggies as possible this year. First batch of 72 seeds were just started a couple of days ago.
Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef.Mentioned as an afterthought? Yeah, JBS is one of the big four in the US and also deals with pork, lamb, sheep and poultry. JBS Foods International JBSFI engages in the food business internationally, and is the largest meatpacking company in the world.3 It is a "controlled company" in SEC parlance. JBSFI operates through four segments: Beef, Pork, Poultry, and Other. It offers fresh and processed beef, lamb, sheep, pork, and chicken. JBSFI is the largest leather processor in the world.4 It also processes collagen, biodiesel fuel, hygiene and cleaning products, and is involved in metal packaging, carriers, waste management, casings, and trading activities, as well as provides prepared food products. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSFoodsInternationalParent Company - JBS S.A. is a Brazilian company that is the largest meat processing company by sales in the world, producing factory processed beef, chicken and pork, and also selling by-products from the processing of these meats. It is headquartered in So Paulo.2 It was founded in 1953 in Anpolis, Gois. As of 2017, the company had 150 industrial plants around the world.3 JF Investimentos is a 42 indirect shareholder in JBS S.A.,4 which is listed on American stock markets as JBSAY.5 JF Investimentos is wholly owned by Joesley Batista and Wesley Batista. As of May 2017, JBS S.A. remains the world's biggest butcher.6 https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSS.A.US Company JBS USA Holdings, Inc. is an American food processing company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Brazilian company JBS S.A. The subsidiary was created when JBS entered the U.S. market in 2007 with its purchase of Swift  Company. JBS specializes in Wagyu Beef, the only certified Japanese Cattle distributer on the entire eastern U.S. seaboard  JBS USA is based in Neptune Township, New Jersey.1 Its competitors include Cargill, Smithfield Foods, and Tyson Foods. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSUSAMy meat goats are getting more valuable by the day and I also plan to grow as many veggies as possible this year. First batch of 72 seeds were just started a couple of days ago.
So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
Meat goats? Who is going to butcher them and keep them out of your vegetable garden?I'll be butchering them and my 9,000 volt high tensile fence keeps them in bounds. Gonna have to lock up the hen though. I've got one hen left out of 5 hens and two roosters who the hawks all got. She's a survivor though. I quit feeding her after the rest were gone because I figured she wasn't long for this world. That was two years ago and even thought I don't feed her, she still lays eggs which makes them FREE eggs. She's a little on the broody side too so I'm going to get some more fertilized eggs from the neighbor where she came from, lock her up with the eggs, food and water and I'm pretty sure she'll hatch them out. Once the garden's done for the year, I'll let them out and she can teach them how to survive the hawks. She dashes across open areas and spends a lot of time close to the goats and dogs.
Lettuce and komatsuma, I dropped 2-3 seeds in each hole because they're for baby greenslettuce salads. One type of lettuce is Ice Queen, an iceberg type. The other three are leaf type and will just get young leaves snipped as needed. Iceberg type will be thinned to single strongest plant by snipping of any others. Might thin leaf lettuce to 1-2 plants. So technically, I planted a lot more than 72 seeds and I don't know exactly how many. The packets have way more than I need and I'll still have enough left for next year. Big ole pea seeds were one per hole because unlike tiny lettuce seeds, it's easy to grab just one. Frost free date isn't until May 5th but these first items should be safe to transplant in a few weeks. The 72 cell tray will be refilled with brassica and greens. Maters  peppers will go in 24 cell tray and will live indoors a while longer than brassicagreens. We had snow in the first week of May when we first moved here 10 years ago. Rare but it happens. Most people around here don't touch the garden until mid May and then direct seed and in June, put plants like maters  peppers in that they buy at walmart. The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
The Latin American country is the largest producer of coffee, soybeans and sugar, and the most dependent of the worlds agricultural superpowers on imported fertilizer. Brazil imports some 85 of its fertilizers and about a fifth of those imports come from Russia. The Russian trade ministry has called for a broad suspension of fertilizer exports, state news agency TASS reported Friday. "Brazil depends on fertilizersits a sacred question for us," President Jair Bolsonaro told reporters earlier this week, defending his decision to maintain cordial relations with Moscow as Russia attacks Ukraine. Mr. Bolsanaro was one of the last world leaders to visit Russian President Vladimir Putin before the invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, meeting with him at the Kremlin on Feb. 16. If Brazils farmers have to pay significantly more for fertilizer or are unable to produce as many crops, the cost of its agricultural products is likely to climb, driving up world food prices. Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef. Higher grain prices increase animal-feed costs, which are passed on to consumers, who have to pay more for meat and other
Frost free date isn't until May 5th but these first items should be safe to transplant in a few weeks. The 72 cell tray will be refilled with brassica and greens. Maters  peppers will go in 24 cell tray and will live indoors a while longer than brassicagreens. We had snow in the first week of May when we first moved here 10 years ago. Rare but it happens. Most people around here don't touch the garden until mid May and then direct seed and in June, put plants like maters  peppers in that they buy at walmart. The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
Parent Company - JBS S.A. is a Brazilian company that is the largest meat processing company by sales in the world, producing factory processed beef, chicken and pork, and also selling by-products from the processing of these meats. It is headquartered in So Paulo.2 It was founded in 1953 in Anpolis, Gois. As of 2017, the company had 150 industrial plants around the world.3 JF Investimentos is a 42 indirect shareholder in JBS S.A.,4 which is listed on American stock markets as JBSAY.5 JF Investimentos is wholly owned by Joesley Batista and Wesley Batista. As of May 2017, JBS S.A. remains the world's biggest butcher.6 https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSS.A.US Company JBS USA Holdings, Inc. is an American food processing company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Brazilian company JBS S.A. The subsidiary was created when JBS entered the U.S. market in 2007 with its purchase of Swift  Company. JBS specializes in Wagyu Beef, the only certified Japanese Cattle distributer on the entire eastern U.S. seaboard  JBS USA is based in Neptune Township, New Jersey.1 Its competitors include Cargill, Smithfield Foods, and Tyson Foods. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSUSAMy meat goats are getting more valuable by the day and I also plan to grow as many veggies as possible this year. First batch of 72 seeds were just started a couple of days ago.
I'll be butchering them and my 9,000 volt high tensile fence keeps them in bounds. Gonna have to lock up the hen though. I've got one hen left out of 5 hens and two roosters who the hawks all got. She's a survivor though. I quit feeding her after the rest were gone because I figured she wasn't long for this world. That was two years ago and even thought I don't feed her, she still lays eggs which makes them FREE eggs. She's a little on the broody side too so I'm going to get some more fertilized eggs from the neighbor where she came from, lock her up with the eggs, food and water and I'm pretty sure she'll hatch them out. Once the garden's done for the year, I'll let them out and she can teach them how to survive the hawks. She dashes across open areas and spends a lot of time close to the goats and dogs.
There needs to be a Free Flow Pact that ensures the free flow of fuel, fertilizer, and food.
The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
Brazil is searching for new fertilizer suppliers as the war in Ukraine threatens to cut off shipments to one of the worlds breadbaskets, with potential ripple effects on already high global food inflation. The Latin American country is the largest producer of coffee, soybeans and sugar, and the most dependent of the worlds agricultural superpowers on imported fertilizer. Brazil imports some 85 of its fertilizers and about a fifth of those imports come from Russia. The Russian trade ministry has called for a broad suspension of fertilizer exports, state news agency TASS reported Friday. "Brazil depends on fertilizersits a sacred question for us," President Jair Bolsonaro told reporters earlier this week, defending his decision to maintain cordial relations with Moscow as Russia attacks Ukraine. Mr. Bolsanaro was one of the last world leaders to visit Russian President Vladimir Putin before the invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, meeting with him at the Kremlin on Feb. 16. If Brazils farmers have to pay significantly more for fertilizer or are unable to produce as many crops, the cost of its agricultural products is likely to climb, driving up world food prices. Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef. Higher grain prices increase animal-feed costs, which are passed on to consumers, who have to pay more for meat and other
My meat goats are getting more valuable by the day and I also plan to grow as many veggies as possible this year. First batch of 72 seeds were just started a couple of days ago.
Global food prices were already at around a 10-year high before the Russian invasion of Ukraine Brazil is searching for new fertilizer suppliers as the war in Ukraine threatens to cut off shipments to one of the worlds breadbaskets, with potential ripple effects on already high global food inflation. The Latin American country is the largest producer of coffee, soybeans and sugar, and the most dependent of the worlds agricultural superpowers on imported fertilizer. Brazil imports some 85 of its fertilizers and about a fifth of those imports come from Russia. The Russian trade ministry has called for a broad suspension of fertilizer exports, state news agency TASS reported Friday. "Brazil depends on fertilizersits a sacred question for us," President Jair Bolsonaro told reporters earlier this week, defending his decision to maintain cordial relations with Moscow as Russia attacks Ukraine. Mr. Bolsanaro was one of the last world leaders to visit Russian President Vladimir Putin before the invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, meeting with him at the Kremlin on Feb. 16. If Brazils farmers have to pay significantly more for fertilizer or are unable to produce as many crops, the cost of its agricultural products is likely to climb, driving up world food prices. Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef. Higher grain prices increase animal-feed costs, which are passed on to consumers, who have to pay more for meat and other
Remember when government paved the Roads and trained the Army  instead of lying and oppressing?
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the U S of A, and to the REPUBLIC for which it stands.
Nothing is guaranteed. Try farming or raising livestock. Every year is a crapshoot and you aint farming with electric tractors. You may be right on a certain level. I raise a garden, nowhere near farming. If they are in it, its for the money which doesnt always show up. Grandad told me when I was a youngster to by land. God dont make it no more.
do that where I was raised a few miles north of the Gulf of Mexico.
Brazil exempted by Russian export ban of fertilizers, Russia will continue to supply fertilizer to Brazil, whereas Russia blocks fertilizer exports to the EU
JBS Foods International JBSFI engages in the food business internationally, and is the largest meatpacking company in the world.3 It is a "controlled company" in SEC parlance. JBSFI operates through four segments: Beef, Pork, Poultry, and Other. It offers fresh and processed beef, lamb, sheep, pork, and chicken. JBSFI is the largest leather processor in the world.4 It also processes collagen, biodiesel fuel, hygiene and cleaning products, and is involved in metal packaging, carriers, waste management, casings, and trading activities, as well as provides prepared food products. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSFoodsInternationalParent Company - JBS S.A. is a Brazilian company that is the largest meat processing company by sales in the world, producing factory processed beef, chicken and pork, and also selling by-products from the processing of these meats. It is headquartered in So Paulo.2 It was founded in 1953 in Anpolis, Gois. As of 2017, the company had 150 industrial plants around the world.3 JF Investimentos is a 42 indirect shareholder in JBS S.A.,4 which is listed on American stock markets as JBSAY.5 JF Investimentos is wholly owned by Joesley Batista and Wesley Batista. As of May 2017, JBS S.A. remains the world's biggest butcher.6 https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSS.A.US Company JBS USA Holdings, Inc. is an American food processing company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Brazilian company JBS S.A. The subsidiary was created when JBS entered the U.S. market in 2007 with its purchase of Swift  Company. JBS specializes in Wagyu Beef, the only certified Japanese Cattle distributer on the entire eastern U.S. seaboard  JBS USA is based in Neptune Township, New Jersey.1 Its competitors include Cargill, Smithfield Foods, and Tyson Foods. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSUSAMy meat goats are getting more valuable by the day and I also plan to grow as many veggies as possible this year. First batch of 72 seeds were just started a couple of days ago.
Brasil no entra na restrio de exportao russa de fertilizantes. Governo russo afirmou que medida  direcionada  Unio Europeia.
Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef. Higher grain prices increase animal-feed costs, which are passed on to consumers, who have to pay more for meat and other
Seeds of What? I never counted seeds per se. We plowed  made rows and dropped seeds along the row.I'm starting most things indoors to get a head start. Lettuce, peas and komatsumaspinach like thing is the first batch. 72 cell seed starting tray, 24 cell tray, heat mats and grow lights. Lettuce and komatsuma, I dropped 2-3 seeds in each hole because they're for baby greenslettuce salads. One type of lettuce is Ice Queen, an iceberg type. The other three are leaf type and will just get young leaves snipped as needed. Iceberg type will be thinned to single strongest plant by snipping of any others. Might thin leaf lettuce to 1-2 plants. So technically, I planted a lot more than 72 seeds and I don't know exactly how many. The packets have way more than I need and I'll still have enough left for next year. Big ole pea seeds were one per hole because unlike tiny lettuce seeds, it's easy to grab just one. Frost free date isn't until May 5th but these first items should be safe to transplant in a few weeks. The 72 cell tray will be refilled with brassica and greens. Maters  peppers will go in 24 cell tray and will live indoors a while longer than brassicagreens. We had snow in the first week of May when we first moved here 10 years ago. Rare but it happens. Most people around here don't touch the garden until mid May and then direct seed and in June, put plants like maters  peppers in that they buy at walmart. The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
Seriouly! We need a crash Federal sponsored project to up our domestic fertilizer production. To incentivize production. With Federal tax breaks. These are simple chemicals to make, so how difficult is it for the USA to be self sufficient? Not difficult at all to synthesize nitrogen fertilizer.
Been thinking about news of recent purchases of large tracts of farmland lately - China and Bill Gates among others.Could be nothing - I mean China has been buying up property in the US for quite some time now, right? And Gates could just see the farmland as an investment opportunity...Or they're buying their own guaranteed food supplies for some reason.
They produce tons of  in DC, with all that we should already be self sufficient.
Meat goats? Who is going to butcher them and keep them out of your vegetable garden? Goats dont mind eating a row of hot peppers.
72 cell seed starting tray, 24 cell tray, heat mats and grow lights. Lettuce and komatsuma, I dropped 2-3 seeds in each hole because they're for baby greenslettuce salads. One type of lettuce is Ice Queen, an iceberg type. The other three are leaf type and will just get young leaves snipped as needed. Iceberg type will be thinned to single strongest plant by snipping of any others. Might thin leaf lettuce to 1-2 plants. So technically, I planted a lot more than 72 seeds and I don't know exactly how many. The packets have way more than I need and I'll still have enough left for next year. Big ole pea seeds were one per hole because unlike tiny lettuce seeds, it's easy to grab just one. Frost free date isn't until May 5th but these first items should be safe to transplant in a few weeks. The 72 cell tray will be refilled with brassica and greens. Maters  peppers will go in 24 cell tray and will live indoors a while longer than brassicagreens. We had snow in the first week of May when we first moved here 10 years ago. Rare but it happens. Most people around here don't touch the garden until mid May and then direct seed and in June, put plants like maters  peppers in that they buy at walmart. The clayey loam here is still cold and waterlogged. It's like Jello right now so no using equipment on it yet. Tonight, heavy rain and this coming Friday, rainsnow during day and 16 at night. We're apt to have a thin coating of ice on everything Friday nightSaturday morning. We get a lot of that in the Ozarks. Just had a couple inches of sleet last week. Looked white like snow but you could drive a vehicle on it and not leave tracks. We get lots of wind too during Winter and Spring. Yesterday was 40 mph gusts. It'll start calming down in a month or so but Spring rains will really kick in. If you get a few days in Spring when the soil is dry enough to work, you better work it because it might be weeks before you get that again. My neighbor couldn't walk in his garden for a full month last MayJune. He had already tilled and planted, including store bought mater plants. I didn't grow anything last year. I'll probably supply him and another neighbor with mater plants this year, for a small fee. Will pay for my mater seeds and maybe all my seeds. So I'm getting a head start, avoiding icesleet coated seedlings  saving a few bucks by not buying started plants. Sometime in the near future I'll get the high tunnel put up and gain 1-2 months on each end of the season and be able to grow hardy greens through winter. I also want to put a lean to greenhouse against the front of the house which faces South. Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
Just checked the 72 cell tray I planted 3-4 days ago and half the seeds have germinated. Grow lights should be coming in tomorrow. Then I can pull the lid off once all seedling have true leaves and light them up.
"Brazil depends on fertilizersits a sacred question for us," President Jair Bolsonaro told reporters earlier this week, defending his decision to maintain cordial relations with Moscow as Russia attacks Ukraine. Mr. Bolsanaro was one of the last world leaders to visit Russian President Vladimir Putin before the invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24, meeting with him at the Kremlin on Feb. 16. If Brazils farmers have to pay significantly more for fertilizer or are unable to produce as many crops, the cost of its agricultural products is likely to climb, driving up world food prices. Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef. Higher grain prices increase animal-feed costs, which are passed on to consumers, who have to pay more for meat and other
If Brazils farmers have to pay significantly more for fertilizer or are unable to produce as many crops, the cost of its agricultural products is likely to climb, driving up world food prices. Brazil is also an important supplier of corn and beef. Higher grain prices increase animal-feed costs, which are passed on to consumers, who have to pay more for meat and other
Mentioned as an afterthought? Yeah, JBS is one of the big four in the US and also deals with pork, lamb, sheep and poultry. JBS Foods International JBSFI engages in the food business internationally, and is the largest meatpacking company in the world.3 It is a "controlled company" in SEC parlance. JBSFI operates through four segments: Beef, Pork, Poultry, and Other. It offers fresh and processed beef, lamb, sheep, pork, and chicken. JBSFI is the largest leather processor in the world.4 It also processes collagen, biodiesel fuel, hygiene and cleaning products, and is involved in metal packaging, carriers, waste management, casings, and trading activities, as well as provides prepared food products. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSFoodsInternationalParent Company - JBS S.A. is a Brazilian company that is the largest meat processing company by sales in the world, producing factory processed beef, chicken and pork, and also selling by-products from the processing of these meats. It is headquartered in So Paulo.2 It was founded in 1953 in Anpolis, Gois. As of 2017, the company had 150 industrial plants around the world.3 JF Investimentos is a 42 indirect shareholder in JBS S.A.,4 which is listed on American stock markets as JBSAY.5 JF Investimentos is wholly owned by Joesley Batista and Wesley Batista. As of May 2017, JBS S.A. remains the world's biggest butcher.6 https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSS.A.US Company JBS USA Holdings, Inc. is an American food processing company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Brazilian company JBS S.A. The subsidiary was created when JBS entered the U.S. market in 2007 with its purchase of Swift  Company. JBS specializes in Wagyu Beef, the only certified Japanese Cattle distributer on the entire eastern U.S. seaboard  JBS USA is based in Neptune Township, New Jersey.1 Its competitors include Cargill, Smithfield Foods, and Tyson Foods. https:en.wikipedia.orgwikiJBSUSAMy meat goats are getting more valuable by the day and I also plan to grow as many veggies as possible this year. First batch of 72 seeds were just started a couple of days ago.
