Ukraine refuses to surrender Mariupol as Russia warns of humanitarian catastrophe
20220321
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4048398/posts
Mariupol has suffered some of the heaviest bombardments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Many of its 400,000 residents remain trapped with little if any food, water and power.
 " We would not die in that man's company, that fears his fellowship to die with us...."  Henry V.
LVIV, Ukraine, March 21 Reuters - Ukraine on Monday rejected Russian calls to surrender the port city of Mariupol, where residents are besieged with little food, water and power and fierce fighting shows little sign of easing. "There can be no question of any surrender, laying down of arms," the Ukrainska Pravda news portal cited Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk as saying early on Monday. read more "We have already informed the Russian side about this." Russia earlier called on Ukrainian forces in Mariupol to lay down their arms, saying a "terrible humanitarian catastrophe" was unfolding. It said defenders who did so were guaranteed safe passage out of the city and humanitarian corridors would be opened from 1000 Moscow time 0700 GMT on Monday. Mariupol has suffered some of the heaviest bombardments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Many of its 400,000 residents remain trapped with little if any food, water and power.
Neither does you signing off each of your posts with an LBut I previously discussed this with you.
Russia earlier called on Ukrainian forces in Mariupol to lay down their arms, saying a "terrible humanitarian catastrophe" was unfolding. It said defenders who did so were guaranteed safe passage out of the city and humanitarian corridors would be opened from 1000 Moscow time 0700 GMT on Monday. Mariupol has suffered some of the heaviest bombardments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Many of its 400,000 residents remain trapped with little if any food, water and power.
Russia earlier called on Ukrainian forces in Mariupol to lay down their arms, saying a terrible humanitarian catastrophe was unfolding.
"We have already informed the Russian side about this." Russia earlier called on Ukrainian forces in Mariupol to lay down their arms, saying a "terrible humanitarian catastrophe" was unfolding. It said defenders who did so were guaranteed safe passage out of the city and humanitarian corridors would be opened from 1000 Moscow time 0700 GMT on Monday. Mariupol has suffered some of the heaviest bombardments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Many of its 400,000 residents remain trapped with little if any food, water and power.
America. Hes in complete control of the Republican party, the media and what remains of the conservative movement.
Putins impatience will be his downfall. This is Russia. So I won't be surprised if someone in the Russian Army takes Putin out. Or the FSB.
He might like to, but, really, he cant well, he wouldnt. He is the head of government and is in the nations capital, which is also under siege. His place is there.
"There can be no question of any surrender, laying down of arms," the Ukrainska Pravda news portal cited Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk as saying early on Monday. read more "We have already informed the Russian side about this." Russia earlier called on Ukrainian forces in Mariupol to lay down their arms, saying a "terrible humanitarian catastrophe" was unfolding. It said defenders who did so were guaranteed safe passage out of the city and humanitarian corridors would be opened from 1000 Moscow time 0700 GMT on Monday. Mariupol has suffered some of the heaviest bombardments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Many of its 400,000 residents remain trapped with little if any food, water and power.
It said defenders who did so were guaranteed safe passage out of the city and humanitarian corridors would be opened from 1000 Moscow time 0700 GMT on Monday. Mariupol has suffered some of the heaviest bombardments since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Many of its 400,000 residents remain trapped with little if any food, water and power.
This is Russia. So I won't be surprised if someone in the Russian Army takes Putin out. Or the FSB.
