Ukraine accuses Moscow of forcibly deporting over 400000 people to Russia
20220409
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4053679/posts
Russia says they have relocated 400,000 Ukraines that wanted to leave. So if they wanted to leave, why didnt they immigrate to Russia before the war?
It is not our war. If China decides to attack Iran are you the first to sign up?
This has a much longer back story than most freezers realize. Then suddenly joe Biden blundered into it and made it bad to the tenth power.
Denisova said those removed by Russian troops included a 92-year-old woman in Mariupol who was forced to go to Taganrog in southern Russia.
Lyudmyla Denisova, Ukraines ombudsperson, said 402,000 people  including 84,000 children  have been deported against their will. Russia gave nearly identical figures of those that have been relocated, though claimed that the people wanted to leave. Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev on Thursday said that the roughly 400,000 people evacuated to Russia since the invasion began were from the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine, which are predominantly Russian-speaking and have close cultural ties with Moscow. Russian authorities said they are providing accommodations and dispensing payments to the evacuees. Donetsk Region Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko, however, claimed that people are being forcibly moved into the territory of the aggressor state. Denisova said those removed by Russian troops included a 92-year-old woman in Mariupol who was forced to go to Taganrog in southern Russia.
The Ukrainians prevented them from leaving. This whole thing began because of the major Russian component of those two states in the Donbas. The states had wanted to reunite with Russia, and then tried to secede supported by a popular referendum and were not recognized or permitted to leave. The Ukrainians have been shelling and otherwise attacking them since 2014, but ramped up when Zelensky took over and in the last year, probably because he felt he had Bidens support. I guess he took random Biden ramblings as a plan, and of course he knew how deeply compromised Biden was by his Ukrainian dealings as VP.
When they let western reporters into the refugee camps in Russia to freely interview the 400,000 detainees, I mean refugees, to confirm your theory, get back to me.
Russia gave nearly identical figures of those that have been relocated, though claimed that the people wanted to leave. Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev on Thursday said that the roughly 400,000 people evacuated to Russia since the invasion began were from the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine, which are predominantly Russian-speaking and have close cultural ties with Moscow. Russian authorities said they are providing accommodations and dispensing payments to the evacuees. Donetsk Region Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko, however, claimed that people are being forcibly moved into the territory of the aggressor state. Denisova said those removed by Russian troops included a 92-year-old woman in Mariupol who was forced to go to Taganrog in southern Russia.
When one is escaping a corrupt, open urinal of a country, better late than never.
Last I heard, these people where being sold at Russian slave auctions to billionaire oligarchs.
Id certainly let them leave if they wanted to. These are very recent borders, btw, agreed upon after the Crimean situation and with an eye to creating a stable border. I think they were poorly drawn and, in addition, Ukraine has been attacking these areas steadily, which certainly violates any security guarantees the Ukrainians had supposedly given.
Many folk not Americans in the Southwest want to leave the US and rejoin Mexico. If you were president for a day would you allow that?
KEYWORDS: asylum cccp communism concentrationcamps deportations evacuation evacuations filtration forceddeportations gulag kgb propaganda putinacommie refugees soviets sovietunion ussr
To the Putin fan club... This is Communism in action. Putin is a Communist. I cant root for Communists.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
Ruling class noticed our total lack of pushback for how the election  Covid was handled.
Russian authorities said they are providing accommodations and dispensing payments to the evacuees. Donetsk Region Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko, however, claimed that people are being forcibly moved into the territory of the aggressor state. Denisova said those removed by Russian troops included a 92-year-old woman in Mariupol who was forced to go to Taganrog in southern Russia.
Except for the evacuees, who are Ethnic Russians and happy to finally make it to friendly soil.
Putin isn't sending gays into our schools to groom my children, but anti-Putin people are
Donetsk Region Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko, however, claimed that people are being forcibly moved into the territory of the aggressor state. Denisova said those removed by Russian troops included a 92-year-old woman in Mariupol who was forced to go to Taganrog in southern Russia.
Ukraine accused Moscow on Thursday of forcibly relocating hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians from their besieged homes to Russia, where officials believe many will be held as hostages to negotiate a surrender from Kyiv. Lyudmyla Denisova, Ukraines ombudsperson, said 402,000 people  including 84,000 children  have been deported against their will. Russia gave nearly identical figures of those that have been relocated, though claimed that the people wanted to leave. Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev on Thursday said that the roughly 400,000 people evacuated to Russia since the invasion began were from the Donetsk and Luhansk regions in eastern Ukraine, which are predominantly Russian-speaking and have close cultural ties with Moscow. Russian authorities said they are providing accommodations and dispensing payments to the evacuees. Donetsk Region Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko, however, claimed that people are being forcibly moved into the territory of the aggressor state. Denisova said those removed by Russian troops included a 92-year-old woman in Mariupol who was forced to go to Taganrog in southern Russia.
Well, if the Russians were so concerned about the welfare of those Russians in Ukraine, they could have just invited them in without a war, couldnt they.
So if they wanted to leave, why didnt they immigrate to Russia before the war?Russia has immigration laws, unlike America.
