Ukrainian forces reportedly shot down a Russian SU25 near Orikhiv  in Zaporizhzhya Oblast The plane burns as it hurtles through the air until it crashes into the ground  Here is a second longer video of the same hit Videos
20220607
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4069153/posts
Well, looking at the location of the downing, north east of Mariupol, keep in mind Ivan owns the skies around Mariupol.in fact, Ivan owns the skies over Ukraine.nice try.the west is still waiting for the Ukies to capture Moscow?
We apologize for the error and will do our best to ensure information is as accurate as we can before reporting. In those cases we still manage to get something wrong, we will acknowledge and correct it.
The above is not a statement of fact. It is either opinion, or satire. Or both.
The KA-52 shot down over the weekend while filming a Russian Propaganda video, is another thing a TikTokYouTubeTwitter war gets you
Dirty Laundry We got the bubble-headed bleached-blonde, comes on at five She can tell you 'bout the plane crash with a gleam in her eye It's interesting when people die Give us dirty laundry
Russians didnt report that theyd shot down a plane, and the Ukes claimed they did shoot down a plane.
UPDATE As has been discussed at length, initial reports were incorrect and this was almost certainly a Ukrainian MIG-29. Photos at the scene of the crash and reports from reliable UAF sources have confirmed this. We apologize for the error and will do our best to ensure information is as accurate as we can before reporting. In those cases we still manage to get something wrong, we will acknowledge and correct it.
Except for the passage of time this could be a video of a German plane being shot down over Pearl Harbor.
Friendly fire: weapon fire coming from one's own side, especially fire that causes accidental injury or death to one's own forces. Like all of the food processing plants burning to the ground in America?
KEYWORDS: bidenpuffers bidensbuttboys bidenworshippers chechens chechnya deathtochechnya deathtoklaus deathtoputin deathtorussia deathtosoros ghostofkiev neocons4biden nonsense pedos4biden putinsbuttboys putinworshippers russia russianaggression snakeisland uketards ukiepropaganda ukraine zottherussiantrolls zotthesorostrolls
