UPDATE 2Ukraine says longanticipated southern offensive has begun
20220829
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4089192/posts
Ukie insiders post that Kiev withdrawal was agreed during Istanbul talks as part of a deal where Ukraine recognizes Donbas and Lugansk as independent and it is all over. Then Johnson pressed them to disobey agreement.
Which, when translated, means it won't be an offensive at all and will not take any territory from Russia.  Thank for providing the Russian translation for us.  We had no idea what the Ukrainians meant.
Today, during the day, on the direct instructions of V. Zelensky, Ukrainian troops attempted an offensive in the Mykolaiv and Kherson regions in three directions.
The real story is more likely that the Russians are putting Nikolaev in a cauldron.
The region lies north of the Russian-held Crimean peninsula and has coasts on the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.
As a result of the active defense of the grouping of Russian troops, units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine suffered heavy losses. During the fighting, 26 Ukrainian tanks, 23 infantry fighting vehicles, nine other armored fighting vehicles were destroyed, two Su-25 attack aircraft were shot down. Enemy losses in manpower amounted to more than 560 servicemen. Another attempt at offensive actions by the enemy failed miserably.
finally , the long long long awaited twitter Kherson offensive has begun. unlikely to capture territory this is intended to disrupt the upcoming referendum.
When the Khokhol is not cut for a very long time, he himself rushes to the knife.
Russia Repels Ukraine Attacks in Kherson, Advances Kodema  Donetsk EU Continues Slide into Crisis
Both sides have basically exhausted their high-speed, mechanized maneuver elements. So any Russian offensive or Ukrainian counter-offensive isn't going to look like a modern mech offensive. The Ukrainians are going to take advantage of the Russian strategic disadvantage of having an unsupportable bridgehead over the Dnieper. It doesn't have to be fast or pretty because the river itself puts the Russians in a very poor position. A Ukrainian counteroffensive is likely to be slow and painstaking, but also almost inevitably successful. It just doesn't make sense for the Russians to keep hanging on to a salient that is indefensible long term.
Command spokesperson Natalia Humeniuk confirmed the offensive in a news briefing and said it included the Kherson region.Ukraine has regularly stated its intention to retake its south, and in particular the city of Kherson, the only regional capital that Russia has been able to capture from Ukraine since it invaded six months ago.The region lies north of the Russian-held Crimean peninsula and has coasts on the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.
If you find yourself in a confusing situation, simply laugh knowingly and walk away - Jim Ignatowski
Ukraine has said in the past that due to the nature of modern warfare it won't look like actions from the past and we may not recognize it. Which, when translated, means it won't be an offensive at all and will not take any territory from Russia.
And when the Ukes throw down their weapons and march toward the Russians with their hands in the air, it means Ukraine has won another glorious battle.
Of course Ukraine wont be taking any territory from Russia. Theyll just be taking back their own territory which Russia illegally invaded and occupied.
The fake offensive takes place since early April. I have no idea what that is supposed to mean, or what it has to do with the inherent geographic vulnerabilities of the Kherson salient, which aren't going to change.
I have no idea what that is supposed to mean, or what it has to do with the inherent geographic vulnerabilities of the Kherson salient, which aren't going to change.
Ukraine has said in the past that due to the nature of modern warfare it won't look like actions from the past and we may not recognize it.  And when the Ukes throw down their weapons and march toward the Russians with their hands in the air, it means Ukraine has won another glorious battle.
Which, when translated, means it won't be an offensive at all and will not take any territory from Russia. LOL, sure because when Russia retreats, like from Kyiv, its not a retreat but a 'gesture of goodwill to create favorable conditions for Russia-Ukraine talks'. The withdrawal of Russian forces from Kyiv region is a gesture of goodwill to create favourable conditions for Russia-Ukraine talks, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told France's LCI broadcaster https:www.business-standard.comarticlenews-anirussian-withdrawal-from-kyiv-region-gesture-of-goodwill-kremlin-1220406015911.html
Ukraine has regularly stated its intention to retake its south, and in particular the city of Kherson, the only regional capital that Russia has been able to capture from Ukraine since it invaded six months ago.The region lies north of the Russian-held Crimean peninsula and has coasts on the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.
The withdrawal of Russian forces from Kyiv region is a gesture of goodwill to create favourable conditions for Russia-Ukraine talks, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told France's LCI broadcaster https:www.business-standard.comarticlenews-anirussian-withdrawal-from-kyiv-region-gesture-of-goodwill-kremlin-1220406015911.html
The enemys losses in manpower amounted to more than 560 servicemen. Another attempt at offensive actions of the enemy failed miserably. - RuMoDsaid
Today, during the day, on the direct instructions of V. Zelensky, Ukrainian troops attempted an offensive in Mykolaiv and Kherson regions in three directions.
Which, when translated, means it won't be an offensive at all and will not take any territory from Russia.
You are hilarious. Do you think all the bridges are unusuable? HIMARS causes roadway potholes, not structural damage. The potholes are easily fixed. Do you think there are no poontoon bridges on transport planes? The LPR and DPR militias are far more trained than the mostly territorial units the UFA has left, and any advance toward the Russian lines is across the steppes. If the UFA did that, you can bet your bottom dollar the UFA had its head handed to it by RF artillery, rockets, TOS1 and 2, and aircraft. Heres what a Russian source says:
KYIV, Aug 29 Reuters - The Ukrainian military on Monday started a long-awaited counter-offensive against Russian forces in the country's south, its southern command said on Monday.Command spokesperson Natalia Humeniuk confirmed the offensive in a news briefing and said it included the Kherson region.Ukraine has regularly stated its intention to retake its south, and in particular the city of Kherson, the only regional capital that Russia has been able to capture from Ukraine since it invaded six months ago.The region lies north of the Russian-held Crimean peninsula and has coasts on the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.
As a result of the active defense of the grouping of Russian troops, the AFU units suffered heavy losses.
During the fighting, 26 Ukrainian tanks, 23 infantry fighting vehicles, nine other armored combat vehicles were destroyed, two Su-25 attack aircraft were shot down.
KEYWORDS: 10percent4biden another40billion bendovertaxpayers bidenbandwagon chechens chechnya deathtochechnya deathtoputin deathtorussia hateamericafirst muga notamericasfight notamericaswar notglobalcops paultard paultardation pedosforputin putin putinlovertrollsonfr putinsbuttboys putinworshippers randpaulsucks ronpaulsucks russia russianaggression scottritter taxpayersbendover ukraine vladtheimploder zottherussiantrolls
The Ukrainians are going to take advantage of the Russian strategic disadvantage of having an unsupportable bridgehead over the Dnieper. It doesn't have to be fast or pretty because the river itself puts the Russians in a very poor position. A Ukrainian counteroffensive is likely to be slow and painstaking, but also almost inevitably successful. It just doesn't make sense for the Russians to keep hanging on to a salient that is indefensible long term.
