US intel helped Ukraine sink Russian flagship Moskva officials say
20220505
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4060734/posts
Russia is a failing country. They are demographically dying much faster than the rest of the world. They are corrupt beyond the wests ability to comprehend. They are sick in terms of alcoholism, drug addiction, and disease.
When Russia takes out NYC or Los Angeles I don't want to hear from any of the FR war-mongers that we need to fight them.  Keep poking that Mother Bear folks, Russia has long memories.
Putin took the Ukraine bait just like Saddam took the bait in Kuwait. Well see if Putin takes the bait again and directly attacks USA assets doubtful or NATO, etc. I think hell incrementally escalate.
The small group that controls our deep state is not content with Ukraine pushing the Russian military out of its territory with the discreet help of US weapons and intel. The NeoconDemMSM borg is determined to use this opportunity to manipulate the US and Russia into a direct war against each other, something they have long worked for. This is why they are publishing classified information in the MSM trying to provide Putin with a casus belli to sink a US ship or attack a US military facility or take some other form of retaliation.
Reagan put fear into the Soviets. This sinking should do the same. Their only recourse is with nukes. They never did it before and they should know better than to push us to that point. Having a democrat in the WH makes it more dangerous for both sides. All of Europe is united politically. Breaking up NATO is another motive-wont happen. Does NATO threaten Russia? Paranoia strikes deep.
The Russians wont do a damn thing as long as it isnt U.S. troops actually pulling the triggers.
In the past 100 years they have added little to culture of the world. They have only been modestly helpful in science. And they have been useless in creating a first world economnyeven though they have been blessed with massive natural resources.
Nice summary. Russia isnt going to do squat as long as it isnt U.S. troops actually meaning the weapons. Supplies, intelligence, etc. are something theyll tolerate because they have no real choice.
I wonder about Putins missile arsenal. Based on his tanks and army, I am sure that 80 of his nuclear arsenal has been maintained. The remaining 20 is probably not able to be mounted on effective missiles. And what is launched will probably miss their targets.
Biden is trying to get his ratings up by setting up the killing of Russian brass. It wont work.
U.S. intel helped Ukraine sink Russian flagship MoskvaThis was suspected a few weeks ago, but the Bidenbutthumpers here on FR couldn't handle the truth.
 Luke 12:51 Think ye, that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, no but separation.
Intelligence shared by the U.S. helped Ukraine sink the Russian cruiser Moskva, U.S. officials told NBC News, confirming an American role in perhaps the most embarrassing blow to Vladimir Putins troubled invasion of Ukraine.... The attack happened after Ukrainian forces asked the Americans about a ship sailing in the Black Sea south of Odesa, U.S. officials told NBC News. The U.S. identified it as the Moskva, officials said, and helped confirm its location, after which the Ukrainians targeted the ship.... The U.S. role in the sinking has not been previously reported. But NBC News detailed last month how American intelligence shared with Ukraine had been instrumental in Ukraines successes to date, including in helping Ukraine target Russian forces and avoid Russian attacks. American officials have expressed concerns that reporting about U.S. intelligence sharing with Ukraine could anger Putin and provoke an unpredictable response.The revelation about the Moskva comes on the heels of reporting by The New York Times that intelligence shared by the U.S. had in some cases helped Ukraine kill Russian generals.
This is why they are publishing classified information in the MSM trying to provide Putin with a casus belli to sink a US ship or attack a US military facility or take some other form of retaliation.
Oops. I forget that Bidens folks are running things now. Theyll brag and theyll puff, and the consequences be damned.
If the US really did help to sink the Moskva, that secret should have been buried deep underground. And it should have been denied by every last American official.
But the globalists have bigger plans than just driving the Russian invasion out of Ukraine, and they don't want to let this opportunity go to waste.
The attack happened after Ukrainian forces asked the Americans about a ship sailing in the Black Sea south of Odesa, U.S. officials told NBC News. The U.S. identified it as the Moskva, officials said, and helped confirm its location, after which the Ukrainians targeted the ship.... The U.S. role in the sinking has not been previously reported. But NBC News detailed last month how American intelligence shared with Ukraine had been instrumental in Ukraines successes to date, including in helping Ukraine target Russian forces and avoid Russian attacks. American officials have expressed concerns that reporting about U.S. intelligence sharing with Ukraine could anger Putin and provoke an unpredictable response.The revelation about the Moskva comes on the heels of reporting by The New York Times that intelligence shared by the U.S. had in some cases helped Ukraine kill Russian generals.
Kissinger taught Schwab in school, stop being afraid of the bomb and learn to love it. Well here we are.
Well, I guess if you cant take back occupied territory or oust Putin, youll take what you can get.
The revelation about the Moskva comes on the heels of reporting by The New York Times that intelligence shared by the U.S. had in some cases helped Ukraine kill Russian generals.
I am growing tired of the Russia has lived through tough times they know hardship they are used to deaths in war they have long memories.
The U.S. role in the sinking has not been previously reported. But NBC News detailed last month how American intelligence shared with Ukraine had been instrumental in Ukraines successes to date, including in helping Ukraine target Russian forces and avoid Russian attacks. American officials have expressed concerns that reporting about U.S. intelligence sharing with Ukraine could anger Putin and provoke an unpredictable response.The revelation about the Moskva comes on the heels of reporting by The New York Times that intelligence shared by the U.S. had in some cases helped Ukraine kill Russian generals.
American officials have expressed concerns that reporting about U.S. intelligence sharing with Ukraine could anger Putin and provoke an unpredictable response.The revelation about the Moskva comes on the heels of reporting by The New York Times that intelligence shared by the U.S. had in some cases helped Ukraine kill Russian generals.
I think behind the scenes between Putin and Lukashenko is wrangling by Putin to secure the Belarusian military as that reserve force, which Lukashenko has deftly managed to resist so far. But the globalists have bigger plans than just driving the Russian invasion out of Ukraine, and they don't want to let this opportunity go to waste.
It does seem odd for the Neocons to provoke Russia like this. Why aren't they satisfied with their proxy war? Do they want a direct war?  Don't the Neocons know the bear has nukes? And assassins who operate in the West?
I mean, Putin saw what happened in Afghanistan and realized he could make a move on Biden he never could do with Trump around.
So sad. Joe is so desperate to get his polls up hes trying to take credit for killing Russian generals and sinking Russian ships.
The NeoconDemMSM borg is determined to use this opportunity to manipulate the US and Russia into a direct war against each other, something they have long worked for. This is why they are publishing classified information in the MSM trying to provide Putin with a casus belli to sink a US ship or attack a US military facility or take some other form of retaliation.
Of course, its a proxy war. Its the start of WWIII, nukes will fly eventually.
A collapse of the Russian position once it begins could be quite rapid, similar to what happened with their position around Kiev, if the Russians cannot find some reserve forces somewhere. I think behind the scenes between Putin and Lukashenko is wrangling by Putin to secure the Belarusian military as that reserve force, which Lukashenko has deftly managed to resist so far. But the globalists have bigger plans than just driving the Russian invasion out of Ukraine, and they don't want to let this opportunity go to waste.
I guess if you cant take back occupied territoryMy own take is that the Ukrainians will be able to recover their territory occupied by the Russian military, setting aside Crimea. A collapse of the Russian position once it begins could be quite rapid, similar to what happened with their position around Kiev, if the Russians cannot find some reserve forces somewhere. I think behind the scenes between Putin and Lukashenko is wrangling by Putin to secure the Belarusian military as that reserve force, which Lukashenko has deftly managed to resist so far. But the globalists have bigger plans than just driving the Russian invasion out of Ukraine, and they don't want to let this opportunity go to waste.
Don't the Neocons know the bear has nukes? And assassins who operate in the West?
My own take is that the Ukrainians will be able to recover their territory occupied by the Russian military, setting aside Crimea. A collapse of the Russian position once it begins could be quite rapid, similar to what happened with their position around Kiev, if the Russians cannot find some reserve forces somewhere. I think behind the scenes between Putin and Lukashenko is wrangling by Putin to secure the Belarusian military as that reserve force, which Lukashenko has deftly managed to resist so far. But the globalists have bigger plans than just driving the Russian invasion out of Ukraine, and they don't want to let this opportunity go to waste.
Oh...but wait until Victory Day. This is a case of not what they accomplished in 1945, but what have they done for the world lately?
