Vladimir Putin loses his 11th general in Ukraine war as defenders ambush his vehicle in Donbas
20220605
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4068851/posts
Ukraine also took a Reuters team there. They thought it was RT, but RT was in the car behind them...and Ukraine went BOOM to the wrong car.
Vladimir Putin was today hit by the death of Russias 11th general in his bloody war with Ukraine. Major-General Roman Kutuzov was the chief of staff of the 29th Combined Arms Army, according to reports. His vehicle was ambushed by Ukrainians and he died in a fight in Donbas, say sources. His death is the 11th general, but the first such high ranking army officer in more than a month. In addition, at least 49 colonels have been killed in the war with Ukraine. The latest was Lt-Col Zaur Dimayev, deputy commander of the 4th battalion of the Akhmat Kadyrov special forces regiment. He was a close associate of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov.
The Russkies have lost eleven generals? Hard to believe.  My guess is that many of these top officers have been fragged by the cannon fodder troops.
My guess is that many of these top officers have been fragged by the cannon fodder troops.
Our BIGGEST problem, by far, is that most of the media is hate  agenda driven, not truth driven.
His death is the 11th general, but the first such high ranking army officer in more than a month. In addition, at least 49 colonels have been killed in the war with Ukraine. The latest was Lt-Col Zaur Dimayev, deputy commander of the 4th battalion of the Akhmat Kadyrov special forces regiment. He was a close associate of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov.
KEYWORDS: 4soros 4thegreatreset 4thenewworldorder accordingtoplan another1bitesthedust bidenfreepers bidenpuffers bidenrepublicans bidensbuttboys bidenworshippers blueandyellowdrank chechens chechnya clownworld cuffingthewarcarrot dailyfail deathtochechnya deathtoglobalists deathtoliberalism deathtoneocons deathtoputin deathtorussia donbasfail fapimus genius globohomo goodriddance homos4zelensky howsmartisthat ibitbidensdog keywordabusealert liztruss maximumagitprop maximumglobalist maximummarxist maximumneoconmaximum maximumpedo maximumpropaganda maximumzeeper maximumzeepers neoconpropaganda neocons4biden nolongersane notwinning pedos4biden peterhitchens putin putinsbuttboys putinsfolly putinswar putinvspoopin putinworshippers ramzankadyrov remfukieofficers romankutuzov russia russianaggression smartandsavvy takethatpootie takethatputin uketards ukraine warfap zaurdimayev zeepers zottheneocons zottherussiantrolls zotthesorostrolls
The latest was Lt-Col Zaur Dimayev, deputy commander of the 4th battalion of the Akhmat Kadyrov special forces regiment. He was a close associate of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov.
Are they Colonels? I know the Russian system is different and they are pretty top heacy
Major-General Roman Kutuzov was the chief of staff of the 29th Combined Arms Army, according to reports. His vehicle was ambushed by Ukrainians and he died in a fight in Donbas, say sources. His death is the 11th general, but the first such high ranking army officer in more than a month. In addition, at least 49 colonels have been killed in the war with Ukraine. The latest was Lt-Col Zaur Dimayev, deputy commander of the 4th battalion of the Akhmat Kadyrov special forces regiment. He was a close associate of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov.
What did the cook say when the rat fell into the chowder? "Better luck next time."
Eccl10:2 - The heart of the wise inclines to the right, but the heart of the fool to the left.
My hatred of NeconsGlobalists exceeds my love of Ukraine or any other country, other than the US
In addition, at least 49 colonels have been killed in the war with Ukraine. The latest was Lt-Col Zaur Dimayev, deputy commander of the 4th battalion of the Akhmat Kadyrov special forces regiment. He was a close associate of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov.
His vehicle was ambushed by Ukrainians and he died in a fight in Donbas, say sources. His death is the 11th general, but the first such high ranking army officer in more than a month. In addition, at least 49 colonels have been killed in the war with Ukraine. The latest was Lt-Col Zaur Dimayev, deputy commander of the 4th battalion of the Akhmat Kadyrov special forces regiment. He was a close associate of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov.
