Vladimir Putin and Russian allies warn of escalation if US Europe continues to supply Ukraine military with arms
20220607
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4069174/posts
On one hand, Bidens the president so depending on which Biden critics you talk to he greenlit Putins invasion, screwed up on Afghanistan, hes too belligerent, hes not nearly belligerent enough, hes wasting lots of money, taking us to the brink of nuclear war, etc.
We need to stop letting Russia threaten the world. If they want to fight in Ukraine thats on them, but theyll have to take the consequences and stop threatening the world with war.
With Biden theyre confident he wouldnt launch nukes pre-emptively. With Trump, theyre not as confident. Trump talks tough and fought no wars. But hes a straight shooter. So is he all talk and no action? They dont know. Hes the bigger risk.
The Russians start an illegal war and then threaten countries that support the invaded nation.
Gorbachev went on the record years ago to say, people who think this informal agreement not to expand NATO still applied even AFTER the collapse of the Soviet Union, and the RussianUkrainianBelorussian accession to the UN as three equally soeveregn states, and after the independence of the Warsaw Pact nations was also accepted, and after the reunification of Germany...
If Budapest aint binding, then neither is the promise to Soviet Russia not to expand NATO. QED.
Do you apply the exact same thought train to the UNWRITTEN assurances between diplomats, without even the signatures of their respective Presidents, prior to the collapse of the Soviet Union, that NATO would not expand into East Germany specifically ONLY East Germany?
As the seesaw battle raged on for the strategically important city of Severodonetsk - the largest in the eastern Luhansk region not under Russian control - more help was promised from abroad from the US and United Kingdom. Putin vaguely warned of extra nations being targeted if the US sends long range missiles capable of hitting Russia from Ukraine.In an interview on Russian state TV this weekend, Putin said: In general, all this fuss about additional arms supplies, in my opinion, has only one goal - to drag out the armed conflict as long as possible. If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
We cant sensibly argue that the Russian elite thats been sitting on 900bn of looted Russian money for the last 30 years and done bugger all with it but buy yachts and sports clubs, couldnt have achieved reunification of the three great states of the Imperial Rus by winning hearts and minds. They have made a conscious choice to use totalitarianism, conquest, bribery and corruption.
They think the left wants to fight Russia. That is far from the truth. Biden was pulled into this kicking and screaming. And hes trying to get Ukraine to compromise. They dont see that because they are sold on Soros conspiracy theories.
Yet you make it part of your profile as if its somehow binding...or even important. Its neither.
Unfortunately, the anti Ukraine crowd doesnt want to accept the weakness of Biden and the leftists.
https:www.brookings.edublogup-front20141106did-nato-promise-not-to-enlarge-gorbachev-says-noThe interviewer asked why Gorbachev did not insist that the promises made to you Gorbachevparticularly U.S. Secretary of State James Bakers promise that NATO would not expand into the Eastbe legally encoded? Gorbachev replied: The topic of NATO expansion was not discussed at all, and it wasnt brought up in those years.  Another issue we brought up was discussed: making sure that NATOs military structures would not advance and that additional armed forces would not be deployed on the territory of the then-GDR after German reunification. Bakers statement was made in that context Everything that could have been and needed to be done to solidify that political obligation was done. And fulfilled.
The only material questions related to the difference between Trump and Biden, in the Kremlins eyes, are:
The only answer to threats like this is to tell them they will not live to see the day after they expand this war.
US President Joe Biden last month pledged a massive supply of short range missiles to Ukraine as the war-torn nation continues to skirmish with Russian troops in key locations in the east and major capital cities. And UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has since vowed to send long-range missiles to Ukraine. As the seesaw battle raged on for the strategically important city of Severodonetsk - the largest in the eastern Luhansk region not under Russian control - more help was promised from abroad from the US and United Kingdom. Putin vaguely warned of extra nations being targeted if the US sends long range missiles capable of hitting Russia from Ukraine.In an interview on Russian state TV this weekend, Putin said: In general, all this fuss about additional arms supplies, in my opinion, has only one goal - to drag out the armed conflict as long as possible. If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
X is too chummy with oligarchs. X had money in, investments in, or debts paid off by, Russian state actors. X partied with Russian prostitutes. X is protected by a cover-up.
Vladimir Putin and his allies have taken to Russian media to blast NATO nations for continuing their support for Ukraine, warning armed conflict will be drawn out if the US and European countries continue to send arms to Kyiv. US President Joe Biden last month pledged a massive supply of short range missiles to Ukraine as the war-torn nation continues to skirmish with Russian troops in key locations in the east and major capital cities. And UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has since vowed to send long-range missiles to Ukraine. As the seesaw battle raged on for the strategically important city of Severodonetsk - the largest in the eastern Luhansk region not under Russian control - more help was promised from abroad from the US and United Kingdom. Putin vaguely warned of extra nations being targeted if the US sends long range missiles capable of hitting Russia from Ukraine.In an interview on Russian state TV this weekend, Putin said: In general, all this fuss about additional arms supplies, in my opinion, has only one goal - to drag out the armed conflict as long as possible. If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
If you cant fight Russia here, unless you let them win, how will you fight them in Poland, or Germany after that.
An sufficiently vague threat so they cant be accused of backing down when they do nothing.
2. which one is more likely to just hand them south Ukraine for the sake of a peace deal.
In an interview on Russian state TV this weekend, Putin said: In general, all this fuss about additional arms supplies, in my opinion, has only one goal - to drag out the armed conflict as long as possible. If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
Either way, what can EITHER man say or do thatd convince Russia to bin this reconquest fixation they have? Putin, Dugin, and many others in Russia, are absolutely convinced theres a moral case to assimilate Russias neighbors back into a resurgent superpower.
I see. Thanks, weve been waiting for a good analogy that demonstrates what a bunch of utter cock Putins NATO expansion beef really is.
If it was my choice Id drop a shitload of nukes on you for just making yhe threat you effin tinhorn.
As to Putin and his threat to use Russian nukes. As America is presently going down the tubes be patient. In a short while it will be just you, the Red Chinese, and a pack of demented, power hungry oligarchs.
We need to stop letting Russia threaten the world. If they want to fight in Ukraine thats on them, but theyll have to take the consequences and stop threatening the world with war.The problem with that is that Joe Biden is our President.
Signed by Bill Clinton against the advice of BOTH the House and Senate. And ratified by no country.
Are we setting ourselves up for another technology fumble as in Afghanistan? If we provide advanced tech and Ukraine surrenders large chunks of land and weapons, were in the same scenario with the likes of the Chechens benefiting.
Trumps critics say the exact same kinds of stuff about Trump that Bidens critics say about Joe and Hunter Biden.
Gorbachev went even farther than that. He said this whole secret pledge, that was supposedly borken, is just a myth.https:www.brookings.edublogup-front20141106did-nato-promise-not-to-enlarge-gorbachev-says-noThe interviewer asked why Gorbachev did not insist that the promises made to you Gorbachevparticularly U.S. Secretary of State James Bakers promise that NATO would not expand into the Eastbe legally encoded? Gorbachev replied: The topic of NATO expansion was not discussed at all, and it wasnt brought up in those years.  Another issue we brought up was discussed: making sure that NATOs military structures would not advance and that additional armed forces would not be deployed on the territory of the then-GDR after German reunification. Bakers statement was made in that context Everything that could have been and needed to be done to solidify that political obligation was done. And fulfilled.
And UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has since vowed to send long-range missiles to Ukraine. As the seesaw battle raged on for the strategically important city of Severodonetsk - the largest in the eastern Luhansk region not under Russian control - more help was promised from abroad from the US and United Kingdom. Putin vaguely warned of extra nations being targeted if the US sends long range missiles capable of hitting Russia from Ukraine.In an interview on Russian state TV this weekend, Putin said: In general, all this fuss about additional arms supplies, in my opinion, has only one goal - to drag out the armed conflict as long as possible. If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
On the deals side, Biden appears happy to fight to the last Uke and has clear terms that begin and end with complete withdrawal from Ukraine. By contrast Trumps the make-a-deal guy and Trumps probably okay with giving Russia Donetsk and Crimea to sweeten the deal.
It Putin packs up his troops and leaves he wont have to worry about western weapons being used against him.
Putin vaguely warned of extra nations being targeted if the US sends long range missiles capable of hitting Russia from Ukraine.In an interview on Russian state TV this weekend, Putin said: In general, all this fuss about additional arms supplies, in my opinion, has only one goal - to drag out the armed conflict as long as possible. If long-range missiles are supplied, we will draw appropriate conclusions from this and use our weapons, of which we have enough, to strike at those targets that we are not striking yet.
There is something deeply flawed about those who blame America and the West, every time Russia threatens or attacks someone.
Think about it. Swap X for either Biden or Trump in the below paragraph and tell me you havent heard something like it.
Russia can see an America divided over what POTUS should do, so pretty much nothing he says or does has any impact other than sowing more division in America, which suits them just fine.
The interviewer asked why Gorbachev did not insist that the promises made to you Gorbachevparticularly U.S. Secretary of State James Bakers promise that NATO would not expand into the Eastbe legally encoded? Gorbachev replied: The topic of NATO expansion was not discussed at all, and it wasnt brought up in those years.  Another issue we brought up was discussed: making sure that NATOs military structures would not advance and that additional armed forces would not be deployed on the territory of the then-GDR after German reunification. Bakers statement was made in that context Everything that could have been and needed to be done to solidify that political obligation was done. And fulfilled.
