War in Ukraine Detailed account of the first 4 days of the Battle for Kiev
20220710
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4077409/posts
Not liking to single out anyone, but, like most Americans who bought into Bidens and western MSMs Covid vax hoax, I found in my  front yard, most avid Ukie war cheerleaders were vaxed, thats right- the ones who rushed into getting jabbed are the same ones who support Bidens Ukie war.they were hoodwinked into getting jabbed, and now hoodwinked into supporting Bidens and MSMs massive Ukie war campaign. Fool me once, fool me twice?when will they wake up?
There is no definition of patriotism that includes stooging or siding with Nazis against Christians.
Maybe too they were expecting help from partisans in Kiev which never came. Maybe there were assassinations attempts of top Ukraine leadership which failed. We just dont know.
Video here.FYI, this is a very good channel for daily updates showing the location of the front lines. It has been interesting to watch the large Uke salient in Donbas shrink over the past few weeks.
The Battle of Kiev was the success of the Ukrainians in destroying those encircling attempts.
During the first weeks of the Russians made major offensive in the Donbass. They only sent 5 BTGs to that front against the much larger Ukrainian force. That was the pinning action.
Link please. In any case your chancellor is getting sick of dumping money and weapons into Ukraine, so the war may end sooner than people think.
Step 1 in that plan is to surround the city with artillery. The Russians did that in Mariupol.
Exactly, IF it was, powerplants , water, hospitals, internet, rail stations, bridges, etc.all would have been destroyed. They were not, .if it was, look to Mariupol and other cities that were leveled. Of course western MSM conveniently leaves out the fact Vlad targeted and leveled Neo Nazi centers, towns, barracks.
The Russians made multiple attempts to secure the perimeter, but each time took heavy casualties and were forced back.
Russian activity near Kiev during this rescue-op amounted to a fixing operation meant only to keep large bodies of ukie troops out of Donbass at the time
IF it was, powerplants , water, hospitals, internet, rail stations, bridges, etc.all would have been destroyed. They were not, .if it was, look to Mariupol and other cities that were leveled.
Exactly, I thought this was referring to the future a couple of months from now, should Russia decide to liberate Kiev.
Detailed accounting of the first four days of the Russian invasion of Ukraine showing the Russian strategy and how it was derailed. Starts at 24:20. Video here.FYI, this is a very good channel for daily updates showing the location of the front lines. It has been interesting to watch the large Uke salient in Donbas shrink over the past few weeks.
Its probably not as clear-cut as everyone here thinks. Did Russia hope Kiev fell quickly? Yes, of course.
FYI, this is a very good channel for daily updates showing the location of the front lines. It has been interesting to watch the large Uke salient in Donbas shrink over the past few weeks.
Was it guaranteed? No. Did they pin all their hopes on such a strategy? No.
Exactly! A feint is an economy-of-force mission. For a feint, one demonstrates action without sending massive columns of armor in deep penetrations. And Russian Freeper NorseViking stated back in February that Kiev would fall within days. The reason it did not fall is because they met a spirited and clever resistance backed by firepower. The Russians left behind great numbers of burned out and abandoned tanks, armored troop carriers, and self-propelled artillery tracks.
That comes from the video we are posting about. I voted for Trump, who was the first to send antitank missiles to Ukraine.
Was it worth a try to end the war quickly? Certainly they did try, so yes, Russia thought so.
Vlad has shown much restraint. The question now that he has the Donbass provinces  as he stated was his primary objective, will he go on to eat Odessa for dinner? Many Russians and Russian politicians want him to liberate Odessa as Katherine the Great founded the city in the early 1700s.yes Johnny, Ukraine never was a sovereign nation till 1991.
My hatred of NeconsGlobalists exceeds my love of Ukraine or any other country, other than the US
Russian activity near Kiev during this rescue-op amounted to a fixing operation meant only to keep large bodies of ukie troops out of Donbass at the time. Making anything more than that out of it is basically lying.
This is silly. Cutting supplies from Kiev to Luhansk, Crimea, and Donetsk is not besieging. Kiev would be dust if Russia wanted to make it so. Lets be honest
One of the problems for Russia is that the VDV was the best trained portion of the Russian military and it ceased to be a functional force after taking massive loses in the opening days of the war.
Russia is in the early stages of mobilizing their military for the liberation of Kiev, as they dont have nearly enough troops in the Ukraine theater to do that now. When, and if, they decide to do so, theyll have closer to 300,000 men fighting for Kiev rather than the 30,000 they had at the start of the war.
I voted for Trump also, but if I knew the Neocons were going to hoodwink him into bringing the world to the brink of WW3 only to be prevented by Putin, I likely would have tried to find some other Republican to support in the Primary.
Now we just sit back and wait to be entertained by The Three Stooges of Free Republic... UMCRevMom, MercyFlush and MarcusmaxiMoe... with their inane spewing of propaganda garbage.
"As of 1 January 2021, Kiev's population was 2,962,180, making Kiev the seventh-most populous city in Europe." Do the math.
Nonsense. Why would they send 14 Battalion Tactical Groups against Kiev to pin 4 Ukrainian ones in the area.
