When Big Vlad hits the floor
20220227
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4041925/posts
I once respected Vladimir Putin for his effectiveness, although I emphatically did not like what he did to neighboring countries, and also Russians with whom he disagreed. One can similarly respect the effectiveness of other despots such as Peter the Great and Catherine the Great without liking how they treated other countries or even their own people. When Peter the Great built Saint Petersburg, for example, tens of thousands of workers died from disease and privation, and some were eaten by wolves in the streets. Putin's invasion of Ukraine, however, demonstrates a colossal lack of judgment that reveals him to be more like Nicholas II than Peter the Great. Nicholas II was the Tsar whose mismanagement of the Russo-Japanese War lost the entire Baltic Fleet at Tsushima, whose blunders led to the revolution of 1905, and who sent soldiers who lacked rifles to fight Germany in 1914. This is exactly why he was Russia's last Tsar as stated by General Patton, "People love a winner and will not tolerate a loser." Recent news reports show that the supposedly mighty Russian Army, including its massive helicopters and state-of-the-art tanks, are making limited headway against Ukraine's numerically inferior forces. The Russian Air Force has failed to gain absolute control of the air despite its numerical superiority and possession of fifth-generation stealth fighters. Even if Russian numbers eventually prevail, this fiasco has already told the world that the supposedly mighty Russian Bear is far weaker than he wants the world to know.
I see you believe everything the MSM reports as gospel. There is no way the Russians have lost that many soldiers. It amazes me that so many on FR still have so much faith in the propaganda arm of the Democratic party.
I hope Ukraine causes Russia so much pain that Putin wont try something like this again, but I bet Russia gets Luhansk and Donetsk.
The numbers required to close off every escapesupply route are bigger than the numbers to try force out all the enemy resistance.
It is costing them dearly every day $20 billionday has been estimated, while they are losing money from sanctions. They have already accumulated more combat losses than the USA incurred in 20 years in Afghanistan. There are more anti-tank missiles in Ukrainian hands, than there are armored vehicles in the forces Russia has deployed, and more are on the way. The further they go into the Ukraine, the longer and more vulnerable their supply lines become.
It seems the Russian forces are holding back to minimize the Ukrainian casualties... a sort of minimal incursion that will be tolerated. It is fun to watch the anti gun people praising normal citizens taking up arms to defend their freedoms... doh
If you find yourself in a confusing situation, simply laugh knowingly and walk away - Jim Ignatowsk
Once a city is surrounded the invader should let the stomachs of the residents of the city fight the battle.
And thank you for your correct answer, FreshPrince. You have way more patience than me for this sort of clownery.
Armageddon won't be pretty, but it's not like it's the end of the world or something 
I still think the attacks outside of the regions of Luhansk and Donetsk are to drive Ukraine into talks that result in Ukraine relinquishing those areas. Putin may take Kyiv, he may rain destruction on Kyiv, but I do not believe that he has ever had plans to hold Kyiv. Resistance may be tougher than Putin expected, but I think his goal remains the same. Sanctions wont bother him enough in the short-term to affect things, and I think this is a short-term war.
How many Javelins equal a Russian tank? How many Turkish drones make up for a Russian jet?
Ok, lets hear your expert, fact-based analysis of why Russia is doing this and whos calling the shots if not Putin.
The Ukrainian forces are reported at 200,000 on active duty, and about a million reserves sort of like our National Guard.  The equipment is lopsided, so that is difficult to determine.  How many Javelins equal a Russian tank? How many Turkish drones make up for a Russian jet?
Yes, but Ive already seen the same dem trash who praise Ukrainians with guns say but we dont need guns because America will never be invaded.
If Russian forces are at the gates of Kiev making further headway means urban combat. For what purpose? To get a Big Mac at a Kiev McDonalds?
Russian troop strength in the area was reported at about 150,000.  The Ukrainian forces are reported at 200,000 on active duty, and about a million reserves sort of like our National Guard.  The equipment is lopsided, so that is difficult to determine.  How many Javelins equal a Russian tank? How many Turkish drones make up for a Russian jet?
Putin can win. It just depends on how brutal he wants to be on the battlefield and in governing the conquered land. It wouldnt be pretty, but its doable. Well see how far hes willing to go.
The equipment is lopsided, so that is difficult to determine.  How many Javelins equal a Russian tank? How many Turkish drones make up for a Russian jet?
The forces they surround the cities with, are themselves surrounded by a much larger Ukrainian population, any one of which could kill their vehicles with a Javelin or one of the many equivalents now flowing into Ukraine. Without their armored vehicles, they are greatly outnumbered men on foot in a foreign country, looking for a meal and a safe place to sleep.
It is unclear if the Russian forces are numerically superior in Ukraine.  Russian troop strength in the area was reported at about 150,000.  The Ukrainian forces are reported at 200,000 on active duty, and about a million reserves sort of like our National Guard.  The equipment is lopsided, so that is difficult to determine.  How many Javelins equal a Russian tank? How many Turkish drones make up for a Russian jet?
So what makes you think he is not calling the shots? Please, no answers that reference the JewsBilderberg Group, Alex Jones, faked moon landings, or the Illuminati.
Yes you roll with completely unsubstantiated assertions and expect others to explain how your wrong...
Putin's invasion of Ukraine, however, demonstrates a colossal lack of judgment that reveals him to be more like Nicholas II than Peter the Great. Nicholas II was the Tsar whose mismanagement of the Russo-Japanese War lost the entire Baltic Fleet at Tsushima, whose blunders led to the revolution of 1905, and who sent soldiers who lacked rifles to fight Germany in 1914. This is exactly why he was Russia's last Tsar as stated by General Patton, "People love a winner and will not tolerate a loser." Recent news reports show that the supposedly mighty Russian Army, including its massive helicopters and state-of-the-art tanks, are making limited headway against Ukraine's numerically inferior forces. The Russian Air Force has failed to gain absolute control of the air despite its numerical superiority and possession of fifth-generation stealth fighters. Even if Russian numbers eventually prevail, this fiasco has already told the world that the supposedly mighty Russian Bear is far weaker than he wants the world to know.
Recent news reports show that the supposedly mighty Russian Army, including its massive helicopters and state-of-the-art tanks, are making limited headway against Ukraine's numerically inferior forces. The Russian Air Force has failed to gain absolute control of the air despite its numerical superiority and possession of fifth-generation stealth fighters. Even if Russian numbers eventually prevail, this fiasco has already told the world that the supposedly mighty Russian Bear is far weaker than he wants the world to know.
Let me answer...If there is no evidence that the leader of a country is not calling the shots, than common sense dictates he is in fact calling the shots as the leader would do.
I have no idea what assets could reach Russian cities from afar lets leave nukes out of the equation for sake of discussion.
