Xi considered invading Taiwan this fall FSB whistleblower
20220317
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4047456/posts
Trumps willingness to send advanced weapons instead of blankets allowed Ukraine to resist and maybe survive, despite Biden enabling Putin with anti-American energy policy.
These people have been free for over 70 years. You take their freedom away now? No way, they will go willingly.
Invading Taiwan is riskier than invading Ukraine. Russians rolled into Ukraine on land. That is a lot easier than sailing 100 miles to Taiwan. Even if they can land on Taiwan, it will take months if not years to defeat Taiwanese army. If they only go after small islands belonging to Taiwan, it may be done though. I am not sure it can be done before his scheduled reelection. If he tries, he may be in the same predicament Putin is in.
Xi considered invading Taiwan this fall: FSB whistleblower Document believed to be leaked from Russian FSB claims Xi considered invading Taiwan in fall for 'little victory to get re-elected' By Keoni Everington, Taiwan News, Staff Writer 20220316 11:38 TAIPEI Taiwan News  A whistleblower from Russia's Federal Security Service FSB reported that Chinese Chairman Xi Jinping  had considered launching an invasion of Taiwan in the fall of this year before the "window of opportunity" closed with the disastrous Russian invasion of Ukraine. The head of the Russian human rights group Gulagu Net, Vladimir Osechkin, recently on Facebook began releasing documents containing Russian intelligence concerning the war in Ukraine. One document, which Osechkin claimed was written by an intelligence officer from an analytical unit of the FSB, apparently revealed China's original timeline for attacking Taiwan before Russia began its invasion. According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
The head of the Russian human rights group Gulagu Net, Vladimir Osechkin, recently on Facebook began releasing documents containing Russian intelligence concerning the war in Ukraine. One document, which Osechkin claimed was written by an intelligence officer from an analytical unit of the FSB, apparently revealed China's original timeline for attacking Taiwan before Russia began its invasion. According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
It could but think about his options. He has a dithering drooling idiot as his rival in the USA. He has a US military reeling from its own self-inflicted wounds by its joint chiefs feckless and leftist politically based idiocy. The US may or may not respond to any Chinese adventure in Taiwan. Hitler had several huge victories without a major war by calculating his enemies would not respond, the Sudetenland, the Rhineland, and Austria all fell with ease.
"A cat is more intelligent than people believe, and can be taught any crime",  Mark Twain.
I dont know why Americans, seeing store shelves bursting with ChiCom junk and universities packed with ChiCom cadres, dont see this. Taiwan does...
Completely irrelevant if they are in China and not in Taiwan. It will be a meatgrinder for the Chinese and a political disaster for Xi. There will already be global food shortages and sanctions levied for their aggression will result in famine in China. This could topple the CCP.
Good luck with us actually leveling sanctions. The retaliation would mean saying goodbye to a lot of things, including auto parts. And the Red Chinese WILL retaliate. After all, they unleashed the COVID virus upon the world, apparently quite deliberately.
Troops for Asian theater are already set aside and deployed. Enough assets in place to deal with China. I am not sure there would be massive troop buildup in Europe as it did during Cold War. I think this would be a side-show compared with Asian theater unless Brandon screw it up further.
With the current cozy relationship between our oligarchs and those of Red China, it is far more likely American troops would join the ChiComs in the assault on Taiwan.
By Keoni Everington, Taiwan News, Staff Writer 20220316 11:38 TAIPEI Taiwan News  A whistleblower from Russia's Federal Security Service FSB reported that Chinese Chairman Xi Jinping  had considered launching an invasion of Taiwan in the fall of this year before the "window of opportunity" closed with the disastrous Russian invasion of Ukraine. The head of the Russian human rights group Gulagu Net, Vladimir Osechkin, recently on Facebook began releasing documents containing Russian intelligence concerning the war in Ukraine. One document, which Osechkin claimed was written by an intelligence officer from an analytical unit of the FSB, apparently revealed China's original timeline for attacking Taiwan before Russia began its invasion. According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
I am not sure there would be massive troop buildup in Europe as it did during Cold War. I think this would be a side-show compared with Asian theater unless Brandon screw it up further.
TAIPEI Taiwan News  A whistleblower from Russia's Federal Security Service FSB reported that Chinese Chairman Xi Jinping  had considered launching an invasion of Taiwan in the fall of this year before the "window of opportunity" closed with the disastrous Russian invasion of Ukraine. The head of the Russian human rights group Gulagu Net, Vladimir Osechkin, recently on Facebook began releasing documents containing Russian intelligence concerning the war in Ukraine. One document, which Osechkin claimed was written by an intelligence officer from an analytical unit of the FSB, apparently revealed China's original timeline for attacking Taiwan before Russia began its invasion. According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
I am not sure it can be done before his scheduled reelection. If he tries, he may be in the same predicament Putin is in.
Apparently he is no longer considering it this year. Although if the US political situation notably deteriorates that could obviously change.
We should give Taiwan, say, 5 nukes. Let them tell China, Yeah you can likely conquer us, but which five of your five major cities are you willing seen reduced to a radioactive parking lots to do it.
With the US bogged down in the new Central European Cold andor Hot War, theres no one to stop China. How many more trillions do keyboard cold warriors here advocate borrowing to finance this new European arms race? Ive seen minuscule down payments of US billions already pissed away. By the way, where are the American troops going to come from for this two front World Cold War? Troop levels are no where near the levels for the generational RussianAmerican Ukrainian Conflict the warmongering neocons have committed us to and the deterrent and or war fighting troop needs for Asian meddling? We didnt have a draft until we did. With the monolithic jingoism going on in DC, drafting American boys for both neocon meat grinders should be no problem.
According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
20220316 11:38 TAIPEI Taiwan News  A whistleblower from Russia's Federal Security Service FSB reported that Chinese Chairman Xi Jinping  had considered launching an invasion of Taiwan in the fall of this year before the "window of opportunity" closed with the disastrous Russian invasion of Ukraine. The head of the Russian human rights group Gulagu Net, Vladimir Osechkin, recently on Facebook began releasing documents containing Russian intelligence concerning the war in Ukraine. One document, which Osechkin claimed was written by an intelligence officer from an analytical unit of the FSB, apparently revealed China's original timeline for attacking Taiwan before Russia began its invasion. According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
Document believed to be leaked from Russian FSB claims Xi considered invading Taiwan in fall for 'little victory to get re-elected' By Keoni Everington, Taiwan News, Staff Writer 20220316 11:38 TAIPEI Taiwan News  A whistleblower from Russia's Federal Security Service FSB reported that Chinese Chairman Xi Jinping  had considered launching an invasion of Taiwan in the fall of this year before the "window of opportunity" closed with the disastrous Russian invasion of Ukraine. The head of the Russian human rights group Gulagu Net, Vladimir Osechkin, recently on Facebook began releasing documents containing Russian intelligence concerning the war in Ukraine. One document, which Osechkin claimed was written by an intelligence officer from an analytical unit of the FSB, apparently revealed China's original timeline for attacking Taiwan before Russia began its invasion. According to the March 4 report, Xi had been "considering taking over Taiwan in the fall." Part of the rationale given for that timing was that Xi "needs his own little victory to get re-elected for a third term," a reference to the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, amid what the analyst described as a "colossal" power struggle among China's elite.
