Zelenskiy Offers to Exchange Putin Ally Medvedchuk for Captive Ukrainians
20220413
https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4054636/posts
Ukrainians which were forcingly deported to Russia are promised to get Russian citizenship within 3 months and a hectare of land in Siberia and Sakhalin Two and a half acres and a frozen mule.
Is there any due process involved when the US decides to sanction foreigners and seize their property? Or do we just sanction anyone Victoria Nuland doesnt like?
Zelensky with the beard and wild eyes looks like a budding Marxist. Come to think of it......he is.
Zelensky is a bad person. This guy is detained only because he disagreed with Zelensky as the head of another political party. Medvechuk is Putin's close ally. In 2004, Putin became godfather to Medvedchuk's youngest daughter Darya
This guy is a Putin puppet who was promised the presidency of Ukraine after Putin invaded Ukraine and took over Kyiv.
The offer came after Zelenskiy posted a picture on Facebook of Viktor Medvedchuk in handcuffs. Medvedchuk, a businessman and politician who is seen as one of President Vladimir Putins top allies in Ukraine, was placed under house arrest last year
People in Mariupol are being asked to sign papers claiming Ukrainian troops shelled their city
Common ground with islamic terrorists-they want to die for allah and we want to arrange the meeting
Looks like Ukraine admits they have no living Russian POW's. This must be their fate.. Warning - Video contains actual murders
Zelensky is still a bad person. Well, we do know Zelensky is a better person than Putin.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy proposed to swap a tycoon with close Kremlin ties who was detained by his countrys security service for prisoners of war. The offer came after Zelenskiy posted a picture on Facebook of Viktor Medvedchuk in handcuffs. Medvedchuk, a businessman and politician who is seen as one of President Vladimir Putins top allies in Ukraine, was placed under house arrest last year
Ukrainians which were forcingly deported to Russia are promised to get Russian citizenship within 3 months and a hectare of land in Siberia and Sakhalin
If Hitler invaded Hell, I would make at least a favourable reference of the Devil...-Churchill
Vladimir Putin has sent almost 100,000 Ukrainian refugees thousands of miles away from their home, to resettle in remote corners of Russia, including Siberia and the Arctic Circle, according to Kremlin documents.
Zelensky is a bad person. This guy is detained only because he disagreed with Zelensky as the head of another political party.
