Drone explosion hits Russias Black Sea Fleet headquarters
20220731
https://www.cp24.com/world/drone-explosion-hits-russia-s-black-sea-fleet-headquarters-1.6009388
Podolyak said on Twitter that images of the prison where at least 53 Ukrainian prisoners of war were killed in an explosion on Friday indicated that the blast came from within the building in Olenivka, which is under Russian control.
The International Red Cross asked to immediately visit the prison to make sure the scores of wounded POWs had proper treatment, but said Sunday that its request had yet to be granted. It said that denying the Red Cross access would violate the Geneva Convention on the rights of POWs.
A Russian lawmaker from Crimea, Olga Kovitidi, told Russian state news agency RIA-Novosti that the drone was launched from Sevastopol itself. She said the incident was being treated as a terrorist act, the news agency said.
Meanwhile, one of Ukraine's richest men, a grain merchant, was killed in what Ukrainian authorities said was a carefully targeted Russian missile strike on his home.
Meanwhile, Zelenskyy said that the war has significantly reduced the size of Ukraine's grain harvest compared with past years, but that Ukraine is working on ways to export what it has to avoid a global food crisis.
It was not an accident, but a well-thought-out and organized premeditated murder. Vadatursky was one of the largest farmers in the country, a key person in the region and a major employer. That the exact hit of a rocket was not just in a house, but in a specific wing, the bedroom, leaves no doubt about aiming and adjusting the strike, he said.
Russian officials have claimed the building was attacked by Ukraine with the aim of silencing POWs who might be giving information about Ukrainian military operations. Ukraine has blamed Russia for the explosion, saying it was done to cover up the torture and execution of prisoners.
The Ukrainian harvest this year is in danger of being half as large, he said on Twitter.
Satellite photos taken before and after show that a small, squarish building in the middle of the prison complex was demolished, its roof in splinters.
Sevastopol, which was seized along with the rest of Crimea from Ukraine by Russia in 2014, is about 170 kilometers 100 miles south of the Ukrainian mainland. Russian forces control much of the mainland along the Black Sea.
Elsewhere in Ukraine, the mayor of the major port city of Mykolaiv, Vitaliy Kim, said shelling killed one of Ukraine's wealthiest men, Oleksiy Vadatursky, and his wife, Raisa. Vadatursky headed a grain production and export business.
Ukraine's navy and an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the reported drone attack underlined the weakness of Russian air defenses.
In the Sumy region in Ukraine's north, near the Russian border, shelling killed one person, the regional administration said. And three people died in attacks over the past day in the Donetsk region, which is partly under the control of Russian-backed separatist forces, said regional Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko.
Crimean authorities raised the terrorism threat level for the region to yellow, the second-highest tier.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the drone explosion in a courtyard at the naval headquarters in the city of Sevastopol. But the seemingly improvised, small-scale nature of the attack raised the possibility that it was the work of Ukrainian insurgents trying to drive out Russian forces.
The Black Sea Fleet's press service said the drone appeared to be homemade. It described the explosive device as low-power. Sevastopol Mayor Mikhail Razvozhaev said six people were wounded. Observances of Russia's Navy Day holiday were canceled in the city.
KYIV, Ukraine AP - A small explosive device carried by a makeshift drone blew up Sunday at the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Fleet on the Crimean Peninsula, wounding six people and prompting the cancellation of ceremonies there honoring Russia's navy, authorities said.
Did the occupiers admit the helplessness of their air defense system? Or their helplessness in front of the Crimean partisans? Oleksiy Arestovich said on Telegram.
Russia and Ukraine recently reached an agreement that would allow the release of millions of tons of grain held up in Black Sea ports. Officials have said they expect the shipments to begin soon.
If such an attack is possible by Ukraine, he said, the destruction of the Crimean bridge in such situations no longer sounds unrealistic - a reference to the span that Russia built to connect its mainland to Crimea after the annexation.
Podolyak said those images and the lack of damage to adjacent structures showed that the building was not attacked from the air or by artillery. He contended the evidence was consistent with a thermobaric bomb, a powerful device sometimes called a vacuum bomb, being set off inside.
