Putin is the aggressor Biden announces new round of sanctions after Russian attacks against Ukraine
20220225
https://www.koco.com/article/putin-is-the-aggressor-biden-announces-new-round-of-sanctions-after-russian-attacks-against-ukraine/39209927
Putin is the aggressor, Biden said. Putin chose this war, and now he and his country will bear the consequences."
President Joe Biden on Thursday announced a new round of sanctions targeting Russia after its invasion of Ukraine, charging that Russian leader Vladimir Putin chose this war" and that his country will bear the consequences of his action.
The sanctions target Russian banks, oligarchs and high-tech sectors, Biden said. The United States and its allies will block assets of four large Russian banks, impose export controls and sanction oligarchs.
Biden, for now, held off imposing some of the most severe sanctions, including cutting Russia out of the SWIFT payment system, which allows for the transfers of money from bank to bank around the globe, or Russia's energy sector.
The penalties fall in line with the White Houses insistence that it would look to hit Russias financial system and Putin's inner circle, while also imposing export controls that would aim to starve Russias industries and military of U.S. semiconductors and other high-tech products.
The president also met with his national security team on Thursday morning in the Situation Room as he looked to flesh out U.S. moves in the rapidly escalating crisis.
We demand the disconnection of Russia from SWIFT, the introduction of a no-fly zone over Ukraine and other effective steps to stop the aggressor, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a tweet.
Biden announced the sanctions while Ukraines government reported mounting casualties as Russian forces attack from the east, north and south.
Biden spoke to Americans from the White House hours after holding a virtual meeting with the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Italy and Japan. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel, and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg also joined the meeting.
The Biden administration, however, has shown some reluctance to cut Russia from SWIFT, at least immediately, because of concerns the move could also have enormous ramifications for Europe and other Western economies. Biden, answering questions from reporters, appeared to push a decision on SWIFT to European allies.
While Biden described the sanctions as severe, Ukrainian officials urged the U.S. and West to go further and cut the Russians from the SWIFT financial system.
It is always an option but right now thats not the position that the rest of Europe wishes to take, Biden said. He also contended that the financial sanctions he announced would be more damaging to Russia.
Biden also said the U.S. will be deploying additional forces to Germany to bolster NATO after the invasion of Ukraine, which is not a member of the defense organization.
