Around 2000 civilians are believed to have died  Ukraine and Russia latest the top headlines on Wednesday evening
20220302
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/around-2000-civilians-believed-died-23268814
Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that 'in the second half of the day, closer to evening, our delegation will be in place to await Ukrainian negotiators'.
On Wednesday March 2, Ukrainian chiefs confirmed that more than 2,000 civilians have been killed in the first week of war.
President Zelensky has accused Russia of trying to force him into concessions by continuing to press its invasion.
Ukraine's south-eastern port of Mariupol was under constant shelling from Russia and unable to evacuate, Ukrainian authorities said today.
Meanwhile, Russia has claimed to have captured Kherson, which would be the first big city to fall since the invasion.
Get the latest updates from across Greater Manchester direct to your inbox with the free MEN newsletter
READ MORE Ukraine-Russia LIVE updates as children and women dying 'every hour' and '2,000 civilians' killed in week
The bombardment of Kharkiv has seen 21 people killed and 112 left hurt, a Ukrainian official said.
"The Prime Minister said his thoughts and prayers, and those of the UK, were with the Ukrainian people."
"The city has not fallen, our side continues to defend," said the adviser, Oleksiy Arestovych.
And residents in the capital city of Kyiv are also lining up to buy food, water and pet food after two nights trapped inside by a strict curfew, with many taking shelter underground.
Khersons Mayor Igor Nikolayev said in a post on Facebook: We are still Ukraine. Still firm.
Children, women and our defense forces are losing their lives every hour, the statement added.
"Both leaders agreed on the need for sanctions to go further to exert maximum pressure on President Putin in the coming days.
And in Kherson, on the Black Sea to the west, invading forces completely surrounded the city.
Russia said its forces took control and seized Kherson, in the south, as fighting continued to rage across the country.
Meanwhile in the UK, more than 200,000 refugees fleeing the Ukrainian war could be welcomed, after the Home Secretary eased visa requirements.
Downing Street said the PM condemned the 'abhorrent' attacks on Ukraine - and said both leaders agreed on the need for sanctions against Russia to go further.
It comes as Russian troops have now surrounded the two port cities of Mariupol and Kherson.
It comes as Boris Johnson this afternoon told MPs Vladimir Putin has committed war crimes.
Sign up to the MEN email newsletters to get the latest on sport, news, what's on and more by following this link
Priti Patel told the House of Commons Tuesday that people already settled in Britain will be able to bring a wider range of relatives to the U.K. from Ukraine along with a new visa scheme for those without family in the UK.
The overall number has risen sharply since Moscow started its onslaught and is expected to continue to climb as invasions continue.
Fighting has been raging for a week now in key cities in the north east and south of the country.
More than 2,000 civilians have died in a week of war with Russia, Ukraines State Emergency Service says, though independent confirmation is not possible, reports the Press Association.
Ukraine's emergency services said: "Children, women and defence forces are losing their lives every hour."
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
More than 870,000 people have now fled Ukraine and become refugees since Russia launched its invasion, according to the UNHCR.
No.10 said: "The Prime Minister told President Zelenskyy that the UK was rallying UN General Assembly members today, to ensure the strongest possible condemnation of Russia at this afternoons UN meeting in New York.
The first round of talks on resolving the Russia-Ukraine war were held near the Belarus-Ukraine border last Sunday.
And the service went on to confirm that some transport infrastructures, houses, hospitals and kindergartens had been 'destroyed' by Russian forces over the last seven days.
And an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Wednesday Russia had not captured Kherson and that there was street fighting going on in the southern port, which sits at the Dnieper river's exit into the Black Sea.
Sanctions already in place include the banning of Russian ships to UK ports, restricting UK individuals and entities from undertaking financial transactions with the Russian Central Bank and sanctioning Russias state-owned sovereign wealth fund and its chief executive.
Russian forces have been intensifying their attacks on major Ukrainian cities as the invasion reaches its seventh day.
"Sharing his disgust at the attacks on Ukraine, the Prime Minister said the UK was doing everything possible to support the Ukrainian people and their resistance.
He did not indicate where the talks could take place, while there was no immediate word from Ukrainian authorities about their plans.
"President Zelenskyy thanked the Prime Minister for the UKs support and leadership in ensuring defensive aid reached Ukraine and said it had been vital in holding back Russian forces.
The Kremlin said a Russian delegation would be ready on Wednesday evening to resume peace talks with Ukrainian officials.
Many have fled into neighbouring Poland, which has received more than 450,000 people so far.
