Do I get a certificate Manchester MPs mock Russia after Putin sanctions them
20220427
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/do-certificate-manchester-mps-mock-23799789
The hostile rhetoric and far-fetched accusations coming from the lips of British parliamentarians not only condone the hostile course of London, aimed at demonising our country and its international isolation, but are also used by opponents of a mutually respectful dialogue with Russia to undermine the foundation of bilateral co-operation.
Russia has sanctioned a number of Manchester MPs and hundreds of others across the country for whipping up of Russophobic hysteria.
Read more: Boris Johnson told to 'send clear message' Tory backbenchers over sexist Angela Rayner comments
Mr Khan mocked the move, asking: "Do I get a letter or certificate I could display?"
And what we will do is keep up our robust and principled support for the Ukrainian people and their right to protect their lives, their families, and to defend themselves.
Among those on the list include Gorton MP Afzal Khan, Hazel Grove MP William Wragg, Oldham MP Jim McMahon and Cheadle MP Mary Robinson.
Thats what this country is doing, and that has the overwhelming support, I think, of the whole House.
Speaking during Prime Ministers Questions, Mr Johnson said: Its I think no disrespect to those who havent been sanctioned, when I say that all those 287 should regard it as a badge of honour.
A translation of a statement reported by state-owned Russian news agency RIA Novosti said the sanctions were being applied on the basis of reciprocity.
Mr McMahon told the MEN: "The illegal invasion of Ukraine has been met with cross party unity in Britain, if the consequence of that is being sanctioned by the Putin regime then like other MPs I am the least affected by his aggression. This cannot be a distraction from the task in hand, to give the Ukrainian people the means to defend themselves, the aid to support them through these horrendous times and to increase efforts to support refugees fleeing."
The Russian foreign ministry said on Wednesday it was taking action against 287 members of the House of Commons in response to sanctions against Russian politicians. Foreign minister Sergei Lavrovs department announced the move in response to the UK sanctioning 386 members of the Duma, the lower house of the Russian parliament, over the invasion of Ukraine.
He added: "As a passionate advocate for human rights and the international rule of law, to be sanctioned by a despotic and barbarous gangster regime can be seen as an honour. The sickening actions committed by Vladimir Putin and his cronies in Ukraine undoubtedly amount to war crimes, and I personally will be losing no sleep over these sanctions."
These persons, who are now banned from entering the Russian Federation, took the most active part in the establishment of anti-Russian sanctions instruments in London and contribute to the groundless whipping up of Russophobic hysteria in the UK, it read.
