How many people have died in Ukraine invasion The estimated death toll of soldiers and civilians so far
20220302
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/how-many-died-ukraine-estimated-23263795
A Ukrainian official has put the total number of people killed by the Russian bombardment of Kharkiv in recent days at 21, with 112 injured.
According to the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, at least 227 civilians have been killed and 525 wounded since the invasion began.
On Monday, February 28, Ukrainian authorities said that dozens of people had been killed and hundreds more wounded  in rocket strikes in Kharkiv, a city of about 1.5 million people.
The Mayor of Kharkiv put the confirmed number of people killed in the attack at nine. He also said 37 people had been injured, including three children.
Estimates of deaths have also been provided for individual attacks in some of Ukraine's main cities.
It had previously been reported that 13 border guards on Zmiinyi Island in the Odesa region had been killed. They refused to surrender after the island was invaded by two Russian warships.
On March 3, shelling was reported in the northern city of Chernihiv, where emergency officials said at least 22 civilians had been killed in a Russian bombardment of a residential area. They warned that the number of casualties could grow as rescuers search the debris.
Hundreds of civilians and military personnel have been killed in the fighting so far - here's what we know about the latest estimated death tolls
On Tuesday, March 1, five people were reportedly killed in an air strike near to a TV tower in Kyiv. One of the five has been named as Ukrainian TV cameraman Yevhenii Sakun.
Vladimir Putin launched an attack on the neighbouring country in the early hours of Thursday, February 24, striking major cities with missiles and advancing troops on the capital of Kyiv.
However, it is now understood that the group are alive and are being held captive by Russian forces.
On the Russian side, Ukraine's defence ministry has claimed that more than 5,000 enemy soldiers have been killed in the fighting so far
Another Russian strike that hit the regional police and intelligence headquarters in Kharkiv is understood to have killed four people and left several wounded, according to the emergency services.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
However, Russias Defence Ministry said in its first report of casualties that 498 Russian troops have been killed in Ukraine, with 1,597 wounded.
Thousands of people are believed to have died in the past week as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
However, on March 2, Ukraines State Emergency Service said it believed that a total of more than 2,000 civilians have died in a week of war with Russia.
The total number of people who have lost their lives as a result of the crisis is difficult to determine - but some official agencies have released estimates of the death toll so far.
