Huge 12m East Lancs Railway revamp revealed  the 10 year plan to transform spot into one of UKs best heritage sites
20220224
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-v2/huge-12m-east-lancs-railway-23205409
The legendary route, which welcomes more than 200,000 visitors to Bury a year, has been run as a charity for the past five decades.
But its current buildings, at the Buckley Wells site, have been deteriorating and are in dire need of restoration.
The contribution to the local economy grew significantly between 2008 and 2019 where visitors jobs and value added has doubled.
In recent years the ELR has been pursuing works to help improve visitor experience at Buckley Wells.
A huge 12m restoration project has been given the green light to transform the historic East Lancashire Railway into one of the countrys best heritage sites.
Sign up to the free MyBury newsletter to get the best stories direct to your inbox
It has its main workshop at Buckley Wells where locomotives, carriages and wagons are housed.
A report to members of the planning committee outlined the background to the development of the nine hectare site.
At a meeting of Bury Councils planning committee on Tuesday evening, chair of the ELR, Mike Kelly outlined the many benefits of the proposals.
A world-famous locomotive and carriage works site, it sometimes plays host to the most of all steam engines, The Flying Scotsman.
The report, added: In essence, development works are essential for the managed growth of the ELR on a long term and sustainable basis as a premier visitor and heritage attraction.
The Buckley Wells site is on Baron Street, close to Bury Girl and Boys Grammar schools.
ELR will also use the building to train future generations of volunteer engineers which will be necessary to operate the heritage railway in the future.
A new 10-year strategy has been developed which predicts visitor numbers growing by 30 per cent and an increase in jobs from 150 to 220.
This would result in the removal of some buildings in that area which would not be needed due to the new facilities.
Buildings at the Buckley Wells site have been deteriorating and are in dire need of restoration
The report added that the current building was deteriorating badly so needed restoration and that the new building would be used so the fleet could be maintained to the highest possible standards.
It is the critical and indispensable base for storage and maintenance of historic locomotives and carriages such as the Flying Scotsman.
It said: The ELR plays a key role as a visitor and heritage attraction in the North West.
For the last 50 years running as a charity the ELR has been ably supported by thousands of volunteers who freely give their skills and time to protect and preserve this areas rich industrial transport heritage.
The eastern part of the site close to the entrance will be developed into a car park for staff, volunteers and visitors.
Work includes restoring the listed 1857 locomotive works building and the construction of a new locomotive running shed along with workshops and a training centre.
Our vision of for Buckley Wells to be an engineering centre of excellence building on our apprenticeship programme and encouraging more young people into this specialised and sought after employment.
Get news updates from Bury direct to your email inbox with the free MyBury newsletter.
A huge new carriage shed will also be built to store rolling stock undercover, which the railway said could double the lifespan of carriages.
