Im nobody special  I just want to do my bit Bury gran flying out to help Ukrainian refugees
20220312
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/im-nobody-special-just-want-23358791
"I'm apprehensive but quite excited," she said of her trip. "I don't know what will happen or how it will transpire but I don't feel unsafe.
READ MORE: Brave dad and pal 'driving into the unknown' on 1,400-mile mercy mission to help Ukraine war victims
"My husband has made me promise not to cross the border to Ukraine and my eight-year-old granddaughter made me promise I will come back."
Wendy, 55, has been given three weeks' leave from her role in the NHS and is using her own money to fund her trip to eastern Europe.
Wendy, who has worked for the NHS for 36 years, has family in Poland and her parents and grandparents were born in the country. Her grandfather moved to the UK after surviving the Auschwitz concentration camp.
Wendy, who also works as lecturer at the University of Chester's Warrington campus, said her bosses and family have all been supportive of her decision. A JustGiving page has raised more than 3,000 towards medical supplies, which her husband Simon will be helping to ship out to Poland with the help of his employer, Segen.
A Bury grandmother is flying out to Poland to help Ukrainian refugees fleeing their war-torn homeland.
"I knew my wife would have to go over there," said Simon. "That's the sort of person she is. She's going into the unknown so I do feel apprehensive. I get a bit emotional when I think about it but I'm proud of what she is doing."
Wanda Warrington, known as Wendy, will set out for the city of Przemysl - a short distance from the Polish Ukrainian border - on Sunday.
The qualified nurse and midwife, from Tottington, says she felt 'compelled' to help Ukrainians who had been displaced as a result of Russia's invasion of their country.
"I'm nobody special. I'm a 55-year-old woman with three kids and five grandchildren. I want to offer some practical support in what I'm trained to do. I just want to make a bit of a difference."
Sign up to the free MyBury newsletter to get the best stories direct to your inbox
Wendy is fluent in Polish and has been involved in collecting donations for Ukraine at the Polish Social Centre in Bury. While in Poland, she will be working as a first responder alongside two medical students.
READ MORE: Manchester foodbank and bar owners flying to Ukraine to aid refugees - and need your help
READ MORE: Manchester man, 22, with no military experience 'willing to die' for the cause fighting Russia in Ukraine
