Images of aftermath as Russian army unleashes 80 strikes against Ukraine in hours
20220224
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/images-aftermath-russian-army-unleashes-23204792
It's thought that around 40 people have been killed so far, an adviser to Ukraine's president said.
Russia has launched more than 80 strikes against Ukrainian targets today, the UK's Ministry of Defence has said.
Meanwhile, Putin has warned other countries that any attempt to interfere with Russian action would lead to consequences they have never seen.
It also confirmed that Russian ground forces are advancing across the border, as well as from the North, East and South from Crimea.
Speaking at Nato headquarters in Brussels, Mr Stoltenberg said: Natos core task is to protect and defend all allies. There must be no room for miscalculation or misunderstanding.
This morning Russian President Vladimir Putin announced he had begun a 'military operation' in Ukraine.
Since, explosions have been heard and felt in some of the country's major cities, including the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
Meanwhile Boris Johnson said a "vast invasion" is underway in Ukraine "by land, by air and by sea.."
"We have Ukrainian friends in this country, neighbours, co-workers. Ukraine is a country that for decades has enjoyed freedom and democracy, and the right to choose its own destiny.
It comes as earlier in the week, Putin declared independence in the Russian rebel-backed regions of Luhansk and Donetsk, located in the eastern Donbas region.
Putin announced the action during a televised address early on Thursday morning, saying the move was a response to threats from Ukraine.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
"We and the world cannot allow that freedom just to be snuffed out. We cannot and will not just look away."
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has said any attack by Russia on an alliance member would be regarded as an attack on all.
Mr Kuleba said that Ukraine would defend itself against the Russian aggression and will win.
An attack on one will be regarded as an attack on all. This is our collective security guarantee.
Russia has launched more than 80 strikes against Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence has said
In a televised address to the nation, he added: "And this is not, in the infamous phrase, some faraway country of which we know little.
The Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dmytro Kuleba, said that Russia has launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
