ITV This Mornings Josie Gibsons heartbreaking tribute as nan dies
20220309
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/showbiz-news/itv-mornings-josie-gibsons-heartbreaking-23335253
READ MORE: Piers Morgan marks anniversary of sudden ITV Good Morning Britain walk-out before teasing 'uncensored' new TV show
The ITV This Morning presenter announced the devastating news on her Instagram Story yesterday March 8, which was also International Women's Day.
Josei, 37, shared a throwback photograph of her alongside another of her appearing to hold her grandmother's hand in what appears to be a hospital bed.
Writing across the post, Josie said: "No one will forget this woman in a hurry. Love you nan. Rest in peace."
Taking to Twitter, the TV star explained that one of her friends was struck in war-torn Ukraine with her two children and they were looking for urgent transportation out of Kharkiv.
Josie has become an ever popular face on This Morning since stepping into the main hosting role last year. The former Big Brother winner was drafted in to present the daytime show alongside Phillip Schofield when Holly Willoughby had to pull out at the last minute due to illness.
Love a bit of cheeky celeb goss? Share your email to get showbiz news, gossip and rumours from the MEN
Josie then ended the tribute by adding: "I'm actually going to miss the insults," with a laughing face emoji.
"Especially you alisonkilling They have crossed the border and will be home soon. God bless you all."
Josie's heartbreaking family news comes after she reached out to fans for help amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has now entered its 14th day.
For all the latest news and gossip, click here to sign up to our newsletter
She tweeted: "Please RT: this is the most important tweet Ive ever written and its a long shot. We have friends, a woman and her two British children, stuck by Kharkiv does anyone know of any charities or people on the ground with fuel who can drive them to the train station or border?"
In a separate message, Josie said: "They only went to care for a sick grandmother and got stuck."
She did soon share a positive update and that her friend made it out with her children. She said: "Thank you to all those that helped with different links and telegram groups with people giving lifts from Kharkiv.
She then returned before Christmas and again earlier this year alongside Holly and friend Alison Hammond.
