Kherson protests Man stands on tank with Ukraine flag as thousands protest against Russia
20220305
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/uk-news/moment-man-kherson-under-russian-23298221
Read more on the Ukrainian conflict: Chilling warning that 'more death and destruction to come' in Ukraine after dozens killed and Russian troops 'raping civilians'
Michael Clarke of the Royal United Services Institute said Russian forces were attempting to build forces across the south in order to push forward north to the capital of Kyiv.
Kherson was seized by Russian troops on Wednesday night and has since been subjected to intense bombing.
Kherson is a port city and holds great strategic value for Moscow, with experts suggesting Russian troops are attempting to cut off Ukraine's access to the Black Sea and international shipping.
The city council said the move is due to "the fact that the Russian side does not adhere to the regime of silence and continued shelling of both Mariupol itself" and the surrounding area.
It comes as President Putin's invasion reaches its 10th day with a temporary ceasefire announced in the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha, which have both seen frequent bombing.
Videos of the protests posted on media appear to show large groups of residents waving Ukrainian flags and chanting "Kherson is Ukraine".
"Kherson is very important because it is the city that controls the water supply to the Crimea," he said.
But residents seem unphased with one man being filmed climbing directly on a Russian tank vehicle and waving the Ukrainian flag.
Channel 4 Gogglebox stars Pete and Sophie reduced to tears as they react to Ukraine invasion
Despite claims from Russian troops that they will not shoot civilians, a video posted on social media shows soldiers firing in the air in an attempt to intimidate and disperse the protesters.
Read more: Terrifying footage shows British journalist in Ukraine shot and wounded in Russian ambush near Kyiv
Seizing the port also allows Russia to build a land corridor stretching from its border through Russian-occupied Crimea, and to open up naval advances from Russian ships in the Black Sea which have been increasing their pressure in the past few days.
However, Mariupol's deputy mayor says the planned evacuation of civilians has been postponed as Russian troops continue to fire on the city.
Mayor Igor Kolykhaev said Russian troops forced their way into the city council building and attempted to impose a curfew on residents while pledging not to shoot any civilians.
"Kherson is a big gain for the Russians. Its taken them a while but they are here now.
'I'm just crying' - Man City's Aleks Zinchenko reveals week of turmoil amid Russia invasion of Ukraine
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
It comes as a ceasefire had been put into place today for two areas - the strategic port of Mariupol in the south-east and the eastern town of Volnovakha - to allow civilians to evacuate.
Stay up to date on the latest Ukrainian news via our live blog: Ukraine war LIVE Russia 'not upholding ceasefire' as thousands try to flee
The southern Ukrainian city of Kherson has seen a wave of protests today March 5 as Russian troops advance into the region.
Its also the city thats key to crossing the Dnieper River. And at some point, the Russians will want to be on both sides of the river to move up and join up with their northern front.
