Killed in war while just doing his job  Cameraman died in Kyiv TV tower missile strike
20220302
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/killed-war-just-doing-job-23268186
The Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky expressed outrage on Wednesday at the attack on Babi Yar, where Nazi occupiers killed more than 33,000 Jews over two days in 1941.
He expressed concern that other historically significant and religious sites could be targeted and called on Jews around the world to protest the invasion.
The Ukrainian parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, posted a photo of clouds of smoke around the TV tower, and Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko shared a video of it being hit.
Ukrainian journalist Olga Tokariuk confirmed that her former colleague Yevhenii Sakun had been killed in a tweet this afternoon.
READ MORE How many have died in Ukraine? The estimated death toll of soldiers and civilians so far
Sign up to the MEN email newsletters to get the latest on sport, news, what's on and more by following this link.
A spokesman for the nearby memorial said a Jewish cemetery at the site was damaged but that the extent was not clear.
Tributes have been paid to TV cameraman Yevhenii Sakun, who is believed to be the first journalist killed during the Russian invasion of Ukraine
A Ukrainian cameraman has been named as one of the five people who died during a Russian missile strike on a TV tower in Kyiv on Tuesday.
Yad Vashem, the World Holocaust Remembrance Centre in Jerusalem, expressed vehement condemnation and called on the international community to take action to safeguard civilian lives as well as these historical sites.
Lyse Doucet, the BBC's Chief International Correspondent, who is also currently in Ukraine, tweeted: "Yevhenii Sakun... killed in war while just doing his job."
Ukrainian journalist Anna Myroniuk wrote: "We worked together with Yevhenii a couple of years ago at the same TV channel in Kyiv. He was a cameraman, I was a reporter. We worked as a team at times.
Posting a picture of his Press badge, she said: "The first person I know died in this war. My former colleague, TV cameraman Yevhenii Sakun, was killed yesterday as a result of Russian missile strike on Kyiv's Babyn Yar, along with 4 other people.
Russia targeted a TV tower in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on Tuesday afternoon, in an attack that left five people dead and five others injured.
The attack also caused damage at the nearby site of the Babi Yar Holocaust memorial.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
He is understood to be the first journalist killed during the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which began in the early hours of last Thursday, February 24.
This is beyond humanity, Mr Zelensky, who is Jewish, said in a speech posted on Facebook. They have orders to erase our history, our country and all of us.
The Babyn Yar Holocaust Memorials chairman, Natan Sharansky, said that Russian President Vladimir Putin seeks to distort and manipulate the Holocaust to justify an illegal invasion of a sovereign democratic country is utterly abhorrent. It is symbolic that he starts attacking Kyiv by bombing the site of the Babyn Yar, the biggest of Nazi massacres.
