Next phase of 1bn thriving 25acre new neighbourhood gets green light
20220303
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/next-phase-1bn-thriving-25-23280440
READ MORE: First-time buyers urged to follow these six steps to boost their chances of getting a mortgage
Sign up to the MySalford newsletter to keep up with what's happening in and around the city
The development will create more than 7,000 jobs in the nearby area. Applications have already been submitted for the remaining neighbourhood space, including further contemporary new homes, a hotel and a multi-storey car park.
Nicola Wallis, Sales  Marketing Director at SGI, added: We are absolutely delighted that planning has been approved for a further 909 much needed new homes at Middlewood Locks.
Salford City Council has given the go-ahead for further residential and commercial development space at Middlewood Locks, on Lockside Lane, which already houses more than 1,200 residents.
Middlewood Locks is a walkable neighbourhood, which is close to the city centre, has a beautiful public realm, canal-side walks and great amenities which makes this a very desirable place for our customers to make their home a place to plan for the future and enjoy the present.
The huge Middlewood Locks project is a joint venture between SGI, Chinese firm Hualing Group and Metro Holdings Limited, a Singapore-listed property development group.
The proposals, submitted by regeneration experts Scarborough Group International SGI, will see a further 909 residential apartments built onsite, alongside commercial space and a canal-side public realm.
A further 250 residential apartments will be built within an L shaped building, which features 4,500 sq ft of commercial space alongside an extensive canal-side public realm for residents and visitors.
These next phases will complete the missing link, connecting Middlewood Locks with a seamless transition to the bustle of Manchester city centre, offering a tranquil new place to live and work that is both sustainable and convenient.
Sign up to the MEN email newsletters to get the latest on sport, news, what's on and more by following this link
Paul Kelly, Development Director at SGI, said: This is fantastic news for us and our joint venture partners as we commit to complete our 13-year commitment to curate one of the largest new urban communities in Greater Manchester.
The 25-acre "urban neighbourhood" is centred around the Manchester, Bolton and Bury canal to the east of Oldfield Road in Salford. As part of the new plans, 659 residential apartments will be built within two blocks alongside 18,000 sq ft of commercial space.
When completed, Middlewood Locks promises to be a vibrant mixed-use neighbourhood with homes and commercial space, including offices, hotel, shops, restaurants, and gym.
Developers say the plans will help 'curate one of the largest new urban communities in Greater Manchester'
We have a strong and vibrant community, and we are already seeing great demand from our existing residents for the homes in the Railings as they look to take the next step in their home buying journey. Residents are very settled in our neighbourhood and its wonderful to see more families enjoying living in our community.
READ MORE: Couple paint their home like Ukraine flag to show support for country in Russia-Ukraine war
Both buildings will feature undercroft parking, electric charging points and bicycle storage. A new landscaped public square which will be used to host events is also included in the plans and will link the two plots together.
The next phase of homes at Middlewood Locks is set to start on site next month and will feature 189 apartments and townhouses in an area called The Railings.
The journey over the last six years has not only created a thriving new neighbourhood with over 1,200 residents in occupation but also delivered considerable economic returns to the region.
Plans for the next phase of works at a 1bn thriving new neighbourhood in Salford have been approved by the council.
