One million people have fled Ukraine since invasion says UN refugee agency
20220303
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/one-million-people-fled-ukraine-23271018
Russia also pounded Kharkiv, Ukraines second-largest city with about 1.5 million people, in another round of aerial attacks that shattered buildings and lit up the skyline with balls of fire. At least 21 people were killed and 112 injured over the past day, said Oleg Sinehubov, head of the Kharkiv regional administration.
Russia has reported its military casualties for the first time since the invasion began, saying nearly 500 of its troops have been killed and almost 1,600 wounded. Ukraine did not disclose its own military losses but said more than 2,000 civilians have died, a claim that could not be independently verified.
The announcement comes as Russian forces lay siege to two strategic Ukrainian ports and press their bombardment of the countrys second-biggest city, while the huge armoured column threatening Kyiv appears to be stalled outside the capital. Moscows isolation has deepened, though, with most of the world lined up against it at the United Nations to demand withdrawal from Ukraine.
We cannot even take the wounded from the streets, from houses and apartments today, since the shelling does not stop, he was quoted as saying. Meanwhile, the senior US defence official said the immense column of hundreds of tanks and other vehicles appeared to be stalled roughly 16 miles from Kyiv and had made no real progress in the last couple of days.
The convoy, which earlier in the week had seemed poised to launch an assault on the capital, has been plagued with fuel and food shortages and has faced fierce Ukrainian resistance, the official said. On the far edges of Kyiv, volunteer fighters well into their 60s have manned a checkpoint to try to block the Russian advance.
The UN refugee agency says one million people have fled Ukraine since Russias invasion, in the swiftest exodus of refugees this century. The tally from UNHCR amounts to more than 2 of Ukraines population of 44 million on the move in under a week.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
With fighting going on on multiple fronts across the country, Britains Ministry of Defence said Mariupol, a large port city on the Azov Sea, was encircled by Russian forces, while the status of another vital port, Kherson, a Black Sea shipbuilding city of 280,000, remained unclear. Russian President Vladimir Putins forces claimed to have taken complete control of Kherson, which would make it the biggest city to fall yet in the invasion, but a senior US defence official disputed that.
UNHCR has predicted up to four million people could eventually leave Ukraine but cautioned even that projection could be revised upward. In an email, UNHCR spokesperson Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams wrote: Our data indicates we passed the 1M mark as of midnight in central Europe 11pm London, based on counts collected by national authorities.
