Petrol prices expected to hit 150 per litre amid crisis in Ukraine
20220222
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/uk-news/petrol-prices-expected-hit-150-23181856
Asked what assessment the government had made on energy and oil prices amid the crisis, Mr Johnson said: "One of the risks of Putins venture is that there could be a spike in gas prices, in oil prices
Figures from data firm Experian Catalist show the average price of a litre of petrol at UK forecourts is 1.49, while diesel costs 1.53.
The government will do everything we can to mitigate it and help the people in this country but its one of the reasons why the whole of Western Europe has got to end their dependence on Russian oil and gas.
In the House of Commons today, Boris Johnson admitted there could be a spike in gas and oil prices as a consequence of Putins venture.
With retailers quick to pass on any wholesale price rises they experience, we could sadly see the average price of unleaded hit 1.50 in the next few days and diesel approaching 1.54.
"The price of oil is likely to go above 100 US dollars and stay there on the back of traders fearing future disruptions in supply.
Oil prices increased on Tuesday February 22 to their highest level since September 2014 as concerns mounted over the reliability of supplies, with Brent crude exceeding 99 US dollars a barrel.
This spells bad news for drivers in the UK struggling to afford to put fuel in their cars.
Petrol prices are expected to rise and hit the 'grim milestone' of 1.50 per litre after Russian troops entered eastern Ukraine.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
RAC fuel spokesman Simon Williams said: Russias decision to invade Ukraine is already causing oil prices to rise and will undoubtedly send fuel prices inexorably higher towards the grim milestone of 1.50 a litre.
This is likely to lead to an increase in fuel prices as retailers pass on the rise in wholesale costs.
Boris Johnson had admitted that gas and oil prices could 'spike' following the latest developments in Eastern Europe
