RussiaUkraine LIVE updates as Vladimir Putin reveals demands to end war and nuclear reactor destroyed
20220307
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/uk-news/ukraine-russia-live-updates-ceasefire-23307432
Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper suggested the UK Governments guidance is confusing, with elderly aunts and 19-year-old nieces being turned away.
Anastasiia Yalanskaya, 26, was shot dead alongside two other volunteers by a Russian 'death squad' as she delivered food to a dog shelter in Bucha, 18 miles outside of Kyiv, the Mirror reports.
Dmitry Peskov says Russia wants Ukraine to cease military action, enshrine neutrality in its constitution, acknowledge Crimea as Russian territory and recognise Donetsk and Lugansk as independent states.
"What we have to do now is we have to strengthen Nato, we particularly have to strengthen the eastern flank.
Everybody is doing that, everybody is on the same journey. Some countries will find it faster and easier than others, thats all.
We have seen extensive and indiscriminate use of force against civilians. This is prohibited by international humanitarian law. We will not spare any effort to ensure that violations of international law in Ukraine are investigated, that evidence is gathered and that the perpetrators are held accountable.
You can no longer use a bogus company to conceal your ownership of a property, he said.
The town council said Yuri Prylypko died while distributing bread and medicines to those in need.
The Foreign Secretary says the West 'took its eye off the ball' following the Cold War - as she suggested the invasion of Ukraine had 'shattered the security architecture of Europe'.
He said that Mr Putin is making a historic fault with his war pitted against Ukrainians, brothers. Mr Macron stressed the need to respect the people of all countries and ensure that no nation, no people be humiliated.
I dont think that in the days and weeks to come there will be a true negotiated solution, Mr Macron said at a forum while campaigning for the first time to renew his mandate in April presidential elections.
It takes the UK's medical contribution to the war to 200 pallets and 485,000 essential medicines.
The BBC has reported on the plight of workers inside Ukraine's Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which is now said to be in Russian hands.
The BBC reported a Ukrainian adviser to the president saying there was 'small, positive' progress on humanitarian corridors.
Workers continue to go about their duties and the atmosphere is said to be calm, but the BBC has been told that the conditions inside are difficult, with food and medicine limited.
The UN human rights office says it has been able to confirm the deaths of 406 civilians in Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian invasion.
He added: "I underscored the urgent need to impose new sanctions on Russia for its continued barbaric war crimes in Ukraine.
Ukrainian officials have also announced that a regional airport in Mykolayiv has been regained from Russian forces, but the UN says a nuclear facility in Kharkiv has been destroyed.
I met last week not just with the ambassador for Ukraine to the UK and the deputy ambassador, but Londoners of Ukrainian origin, community leaders, Londoners with links with Ukraine, and its heartbreaking that they want to do more, they can do more, but theyre being held back because it is taking so long to process these visas, he told the Press Association during a visit to a Wrightbus factory in Co Antrim.
That is why the UK, Canada and the Netherlands joined the largest referral to the International Criminal Court in history to expedite an investigation. That is also why we welcome the urgent establishment by the UN Human Rights Council of a Commission of Inquiry with a strong investigative mandate. We stand ready to provide the necessary cooperation and assistance to support the ICC Prosecutor in its work.
A young aid worker who refused to evacuate so she could save animals has been shot dead.
The town is close to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, and is home to the Hostomel airfield, a key strategic point at the centre of fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces.
The head of International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear watchdog, says a neutron generator at a physics institute has been wrecked.
At a Downing Street press conference, Mr Johnson said: I dont think Tony Blinken was wrong in the sense that we are all together now moving very, very fast and seeing that something that, perhaps three or four weeks ago, we would never have considered is now very much on the table.
More than 100 are said to be trapped inside, unable to leave or being prevented from doing so.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will give a historic address to MPs on Tuesday evening by video link, Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle announced
Rafael Mariano Grossi said that the relatively new facility was considered 'subcritical' and had 'a very small inventory of material'.
Boris Johnson said the UK Government recognises it needs to do even more to help refugees as the situation in Ukraine worsens.
It is an extremely rare accolade not normally offered to world leaders, who normally deliver addresses to both Houses of Parliament outside the chamber, such as in Westminster Hall.
He said it produced neutrons for scientific experiments and was part of a co-operation between the US and Ukraine.
An 11-year-old boy who fled Ukraine alone with only a backpack, his passport and a phone number scrawled in ink on his hand has been hailed as a 'hero'.
Anastasiia's estranged husband, Yevhen, told the New York Post: "She was one of the best human beings I knew.
Meanwhile, Tory James Cleverly today defended the UK's support for refugees after only 'around 50' visas have been granted so far.
The embattled leader, whose messages in military fatigues to his nation and Russia have inspired millions, will be beamed in on TV screens in the chamber.
The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, will give an 'historic address' to MPs on Tuesday evening by video link, it's been confirmed tonight.
As of March 6, 128,169 refugees from Ukraine had arrived in Slovakia, according to data from the UN refugee agency, UNHCR.
It beggars belief that only 50 have been processed so far when more than 5,000 have applied.
Boris Johnson said it is the moment for Ukraines friends to create a coalition of humanitarian, economic and defensive military support to ensure Vladimir Putins catastrophic invasion fails.
There are also growing concerns that stress may could be impacting their ability to safely carry out their duties at the nuclear site.
Clearly, as the situation has got worse, were going to have to make sure we do even more.
Home Secretary Priti Patel said the Home Office is "absolutely surging capacity across our visa application centre" to ensure as many people are getting access, adding in the Commons: We have staff in Calais, we have support on the ground. It is wrong to say were just turning people back, were absolutely not, were supporting those that have been coming to Calais.
"She loved animals. We had a dog and a cat. She was the best partner I ever had."
Its also important that we do not create choke points in Calais but encourage a smooth flow of people, and in particular I can confirm that we have set up a bespoke VAC en route to Calais but away from the port because we have to prevent that surge taking place."
The facility has been bombed but there has been no release of radiation, the head of the UN nuclear watchdog said today.
These images show civilians fleeing the Ukranian city of Irpin, which was targeted over the weekend.
French President Emmanuel Macron said that he does not expect a negotiated end to the war in Ukraine for weeks.
We also condemn in the strongest possible terms Russias use of force in the direct vicinity of Ukraines nuclear power plants and other nuclear facilities and call on Russia to immediately cease these hostilities.
We, the leaders of the United Kingdom, Canada and the Netherlands are appalled by Putins unprovoked and brutal invasion of Ukraine. This is a horrific attack on a democratic, sovereign European nation, as well as a clear violation of Russias obligations under international law, including the United Nations Charter.
We will be very generous, as the people in this country would expect and would want, to people fleeing the war in Ukraine, and I know that is going to be the instinct of the British people.
The move comes despite similar attempts at humanitarian corridors failing in recent days, with a ceasefire to protect 400,000 people in Mariupol twice in a row.
London mayor Sadiq Khan said the UK can and must do more to help Ukraine.
Boris Johnson branded Vladimir Putins tactics in Ukraine repugnant and said additional sanctions would follow.
The PM again defended the UKs sanctions regime against claims that London-based oligarchs were not being targeted.
Eight people were reportedly killed following Russian shelling in the area, including four along the road leading to Kyiv - which has been a key evacuation route for people fleeing Russian forces advancing from the north.
Ukrainian and Russian forces blamed each other for failing to observe the ceasefire to allow hundreds of thousands to escape over the weekend.
He told a Downing Street press conference: The president of Russia is plainly doubling down.
He told a Downing Street press conference the Economic Crime Bill going through the Commons on Monday would add to the powers already available.
And the routes that we have the family reunion route offers the prospect of hundreds of thousands coming here, the humanitarian sponsorship route is also uncapped and we are putting people out in all the surrounding countries  into Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, as well as into Calais, France  to make sure we receive people and help people to come.
A nuclear facility in Kharkiv is believed to have been destroyed - but UN officials say there has been no release of radiation.
Mr Macron said that Russia, too, must be respected as a country and people because there is no durable peace if Russia is not part of a grand architecture of peace on our continent. Because history and geography are stubborn.
The youngster managed to reach the Slovakian border on his own - and was promptly called a 'hero of the night' by the authorities after crossing to safety.
I welcome the steps that the Government has taken but we can and must do more.
State media claims humanitarian corridors have been opened up today from 7am UK time in Kyiv, Kharkiv, Mariupol and Sumy.
So that is why the number is so high because they are going through Slovakia, but this is not the number where they stay, he told the PA news agency.
Defence budgets were cut, there was too much entering into trade and economic relationships without understanding the underlying strategic dependency that would lead to."
Commons Speaker, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, granted a request to allow him to read a statement.
On Sunday, Russian personnel offered a delivery of food, but the Ukrainian workers turned it down, saying it was a propaganda stunt.
Intervening, Ms Patel told the House of Commons: We, on Friday, launched an extended family route which covers the very family members that Ms Cooper is referring to. That scheme is up and running.
Another 200 Ukrainian guards, who'd been in charge of security at the time of the assault, also remain trapped.
"She was committed to help, to help her friends and relatives and whoever needed help.
The facilities are not set up for sleeping, so temporary dormitories have been created, with some sleeping on camp beds and tables, others on the floor.
It said that another 801 injured civilians had been confirmed as of midnight on Sunday. The rights office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has confirmed.
Another flight has left the UK bound for Ukraine this morning, containing 'vital' medicines, the Health Secretary said.
Fighting has delayed its receipt of information and many reports still need to be corroborated.
We have got to make sure the Government provides the funding we need. Councils are really keen to step up, there is accommodation ready to go.
We have to consider how we can all move away as fast as possible from dependence, reliance, on Russian hydrocarbons, Russian oil and gas.
In the 12 days since Russia launched this illegal and brutal assault, the world has come together in solidarity with the indomitable people of Ukraine, he added.
A statement by the Hostomel council said he "died as a hero", adding it is impossible for a funeral to immediately be held due to the war.
Britains ambassador to Ukraine has left the country because of the serious security situation, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said.
These days, around 2,400 people still work at the site: scientists, technicians, cooks, medics and other support staff, plus members of the national guard.
A key Russian spokesperson has told the Reuters news agency that the conflict - which it calls its 'special military operation' - can be 'stopped in a moment' if its demands are met.
Over 14,000 people have applied. Later on this evening we will be provided assured data and assured numbers on the people that are coming through that route, and its wrong to say that this Government is not welcoming Ukrainian refugees.
But were going to do it together and we are going to work together on making sure that we all have the substitutes and the supplies that we need.
We will continue to stand strong in supporting Ukraine and applaud the heroism and strength of Ukraines resistance led by President Zelenskyy. Together we have committed significant economic and humanitarian assistance.
It means we have now delivered over 200 pallets and around 485,000 items of essential medical supplies and medicines to help the people of Ukraine.
Sky News reports the mayor of Hostomel, a town in Ukraine, has been shot and killed while out distributing aid, according to Ukrainian officials.
He said that he has told the Russian leader that a ceasefire must come before any real dialogue, but that President Vladimir Putin has refused, making their regular talks difficult.
It says it believes the real figures are considerably higher, especially in government-controlled territory and especially in recent days.
It comes as Lieutenant General Serhiy Shaptala said the defending troops had seized Chuhuiv from Russian control and inflicted heavy losses on Putin's army.
It comes as Ukraine forces have retaken a key city and killed two high-ranking Russian commanders, according to defence officials.
He made the pledge at a Downing Street press conference with Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau and Dutch premier Mark Rutte, saying it took the UKs total commitment to nearly 400 million.
He has underestimated the Ukrainians and their heroic resistance. Hes underestimated their leader and hes underestimated the unity of the West.
Giving evidence to the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, Ms Truss said all UK diplomatic missions in the country have now closed.
Reuters news agency, meanwhile, said no agreement that 'significantly improved' the situation had been recahed.
It was previously announced that the ambassador, Melinda Simmonds, had moved from the capital Kyiv to Lviv in western Ukraine, where the threat was considered less acute.
The legislation will whip aside the veil of anonymity used to obscure ownership of mansions and other properties.
So basically theyre passing through Slovakia. So that 130,000 that you said is the people who crossed the border, but it doesnt reflect how many stay.
Speaking to the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee this afternoon, Liz Truss said the West had 'enabled the development of Russian high-tech warfare' by providing the funding through oil and gas sales.
Mr Johnson said the three countries stand shoulder to shoulder against Russias barbaric invasion of Ukraine.
Boris Johnson said a boycott of Russian oil and gas was very much on the table.
Over the weekend, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said Washington was in very active discussions with countries in Europe over banning imports of Russian oil.
Meanwhile, nuclear reactor at a physics institute has been destroyed in a Russian missile attack in Kharkiv.
The move comes as Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky says Russia continues to murder Ukrainian citizens, including a young family who were trying to escape the town of Irpin.
Vladimir Putin has revealed his long list of demands to end the war as he's locked in with negotiations with Ukraine this afternoon.
The boy, wearing a bobble hat, had just a backpack, a plastic bag, his passport and the telephone number written on the back of his palm, according to the Slovak Ministry of Interior. The report has not been independently verified.
We know there are 1.5 million Ukrainians who have left Ukraine  only a handful have so far come to London, that cant be right.
Thats very important to say because many of the Ukrainians go to their families which they have around Europe.
We know there are empty properties in London owned by Russian oligarchs close to Putin  why cant we have some of those assets seized and used to house some of those fleeing Ukraine?
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has just tweeted saying he has had a call with Liz Truss on practical steps to further strengthen Ukraines defense capabilities.
Speaking at a press conference in Downing Street, the Prime Minister said: We are absolutely determined to be as generous as we possibly can and as I speak to you all we are processing thousands of applications.
Her family said they were targeted at close range and claimed Russian troops were now killing civilians at random.
An adviser to Ukraine's president says the third round of talks with Russia has ended, with progress made on humanitarian corridors.
Russia announced a temporary ceasefire in parts of Ukraine this morning so residents can flee cities.
The Kremlin is urging Ukraine to recognise Crimea as Russian, and Donetsk and Lugansk as independent states, while also calling on the country to enshrine independence in its constitution - keeping Ukraine out of Nato.
Oleksandr Markushyn, the town's mayor, announced in a statement that a family died 'in front of my eyes' - including two children.
We call on Russia to uphold its obligation to fully respect international humanitarian law and human rights law, and to implement an immediate ceasefire that allows civilians safe passage, food and medical supplies.
He has decided that he is going to continue with an all-out onslaught on centres of habitation in a way that we think is utterly repugnant.
