RussiaUkraine LIVE updates as Chelsea owner Abramovich sanctioned and three killed in Mariupol hospital bombing
20220310
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/uk-news/russia-ukraine-live-updates-amid-23343212
The foreign ministers of Ukraine and Russia are in Turkey today March 10 to meet for peace talks.
The spokesman said he was not aware that the Foreign Office had held specific conversations about reprimanding the embassy for the social media post.
I think that everybody seeing whats happening in Ukraine will understand those feelings and I think many people, many people in our armed forces, will sympathise because I dont think Ive ever seen such clear distinction in international affairs between right and wrong and good and evil in what President Putin is doing to people in Ukraine.
The mayor of Ukraines capital, Kyiv, says some two million people have fled the city - about half its residents.
He is hitting back at Russia over its comments that the blast at Mariupol's children's and women's hospital yesterday was 'fake news'.
A Warner Music Group spokesperson said: Warner Music Group is suspending operations in Russia, including investments in and development of projects, promotional and marketing activities, and manufacturing of all physical products.
Putin said there had been no alternative to what Russia calls its special military operation in Ukraine and that Russia was not a country which could accept compromising its sovereignty for some sort of short-term economic gain.
Some people have ended up attacking each other for food, he said, with a blackmarket for vegetables emerging.
Warner Music Group has suspended all of its operations in Russia amid the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, the company has confirmed.
Russias Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov denied that the Russian military struck the hospital.
Ms Inglish praised the extraordinary generosity of the British public as she revealed that the appeal had raised more than 120 million, including 12 million from Scotland, to support 15 of the major humanitarian aid charities, including the British Red Cross, Save the Children, Christian Aid and Oxfam.
Asked if the use of such weapons would be a red line for the UK, and how it would respond in that situation, the Foreign Secretary told CNN: We are very concerned about the potential use of chemical weapons.
Ukrainian officials said that Wednesdays Russian air strike on the hospital killed three people, including a child, and wounded 17 others. The attack has caused global outrage.
Twitter has removed a tweet by the Russian Embassy in the UK which was branded fake news by the Culture Secretary.
But we have very clear laws in this country. You shouldnt go to Ukraine, and Im afraid people going from our armed services, as the Chief of the Defence Staff made clear the other day, will face court martial.
The Prime Minister said the Kremlin was preparing a fake story that there were chemical weapons being stored in the country to provide grounds for using them themselves.
The West has slapped harsh financial and economic sanctions on Russia because of the invasion, and the Ukrainian leader said the consequences will be felt by all Russians.
Asked whether Boris Johnson would like to see social media platforms shut down the Russian embassys accounts, the spokesman replied: Thats obviously a matter for Twitter, but weve been clear that that is disinformation.
Andy Burnham has called for an investigation into the influence of Russian money in British politics.
He claimed that the two explosions that ravaged the building were caused by devices planted nearby in what he described as a staged provocation to incite anti-Russian agitation in the West.
Refugees in recent days have been 'very traumatised, they left without any resources, they are very vulnerable and they need more direct support'.
We will continue to fulfil our agreed upon obligations to our people, artists, and songwriters as best we can as the situation unfolds. We remain committed to supporting the humanitarian relief efforts in the region.
"We have started to get sick, many of us, because of the humidity and cold that we have," Volkov says.
Downing Street said a tweet from the Russian embassy in the UK claiming the maternity hospital bombed in Ukraine was no longer operational and that images had been faked was disinformation.
Money raised will support roving medical teams in Poland and Ukraine, and could fund an emergency care facility for over 100 people a day.
The official said there was a change in the profile of refugees turning up at the borders of neighbouring countries, adding: The first wave of refugees were very quickly moving on because these were people with resources, they had contacts elsewhere, so they came and they moved.
Sasha Volkov, the organisation's delegation head in the city, said many families have run out of food to feed their children, reports The Mirror.
Youre getting things like women who cant get access to maternal healthcare, youre getting people needing mental health support because theyve just come from areas that have been targeted and bombed.
The tweet added that Moscow warned the UN Security Council about this three days ago.
You have seen it in Syria, you saw it even in the UK. I just note that that is what they are already doing. It is a cynical, barbaric government Im afraid.
"We will find all the property of propagandists and their associates. We will do all we can to confiscate whatever it is."
Ukrainian refugees are turning up with frostbite due to the cold and some have mental health scars after facing bombardment, according to Western officials.
It is understood the latest visa application centre to open  just under 70 miles from Calais  will only handle the cases of people who have been referred there and is anticipated to operate along similar lines of a small pop-up site now established in Lille.
A charity based at the University of Manchester is raising money for urgent medical aid to support Ukrainian refugees.
Volodymyr Zelensky says humanitarian corridors are in place again today as desperate civilians get supplies and routes away from danger.
Another processing centre will open in Arras for Ukrainian refugees seeking to come to the UK.
READ MORE:  Ukrainian nationals with passports can apply for UK visas in bid to speed up process
The BBC reports that Russian forces are believed to have now rolled their armoured vehicles up to the north-eastern edge of the city. Overnight, there was heavy fighting for control of the main road into the city.
Russia has labelled the bombing 'fake news', claiming instead that Ukrainian troops are using the hospital to fire weapons from - despite images of injured women being taken from the scene yesterday.
Boris Johnson has accused Russia of a cynical, barbaric attempt to justify the use of chemical weapons in Ukraine.
It comes as four people, including two children, have reportedly been killed in a blast on a house in Kharkiv - while a five-year-old girl has been left seriously injured, the Ukraine state emergency services says.
Giving evidence to Holyroods Europe and External Affairs Committee in Scotland, Ms Inglish said: The scale of the need, as you will have seen from the distressing pictures on our TV screens and newspapers, is massive.
"My heart is broken by what the occupiers have done to our cities, to our state, and what they want to do to our people in urgent need.
The council announced that the hospital had been destroyed by bombing yesterday afternoon, in an attack Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky has labelled an 'atrocity'.
Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky has been in discussions with Boris Johnson this afternoon, as well as French president Emmanuel Macron.
One of the hotels owners, Artur Gabovich, said he is very grateful for the donations from people around the world and that the hotel staff will never give up working to provide the city with food.
You will definitely be prosecuted for complicity in war crimes, Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video released on Thursday.
That's almost the entire amount which the United Nations has counted for Ukrainian refugees, at over 2.3 million.
We recognise that this decision will impact the many Chelsea fans who follow their team passionately. However, we feel that given the circumstances, and the Government sanction that is in place, it is the right thing to do.
Mr Gabovich, 50, said: It shows big support for our country, for our people, and for what is going on.
A Three spokesperson said: In light of the governments recently announced sanctions, we have requested Chelsea Football Club temporarily suspend our sponsorship of the club, including the removal of our brand from shirts and around the stadium until further notice.
Reuters reports that Oleg Ustenko, the country's top government economic adviser, made the comments at an online event hosted by the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
The citys mayor, Vitali Klitschko, the former boxing champion, said about two million people  half the residents of the metro area of the capital  have left the city, which has become virtually a fortress.
"These sanctions would have been imposed in any case," Putin told a meeting of the Russian government.
Western governments fear the Russian leader may resort to the use of the banned weapons as he fails to make the progress expected in conquering his neighbour.
"Even people who in their lives never intended to change their clothes, now they are in uniform with machine guns in their hands.
The chairwoman of the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC, Sue Inglish, said the war in Ukraine was already a massive crisis, with charity workers on the front line delivering food, medicine, supplies and first aid to those affected.
Campus Community A-Hotel in the city centre have used the $30,000 22,830 donated through hotel and home rental service Airbnb to keep their kitchen open and cook food for military personnel, hospitals, orphanages and nursing homes in Kyiv.
A hotel in Kyiv is using donations coming through Airbnb to serve food to the city of Kyiv, as staff continue to work through air raid sirens and military attacks to deliver 15,000 meals a day.
Chelsea football club owner Roman Abramovich is one of seven Russian oligarchs who have been added to the UK's sanctions list this morning amid the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
One official said: What were seeing is with the refugees now and the IDPs internally displaced persons, youre getting simple things like frostbite because people are walking.
"People report varying needs in medicine. Especially for diabetes and cancer patients. But there is no way to find it any more in the city."
Three has confirmed the suspension of its sponsorship with Chelsea Football Club - the shirt sponsorship deal is believed to be worth 40m.
Speaking as Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich became the latest oligarch subjected to sanctions by the UK following the invasion of Ukraine, the Mayor said he '100 per cent' agreed that there should be an inquiry.
"There are some questions, problems and difficulties but in the past we have overcome them and we will overcome them."
Earlier today, Russia sought to retaliate against Western sanctions imposed over its invasion of Ukraine by banning exports of certain goods and agricultural commodities.
The tweet was reported by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media  Sport DCMS and has since been removed with a note in its place saying: This Tweet violated the Twitter Rules.
The mayor of Ukraines capital, Kyiv, has said some two million people have fled the city, about half its residents.
As a mobile network, the best way we can support the people of Ukraine is to ensure refugees arriving in the UK from the conflict and customers currently in Ukraine can stay connected to the people who matter to them. Therefore, we are offering connectivity packages to all Ukrainians arriving in the UK, and those in Ukraine.
ITV reported on the teenager, called Jamie, who is said to have left his family in the north west worried.
Mariupol's city council says three people, including a young girl, have been killed in the blast while its deputy mayor told the BBC 17 people have been injured - mostly pregnant women or doctors.
Due to strong Ukrainian resistance, Russian forces are committing an increased number of their deployed forces to encircle key cities. This will reduce the number of forces available to continue their advance and will further slow Russian progress.
The British consular post was being set up at the prefecture of the Pas-de-Calais region in Arras in northern France, the prefecture said in a statement on Thursday.
"People are booking rooms, and they consider it a donation because nobody will come to a hotel right now  of course, were in the centre of a war."
And then, it will definitely happen, you will be hated by Russian citizens  everyone you have been deceiving constantly, daily, for many years in a row, when they feel the consequences of your lies in their wallets, in their shrinking possibilities, in the stolen future of Russian children.
The UK's Ministry of Defence MoD says Russia continues to make slow progress in its invasion and is suffering heavy losses, with Putin now starting to rely on conscript troops.
Now, of course, weve seen Russia use these weapons before in fields of conflict, but that would be a grave mistake on the part of Russia, adding to the grave mistakes that have already been made by Putin.
The embassy, attributing the remark to Russias foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, suggested a hospital attacked by Kremlin forces in the port city of Mariupol had been long non-operational and was being used by Ukrainian armed forces and radicals.
The Russian Defence Ministry has tonight denied responsibility for striking a maternity hospital in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, and claimed the explosions that hit the building were staged to smear Russia.
Ukraines president is telling Russian leaders their countrys invasion of Ukraine will backfire, by landing them in court and making their people hate them.
We are estimating that this is going to be the fastest-growing refugee crisis since the Second World War.
A spokesman for the Prime Minister told reporters: It is clear that this is further disinformation.
Latest updates and breaking news from Ukraine has discussions over humanitarian corridors and ceasefire continue
But witnesses said that donations of unnecessary items such as high-heel shoes were holding back a mammoth volunteer effort as people were having to sort through boxes of donated belongings.
"They want to humiliate our people, to make them kneel and take bread and water from the occupiers.
UK-Med says a team has flown to Poland to see how it can best support those who have fled the war-torn country.
"This specific drive is to raise funds which could purchase medical equipment and other supplies, and to enable healthcare professionals from our city-region and beyond to support those in need on the frontline in Ukraine.
The Government says all seven oligarchs - worth 15 billion - are facing a full asset freeze, are banned from travelling to the UK and are no longer able to do business with UK individuals and firms.
Continued dialogue with the leaders of the UK  France. Informed about new crimes of Russia against people. Further support for was discussed with PM BorisJohnson. We also focused on peace talks with President EmmanuelMacron. We must stop the war. StopRussia
The recording giant, one of the so-called big three, owns labels including Atlantic Records, Elektra Music Group, Parlophone, and Warner Records and represents musicians including Ed Sheeran, Neil Young and Coldplay.
Russian has banned exports of cars, airplanes and drones until the end of this year, the Russian TASS news agency said on Thursday.
Ukraine says that Russian forces have now destroyed more than $100 billion worth of infrastructure, buildings and physical assets across the country.
"If you can spare money and want to support, I would encourage you to do so as soon as you can."
It comes as the world continues to reel after Russia's shocking attack on a hospital for children and women in Ukraine yesterday.
Food and water in the besieged city of Mariupol are dangerous low, the International Red Cross has warned.
Protests against Russian occupation have been reported throughout the week in the Russian-held cities of Kherson, Melitopol and Berdyansk. 400 protestors were reportedly detained by Russian forces in the Kherson Oblast yesterday.
Chelsea owner and Russian-Israeli billionaire Roman Abramovich has been sanctioned by the British government and his assets frozen.
Mr Burnham, speaking on his weekly BBC Radio Manchester phone-in, said: "There is a lot more here that I think people just don't know about the influence of Russian oligarchs and their money, perhaps in all sides of politics, but particularly on one side, which happened to be the governing side."
You have seen the pictures of the people who were wounded during that attack, and you have seen what the Prime Minister said in his tweet yesterday.
He added that the war has caused 50 of Ukrainian businesses to shut down completely, while the other half are operating at well below their capacity.
Charities on the ground in Ukraine fear the crisis will last for at least three years and is causing the fastest-growing refugee crisis since the Second World War.
They start saying that there are chemical weapons that are being stored by their opponents or by the Americans so that when they themselves deploy chemical weapons, as I fear they may, they have a fake story ready to go.
"The Russians were lied to. Allegedly there were no patients in the hospital and no women and children in the maternity hospital.
It comes as the UK toughens its sanctions on Russia and Russian individuals with assets in the country amid the continuing invasion of Ukraine.
The illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is continuing.The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 10 March 2022Find out more about the UK government's response: https:t.cosxVhBRiORN StandWithUkraine pic.twitter.comLDvFIy4UEA
Youve seen the increase in the civilians that have been targeted and sadly wounded and killed on the basis of Russian attacks.
The stuff which you are hearing about chemical weapons is straight out of the Russian playbook, he told Sky News.
Vladimir Putin would be making a 'grave mistake' if he used chemical weapons in his assault on Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said.
