Taliban tells Russia and Ukraine to resolve crisis through peaceful means
20220225
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/taliban-tells-russia-ukraine-resolve-23214099
Now the Taliban has weighed in on the crisis, expressing 'concern' about the 'real possibility' of civilian causalities.
The statement in full reads: "The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan is closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine and expresses concern about real possibility of civilian casualties.
"The Islamic Emirate also calls on parties to the conflict to pay attention to safeguarding the lives of Afghan students and migrants in Ukraine."
The group expressed concern for civilian casualties and asked for Afghan migrants to be kept safe
A statement was shared on Twitter on Friday 25 February by the groups Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman, Abdul Qahar Balkhi.
After the collapse of Afghanistans Western-backed government in August, the Ukrainian military evacuated nearly 100 Afghans to Kyiv, reports the New York Times.
The Taliban has said that Russia and Ukraine should resolve its crisis through 'dialogue and peaceful means' in its first communication on the conflict.
"The Islamic Emirate calls for restraint by both parties. All sides need to desist from taking positions that could intensify violence.
President Zelenskyy confirmed that 137 of Ukraine's civil and army personnel have been killed in the first 24 hours of the invasion.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
It comes as Russia continue their full-scale invasion of Ukraine across multiple fronts, and having launched strikes in cities across the country.
It asked Ukraine and Russia to safeguard the lives of Afghan students and migrants in Ukraine.
"The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, in line with its foreign policy of neutrality, calls on both sides of the conflict to resolve the crisis through dialogue and peaceful means.
An apartment building in the capital city of Kyiv was hit with a rocket in the early hours of Friday morning 25 February, injuring at least three people.
