The boy hero 11 who fled Ukraine alone with a backpack his passport and a phone number written on his hand
20220307
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/boy-hero-11-who-fled-23316305
Staff at the Slovakian border managed to contact his relatives in the country using the ink-scrawled number on his skin
Kyiv has been spared the worst of the fighting so far, but intense battles have raged in surrounding towns and villages and Russia's defence ministry released footage on Sunday of some of its tracked military vehicles on the move near the capital.
It is not clear why the boy was unaccompanied, with his parents reportedly remaining in Kyiv, which is continuing to suffer extensive Russian shelling. The UN estimates that 1.5m people have left Ukraine since the outbreak of war on February 24 - that amounts to about 3.5 of the total population.
A smaller road was blocked by metal "hedgehog" anti-tank barriers, and machine gun positions had been erected. Molotov cocktails were lined up on the side of the road, as civilians vowed to join the battle to protect Kyiv.
The youngster managed to reach the Slovakian border on his own - and was promptly called a 'hero of the night' by the authorities after crossing to safety.
READ MORE: Russia-Ukraine LIVE updates as Vladimir Putin reveals demands to end war and nuclear reactor destroyed
An 11-year-old boy who fled Ukraine alone with only a backpack, his passport and a phone number scrawled in ink on his hand has been hailed as a 'hero'.
READ MORE on Ukraine: Ukrainian actor Pasha Lee who joined fight against Russians is killed in battle
WATCH: Holly Willoughby struggles to speak after emotional clip of Ukrainian girl singing plays on ITV This Morning
Video provided by Ukraine's armed forces taken on Saturday in the Kyiv region, showed Ukrainian efforts to defend the capital, with piles of sandbags and concrete slabs laid across a main road, while Ukrainian soldiers carefully checked passing cars.
The majority of them have fled to Poland but other counties such as Hungary, Slovakia and Moldova have also taken refugees.
The boy, wearing a bobble hat, had just a backpack, a plastic bag, his passport and the telephone number written on the back of his palm, according to the Slovak Ministry of Interior. The report has not been independently verified.
Sign up to the MEN email newsletters to get the latest on sport, news, what's on and more by following this link
While the armed forces and civilian volunteers dug in, thousands of people continued to try to flee the city of 3.4 million as fears of a full assault spread.
The statement, posted on the ministrys Facebook page on Sunday, said that thanks to the information written on the boy's hand and on a piece of paper that was folded in his passport, staff at the border were able to get in touch with the boy's relatives in Slovakia, who were then able to come and collect him.
"He won over everyone with his smile, fearlessness and determination worthy of a real hero," the statement said.
Russia has concentrated its heaviest attacks on the south and east of the country, besieging cities including Mariupol and Kharkiv with artillery fire and air strikes and causing extensive damage and casualties.
The boy hasn't been named. Images showed him being given a hot drink and support by border officials.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
Ukrainian soldiers bolstered defences around Kyiv on Sunday, digging trenches, blocking roads and liaising with civil defence units as Russian forces bombarded the surrounding areas and attacked towns and villages nearby.
"We are equipped 100," said an unidentified soldier in the footage. "Positions are prepared, we've fitted them out and we are simply waiting to meet them here ... Victory will be ours."
"He came all alone because his parents had to stay in Ukraine. Volunteers took care of him, took him to a warm place and gave him food and drink, the ministry said, reports The Mirror.
