UK condemns claims Russia is deporting Ukrainian citizens to do forced labour
20220321
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/uk-condemns-claims-russia-deporting-23449700
From what we know from the city mayor and the city council, is they are taking Ukrainian citizens, said the politician. "They are sending them through what are called the filtration camps and then they are being relocated to very distant parts of Russia, where they are being forced to sign papers saying that they will stay in that area for two or three years and they will work for free in those areas.
READ MORE:Revealed, the shocking police body-cam footage which shows the lies of the rich teen who stabbed to death his friend Yousef Makki
The reports that thousands of Mariupols residents have been abducted remains unverified, but Ukrainian MP Inna Sovsun said that, according to information being shared by the ports mayor, citizens were effectively being relocated by Moscow. Speaking to Times Radio, she said Russia was following the logic of Nazi Germany.
This morning Health Secretary, Sajid Javid, has said Boris Johnson was not suggesting at all a comparison between the Ukrainian fight against the Russian invasion and the Brexit vote in the UK. The Prime Minister said in a speech over the weekend that it was the instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom, with the Brexit vote a famous recent example.
He added: I think its spurious to say that he was connecting somehow the UK and Ukraine in that way. I think most normal people listening to that wouldnt have drawn that conclusion.
The British government has condemned the abduction and deportation of Ukrainians from the besieged city of Mariupol, in a move that has been likened to Nazi Germany.
On Sunday, city authorities said a bomb destroyed an art school where 400 people had taken shelter, with rescuers searching for people possibly trapped under the rubble. Only days before the shelling, there was a separate attack on a theatre in the city where more than 1,000 people were said to have been bunkered.
I dont think in any way he was connecting the situations in Ukraine and the UK, and if we want to know what the Prime Minister thinks about Ukraine and responding, I mean, we can see for ourselves in terms of the support that hes provided, rock-solid support compared to any other world leader.
'Putin is resorting to desperate measures as he is not achieving his objectives. Putin and his regime will be held to account'
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
Ms Truss tweeted: I am appalled by Russian atrocities in Mariupol, including attacks on schools sheltering civilians and the abduction and deportation of Ukrainians. Putin is resorting to desperate measures as he is not achieving his objectives. Putin and his regime will be held to account.
Mariupol has been encircled by Russian troops, cutting it off from energy, food and water supplies and facing a relentless bombardment. The Kremlin issued an ultimatum for Ukrainian soldiers to put down their weapons by the early hours of Monday in the city, but Ukraine rejected the offer.
Sajid Javid told Sky News: What I heard from the Prime Minister was the basically the desire for self-determination in everyone, no matter what country theyre in, no matter what their circumstance, is strong.
A Ukrainian MP claimed that her countrymen and women were being forced to relocate to distant parts of Russia to work in conditions akin to slave labour. The Foreign Secretary, Liz Truss, said she was appalled by these reports and has vowed to hold President Vladimir Putin to "to account for his treatment of civilians during the invasion.
