Ukraine charity donations UK  how you can donate now
20220225
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/uk-news/five-charities-supporting-communities-ukraine-23222050
"This includes trucking safe water to conflict-affected areas prepositioning health, hygiene and emergency education supplies as close as possible to communities near the line of contact and working with municipalities to ensure there is immediate help for children and families in need.
The UN Refugee Agency is working with local authorities and other partners in Ukraine to provide humanitarian assistance when needed.
Different charities often focus on different focal points of support, ranging from providing medical supplies to supporting refugees resulting from the conflict.
"UNICEF-supported mobile teams are also providing psychosocial care to children traumatised by the chronic insecurity.
United Help Ukraine is a charity that focuses on providing humanitarian aid while also raising awareness of the current conflict.
UNICEF is working across eastern Ukraine to deliver life-saving programmes for children as well as deliver safe drinking water in areas heavily impacted by the conflict.
The UK charity is working with the Ukrainian Red Cross Society and the International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC to support people affected by the conflict.
Dominik Stillhart, ICRC director of operations, says 'millions are at risk of deadly consequences' from the intensification of fighting in Ukraine over the past week.
Donations to the Red Cross go towards food, water, first aid, medicines, warm clothes and shelter.
UNICEF executive director Catherine M. Russell said in a statement: UNICEF is working across eastern Ukraine to scale up life-saving programmes for children.
Sunflower of Peace is a local charity which aims to gather medical supplies for paramedics and doctors on the front lines of Ukraine.
In the UK, there are five notable charities currently providing support in Ukraine during the Russian invasion.
The British Red Cross has launched an urgent appeal to help Ukraine and is currently taking donations for the country's support.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
The conflict between Russia and Ukraine has displaced a high number of families while leaving many Ukrainians without a home.
In times of crisis like this, the people of Ukraine need as much support as they can get and an easy way people in the UK can help Ukrainians is by donating to a charity carrying out humanitarian efforts.
High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said the UN Refugee Agency is working with the authorities, UN and other partners in Ukraine and is ready to provide humanitarian assistance wherever necessary and possible.
