Ukraine crisis LIVE as Ukrainian citizens told to leave Russia now
20220222
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/live-russia-invasion-already-begun-23176216
Pressed on whether there will have to be a move on Kyiv for the UK to impose further sanctions, she said: No, it doesnt. It has to be what we would describe as a full-scale invasion, that could be on other parts of Ukraine.
Mr Blackford said the SNP stands united against the Russian invasion of Ukraine and there needs to be tougher and stronger sanctions.
He was pressed to unleash a full package of measures by Sir Keir Starmer at PMQs this afternoon.
The 'intensification of Russian aggression against Ukraine' means it won't be able to offer consular assistance to citizens in Russia
The United States is ready to impose further sanctions on Russia if it continues to escalate its aggression towards Ukraine, the US ambassador to the United Nations has said.
Ukrainian's Foreign Ministry has advised all its citizens in Russia to leave the country immediately.
Former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said the government needs to take action that Russian President Vladimir Putin is not expecting.
In light of the increasingly threatening behaviour from Russia, and in line with our previous support, the UK will shortly be providing a further package of military support to Ukraine.
In a statement from the White House, Mr Biden said the measures were only the first tranche and he would escalate sanctions if Russia escalates.
He said: We reached an agreement between the 27 member states  a unanimous agreement to adopt a package of sanctions.
It doesnt provide the sort of robust, exemplary leadership that we should be giving to a Western alliance which is at its weakest point probably in living memory.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said she believes Russian President Vladimir Putin is hell-bent on invading Ukraine.
She added: Weve heard from Putin himself that he is sending in troops. We dont yet have the full evidence that that has taken place. What we are expecting, and this has been confirmed by the Americans as well as by the United Kingdom, is a full-scale invasion, including potentially of Kyiv.
Whilst one understands that the Government wants to make a staged response, this risks being seen as feeble by Russia. They immediately responded by stepping up their military activity, he told BBC Radio 4s The World at One.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said there are sanctions left in the locker to impose in the event of a full invasion of Ukraine.
But we are aligned with our international allies in saying that we will escalate the sanctions, that there will be even more tough sanctions on key oligarchs, on key organisations in Russia, limiting Russias access to the financial markets, if there is a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which Im afraid to say  we are very much expecting.
READ MORE:  Why would Russia want to invade Ukraine? The conflict in Eastern Europe explained
It is a very serious package. It targets key oligarchs, were clear that sovereign debt will not be able to be raised by the Russian government. It targets key Russian banks that fund the military and fund the activities of the Russian government.
The chair of Bolton's Ukrainian Cultural Centre said that Mr Putin had 'copied Hitler's playbook'.
I welcome the direction that weve taken, but I find myself, Im afraid along with many others on all sides of this House, asking why not more? Why not further?
Mr Biden said the US would also continue to provide defensive assistance to Ukraine, and that he had authorised the movement of US forces to other Baltic states.
It comes as the UK, US and EU are being urged by Ukrainian politicians to impose harsher restrictions on Russia.
Ive been having discussions with the Ukrainian government, and we have been providing that support and training to Ukraine. This could go on, Im afraid to say, for years  we are likely to see a full-scale invasion and Ukraine will fight.
The mood in Ukraine over the last 10 years has turned hugely against the Russian regime. This is not going to be easy for Vladimir Putin. They are ready to fight.
A leader in Greater Manchester's Ukrainian community says that last night's news from Russia has left him 'distraught'.
Ukraines parliament has voted to approve in the first reading a draft law which gives permission to Ukrainians to carry firearms and act in self-defence, reports Reuters.
We do need to go further, and I suspect the Government wanted to. Theyve been pretty robust in what theyve said but its very important to go in lockstep with our allies in a situation like this.
This is the allegation of the Committee of the Senate of the US Representatives who also investigated Russian interference and raised serious issues about the interference of Russian oligarchs not just in our country, but in Europe.
Asked if the event should be held in Russia, she told Sky News: No, it shouldnt be  Im very clear it shouldnt be.
"You can't trust him one bit and I just feel as if we've been let down."
Linda Thomas-Greenfield said they were already seeing Russian troops moving into the Donbas region following Vladimir Putins announcement on Monday that he was recognising the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk.
All of donations to the Conservative Party are from people on the electoral register in Britain, those donations are properly declared.
The point I was making is it is important that we strengthen the eastern flank of Nato countries, that we support the Baltic states, that we support other Nato members to make sure their defences are fully protected, because Putins plans do not stop at Ukraine.
Corruption on an industrial scale. Why did the Prime Minister do nothing back then and why is he still doing nothing now?
This morning, Ukraines parliament voted to approve, in the first reading, a draft law which gives permission to Ukrainians to carry firearms and act in self-defence.
"Yesterday, the United Nations Russia representative said 'we're not going to do anything' - look what happened.
At a press conference in Moscow, he called for the government in Kyiv to give up its hopes of joining Nato and to accept the complete demilitarisation of their country.
Boris Johnson said further military aid would be sent to Ukraine in light of the increasingly threatening behaviour from Russia.
What it will achieve is inflicting pain on Vladimir Putin and his regime, and the Russian economy.
Were implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. That means weve cut off Russias government from Western financing, it can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either.
Because what were doing now is we are in many ways using the actions of a hostile state in eastern Ukraine to justify something that we should have done years ago. The UK sadly has for too long been an avenue for money laundering, for despots and criminals around the world. For too long, we have seen our institutions, our City, our service sector, used to hide the games of corrupt practices abroad and indeed sadly on too many occasions of criminality.
He said: "To stop Putin from further aggression, we call on partners to impose more sanctions on Russia now.
Former cabinet minister David Davis has joined calls for the government to step up sanctions against Russia over its aggression towards Ukraine.
Mr Biden said the US had worked with Germany in the halting of Nordstream 2, and he added:
"First decisive steps were taken yesterday, and we are grateful for them. Now the pressure needs to step up to stop Putin.
But in a Tweet, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called on allies to impose tougher sanctions against Vladimir Putin's inner circle immediately.
Here's everything you need to know about the origins of the complex relationship between the two countries, how Nato is involved and what might happen now.
Pressed on whether the England team should attend if it is held there, she said: I dont have any control as Foreign Secretary over the British football team.
She also said the Government will ramp up punitive measures in the event of a full-scale invasion by Moscow.
Regrettably, the Russian forces are encircling Ukraine, so we dont know exactly where that would happen. But we will know it when we see it, and we will react immediately.
It would also provide vital support to Ukrainians on the ground facing the threat of invasion and a sustained campaign of Russian disinformation.
Ofcom has been told by the Culture Secretary to review the operation of the Kremlin-backed Russia Today RT news channel in the UK.
It says the "intensification of Russian aggression against Ukraine" means it won't be able to offer consular assistance to Ukrainians in Russia.
Mr Johnson accused the Russian president of having completely torn up international law and said he is seemingly intent on capturing the capital of Kyiv.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has defended the UKs very serious package of sanctions against Russia, arguing it will be effective in inflicting pain on Vladimir Putin.
With Russia amassing nearly 200,000 troops on Ukraines border, Mr Johnson said: The House should be in no doubt that the deployment of these forces in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to a renewed invasion of that country."
Mr Borrell said that 351 members of the Russian State Duma who voted for this violation of international law would be sanctioned, as well as 27 individuals and entities who are playing a role in undermining or threatening Ukrainian territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence.
Following a meeting of the country's national security council, security official Oleksiy Danilov said the state of emergency would initially last for 30 days.
The Labour Party, of course, but also other parties and backbenchers in the Conservative Party are hugely concerned that weve not been strong or hard enough  sending a message to Vladimir Putin that might, at this 11th hour, make him step back.
We are very clear that nothing is off the table in terms of who were targeting, in terms of the access of Russia to British financial institutions, she told Sky News.
Mr Putin continued escalating the tensions by asking Russias parliament for permission to use force outside the country, which could pave the way for a wider attack on Ukraine.
This would send a powerful signal to Putin that the Conservatives are serious about no longer allowing themselves to be bankrolled by Russian money.
Yesterday we announced measures that place banks worth 37 billion under sanctions in addition to more oligarchs. There is more to come and we will be stopping Russia from raising sovereign debt, stopping companies from raising money and stopping Russian companies  even clearing in sterling and dollars on international markets.
Were implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions, VEB and their military bank.
Starting tomorrow and continuing in the days ahead we will also impose sanctions on Russias elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well.
On February 21, the Russian president declared he would recognise two Russian-backed regions of east Ukraine as independent states.
The Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee has pressed the government on why they did not go further on sanctions against Russia.
Oil prices increased on Tuesday February 22 to their highest level since September 2014 as concerns mounted over the reliability of supplies, with Brent crude exceeding 99 US dollars a barrel.
The Prime Minister promised that in the event of an invasion he would unleash a full package of sanctions. If not now, then when?
In response to Sir Keirs accusations on Tuesday, RT deputy editor-in-chief Anna Belkina said: Always a joy to see Western and particularly British politicians finally drop their hypocritical disguise in favour of open interference in institutions they touted as supposedly totally independent and wholly free from political pressure and interference.
European Union countries have agreed unanimously to adopt a package of sanctions against Russia, the EUs foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell has said.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russian President Vladimir Putins plans do not stop at Ukraine, adding its important that we strengthen Natos forces.
The most important is to do sanctions  economic and financial sanctions  that are tough enough and last long enough to reduce the ability of the Russian state to finance the Russian military.
I think the mood of the entire House of Commons yesterday was that the Government were not being strong enough.
These included banks that are financing Russia and those who waged this information war against Ukraine. He added the bloc would also target the ability of the Russian state and government to access to our capital and financial markets and services.
One of the banks that weve sanctioned is the bank that finances the Russian military, so we are absolutely taking that step.
As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as well. Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression, including additional sanctions.
This isnt just the allegation of the Labour Party. This is the allegation of our intelligence committee and the Russia report.
The Russian Foreign Ministry said it has decided to evacuate Russian diplomatic personnel from Ukraine.
I dont think people quite realise the UK is out in front, we have sanctioned 275 individuals already.
Now, there are many people who have moved to Russia from Britain who are not necessarily friends of Vladimir Putin and who have become British citizens. That is a completely different matter from people who are close to Vladimir Putin who are backing his appalling regime.
We live in a democracy, Mr Speaker, and we live in a country that believes in free speech and I think its important that we should leave it up to Ofcom rather than to politicians to decide which media organisations to ban.
Asked what would constitute a full invasion, she told Sky News: Well, it constitutes troops crossing the border.
He said: I went to the Prime Minister, the then foreign secretary in 2017, and I raised the issue of limited partnerships, 113 of which have been used to move 20.8 billion dollars out of Russian banks.
She told BBC Radio 4s Today programme: We have worked very closely with our international allies, with the entire G7, to make sure that we have an escalatory package of sanctions so that we are able to impose sanctions on the recognition of these so-called republics, and we will be able to impose further sanctions in the event of a full invasion.
Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn told the Manchester Evening News: " I'm just distraught about the whole thing. It just smells of Munich 1939, in that he says one thing and then does something else.
Asked if any Russian-linked money donated to the Conservative Party since Boris Johnson took office should be given back, she said:
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has called for action to tackle the propaganda put out by the channel, formerly known as Russia Today, describing it as part of Vladimir Putins campaign of misinformation.
We are maintaining our alliance with our international allies to make sure that we are targeting those key people who are backing and supporting Putins regime  I dont rule out anything.
In recent weeks, fears of a Russian invasion of Ukraine have been mounting after Vladimir Putin's troops started to gather at the border of the two nations.
Ukraine has told its citizens in Russia to leave the country now and warned peole against visiting Russia.
Europe is taking steps to wean itself off Russian gas, but so far Boris Johnson is failing to wean the Tory party off Russian money. Its time for the Conservatives to put their money where their mouth is.
The Prime Minister said he was grateful for the question being raised and Mr Blackford was right to raise the issue back then and right on the issue, adding: We do need to stop corrupt Russian money in London and every other financial capital.
Challenged on whether the current UK sanctions are tough enough to stop the Russian state financing the military, she told BBC Radio 4s Today programme:
The PM said the move came under the first barrage of punitive measures in response to Russia's renewed invasion of Ukraine.
Ms Truss said in a statement that the UK stood ready to offer guarantees of Multilateral Development Bank lending for projects to support economic stability and deliver reforms such as tackling corruption.
I believe that Putin is hell-bent on invading Ukraine. This is about inflicting pain on Putin and degrading the Russian economic system over time, targeting people that are close to Putin. But if youre asking me is he paying attention, my view is that he wants to invade, this is a long-standing plan.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said nothing is off the table when asked if any sanctions could potentially be imposed on Tory donors.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said it is up to Ofcom whether the Kremlin-backed TV station RT continues with its licence.
The move follows Russias recognition of Ukraines rebel regions and the Russian parliaments vote to grant President Vladimir Putin permission to use military force in Ukraine.
In response to a call from Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer for RT to be taken to task, Mr Johnson said:
It says the "intensification of Russian aggression against Ukraine" means it won't be able to offer consular assistance to Ukrainians in Russia, reports the BBC.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has reaffirmed the UKs commitment to guarantee up to 500 million dollars in loans to Ukraine to mitigate the economic effects of Russian aggression.
Russian president Vladimir Putin signed a decree to recognise the independence of rebel-held regions Luhansk and Donetsk and ordered military troops across the eastern Ukrainian border.
If we are going to avoid being two steps behind in the diplomatic chess game, we have to do some things that hes not expecting.
The prime minister told PMQs that lethal defensive weapons and non-lethal aid would be sent to the country.
Boris Johnson should use the almost 2 million of Russian-linked donations received by the Conservative Party to support the people of Ukraine.
In a press conference, Mr Borrell said it was a particularly dangerous moment for Europe and Russias actions were a clear escalation of the Russian aggression against Ukraine.
And what we have to do is make it as painful as possible, both by supplying support to the Ukrainian government in terms of defensive weapons, in terms of economic support, and by imposing economic costs.
The party said the money could help support independent media in the country and counter Russian disinformation.
These guarantees can help inject vital capital into Ukraine and help its economy weather the storm of Russian aggression, she said.
In a statement, foreign secretary Liz Truss added that the government is prepared to go much further if Russia does not pull back from the brink.
"The foreign ministry recommends that citizens of Ukraine refrain from any trips to the Russian Federation, and those who are in this country to leave its territory immediately," a statement saysin Russian, reports the BBC.
Labours shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said the government needs to implement stronger sanctions on Russia, telling BBC Breakfast a threshold has been breached.
Thats why we have already taken the steps that we have taken but we are going much further to uncloak the true owners of Russia companies and Russian properties in this country. And high time. No country is doing more than the UK to tackle this issue.
Yesterday Boris Johnson announced that the UK is sanctioning three billionaire allies of the Russian president and five Russian banks.
Ms Thomas-Greenfield said that it was clear from Mr Putins comments that his ambitions towards Ukraine did not stop at the largely Russian-speaking Donbas region in the east of the country.
Mr Putin ordered troops into the two regions - Donetsk Peoples Republic and Luhansk Peoples Republic  to maintain peace, crossing a red line set by the West.
The UK has already sent anti-tank weapons to the Ukrainian military to help counter the threat posed by Russian forces ringed around the countrys borders.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the Champions League final should not be held in Russia in light of the ongoing crisis in Ukraine.
It was definitely clear from his speech on Monday that his intentions are not to stop with the Donbas. He questioned the independence and even the existence of Ukraine, she said.
The ministry claimed that Russian diplomats in Ukraine have received 'multiple threats', adding they will be evacuated in the nearest time.
This is likely to lead to an increase in fuel prices as retailers pass on the rise in wholesale costs.
We know that there were some Russians there already but we are seeing movements of additional troops right now, she said in an online briefing for European journalists.
It reads, in Ukrainian: "The foreign ministry recommends that citizens of Ukraine refrain from any trips to the Russian Federation, and those who are in this country to leave its territory immediately."
Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said the Labour Party is concerned about too much connection between Russian oligarchs and donations to the Conservative Party.
Sir Keir said RT was President Vladimir Putins personal propaganda tool which spread lies and disinformation, and added: I can see no reason why it should be allowed to continue to broadcast in this country.
Writing to the regulator, Nadine Dorries said RT was demonstrably part of Russias global disinformation campaign.
Petrol prices are expected to rise and hit the 'grim milestone' of 1.50 per litre after Russian troops entered eastern Ukraine.
Russian state-run news agency Tass has reported that Russia has started evacuating diplomatic personnel from Ukraine.
A day of escalations came after Mr Putin recognised the two eastern regions in Donbas as independent states yesterday.
Ukraine will declare a state of emergency in all regions except for the rebel-held areas of Donetsk and Luhansk.
She added: It is the beginnings of an invasion and our sanctions are the beginning of our sanctions. They were strong sanctions and you can expect that, as the Russians escalate, our sanctions will escalate.
And that means we have got to be prepared to dig in for the long term and not do what Im afraid has happened all too often, which is that you get a future government that decides they want to reset relations with Moscow, as, for example, President Barack Obama did when he became president, and they cancel previous sanctions or penalties and Russia can feel that its got away with what its done.
Let me be clear, these are totally defensive moves on our part. We have no intention of fighting Russia.
The adoption of this law is fully in the interests of the state and society, the authors of the draft law said in a note, adding that the law was needed due to existing threats and dangers for the citizens of Ukraine."
But what we have to remember is that Putin has both predicted these sanctions, and indeed further sanctions, and discounted them.
SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford said under the Tories a sewer of dirty Russian money has been allowed to run through London for years.
We all want to deter aggression in Europe. We are not dealing with breakaway republics. Putin is not a peacekeeper, a sovereign nation has been invaded.
Frankly, its not clear entirely whats going on. I mean, I just think this was a moment when Britain had to step up and demonstrate certain kinds of seriousness. It hasnt happened.
"In response to Russias admission that it will not withdraw its forces from Belarus, I have authorised additional movements of US forces and equipment already stationed in Europe to strengthen our Baltic allies  Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
The Liberal Democrats said the Tories should hand cash from Russian-linked donors to civil society groups in Ukraine.
So we still have sanctions left in the locker to impose in the event of a full invasion.
Asked what Ofcom should do about the station, Ms Truss told Sky News: I think it is certainly true that it is spouting propaganda on behalf of the Kremlin. One of the things the Kremlin does is use disinformation to try and sow discord in the West, and Russia Today is clearly part of that.
Our concerns are, Im afraid, that there has been too much connection between Russian oligarchs and donations to the Conservative Party.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said there is not yet full evidence that Russian troops have incurred on Ukraine.
We want to send an unmistakable message though, that the United States together with our allies will defend every inch of Nato territory and abide by the commitments we made into Nato.
When it was suggested to her this has already happened, Ms Truss said: That is frankly ambiguous at this stage.
What were talking about here  is people, the oligarchs that were targeting in todays sanctions, those are people closely linked to Vladimir Putins regime.
That is why its important that we see strong Ukrainian resistance, and its also why its important that we strengthen Natos forces.
