Ukrainian woman who downed drone with tinned tomatoes speaks out
20220309
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/ukrainian-woman-who-downed-drone-23341824
Two million Ukrainians have fled the country after it was invaded by Russia over a week ago, with civilians leaving behind their homes, unsure if they will return.
She told Liga Net that she was sitting on the balcony of her flat in Kyiv smoking when the drone suddenly appeared.
Some have received basic military training as the Russian troops advance on the country, yet one citizen took a different approach, The Mirror reports.
Her story of defiance was first shared by Liubov Tsybulska, an advisor to the Ukrainian government, who tweeted about the incident.
Her story went viral, with one man replying: "Pickles are an excellent probiotic on the microscale and an anti-drone weapon on the macro scale. Don't mess with Ukrainian Grandmas."
Elena and her husband distributed the remnants of the drone in a number of bins, in case the device could be tracked.
She told the paper she thinks the device was operated by looters looking for empty flats to enter and steal from.
Elena added that she decided "instantly" that she wouldn't be leaving Kyiv after Russia invaded the country, and had no regrets about staying as she pledged to fight.
A woman reportedly knocked a drone out of the air using a jar of canned tomatoes and plums.
READ MORE: The latest companies to pull out of Russia as Heineken, Universal and McDonald's join the list
Read more on the Russia and Ukraine conflict here: The Russian 'Z' symbol - what it means and where the military symbol came from
They also cleared up glass fragments so their neighbour's dogs wouldn't risk suffering from cuts on their paws.
Incredibly, she knocked it out of the air - and a legend was born, as a rumour claiming she'd neutralised the device with a cucumber went viral on social media.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
But many citizens continue to remain in the country, and have chosen to fight back against Vladimir Putins forces.
She wrote: "In Kyiv a woman knocked down a Russian drone from a balcony with a jar of cucumbers. How did they expect to occupy this country?"
In a bid to halt the device, she threw a jar of canned tomatoes and plums stored under her chair, to halt the device in case it fired at her.
Ukrainian news site Liga.net.ua spoke to the woman - known only as Elena - who is part of a spirited group taking a stand against Russia.
Another added: "My mother used to make scones that could maim at 100 yards and kill at 50. Ill have to look up the recipe."
As Russian forces advance on Ukraine, one brave citizen reportedly threw a tin of tomatoes at a suspicious drone
