Ukraine latest Russia Todays licence to broadcast in UK revoked and missiles hit Lviv air facility
20220318
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/world-news/ukraine-latest-russia-todays-licence-23427509
READ MORE: PO Ferries issues statement as 800 workers laid off amid losses of 100m
Following an independent regulatory process, we have today found that RT is not fit and proper to hold a licence in the UK. As a result we have revoked RTs UK broadcasting licence.
The freedom of expression is something we guard fiercely in this country, Ofcom boss Dame Melanie Dawes added. She explained: Freedom of expression is something we guard fiercely in this country, and the bar for action on broadcasters is rightly set very high.
No casualties were reported from the bombing, which was launched from the Black Sea, Ukraines air force said on social media. The attack does come as another reminder, though, that Lviv is not being spared in conflict  with the city close to the Polish border seeing an influx of 200,000 people as Ukrainians flee from the worst of the fighting in the eastern portion of the country.
Ofcoms decision comes on the morning that the Russian military continued its assault on Ukrainian cities, with the western stronghold of Lviv being its next target. Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said on messaging app Telegram that missiles had struck military aircraft repair facilities and also damaged a bus repair site.
In this context, we launched a separate investigation to determine whether ANO TV Novosti is fit and proper to retain its licence to broadcast.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
A statement released by the regulator on Friday March 18 said: We consider the volume and potentially serious nature of the issues raised within such a short period to be of great concern  especially given RTs compliance history, which has seen the channel fined 200,000 for previous due impartiality breaches.
Kremlin-backed TV news channel Russia Today has had its broadcasting licence revoked by British authorities this morning. The move, which is another step towards isolating Russia culturally, comes as airstrikes were reported in Ukraines western city of Lviv.
Ofcom, the broadcasting regulator, says it took the decision after 29 investigations were launched into its parent-licensee  ANO TV Novosti  over the impartiality of its coverage of the ongoing invasion of Ukraine by Putins troops. In a statement, the regulator said ANO was being investigated seperately to determine if it was fit and proper to retain its licence to broadcast.
