UkraineRussia LIVE updates as childrens hospital destroyed by bomb and Chernobyl radiation leak fears
20220309
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/ukraine-russia-live-updates-kyiv-23331415
The Mirror reported soldiers were absent without leave and may have gone "in a personal capacity", the Army said.
We saw the failures of the initial military plan to quickly subjugate the country  thats failed. So hes now turning to a strategy of laying waste to the population centres, to the country.
But they will be seeing now, by the fact that shops are closing, theyre not able to get the goods that they were able to get, exactly the implications that Putins aggression in Ukraine is having for Russia.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky posted a video of Twitter of the destruction which was caused by a "direct strike by Russian troops" he said.
The Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine has suffered a 'complete blackout' while Russia has claimed control over it.
Kyiv has been reportedly hit by devastating blasts in the early hours of the morning as the city remains under fire.
"Close the sky right now! Stop the killings! You have power but you seem to be losing humanity."
TYhe MOS tweeted: The Russian MoD has confirmed the use of the TOS-1A weapon system in Ukraine. The TOS-1A uses thermobaric rockets, creating incendiary and blast effects."
And if he tries to enforce such a puppet regime by keeping Russian forces in Ukraine, it will be a long, bloody, drawn out mess through which Russia will continue to suffer grievously.
The Conservative told LBCs Tonight With Andrew Marr that when hosting the Russian president in No 10 in 2013 Mr Putin let his guard down and said, Fundamentally Im not a democrat and I dont share your interests.
Refugees are arriving in a snowy Medyka, Poland, today after fleeing their homes in Ukraine.
Speaking in Washington, he said: He has a clear plan right now to brutalise Ukraine. But to what end, because when it comes to an endgame, the big question in the first instance is what is his endgame?
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has tweeted with images of an alleged Russian strike on a maternity hospital in Mariupol.
The firm is also reviewing its strategic options for the future of the business in Russia, where it has had operations for 20 years.
While businesses should do everything they can to source oil from alternative sources, they will still be able, its important to emphasise this, they will still be able to import Russian oil during this transition period.
A small number of British soldiers have disobeyed orders and may have travelled to Ukraine to fight, the British Army said tonight.
A ceasefire had been called in the city earlier today, to allow civilians to flee along an agreed humanitarian corridor.
William, 39, said Britons were more used to seeing conflict in Africa and Asia. Its very alien to see this in Europe. We are all behind you, he said.
And we know that if Putin is not stopped in Ukraine, there will be terrible implications for European and global security. We would be sending a message that sovereign nations can simply be trampled on.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has warned that a no-fly zone could hamper Ukrainian efforts to deal with Russian artillery and missiles.
William and Kate, 40, wore Ukrainian yellow and blue solidarity badges and took trays of chocolate brownies and granola bars, homemade at Kensington Palace, for the volunteers working at the centre in nearby Holland Park.
The BBC said Pavlo Kyrylenko, the head of the Ukrainian military administration in Donetsk, said the number of wounded children "is zero, thank God, and I hope it stays that way".
Russian oligarch Dmitry Mazepin, Nikitas father, was also part of the 64-page document and described as a member of the closest circle of Vladimir Putin on the same day his son vowed to force his way back into the sport.
However, the Ministry of Defence MoD says Russian forces are failing to make key breakthroughs in the city.
The second in line to the throne told them that Britain and the rest of Europe were united behind them and spoke of the shock at seeing war on European soil.
A spokesperson added: "We are actively and strongly encouraging them to return to the UK."
Some British Army soldiers may have gone to fight in Ukraine, despite orders not to, reports Deborah Haynes of Sky News.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the Russian attack on a hospital is absolutely abhorrent but continued to reject Ukraines request for a no-fly zone to be imposed in its skies.
The Business Secretary told MPs that Russian imports account for 8 of total UK oil demand, but Britain 'participates in a global market'.
Foreign Office Minister Dmytro Kuleba said: "Russia continues holding hostage over 400,000 people in Mariupol, blocks humanitarian aid and evacuation.
17 people have been confirmed as being injured after the bombing of a maternity hospital in Mariupol.
Ours have been coming home asking all about it, William said. They are obviously talking about it with their friends at school.
Boris Johnson said there are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless after the Ukrainian president said children were among those under the wreckage of a direct strike at a maternity hospital.
Speaking at a joint press conference in Washington with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, she said: We know from history that aggressors only understand one thing, and that is strength.
The former MP said the attacking of a hospital in Mariupol on Wednesday is a war crime.
BBC's Kyiv correspondent James Waterhouse says some of the routes are believed to have been blocked or shelled.
They offered assistance from their charitable foundation for children and young people suffering mental health problems and trauma from the war, and said their eldest children, Prince George, aged eight, and six-year-old Princess Charlotte, had been affected by the unfolding tragedy.
READ MORE: Brave dad-of-four and pal 'driving into the unknown' on 1,400-mile mercy mission to help Ukraine war victims
The BBC is reporting at least 17 people were wounded in a Russian air strike on a hospital in Mariupol.
What were looking at is making sure that the Ukrainians are able to defend their open country with the best possible selection of anti-tank weapons and anti-air defence systems.
A mixed picture with humanitarian corridors.We've seen people make it from Irpin to central Kyiv, but we're hearing many people are trapped in neighbouring Bucha. More are managing to leave Sumy, but there are reports Russian shelling is still blocking the Mariupol route.
Sumy regional governor Dmytro Zhyvytskyi has reported 22 further deaths in the city of Sumy overnight from 'one bomb', including nine who died in a single house.
Horrific images from the hospital site show the scale of devastation caused by the strike.
Russia has confirmed it has used strictly regulated thermobaric rockets in its ongoing attack against Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence said.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has repeatedly urged Nato to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine during his video addresses to the nation.
The Ukraine government says the site is in complete blackout, while state-run company Energoatom suggested radioactive substances could be released from the plant because it cannot cool spent nuclear fuel without power.
We know that if we dont do enough now, other aggressors around the world will be emboldened.
NEW: UK confirms a small number of soldiers may have gone AWOL to fight in Ukraine. BritishArmy spokesman: Were aware of a small number of individual soldiers who have disobeyed orders  gone absent without leave, and may have travelled to Ukraine in a personal capacity 1
The Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, called the incident 'depraved' but Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, again directly ruled out the possibility of a no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying: "The reality is that setting up a no-fly zone would lead to a direct confrontation between Nato and Russia, and that is not what were looking at."
"Indiscriminate shelling continues. Almost 3,000 newborn babies lack medicine and food. I urge the world to act! Force Russia to stop its barbaric war on civilians and babies"
Mr Cameron added: He was also a phenomenal liar. I remember confronting him with evidence that Russian troops were in the Donbas, he flat out lied, I remember confronting him with evidence about the shooting down of a Malaysia Airline  there was no naivety.
Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the Russian people will now be seeing the impact Vladimir Putins aggression in Ukraine is having on their own country.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have pledged their support for Ukraine as they revealed their eldest children have been questioning them about the conflict.
Beer giant Heineken and cigarette maker Imperial Brands have joined a growing list of firms to halt operations in Russia amid a corporate exodus from the country in response to the Ukraine conflict.
At the moment the balance is I dont think it suits actually the Ukrainian disposition given the amounts of heavy armour and missiles in the Russian stocks.
Kwasi Kwarteng says the UK is a 'significant producer of both crude oil and petroleum products' and that the country has resources in place if supplies are disrupted.
It read: Nikita Mazepin is the son of Dmitry Arkadievich Mazepin, General Director of JSC UCC Uralchem. As Uralchem sponsors Haas F1 Team, Dmitry Mazepin is the major sponsor of his sons activities at Haas F1 Team.
Meanwhile, the UK has announced new sanctions against Russia, including the power to detain aircraft.
Speaking in Washington, she said: The best way we can protect the skies is through anti-air weaponry which the UK is now going to be supplying to Ukraine.
The Prime Minister tweeted: There are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenceless.
"People, children are under the wreckage. Atrocity! How much longer will the world be an accomplice ignoring terror?
It comes as the city is supposed to be under a ceasefire to allow residents to flee the crisis in the under-fire city, which the Red Cross has labelled 'apocalyptic'.
If you had a no-fly zone, the Russians have a massive advantage with shells and missiles and they would not stop in a no-fly zone whereas the few things that the Ukrainians have to reach the Russians at depth are in the air and I think youd actually hamper one.
He is a natural person associated with a leading businessperson his father involved in economic sectors providing a substantial source of revenue to the Government of the Russian Federation, which is responsible for the annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of Ukraine.
Reports this afternoon suggest not all of the humanitarian corridors open today have been a success.
Grant Shapps told BBC Breakfast a private jet has been 'impounded' in Hampshire for further investigations, as the Government looks to close 'loopholes' which could see oligarchs using UK airspace.
Home Office minister Baroness Williams of Trafford suggested a further 1,000 visas will be granted to Ukrainian refugees on Wednesday.
Bristol-headquartered Imperial  the group behind brands including JPS and Davidoff cigarettes  said it was pausing production at its factory in Volgograd, alongside all sales and marketing activity in the country in a move impacting around 1,000 employees.
Lady Williams confirmed the visa application centre in Lille has yet to be set up.
The UK is exploring more support for Ukraine to defend against airstrikes and we will hold Vladimir Putin to account for his terrible crimes.
Yesterday, the World Health Organisation warned that a series of attacks had been made on Ukrainian health facilities by Russia, with medical supplies running low in the country.
It comes after air raid sirens rang out in key Ukrainian cities overnight as Russia's assault on the country continues.
The Russian weapons are so deadly because they explode at a much higher temperature than most missiles, and they last longer than conventional weapons.
Mazepin junior was dismissed by Haas on Saturday with the American-based team calling for peace in Ukraine in their press release, which the 23-year-old claimed was how he discovered his contract had been terminated.
The driver, who has made 21 F1 starts, spoke about being fired for the first time on Wednesday morning but later in the day an EU document linked him to Russias attack on Ukraine.
But he added that he, like many, wanted to do more to help. We feel so useless, he said.
It comes after Russia launched a "direct strike" on a children's hospital - destorying a maternity ward among other buildings, reports The Mirror.
Volodymyr Zelensky called the attack an 'atrocity' as he shared to Twitter video footage of the damage caused, with distressing images showing cots and medical equipment.
'Incessant' explosions heard across the capital as MoD says Russia fails to make key breakthroughs
Mariupol's city council says a children's hospital has been completely destroyed after bombing by Russia today.
Sacked Formula One driver Nikita Mazepin has been included on a list of people who face sanctions from the European Union over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
The deadly weapons are not illegal but are strictly regulated by the Law of Armed Conflict, and cannot be used against military targets in a way that may endanger the civilian population or cause unnecessary suffering.
She said there will be terrible implications for European and global security if Russian president Vladimir Putin is not stopped in Ukraine.
Directly ruling out the possibility of a no-fly zone over Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: The reality is that setting up a no-fly zone would lead to a direct confrontation between Nato and Russia, and that is not what were looking at.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said there will be a long, bloody, drawn out mess if Vladimir Putin tries to enforce a puppet regime by keeping Russian forces in Ukraine.
Ukrainian Ambassador VPrystaiko met Defence Secretary BWallaceMP at the MOD this morning They discussed the UKs military support for Ukraine, including proposals for further lethal aid The UK is committed to the defence of Ukraine  StandWithUkraine UkrEmbLondon pic.twitter.comDM6uxpvRl8
Facing questions in the House of Lords, Lady Williams said: In terms of applications made, as of 9.30am 17,700 applications were made, there were 1,000 grants of visas as of 9.30am and were expecting 1,000 by the end of the day and I think noble lords will agree that is a positive trajectory.
He added that "so far no kids were wounded" and there have been "no deaths".
Up to 3,000 newborn babies are said to be without medicine and food as "indiscriminate" shelling continues on the city of Mariupol.
The strike is said to have taken place in the southern port city of Mariupol.
Russia and Ukraine together accounted for 2 of Imperials net revenues last year, or around 656 million.
"So far there are 17 wounded personnel of the hospital," Kyrylenko, the head of the southeastern Donetsk region, said later in a video posted on Facebook.
Pressed on introducing a no-fly zone by MPs in the Commons this afternoon, Mr Wallace said:
If his goal is to impose some kind of puppet regime by displacing the existing government and putting in place one to his liking, I think its pretty evident by the response of the Ukrainian people that they will never accept that.
William and Kates comments came when they met volunteers at the Ukrainian Cultural Centre in London, who were filling lorries with aid to support the humanitarian relief effort following the Russian invasion.
It came just hours after Dutch brewer Heineken said it was stopping the production and sale of its own brand beer in Russia.
'Children are under the wreckage' of a maternity hospital targeted by a Russian air strike in the beseiged port city of Mariupol, the President of Ukraine said.
Speaking in Washington, she said: Weve seen huge action from the private sector, whether its McDonalds or other companies. And one of the issues in Russia is of course the lack of free media, the fact that the Russian people arent being told the truth.
The UK announced yesterday it would phase out imports of Russian oil by the end of 2022.
