Vladimir Putin could announce new world war on May Day defence secretary warns
20220429
https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/uk-news/vladimir-putin-could-announce-new-23819056
"We have to help Ukrainians effectively get the limpet off the rock and keep the momentum pushing them back. Foreign secretary Liz Truss has already warned the conflict in Ukraine, which has seen cities pummelled by shelling, could go on for 10 years.
And in the face of the West providing money and armaments to Ukraine, Russia has referred to its nuclear capabilities in threats to not get involved. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that the 'danger is serious' of a nuclear war.
The UK's defence secretary warns Vladimir Putin could declare a new world war in days - having 'failed' most of his objectives in Ukraine. Russia launched a devastating invasion of Ukraine back on February 24, causing destruction in cities across the eastern European country and leading to millions fleeing their homes.
Ben Wallace says he 'would not be surprised' if Russia's leader sparked mass mobilisation having 'failed' with Ukraine objectives
Putin says the 'special military operation' has been called to rid Ukraine of 'Nazis'. Now, defence secretary Ben Wallace has warned that Russia could use May Day to announce a war on the world's 'Nazis' - starting mass mobilisation in the country, the Mirror reports.
Mr Wallace said the 'show of solidarity and strength' will see UK service personnel joining with NATO allies and those from the Joint Expeditionary Force alliance, which includes Finland and Sweden, for the exercises. The Ministry of Defence MoD said the action had been long planned, but that it had been enhanced since Russia invaded its neighbour in late February.
Aircraft, tanks, artillery and armoured assault vehicles will join the exercises across Europe, with the UK deployment expected to build to a peak of around 8,000 personnel operating between April and June. Commander Field Army Lieutenant General Ralph Wooddisse said: "The UK makes a significant contribution to the defence of Europe and the deterrence of Russian aggression.
Troops from the Queen's Royal Hussars have been deployed for embedding in an armoured brigade in Finland, which shares an 830 mile land border with Russia. Exercises alongside American troops are also taking place in Poland.
Mr Wallace said: "The security of Europe has never been more important. These exercises will see our troops join forces with allies and partners across Nato and the Joint Expeditionary Force in a show of solidarity and strength in one of the largest shared deployments since the Cold War."
Mr Wallace told LBC : I would not be surprised... that he is probably going to declare on May Day that we are now at war with the worlds Nazis and we need to mass mobilise the Russian people. He added: "Putin, having failed in nearly all objectives, may seek to consolidate what he's got... and just be a sort of cancerous growth within the country.
At the same time, around 8,000 British Army troops are to take part in exercises across eastern Europe to combat Russian aggression in one of the largest deployments since the Cold War. Dozens of tanks will be deployed to countries ranging from Finland to North Macedonia this summer under plans that have been enhanced since the invasion of Ukraine.
Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox
"The British Army's series of exercises is fundamental to both. The scale of the deployment, coupled with the professionalism, training and agility of the British Army, will deter aggression at a scale not seen in Europe this century."
READ MORE: Raft of new UK laws passed this week and how they impact you - including polling stations change and care costs cap
