Angelina Jolie visits people displaced by war in Lviv Ukraine
20220430
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1590516/angelina-jolie-visits-people-displaced-by-war-in-lviv-ukraine
Last month, in her role as special envoy, Jolie visited Yemen, where millions of people have been displaced by war.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Later on, air-raid sirens started to sound, and Jolie together with her aides walked quickly out of the station and got into a waiting car.
At one point during her visit to the station, she tickled a small girl dressed in red, who laughed out in delight. She also posed for photos with the volunteers and some of the children.
During the visit to the station, Jolie met volunteers working with the displaced, who told her that each of the psychiatrists on duty spoke to about 15 people a day. Many of those in the station are children aged from two to 10, according to volunteers.
LVIV, Ukraine  Hollywood actress Angelina Jolie visited the Ukrainian city of Lviv on Saturday, going to the station to meet people displaced by the war with Russia before later leaving after air-raid sirens sounded.
They must be in shock  I know how trauma affects children, I know just having somebody show how much they matter, how much their voices matter, I know how healing that is for them, she said in reply.FEATURED STORIES
Hollywood actress and UNHCR Special Envoy Angelina Jolie poses for a picture with children, as Russias attack on Ukraine continues, in Lviv, Ukraine April 30, 2022. Press Service of the Lviv Regional State AdministrationHandout via REUTERS
Jolie, 46, is a special envoy for the United Nations refugee agency, which says more than 12.7 million people have fled their homes in the past two months, which represents around 30 of Ukraines pre-war population.
U.S. actor and UNHCR Special Envoy Angelina Jolie gets a selfie taken with a volunteer as she visits Lvivs main railway station, amid Russias invasion of Ukraine April 30, 2022 in this handout image. UkrzaliznytsiaHandout via REUTERS
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
