As Ukraine war enters second month Western leaders to put more pressure on Russia
20220323
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1572871/as-ukraine-war-enters-second-month-western-leaders-to-put-more-pressure-on-russia
The conflict has also driven a quarter of Ukraines 44 million people from their homes.
Although the invasion force has stalled in some areas and Ukrainian resistance has thwarted its hopes for a swift victory, Russian artillery and war planes maintained their bombardments on several cities while civilians sheltered underground.FEATURED STORIES
Ukrainian officials described shelling in other cities overnight, with two civilians killed in Mykolayiv region and a bridge destroyed in Chernihiv region. Reuters could not verify these incidents.
But after a month of bloodshed, Russian forces have failed to capture a single major city.
British military intelligence said the entire battlefield across northern Ukraine  which includes armoured columns that once threatened Kyiv  was now static, with the invaders apparently trying to reorganise.
LVIVMYKOLAIVKHARKIV, Ukraine  Russian forces bombed areas of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Wednesday as Western leaders began gathering in Brussels to plan more measures to pressure Russian President Vladimir Putin to halt his month-old campaign.
Worst hit has been Mariupol, a southern port surrounded by Russian forces, where hundreds of thousands of people have been sheltering since the wars early days, under constant bombardment and with food, water and heating supplies cut.
I have never seen such cruelty before, said Kateryna Mytkevich, 38, who reached the Polish border transit hub of Przemysl with her child after fleeing the eastern city of Chernihiv. The city was fully destroyed, she said.
Rescuers work at the site of buildings damaged by shelling, as Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, in Mykolaiv, Ukraine, in this handout picture released March 23, 2022. Press service of the State Emergency Service of UkraineHandout via REUTERS
Russia would continue to supply natural gas in line with previously concluded contracts, Putin said at a televised meeting with government ministers.
Although the Kremlin says the operation is going to plan, they have taken heavy losses, got stuck on most fronts, and face supply problems and fierce resistance. They have turned to siege tactics and bombardments, causing huge destruction and many civilian deaths.
In the east, the Russians were trying to link troops at Mariupol with those near Kharkiv, Ukraines second city, in the hope of encircling Ukrainian forces. In the southwest they were bypassing Mykolayiv city to try to advance on Odesa, Ukraines biggest port, the British report said.
Klitschko said later that one person was killed and two wounded on Wednesday when shells hit a shopping centre parking lot in a northern part of Kyiv. The enemy continues to fire at the capital, Klitschko said in an online post.
Moscow has drawn up a list of unfriendly countries which corresponds to those that imposed sanctions. They include the United States, European Union members, Britain and Japan, among others.
Putin sent his troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 on what he terms a special military operation to demilitarise and denazify the country. The West says it is a war of aggression aimed at reasserting Russias sway over the former Soviet republic.
The changes will only affect the currency of payment, which will be changed to Russian roubles, he said.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
And in a sign of cracks in Moscows ranks, a veteran aide to Putin, Anatoly Chubais, resigned over the Ukraine war and has left Russia with no intention to return, two sources said. He was the first senior official to break with the Kremlin since Putin launched his invasion on Feb. 24.
U.S. President Joe Biden was flying to Europe for an emergency summit on Ukraine with NATO and European leaders at the alliances headquarters in Brussels on Thursday.
It is extremely important to provide support to Ukraine and we are stepping up. But at the same time it is also extremely important to prevent this conflict becoming a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia, he said.
Kyivs mayor, Vitali Klitschko, told reporters on Wednesday that 264 civilians in the city had been killed by Russian attacks. The noise of bombs falling could be heard in the background as he spoke. But Ukrainian forces had retaken the nearby towns of Makariv and Irpin from Russian control, he said.
Chubais was a principle architect of Boris Yeltsins economic reforms of the 1990s and was Putins boss in his first Kremlin job. He later ran state businesses under Putin and held political jobs, lately serving as Kremlin special envoy to international organisations.
The leaders are expected to roll out additional sanctions against Russia. They would also agree to bolster forces on the alliances eastern flank, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg told a news conference.
U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan said Washington would announce a package of sanctions on political figures and oligarchs. G7 leaders would also agree to coordinate on sanctions enforcement, he said.
Despite its losses so far, Russia may still be hoping to make more battlefield gains, especially in the east in territory including Mariupol that Moscow demands Ukraine cede to Russian-backed separatists.
Russia meanwhile told Washington it would throw out a number of American diplomats in response to a U.S. move to expel Russian staff from the permanent United Nations mission, Interfax news agency said.
Putins announcement that Russia would switch certain gas sales to roubles sent European futures soaring on concerns the switch would exacerbate an energy crunch and jam up deals that run to hundreds of millions of dollars every day.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy in a phone call he would use the meeting to push for an increase in defensive lethal aid to Ukraine, Johnsons office said.
Putin, responding to a welter of Western sanctions that have hit Russias economy hard and frozen its assets, said Moscow planned to switch its gas sales to unfriendly countries to roubles  a move that alarmed international markets.
Satellite photographs from commercial firm Maxar showed massive destruction of what was once a city of 400,000 people, with columns of smoke rising from residential apartment buildings in flames.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
