Britain says Russian troll factory is spreading disinformation on social media
20220501
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1590526/britain-says-russian-troll-factory-is-spreading-disinformation-on-social-media
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Britain said the research showed the troll factorywas using Telegram to recruit and co-ordinate new supporterswho then target the social media profiles of Kremlin critics, spamming them with comments in favour of President Vladimir Putin and his war.
Russia says the Western media have provided an excessively partial narrative of the war that largely ignores Moscows concerns about the enlargement of NATO and what it says is the persecution of Russian speakers in Ukraine, something denied by Kyiv.FEATURED STORIES
We cannot allow the Kremlin and its shady troll farms to invade our online spaces with their lies about Putins illegal war, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement.
Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless and the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
The UK Government has alerted international partners and will continue to work closely with allies and media platforms to undermine Russian information operations.
Among their targets have been senior British ministers and other world leaders, Britain said, adding that traces of the operation had been detected across eight social media platforms including Telegram, Twitter, Facebook and TikTok.
Moscow has denied past accusations by Western countries of disinformation campaigns, for example Washingtons accusation that Russia sought to meddle in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
LONDON  The British Foreign Office said on Sunday Russia is using a troll factory to spread disinformation about the war in Ukraine on social media and target politicians across a number of countries including Britain and South Africa.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
A person rings the bell outside a burning plant, following Russian shelling amid Russias attack on Ukraine, in Kharkiv, Ukraine, April 30, 2022. REUTERS
Britain cited UK-funded expert research, which it did not publish. It said the research exposed how the Kremlinsdisinformation campaign was designed to manipulate international public opinion of Russias invasion of Ukraine, boost support for it and recruit new sympathisers.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
