Duque Not yet time to place entire PH under Alert Level 1
20220308
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1565056/duque-not-yet-time-to-place-entire-ph-under-alert-level-1
Duque, for his part, said the governments goal is for the country to not have lockdowns again, considering the heavy blows it caused to the economy at the height of the pandemic.
Hindi pa ngayon. Ayaw nating mawaldas natin yung ating mga napagtagumpayan na. So kailangan mag-ingat tayo. Pasensya na, kasi ako talaga, yung prinsipyo ko sa buhay, yung laging mas prudent tsaka mas conservative, Duque said in an interview with DZBB on Tuesday when asked of his position on the recommendation to place the entire country under Alert Level 1.
At present, Metro Manila and 38 other areas are under Alert Level 1 until March 15.
Not yet at this point. We dont want to waste our successes. We need to be careful. Im sorry. Its because my principle in life is that its better to be prudent and conservative.
National Economic and Development Authority Secretary Karl Chua earlier said that placing that entire country under Alert Level 1 will help cushion the economic impacts of the Russia-Ukraine tension.FEATURED STORIES
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The Inquirer Foundation supports our healthcare frontliners and is still accepting cash donations to be
deposited at Banco de Oro BDO current account 007960018860 or donate through PayMaya using this
If the time will come when cases will further decreasebecause cases were just below 1,000 in the last five days, and hopefully we can reach 500 in the coming weeks, and vaccination coverage is high in the rest of the population and among senior citizensthen we can further reduce restrictions significantly, which will benefit economic activities.
Kung darating ang panahon na bababa pa ang ating mga kasokasi limang araw na tayong below 1,000, and hopefully maaabot na natin below 500 sa mga susunod na linggo and then mataas ang ating vaccination coverage doon sa rest of the population and senior citizensay malaki-laki ang pwede pang iluwag ng ating restrictions at mas maganda pa, lalakas ang daloy ng ating economic activity, he pointed out.
MANILA, Philippines  Health Secretary Francisco Duque III is not in favor of placing the entire country under the lowest COVID-19 alert level at this point.
He also noted that the national government included vaccination coverage among the requirements for Alert Level 1 so that people can be protected once the economy further reopens.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
