Evacuations restart in Mariupol as Biden announces more arms for Ukraine
20220506
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1593431/evacuations-restart-in-mariupol-as-biden-announces-more-arms-for-ukraine
Ukraines general staff said Russian forces were continuing to try to take over the rest of eastern Ukraine, where Russias defence ministry said it had destroyed an ammunition depot in Kramatorsk and shot down two Ukrainian warplanes.
Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said Russia was trying to finish off forces inside the plant to seize it by Monday as a gift for President Vladimir Putin, in time for Moscows commemorations of the former Soviet Unions victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two.
Biden announced a package of security assistance to Ukraine that will provide additional artillery munitions, radars and other equipment. A U.S. official separately said it was worth $150 million.
The citys mayor estimated earlier this week that 200 people were trapped at the plant with little food or water. It is unclear how many remain.
Ukraine and its western allies say that after failing to seize the capital, Russian forces have made slow progress in their revised aim of capturing the countrys east and south, but may also plan to involve Ukraines western neighbour, Moldova.
Putin declared victory in Mariupol on April 21, ordered the plant sealed off and called for Ukrainian forces inside to disarm.
In Mariupol, Ukraines general staff said on Friday morning Russia had resumed its efforts to overrun the Azovstal plant, including with air support.
On Friday afternoon, 50 women, children and elderly people were evacuated from the plant, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said, adding that the operation would continue on Saturday. The Russian side constantly violated a local ceasefire, she said, making the evacuation very slow.
The port, which lies between the Crimea Peninsula seized by Moscow in 2014 and parts of eastern Ukraine taken by Russia-backed separatists the same year, is key to linking up the two Russian-held territories and blocking Ukrainian exports.
But Arestovych said in a video briefing that Ukrainian forces had made some advances near Kharkiv and Kherson and had inflicted significant losses on the Russians while also suffering losses of their own.
Moscow calls its actions a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of anti-Russian nationalism fomented by the West. Ukraine and the West say Russia launched an unprovoked war. More than 5 million Ukrainians have fled abroad since the start of the invasion.
The Italian government, meanwhile, ordered the seizure of a yacht worth some $700 million that has been linked in the media to Putin. The sleek, six-deck Scheherazade has been undergoing repairs in the Italian port of Marina di Carrara since September.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
KYIV  Ukraine said 50 civilians were evacuated from a bombed-out steelworks in the city of Mariupol on Friday, accusing Russia of violating a truce intended to allow dozens more still trapped beneath the plant to depart after weeks under siege.
The most severe sanctions ever imposed on a major power have impaired Russias $1.8 trillion economy, and the European Union has proposed more. But that new package, which includes an oil embargo, has run into some opposition, with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban likening that to an atomic bomb dropped on the economy.
It wont last long, said the fighter who gave his name as Alexei, speaking on Thursday near the plant.
The U.N. Security Council  including Russia  expressed deep concern over the situation in Ukraine, its first statement since the Feb. 24 invasion.
U.N.-brokered evacuations began last weekend of some of the hundreds of civilians who had taken shelter in a network of tunnels and bunkers beneath the plant. But they were halted during the week by renewed fighting.FEATURED STORIES
Mariupol has endured the most destructive bombardment of the 10-week-old war, and the sprawling Soviet-era Azovstal plant is the last part of the city  a strategic southern port on the Azov Sea  still in the hands of Ukrainian fighters.
A member of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Peoples Republic forces fighting alongside the Russian army in eastern Ukraine told Reuters he thought Ukrainian forces had little strength left to defend Azovstal.
Asked about plans for Russia to mark the World War Two anniversary day in parts of Ukraine it holds, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said: The time will come to mark Victory Day in Mariupol.
Service members of pro-Russian troops fire from a tank during fighting in Ukraine-Russia conflict near the Azovstal steel plant in the southern port city of Mariupol, Ukraine May 5, 2022. Photo taken May 5, 2022. REUTERS
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said in a late-night video address that Ukraine was working on a diplomatic effort to save defenders barricaded inside the steelworks. Influential intermediaries are involved, influential states, he said, but provided no further details.
Nearly 25 million tonnes of grain, needed to prevent prices spiralling and causing hunger around the world, were stuck in Ukraine, said Josef Schmidhuber, Deputy Director of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organizations Markets and Trade Division in Geneva.
Russia confirmed the number of evacuees and said: The humanitarian operation at Azovstal will continue on May 7.
U.S. President Joe Biden and other Western leaders plan to hold a video call with Zelenskiy on Sunday, the White House said, in a show of unity.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
