Explosions rock Ukrainian capital Kyiv mayor says
20220605
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1606684/explosions-rock-ukrainian-capital-kyiv-mayor-says
KYIV  Kyiv was rocked by several explosions early on Sunday, the mayor of the Ukrainian capital said, a day after officials said troops had recaptured a swath of the battlefield city of Sievierodonetsk in a counter-offensive against Russia.
Serhiy Gaidai, governor of Ukraines Luhansk province, which includes Sievierodonetsk, said Ukrainian forces previously in control of just 30 of the city had mounted a counter-attack, recapturing another 20 of it.
Putin will discuss the war in an interview due to be broadcast on national television on Sunday. In a brief excerpt aired on Saturday he said Russian antiaircraft forces have shot down dozens of Ukrainian weapons and are cracking them like nuts.
Ukraine is one of the worlds leading sources of grain and cooking oil, but those supplies were largely cut off by Russias closure of its Black Sea ports, with more than 20 million tonnes of grain stuck in silos.
A man looks at the smoke after explosions were heard as Russias attacks on Ukraine continues, in Kyiv, Ukraine June 5, 2022. REUTERS
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted in response: Calls to avoid humiliation of Russia can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it.
Gaidai said the Russians were blowing up bridges across the river to prevent Ukraine from bringing in military reinforcements and delivering aid to civilians in Sievierodonetsk.
The Russian army, as we understand, is throwing all its efforts, all its reserves in that direction, Gaidai said in a live TV broadcast.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russias defence ministry said its troops were forcing the Ukrainians to withdraw across the Siverskiy Donets River to Lysychansk on the opposite bank.
Both sides claim to have inflicted huge casualties in the fighting, a battle that military experts say could determine which side has the momentum for a prolonged war of attrition in coming months.
Because it is Russia that humiliates itself. We all better focus on how to put Russia in its place. This will bring peace and save lives.
Tens of thousands are believed to have died, millions have been uprooted from their homes, and the global economy has been disrupted in a war that marked its 100th day on Friday.
Russia has concentrated its forces on Sievierodonetsk in recent weeks for one of the biggest ground battles of the war, with Moscow appearing to bet its campaign on capturing one of two eastern provinces it claims on behalf of separatist proxies.
The situation is tense, complicated, he told national television, saying there was a shortage of food, fuel and medicine. Our military is doing everything it can to drive the enemy out of the city.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy offered a stark message: The terrible consequences of this war can be stopped at any moment  if one person in Moscow simply gives the order, he said, in an apparent reference to Russian President Vladimir Putin. And the fact that there is still no such order is obviously a humiliation for the whole world.
Sievierodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk said street fighting continued during the day on Saturday, with both sides exchanging artillery fire.
The Ukrainian claim on Sievierodonetsk could not be independently verified, and Moscow said its own forces were making gains there. But it was the first time Kyiv has claimed to have launched a big counter-attack in the small industrial city after days of yielding ground.FEATURED STORIES
Ukraine says it aims to push Russian forces back as far as possible on the battlefield, counting on advanced missile systems pledged in recent days by the United States and Britain to swing the war in its favour.
Several explosions in Darnytskyi and Dniprovskyi districts of the capital, Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko wrote on the Telegram messaging app. Services are already working on site. More detailed information  later.
In the diplomatic sphere, Kyiv rebuked French President Emmanuel Macron for saying it was important not to humiliate Moscow.
Asked about Macrons mediation offer on national television, Zelenskiy adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said there was no point in holding negotiations until Ukraine received all the pledged weapons, strengthened its position and pushed Russian forces back as far as possible to the borders of Ukraine.
Moscow has said the Western weapons will pour fuel on the fire but will not change the course of what it calls a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and rid it of nationalists.
We must not humiliate Russia so that the day when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means, Macron told regional newspapers in an interview published on Saturday, adding he was convinced that it is Frances role to be a mediating power.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
