Hefty fuel price increase seen
20220604
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1606512/hefty-fuel-price-increase-seen
Oil companies announce upward or downward adjustments in fuel prices every Monday, which are then implemented the following day.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Earlier, EU leaders agreed to slash oil imports from Russia by around 90 percent over the next six months on the back of worsening Russias invasion of Ukraine. At present, Russia accounts for 27 percent of the blocs imported oil. Abad also said the easing of lockdown in China, projected to increase the oil demand, also pushed pump prices higher.
The countrys oil industry refers to the Mean of Platts Singapore MOPS in determining the price of finished petroleum products. MOPS is the regional pricing benchmark for refined oil products.
Unioil, in an advisory, said the cost of diesel may rise by P6.30 to P6.50 per liter and gasoline by P2.50 to P2.70 per liter.
MANILA, Philippines  Motorists may want to fill up their gas tanks this weekend as industry stakeholders warned of a hefty fuel price adjustment next week.
Shanghai is slowly going back to normalcy as restrictions have been relaxed following the imposition of a two-month lockdown to curb the COVID-19 outbreak in the country.
The estimated fuel price hike for next week might be one of the heftiest adjustments imposed by oil companies this year.
Freight and shipping costs are among the factors taken into consideration in the local pricing of pump products.
According to an industry source, the price of diesel may surge by P6.30 to P6.60 per liter and gasoline by P2.50 to P2.80 per liter.
There are three prevailing events on supply pressure this week, which continue to push price increase, Rino Abad, director of the Department of Energys Oil Industry Management Bureau, said in a Viber message.FEATURED STORIES
Among the reasons cited include the start of increasing demand for northern hemisphere countries due to the summer peak period from June to September.
Abad said the European Unions ban on Russian oil imports contributed to the upward pressure on crude prices.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
A tricycle driver searches his pocket for bills and coins to pay for fuel at a gasoline station on E. Rodriguez Avenue in Quezon City. File photo by NIO JESUS ORBETA  Philippine Daily Inquirer
So far, the highest price increase for 2022 was implemented on March 29 when the price of diesel climbed by P13.15 per liter, gasoline by P7.10 per liter, and kerosene by P10.50 per liter.
Oil companies last increased the price of gasoline on May 24 when it increased by P4 to P4.30 per liter.
