Immediately Now Terrified rush into Kyiv basements
20220227
https://cebudailynews.inquirer.net/427252/immediately-now-terrified-rush-into-kyiv-basements
But the national guard would not let us through. We were running with our bags and I think the bags scared them.
We were trying to evacuate, but half-way down the road, they started shelling, IT engineer Helga Tarasova said.
The passers-by all ran around the corner of a building and down a dark flight of stairs leading into a concrete basement.
It entered a weekend curfew on Saturday evening that is being enforced with shoot-on-sight orders.
Already waiting for them was a sheltering group of exhausted people who had come desperately close to getting out of Kyiv on the third day ofRussias invasionof their country.
She had taken a bus to Kyiv train station with her young son and several friends.
Their next stops were supposed to be the western Ukrainian city of Lviv and then  possibly  Poland.
Firefighters work by a high-rise apartment block which was hit by recent shelling in Kyiv on February 26, 2022. AFP
Other men paced and some women whispered. The children seemed the least concerned in their play corner.
The 32-year-olds belly bulged through her clothes on the eighth month of pregnancy and she is worried about being worried.
One soldier was digging a trench on the side of a highway that the Russian tanks are expected to use to push toward Kyivs Maidan Square and the government district.
All the people can do in a war is hold on, be as one, support each other. Thats all we can do.
And above them  somewhere in the ominous distance  was the swooshing sound of either mortars or Grad missiles being fired in a barrage on Ukraines capital.
Filonemkos basement is split into three rooms connected by a narrow corridor and lit by incandescent bulbs hanging off black wires.
Behind him stood the charred skeleton of a Ukrainian military truck that was hit while ferrying ordnance to a flashpoint district of northern Kyiv.
Im trying to stay as calm as possible to not cause a premature birth, she said.
We only had 800 metres half a mile to go until the station, the 36-year-old recalled, while bouncing her son on her knee.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Grocery stores are either closed or packed with people staring at grimly bare shelves that are often out of bread and simple meats and cheese.
A view of a high-rise apartment block which was hit by recent shelling in Kyiv on February 26, 2022. AFP
Before him were elderly women with handbags and middle-aged men chatting about the war while blowing out cigarette smoke.
At night, for more than an hour, there were huge explosions. I hope this all ends in a few days.
KYIV  It was hard to tell what scared the elderly women more: the piercing peal of air raid sirens or the terrified urgency of the Ukrainian soldier who ordered everyone to run for cover.
We were hoping that our generation would be the one that lives without war, pensioner Tetyana Filonemko lamented, in the basement.
Everyone! Immediately! Now! the soldier screamed as he dashed in his heavy boots across a road scattered with the exploded remains of grenades and shells.
The 58-year-old had just walked up the stairs and popped her head out of the door for a quick breathe of fresh air  and to try to hear how close the fighting had come.
Residents have started taping over exposed window panes and covering up street names, building numbers and other identifiable city markings to try to confuse the invading Russian force.
One man slept on a yoga mat arranged atop a few wooden planks. A bucket stood beside him on a wooden stool.
Let them open a corridor, so that they dont shoot at people, so that we can send the little kids out, she said.
