In devastated Mariupol a daily struggle to survive
20220503
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1591494/in-devastated-mariupol-a-daily-struggle-to-survive
This handout satellite image released on April 30, 2022, by Maxar Technologies shows the Mariupol Theare and destroyed buildings around the city centre in Mariupol, on the Azov Sea, on April 29, 2022, amid Russias military invasion launched on Ukraine. Photo by Satellite image 2022 Maxar Technologies  AFP
As she prepared to head home from the aid distribution point with food and water, Irina wanted to believe the worst is over.
When will we get our pensions? When will the schools re-open? What about the shops? they asked.
There is nothing left elsewhere in Ukraine, she said, and there are already so many Ukrainians in Poland. Russia, she said simply, is not an option.
The city is now largely calm, AFP journalists saw on a recent press tour organized by Russian forces, apart from the muffled rumble of explosions coming from the direction of the Azovstal steel plant, the last holdout of Ukrainian forces.
Despite the presence of several armed soldiers, a young man exploded: We asked you concrete questions, give us concrete answers!
Burdiuk said she saw cars carrying families riddled with bullets when they tried to escape the city at the start of the siege. She does not know who shot them.
MARIUPOLIn another life, not so long ago, Inna was a hairdresser. Now she spends her days chasing down food and water, in a struggle to simply survive in the Russian-held Ukrainian city of Mariupol.
So she prefers to stay in Mariupol, with her husband, mother and grandmother. She plans to take up offers of work from the new authorities, clearing up rubble, removing bodies or helping with demining  the salary now paid in Russian rubles.
Some 200 people massed behind a military truck as volunteers handed out food packages  pasta, oil, some preserves  marked with the letter Z that symbolizes support for Russias military campaign in Ukraine. Not far away, two tanker trucks distributed drinkable water.
An old man with narrowed eyes pushed a rickety pram filled to the brim with cans and parcels.
Many residents of the city  home to about 450,000 people before the conflict  fled as Russian forces advanced.
I would like to go, but where? asked Kristina Burdiuk, a 25-year-old pharmacist heading home with her two young girls, each hugging a large loaf of bread to her chest.
It is unclear how many remain but those left behind now see little hope of being able to leave.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
She worries about her twin sister who, the last she heard, was in the capital Kyiv.
The lack of reliable news and continued uncertainty have left the city boiling with anger and frustration.
In one eastern district, none of the nine-storey Soviet-era apartment blocks lining the streets are intact. The buildings facades are charred and torn apart by shelling, and some have collapsed entirely.
Most of all, she wants communications restored so she can reach out to her twin.
We are doing our best, said the official, dressed in a camouflage uniform and military cap. The priority is to ensure security and clean up.
On the day AFP was in the city, separatist authorities organised aid distribution in front of the pockmarked walls and shattered windows of a local school.
There is no running water, no electricity, no gas, no mobile network and no internet  daily life is now dominated by the hunt for the most basic of essentials.
During the aid distribution, a woman of around 60 began questioning an official and soon a group formed around him.
We dont live, we survive, said Irina, a 30-year-old video game designer lost inside a grey sweatshirt, the little face of a Yorkshire Terrier sticking out from her backpack.
Shops have been looted and several freshly dug graves can be seen in the grassy alley that runs in the middle of a boulevard.
Irina, the video game designer, said she cannot work without the internet or phone lines and  far worse  cannot reach her loved ones outside the city.
Residents gathered in front of a building at improvised gas stoves heating pots and teapots, the acrid smell rising into the air. Beside them, clothes were steeping in two big blue barrels turned into makeshift washing machines.
After a weeks-long siege, Russian and pro-Moscow separatist forces took almost complete control of Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine in mid-April.FEATURED STORIES
You run to find a water distribution point. After, to where they are handing out bread. Then you line up to get rations, said the 50-year-old, holding two empty water cans.
After living for weeks in underground shelters or shut in at home, Mariupols residents are emerging to find their once-vibrant port city a devastated ruin.
Her only sources of information are a pro-Russian channel she can hear on a neighbors battery-powered radio, or the rumors that spread among neighbors.
She hopes she can hold on a few more weeks, a few months, until the situation gets better.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
