Incoming NSA chief advises vs taking route of West in sanctioning Russia
20220610
https://globalnation.inquirer.net/204460/in-hopes-of-getting-russian-oil-incoming-nsa-chief-advices-vs-taking-wests-sanctions-route-on-russia
Carlos said she will advise President-elect Ferdinand Bongbong Marcos Jr. against pursuing the same sanctions mechanism being applied by Western countries against Russia, which launched an invasion of Ukraine earlier this year.FEATURED STORIES
The country has been among the nations hit hard by the spate of skyrocketing oil and gas prices due to Russias invasion of Ukraine last February 24.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Kung magbibigay ako ng advice sa If I will give an advice to the president, it would be na hindi tayo pwedeng mag-join sa sanctions mechanism na ginagawa ng West we cannot join the sanctions mechanism being done by the West, Carlos said.
According to the US-based International Trade Administration and Statista, a database company, the Philippines has been getting its oil supply mostly from Middle-Eastern sources, other Asia-Pacific countries, including China, and Russia.
We will take a neutral stance. Yun naman talaga ang ginawa natin from the beginning and we have a very robust relationship with Russia and Russia might be able to supply us with our much-needed oil and gas, Carlos said in a Laging Handa briefing when asked on the matter.
Gas pipelines are pictured at the Atamanskaya compressor station, facility of Gazproms Power Of Siberia project outside the far eastern town of Svobodny, in Amur region, Russia November 29, 2019. REUTERS
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
During the campaign period in March, Marcos has said there was no need for the Philippines to make a stand on the conflict but expressed worry over the situation of Filipinos there.
MANILA, Philippines  The Philippines under the Marcos administration plans to take a neutral stance in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, incoming National Security Adviser NSA Clarita Carlos said Friday, hoping that the oil producing giant will be able to supply the country with much-needed oil.
