Inside a Ukraine hospital where medics work as rockets fall
20220511
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1596274/inside-a-ukraine-hospital-where-medics-work-as-rockets-fall
Weve come from hell, said Igor, an exhausted-looking, mud-covered soldier who joined the fighting a few days after the invasion started in February. He is among a group of soldiers diagnosed with shell-shock, or post-traumatic stress disorder, waiting at the hospital to be evacuated.
They attacked us with everything  artillery, airplanes  there were shelling everywhere, day and night, he said. We were in the battle for almost six days. Popasna is completely destroyed.
The sheer scale of a front line that stretches for hundreds of kilometers has stretched Ukraines resources to the limit.
Her boss, Svitlana Druzenko, said: When the war had just begun, I wondered what casualties it would bring. And now I see that number of victims is just huge  People are dying  and dying in all cities.
Paramedics from the Pirogov First Volunteer Mobile Hospital move an injured Ukrainian solider, who was evacuated from the front line in Popasna, from an ambulance, amid Russias invasion in Ukraine, outside a hospital in Bakhmut, Donetsk region, Ukraine, May 5, 2022. The soldier had suffered a shrapnel injury to his spine. The doctors say his life is not at risk, but he may lose the use of his arms and legs. REUTERS
BAKHMUT, Ukraine  The hospital in the small Ukrainian town of Bakhmut was never intended to receive queues of ambulances bringing the wounded and traumatized from the front line of Europes biggest battlefield.
Her father back in Lviv in western Ukraine gave her money to buy personal protection gear  but her mother has stopped talking to her.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The hospitals main job now is to stabilise the injured from the battle zone around the town of Popasna in the Luhansk region so that they can be moved on to bigger hospitals in western Ukraine, farther from the main battle.FEATURED STORIES
Alessandro, another member of the group of soldiers, takes advantage of the wait for a video chat with his granddaughter, who has managed to flee to Poland. My family is safe there while we are going through this.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what it called a special operation to demilitarise and denazify its southern neighbour. Ukraine and its allies dismiss that as a baseless pretext for a war of conquest.
I havent seen so much human tragedy before. Absolutely unnecessary suffering, said Elena Bulakhtina, a Russian-born Canadian medic who joined the Pirogov First Volunteer Mobile Hospital, a group of paramedics dedicated to providing medical care on the front line.
She is the only paramedic serving her unit, and waits in the town of Sviatohirsk until soldiers take her to the front or bring the wounded to her.
Nor did the volunteer paramedics expect, four months ago, to be shuttling back and forth to the front line of a brutal tank battle, within earshot of rockets and shelling.
Some of the ambulances arriving at the hospital are second-hand German or Polish ones. A few metres from the emergency entrance, a wooden door used as a stretcher lies covered in dried blood.
Bulakhtinas Canadian passport means she can enter Ukraine  which she would be barred from doing as a Russian national.
One ambulance has to evacuate two combatants in a space that normally takes just one patient. One has a shrapnel injury to his spine. The doctors say his life is not at risk, but he may lose the use of his arms and legs.
On her arm she has a tattoo of the Ukrainian coat of arms with a quotation from the Ukrainian poet Lesya Ukrainka.
Any Russian who can do something concrete to help Ukraine, not just sit on Facebook  should do something, she said.
About 70 km 44 miles northwest of Bakhmut, 20-year-old volunteer Aleksandra Pohranychna does not even have an ambulance.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
