Intense fighting in east Ukraine as Europe pledges more military aid
20220514
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1597574/intense-fighting-in-east-ukraine-as-europe-pledges-more-military-aid
Russia had warned that it would be forced to take reciprocal steps if Finland joined NATO, to address the resulting threats.
The gradual liberation of the Kharkiv region proves that we will not leave anyone to the enemy, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his daily video address Friday.
An informal meeting of NATO foreign ministers is also scheduled in Berlin on Saturday, where the Swedish and Finnish ministers plan to meet their Turkish counterpart to discuss their potential bids to join the alliance.
The Ukrainian General Staff said in an update Saturday that Russian forces continued to blockade our units near the Azovstal plant and carried out massive artillery and air strikes.
US President Joe Biden spoke with Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson and Finnish President Sauli Niinisto on Friday about the NATO plan.
The ministry added that Russian forces had failed to make any significant advances despite concentrating forces in this area.
Women, children and the elderly who had taken refuge in the tunnels and bunkers in the Azovstal plant were evacuated at the end of April with the help of the United Nations and Red Cross.
Currently, very difficult negotiations are under way on the next stage of the evacuation mission  the rescue of the seriously wounded, medics. It is a large number of people.
9 persons of interest tagged in Adamson frat death still at large, 3 with police
According to the latest assessment from the US-based Institute for the Study of War, Russian President Vladimir Putin likely intends to annex occupied southern and eastern Ukraine directly in the coming months.
From inside the plant, Sviatoslav Palamar, one of the leaders of theUkrainian Azov regiment, told the online Kyiv Security Forum that there were 600 wounded there and pleaded for help to evacuate them.
Ukrainian forces repulsed Russian attempts to cross a river and encircle the city of Severodonetsk, said Serhiy Gaidai, governor of the eastern Luhansk region.FEATURED STORIES
Theres heavy fighting on the border with Donetsk region, from the side of Popasna, Gaidai said, reporting heavy losses of equipment and personnel by the Russians.
Inter RAOs subsidiary in the Nordic region blamed the suspension on not having received payment for electricity sold in May.
At the end of March, after failing to take the capital Kyiv in the face of determined resistance, Russia turned its focus to eastern Ukraine.
KYIV, Ukraine  Intense fighting raged in eastern Ukraines Donbas region where Russia has been concentrating its forces without making significant progress, while very difficult negotiations were under way over the fate of the last besieged defenders in the city of Mariupol.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Of course, we remember every city and every community that is still under occupation, he said, with a special mention of the southern port city of Mariupol where the last defenders are holed up in the vast Azovstal steelworks.
Europe on Friday pledged another half a billion dollars in military support for Ukraine as it resists the Russian invasion that began on February 24, while Sweden and Finlands moves towards joining NATO hit multiple obstacles.
And a day after leaders in Helsinki declared their nation must apply to join NATO without delay, Russian state energy group Inter RAO said it would suspend electricity supplies to Finland beginning Saturday.
We do not stop trying to save all our people from Mariupol and Azovstal, Zelensky said.
A senior US defense official said most of the activity was now in the Donbas area, and essentially, we continue to see the Russians not making any major gains there.
This photograph taken on May 13, 2022, shows a damaged tank on a road near the Vilkhivka village east of Kharkiv, amid Russian invasion of Ukraine. Photo by SERGEY BOBOK  AFP
In Kharkiv region, the enemys main efforts are focused on ensuring the withdrawal of its units from the city of Kharkiv, said the spokesman for the Ukrainian General Staff.
At a meeting in Germany of foreign ministers from the Group of Seven nations, European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on Friday promised Ukraine an extra 500 million euros $520 million, bringing the blocs total military aid to two billion euros.
Russias hopes of swift gains appear to have been thwarted and Ukraine has even managed to push Russian troops out of the northern city of Kharkiv, which had been a priority target for Moscow.
Conducting river crossings in a contested environment is a highly risky manoeuvre and speaks to the pressure the Russian commanders are under to make progress in their operations in eastern Ukraine, it said.
From interceptions phone calls, we understand that a whole Russian battalion has refused to attack, because they see whats happening.
Aerial images showed dozens of destroyed armored vehicles on the river bank and wrecked pontoon bridges.
Britains Ministry of Defense said the Russians had sustained heavy losses after Ukrainian forces successfully prevented their attempted river crossing.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
