Is the possibility of World War 3 near
20220223
https://usa.inquirer.net/94159/possiblity-of-world-war-3
Russia is after the Ukrainian acquisition and started by using drones along its borders. Together with a significant increase in Ukrainian military power. Initially, Russia has publicly stated that they want to solve Russia and Ukraines issues with NATO. NATO and the United States have not shown a positive response to this. But they also never did assure Ukraines security.
Despite advancements in Ukrainian military forces, things could turn worse if Russia invaded Ukraine. Although some international analysts predicted that Russia would succeed and win their claimed rights along the border. While gaining access to Ukraines mainland.FEATURED STORIES
Macron said, I dont believe in spontaneous miracles. As both parties aim to solidify expectations before the meeting.
People fight VERY differently when they are fighting on their own soil and for their home.
For the last 40 years, the United States maintained a steady ambiguity with Taiwan. By doing so, the US grew a strong economic relationship with China.
However, the use of these strategies could lead to a conflict between Washington and Moscow. Especially if Ukraine will succeed with its allies help.
Reading GOP tweets tonight, Republicans need to stop their trump-was-tough-on-Putin bullshit. The world is on the brink of war and youre busy pushing out Putins propaganda? Put down that hammer  sickle and stand with US, not Russia. Youre an embarrassment to Reagans legacy.
While it was the Russian-Ukraine conflict thats all over the news lately, theres another country that could trigger World War 3. Since last year, Chinas threat to Taiwan has been one of the USs concerns.
Putin should review the decade long Soviet-Afghan war and how Russia ultimately got their ass kicked.
M16 chief Richard Moore warned that the Secret Intelligence Services single greatest priority is the growth of China. Beijing is working on conducting large scale espionage operations against the UK and our allies.
Moscow wants Ukraine to be banned from NATO and eliminate its troops in Eastern Europe. However, NATO has turned down Russias demands.
Tensions fuel up between the West and its enemies in China and Russia. Anticipations and fears are in place as wars could occur into a worldwide conflict.
Last year, former top intelligence officer and Ukrainian minister Yuliia Laputina stated a prediction. The officer told Sky News that the Russian invasion of Ukraine could pave the way for World War 3. This is once Putins military forces spread throughout other former Soviet nations.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
In short, a war could start in several different ways. China could plan an attack to catch both US and Taiwanese forces off-guard.
A Russian attack on Ukraine could blow up a lot of war possibilities. The US officials warned that Russias invasion could build up a huge refugee crisis in Europe. It can also lead to 50,000 civilian deaths. While global analysts are worried with China aiming for its military mark in the next coming years.
The Western allies are aiming to frighten Putin a bit with sanctions threats. US President Joe Biden even warned that he will end Russias eight billion pound energy project if it invades Ukraine.
Now that Russia has declared war and invaded Ukraine, the U.S. and our allies should immediately take all possible steps to CONFISCATE the assets of every Russian oligarch who has ties to Putin  their bank accounts, properties, yachts and private jets. Hit them where it hurts.
While other countries leaders try to persuade Vladimir Putin, the talks are not heading on a positive note. On Monday, French President Emmanuel Macron spoke to Russias Putin during a five-hour dinner. However, that meeting did not come up with any breakthrough. Macron will meet Ukraines president Volodymyr Zelensky today. Then he will get back to Putin again via a telephone call.
More added, that China is eager to assert its power. Which Moore referred to as tectonic plates are shifting.
Real conflicts between Ukraine and Russia arise as their interest clashes. The Russian invasion can pull the trigger for World War 3. For the last six months, Russia has started building up forces along their frontiers as Moscow, Kyiv, and Washington have traded points.
With regards to growing World War 3 fears, the US and Britain had already withdrawn their embassy staff in Ukraine. As a precautionary move, the US also ordered the relatives of their embassy staff to leave Ukraine. It comes with a warning that an invasion is possible at any time. All this while British intelligence revealed that Putin planned to place a pro-Kremlin leader in the Ukrainian government.
If worse comes to worst, the Russian military action might pressure the United States to respond in any way. However, there are ways the US can support Kyiv without obvious intervention. The US can implement cyberattacks and economic sanctions against Russia. They can even help Ukraine through sharing of intelligence and transfer of weapons.
In his speech last November at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, he cited. That Beijings increasing military strength and desire for reunification with Taiwan pose a serious threat to global peace. As China is willing to take everything by force if necessary.
This strategic ambiguity was aimed to take off the incentive for Taiwan. To be able to declare independence while not giving China any reasons for the invasion. However, some in Congress have called for this policy to end.
