Kremlin says provocations like UK warship episode demand tough response
20210604
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1455323/kremlin-says-provocations-like-uk-warship-episode-demand-tough-response
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
MOSCOW  A British warships entry into what Moscow considers Russian territorial waters near Crimea last month is the kind of provocation that demands a tough response, the Kremlin said on Sunday.
President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Russia, which fired warning shots and dropped bombs in the path of the warship to chase it out of Black Sea waters off the coast of Crimea, could have sunk the warship.
FILE PHOTO: A view shows Russian warships on sunset ahead of the Navy Day parade in the Black Sea port of Sevastopol, Crimea July 27, 2019. REUTERSAlexey PavlishakFile Photo
Tensions are running high as Ukraine and NATO countries hold military drills in the Black Sea, monitored by Russias Black Sea Fleet.
Peskov said the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was a destabilizing element that led to confrontation, but that Russia remained open to dialogue with the body.
Peskov, speaking on state television on Sunday, said the incident was a well-planned provocation and that Putins reaction had made it clear that any repetition would provoke a response.FEATURED STORIES
Moscow challenged the right of HMS Defender to pass through waters near Crimea, something London said it had every right to do. Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 but most of the world still recognizes it as part of Ukraine.
I think that our intelligence agencies of course know who took that decision. But, of course, I think the essence of such operations is planned by all the same senior comrades  those over the ocean, Peskov said.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
