Luck decides life and death in Ukraines war zone
20220814
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1646291/luck-decides-life-and-death-in-ukraines-war-zone
A serviceman who has rotated off the frontline takes a moment to relax, only to come under fire at the exact moment he has let his guard down.FEATURED STORIES
For soldiers and civilians alike, the lob of munitions  some inaccurate, others seemingly random  introduces an almost unbearable element of chance.
From a window a man lowers a sewing machine by rope, as residents try to salvage what they can.
In the back of the vehicle he holds up the gnarled metal that almost stole his life before throwing it down with a look of disdain.
A fragment of a rocket lays on a road following a Russian strike in Saltivka, a northern district of the second largest Ukrainian city of Kharkiv on July 31, 2022, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. AFP
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
The cab of Bogdans truck was speared by the remains of a rocket, which fell from the sky after jettisoning its explosive load.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
I was thrown over there, she said, gesturing to a wall and puzzling the ill luck that has made her homeless.
There has been fighting here since 2014, when Moscow annexed the southeastern Crimean peninsula and began backing pro-Russia separatists in the eastern Donbas area.
All have survived, for now at least, on the eastern front of the war between Russia and Ukraine where life and death seem a simple matter of chance.
Although Russia has made advances, Ukraine has put up a staunch resistance and both sides are dug in, with rallies of artillery and countering fire determining the taxing course of the conflict.
Now there are no gunfire fights as there used to be. Today it is an artillery battle. So, you just jump into the trench and wait for the strike.
It shot into the gazebo, into the water, where there were many soldiers, he says.
There were explosions before but they were somewhere further away, so I had gotten used to it, she said, restless with distress, her eyes spouting tears.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
On a road outside the frontline city of Soledar, serviceman Oleg Yashchuk recounts his own near-miss in an almost giddy tone.
I returned from the positions, I had three or four days off, so we went to relax at the lake  barbecue, beer, nice company, he starts. Suddenly a tank started shooting at us.
A four-floor apartment building was gouged by the blast, a vast semicircle of sky replacing the space where two homes once stood.
The city of Kostyantynivka  set back from the frontline but unspared from its random violence  was pummelled by air strikes last weekend.
Since Russia failed to storm Kyiv after its February invasion, the military campaign has shifted to regions pressed against the border with its larger neighbour.
She was dozing when the twin blasts hit  one elsewhere and another demolishing her neighbours flat and halting her bedside clock at 12:24 am.
In the distance the sounds of fresh shelling can be heard  others may not be so fortunate.
We sit in the trenches, the enemy shells us and we cant even stick our heads out, said 26-year-old Ukrainian soldier Bogdan, perched in the bed of his pickup truck in the frontline city of Bakhmut.
A soldier racing through a frontline town in a drab pickup truck may take a direct hit only to be saved by a miracle.
An elderly woman slumbering in her apartment is tossed across her bedroom  spared from the havoc next door by a cracked partition wall, her alarm clock frozen at the moment of the strike.
BAKHMUT, Ukraine  When rockets scream across the skies of eastern Ukraine the people below are hostage to fortune.
We miraculously survived, all the fragments got stuck in the water, thats why are still alive.
