Marcos on UkraineRussia conflict No need to make a stand
20220301
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1561904/marcos-on-ukraine-russia-conflict-no-need-to-make-a-stand
READ: PH should take sides only if our interest is at risk  Sara Duterte
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
MANILA, Philippines  While saying he is worried for Filipinos in Ukraine, presidential candidate Ferdinand Bongbong Marcos Jr. believes there is no need for the Philippines to make a stand amid the conflict there.
Im worried more about our nationals. Marami na raw napunta sa Poland but there are some who do not want to be repatriated so thats the problem for the Philippines now, Marcos said in an ambush interview.
Marcos made the remark Tuesday, saying that the problem the Philippines is facing currently are the Filipinos who refuse to leave Ukraine amid the conflict with Russia.
Marcos running mate, vice presidential candidate Inday Sara Duterte-Carpio, on Monday said that the Philippines should be neutral and only make a stand if our own interest is put at risk.
In a separate interview on Tuesday, Duterte-Carpio said as a local chief executive, she will heed to the direction of the national government regarding the issue.
The Philippines has voted in favor of a United Nations resolution expressing explicit condemnation of Russias invasion of Ukraine. In voting to condemn Russias invasion of Ukraine, the Philippines also appealed for the protection of civilians and civilian infrastructures.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Always neutral, if hindi naman involved ang Philippine interest, laging dapat mauna ang interest ng Pilipinas. That is the only time we take sides if our interest is at risk, Duterte-Carpio said.
Asked for his stand on the Ukraine-Russia conflict, Marcos said: I dont think there is a need to make a stand. We are not involved, except for our nationals.FEATURED STORIES
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
