Nations involved in Ukraine crisis urged to cease military actions
20220225
https://globalnation.inquirer.net/202557/nations-involved-in-ukraine-crisis-urged-to-cease-military-actions
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
IADL issues this statement calling on all parties to comply with their obligations under the UN Charter to peacefully settle this international dispute, it added.FEATURED STORIES
Russia, led by President Vladimir Putin, has launched an attack on Ukraine even after weeks of diplomacy and imposition of Western sanctions in a bid to avert a full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
Failure to do so risks a massive loss of life and destruction of the country, as well as risks wider war which the UN Charter was written to prevent, it said.
There being no basis to claim self-defense, the actions by the Russian military represent an illegal aggression against the territorial integrity of Ukraine, it also said.
Since Putin announced a military operation in Ukraine, residents have taken shelter in subway stations and are fleeing to Poland for safety.
MANILA, Philippines  An international group of lawyers from 50 countries and territories has demanded all parties involved in the Ukraine crisis to cease military actions, warning that failing to do so would lead to massive loss of life and destruction at the eastern European country.
While IADL recognizes that there have been many provocations from the West, including the expansion of NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization, as well as violations of the UN Charter by the United States in its invasions of Iraq, and Afghanistan etc., which IADL also protested, there is no legal justification under Article 51 of the UN Charter for the military actions Russia has taken against Ukraine, the group continued.
This Maxar satellite image taken and released on February 23, 2022, shows a military convoy, south of Golovchino. Photo by Satellite image 2022 Maxar Technologies  AFP
In a statement Friday, Belgium-based organization International Association of Democratic Lawyers IADL stressed the need for immediate negotiations between parties to end the conflict consistent with international law and the UN United Nations Charter.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
