Nato fears Russian chemical attack in Ukraine
20220316
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1569084/nato-fears-russian-chemical-attack-in-ukraine
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Wednesdays meeting, Stoltenberg said, would cover concrete measures to reinforce our security for the longer term in all domains to adapt to the changed threat environment arising from Russias senseless war.
We are able to convene a Nato summit with Nato leaders on short notice but I cannot go into more details about that now, he said.
We are concerned that Moscow could stage a false flag operation possibly including chemical weapons, the Nato chief told reporters, citing absurd claims from Russia that Ukraine possesses biological weapons labs.
A long-scheduled Nato summit in Madrid in June would look at longer-term changes for the alliance.
He refused to speculate about any any military response from the Nato side if such a chemical attack happened.FEATURED STORIES
This could include substantially more forces in the eastern part of the alliance at higher readiness and with more pre-positioned equipments, on top of the bolstered Nato forces already sent to Nato countries bordering Ukraine, he said.
Asked about rumors of a possible Nato summit in Brussels next week with leaders including US President Joe Biden, Stoltenberg demurred.
Presidents and prime ministers of the European Union  which accounts for most NATO members  are already to gather in Brussels next Thursday and Friday for a summit focused on Russias war in Ukraine.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Nato, he said, remains very vigilant on that risk and stressed that Russia would have a high price to pay if it carried out such a violation of international law.
Its important to distinguish greatly about the immediate response  all the tens of thousands more troops, air power and naval power  and then the more long-term adjustment or posture, to be discussed in June, he said.
BRUSSELS  Nato is worried Russia is gearing up to carry out a chemical attack in Ukraine, secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said Tuesday, ahead of a meeting of the alliances defense ministers.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
