Nato warns Russia readying for fullscale attack on Ukraine
20220223
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1558628/nato-warns-russia-readying-for-full-scale-attack-on-ukraine
This Maxar satellite image taken and released on February 22, 2022 shows a close-up of assembled vehicles, part of a new deployment consisting of more than 100 vehicles and dozens of troop tentsshelters, at a small airfield known as the V.D. Bolshoy Bokov aerodrome near Mazyr, southern Belarus, north of the border with Ukraine. AFP
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Stoltenberg said Nato put it its response force on higher readiness several weeks ago and has 100 jets on high alert and 120 ships at sea.
The recognition has drawn condemnation from the West. Europe and the US are posied to impose sanctions on Moscow.
Nato allies spearheaded by the US have already sent thousands of additional troops to bolster their eastern flank as tensions have soared with Moscow.
Putin has warned he could now send his forces across into the rebel territories depending on how the situation develops.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attempted Monday to again rewrite his pro-Western neighbors borders by recognizing the breakaway regions as independent states.
Every indication is that Russia continues to plan for a full-scale attack on Ukraine, Stoltenberg said after an urgent meeting with Ukraines envoy.
Stoltenberg said further Russian troops had already moved across the Ukrainian border overnight into the Kremlin-backed territories.FEATURED STORIES
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
BRUSSELS  Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg said Tuesday that Russian forces continue to prepare for a potential attack on Ukraine after Moscow recognized two separatist regions as independent.
Moscow seized the Crimea peninsula peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 and has fueled a separatist conflict in eastern areas for eight years that has killed over 14,000 people.
What we see is further invasion of a country which was already invaded, Stoltenberg said.
We see that more and more of the forces are moving out of the camps and are in combat formations and ready to strike.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
