NATO rejects Ukraine nofly zone says not part of this war
20220304
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1563659/nato-rejects-ukraine-no-fly-zone-says-not-part-of-this-war
Instead of a military presence in Ukraine, EU countries  most of them also NATO members  said they were eyeing more economic sanctions to add to coordinated restrictions that have already targeted Russias financial system and elites.
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the alliance would defend every inch of NATO territory from attack. Ours is a defensive alliance. We seek no conflict. But if conflict comes to us, we are ready, Blinken said.
We are not part of this conflict, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told a news conference.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has called for Western powers to enforce a no-fly zone, with Russia shelling cities and bringing fighting to Europes largest nuclear plant.
Ukraine, a former Soviet republic, wants to join the European Union and Western military alliance NATO, whose members are bound in its founding treaty to defend each other from invasion.
Thousands of people are believed to have been killed or wounded and more than 1 million refugees have fled Ukraine since Feb. 24, when Russias President Vladimir Putin ordered the biggest attack on a European state since World War Two.
We have a responsibility as NATO allies to prevent this war from escalating beyond Ukraine because that would be even more dangerous, more devastating, and would cause even more human suffering.FEATURED STORIES
Stoltenberg said NATO understood Ukraines desperation, calling Russias war in Ukraine horrific and warning the worst was yet to come, with Russia rolling out more heavy arms. But he said a no-fly zone could only be enforced by sending NATO planes to shoot down Russian ones, adding that the risk of escalation would be too big.
BRUSSELS  NATO allies rejected Ukraines demand for no-fly zones on Friday, saying they were increasing support but that stepping in directly would lead to a broader, even more brutal European war so far limited to Russias assault on its neighbor.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
It was not immediately clear, however, when the EU would agree on measures given some countries heavy reliance on Russian energy supplies.
National flags of members of the NATO are seen, on the day of a foreign ministers meeting amid Russias invasion of Ukraine, at the Alliances headquarters in Brussels, Belgium March 4, 2022. REUTERSYves Herman
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Putin launched his special military operation to get rid of what he said was Ukraines fascist government and demilitarize the country. Zelenskiy says Moscow is trying to prevent a liberal democracy flourishing on Russias border.
Support for Ukraine so far has come mainly in the form of far-reaching sanctions on Russia, with EU members on Friday saying more financial punishment was yet to come. NATO members have sent weapons to Ukraine, but stopped short of military action.
In a video message earlier on Friday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said NATO foreign ministers should not allow Putin to turn Ukraine into Syria, in reference to the devastating Russia-backed campaign against rebel cities in that country.
Russian invasion forces seized Europes biggest nuclear power plant on Friday in heavy fighting in southeastern Ukraine, triggering global alarm. A fire in a training building was extinguished and officials said the facility was now safe.
The 27-nation bloc is examining curbs on Russias influence and access to finance at the International Monetary Fund following its invasion of Ukraine, six officials told Reuters.
Irelands Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said no new sanctions would be announced on Friday but that a fourth-round could affect more Russian banks access to the SWIFT international transfer system, bar Russian ships from European ports, and cut imports like steel, timber, aluminum, or coal.
We will consider everything, the blocs top diplomat Josep Borrell said, when asked about the possible suspension of the EUs gas imports from Russia, which think-tank Eurointelligence said amount to $700 million daily even during the war.
The picture looks very bleak and very dark in terms of Russias intentions  and so I think there is huge concern, and there is no point in sugar-coating it, Coveney said.
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said the bloc should close any loopholes that could allow Russia to circumvent sanctions.
Allies agree we should not have NATO planes operating over Ukrainian airspace or NATO troops operating in Ukrainian territory, Stoltenberg said.
