Oil prices ease as investors wait for assessment of Omicrons impact
20211208
https://business.inquirer.net/335976/oil-prices-ease-as-investors-wait-for-assessment-of-omicrons-impact
The recovery run took a break as investors tried to confirm the full impact of the Omicron variant before buying further, said Satoru Yoshida, a commodity analyst with Rakuten Securities.FEATURED STORIES
Meanwhile, President Joe Biden warned Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday that the West would impose strong economic and other measures on Russia if it invades Ukraine, while Putin demanded guarantees that NATO would not expand farther eastward.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
British drugmaker GSK, meanwhile, said on Tuesday its antibody-based COVID-19 therapy with U.S. partner Vir Biotechnology is effective against all mutations of the Omicron variant.
The Omicron variant can partially evade the protection from two doses of Pfizer and partner BioNTechs COVID-19 vaccine, the research head of a laboratory at the Africa Health Research Institute in South Africa said on Tuesday.
TOKYO  Oil prices eased on Wednesday, taking a breather after two days of gains, as investors waited for an assessment of the full impact of the Omicron coronavirus variant on the global economy and fuel demand as well as the effectiveness of existing vaccines.
Biden warned Putin he could face stiff economic sanctions, the disruption of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to Europe, and that the United States and European allies would provide additional defensive capabilities to Ukraine.
Analysts polled by Reuters forecast U.S. crude inventory data would show a second straight weekly decline.
Indirect talks between Washington and Tehran on reinstating their nuclear pact resumed a week ago but broke off on Friday, with a resumption scheduled for later this week, as Western officials voiced dismay at sweeping Iranian demands.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Oil prices rebounded earlier this week from a collapse last week on rising optimism that the new Omicron variant will not cause major economic damage.
FILE PHOTO: Crude oil storage tanks are seen from above at the Cushing oil hub, in Cushing, Oklahoma, March 24, 2016. REUTERSNick OxfordFile Photo
The market is also focusing on Iran nuclear talks, tensions between Russia and Ukraine, and weather in northern-hemisphere winter, he added.
Investors are still not fully optimistic and are taking a wait-and-see approach for now, said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, general manager of research at Nissan Securities.
Germany wants Iran to present realistic proposals in talks over its nuclear program, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said on Monday.
U.S. crude stocks fell last week while gasoline and distillate inventories rose, according to market sources citing American Petroleum Institute figures on Tuesday.
Brent crude futures dropped 19 cents, or 0.3, to $75.25 a barrel at 0519 GMT, after settling 3.2 higher on Tuesday. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was at $71.82 a barrel, down 23 cents, or 0.3, having gained 3.7 in the previous session.
