Over 3 million have fled fighting in Ukraine
20220316
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1569150/over-3-million-have-fled-fighting-in-ukraine
In Moldova, one of Europes poorest countries, some refugees were returning home to Ukraine, either to fetch more belongings or hoping to return for good.
On Monday they began learning online and thats why I should take some things for them  books, for writing, she said.
After Sundays Russian strike on the Yavoriv military base near Lviv, some people from western Ukraine have now joined the refugee flow across the border.
Pulling suitcases and carrying backpacks, they were met by Romanian firefighters and volunteers, who carried their belongings to buses transporting them onwards.
Another woman, who did not give her name, was going back to Odessa with her toddler. We want to go home, she said as she crossed the border into Ukraine.
The UNHCR says those fleeing early in the conflict mostly had resources and contacts outside Ukraine, but now many of the refugees had left in a hurry and were more vulnerable.
PRZEMYSL, PolandPALANCA, Moldova  Nearly three weeks into the war, the number of Ukrainians fleeing abroad passed 3 million on Tuesday, the United Nations said, as people escaped fighting and Russian bombardment.
Her comments echoed the hallmark phrase Wir schaffen das We can manage this of Germanys then-chancellor, Angela Merkel, at the height of Europes previous major influx of refugees in 2015-16 when more than a million people fleeing the war in Syria reached the EU.
Yulia Vigrinyak, from Mykolaiv, cries as she holds her dog, following their arrival by ferry after fleeing from Russias invasion of Ukraine, at the Isaccea-Orlivka border crossing, Romania, March 14, 2022. REUTERS
People arrive by ferry after fleeing from Russias invasion of Ukraine, at the Isaccea-Orlivka border crossing, Romania, March 14, 2022. REUTERS
9 persons of interest tagged in Adamson frat death still at large, 3 with police
Everybody considered West Ukraine to be quite safe until they started striking Lviv, said Zhanna, 40, a mother from Kharkiv, who was heading to Poland to reunite with her godmother who left Ukraine a few days earlier.FEATURED STORIES
But a significant number of refugees are starting to move further west, with 300,000 individuals having gone so far to Western Europe, the UNHCR said on Tuesday. read more
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
The vast majority of refugees are in countries bordering Ukraine  Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Moldova  with over half of them, or 1.8 million, in Poland alone.
If we really show the best sides of ourselves in solidarity, we can manage this challenge, the European Unions top migration official, Ylva Johansson, said in Brussels. read more
We left Kharkiv for Kirovohrad, she said at the train station of Przemysl, the nearest town to Polands busiest border crossing with Ukraine. We wanted to stay there. We did not want to go abroad.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
On the way here I cried because I love my country. I want to live in Ukraine but I cant. Because they are destroying everything now, she said, fighting back tears.
Then they started striking Kirovohrad, they started striking Lviv and it is complicated to avoid bombs with a small child, she said, adding that her husband had stayed in Ukraine.
Liudmila, who did not give her last name, was going back to Ukraine to fetch school supplies for her children in Chisinau, Moldovas capital.
Further south at Isaccea, a busy border crossing on the Danube, Tanya, from Mykolaiv in southern Ukraine, said she was fleeing to save her childs life.
In Romania, Ukrainian women and children, some clutching teddy bears, continued to stream through the Siret border crossing where temperatures dropped to minus 2 Celsius 28 Fahrenheit overnight.
Some 3,000,381 people have so far left Ukraine, data from the U.N. Refugee Agency UNHCR showed. It is basing its aid plans on 4 million refugees but has said the figure will likely increase.
Russia denies targeting civilians, describing its actions as a special military operation. Ukraine and Western allies call this a baseless pretext for Russias invasion of a democratic country of 44 million.
We see a lot of elderly people and a lot of persons with disabilities, really people who were expecting and hoping until the last moment that the situation would change, said Tatiana Chabac, an aid worker with the UNHCR.
