PH joins 140 nations in deploring Russias aggression against Ukraine
20220303
https://globalnation.inquirer.net/202787/fwd-ph-joins-140-nations-in-deploring-aggression-against-ukraine
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Service members of pro-Russian troops in uniforms without insignia are seen atop of a tank with the letter Z painted on its sides in the separatist-controlled settlement of Buhas Bugas, as Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, in the Donetsk region, Ukraine March 1, 2022. REUTERS
During an emergency special session of the United Nations General Assembly UNGA, Permanent Representative of the Philippines to the UN Enrique Manalo cast a yes vote on the resolution on Thursday Manila time.
We strongly urge the cessation of hostilities but while an offense can be stopped at will ,the defense cannot rest until the offense stops, read the Philippine statement, which was issued on Monday by the Department of Foreign Affairs and earlier delivered before the UNGA session.
It also deplores the invasion of Ukraine in the strongest terms and condemns the decision of Russian President Vladimir Putin to put his nuclear forces on alert.
MANILA, Philippines  The Philippines has joined 140 other nations in deploring Russias aggression against Ukraine.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
PH Ambassador Enrique A. Manalo casts a YES vote onresolution on Aggression against Ukraine at the 11th UN Emergency Special Session under GA RES 377 A V, Uniting for peace of 1950. 141 Member States voted YES, 5  NO, and 35 ABSTAINED.  pic.twitter.comZUVCzzwJk3FEATURED STORIES
We call for massive assistance commensurate with the growing humanitarian crisis and echo the UN Secretary Generals appeal for respect of humanitarian principles to protect civilians and civilian infrastructures in Ukraine. Safe access to humanitarian assistance must be assured by the most effective means, it added.
The Philippines was among the 141 member states that voted in favor of the resolution. Five others voted no while 35 nations abstained from voting on the resolution.
