Philippines cancels Russia helicopter deal over US sanctions
20220810
https://globalnation.inquirer.net/205980/philippines-cancels-russia-helicopter-deal-over-us-sanctions
Delfin Lorenzana, who served as defense secretary under Duterte, said in March that the Philippines had paid a deposit for the transport helicopters before war erupted in Ukraine and the deal was on track.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
They are aimed at cutting off Russia from the global financial system and choking off funds available to Moscow to finance the war.FEATURED STORIES
Philippine ambassador to Washington Jose Romualdez recently told AFP the decision to cancel was triggered by the Ukrainian war.
After President Ferdinand Bongbong Marcos Jr. took power on June 30, the new government reviewed the Russian deal, arriving at the same decision as Duterte
Manila, Philippines The Philippines has scrapped an order for 16 Russian military helicopters, an official confirmed Wednesday, following reports former president Rodrigo Duterte decided to cancel it due to US sanctions on Moscow.
Romualdez said Manila was also wary of falling foul of a US law passed in 2017 that sanctions anyone doing business with Russias intelligence or defense sectors.
Manila began a modest military modernization program in 2012. Until recently, its equipment featured Vietnam War-era helicopters and World War II naval vessels used by the United States.
The Philippine defense department was formalizing the termination of the contract, spokesman Arsenio Andolong said Wednesday.
Without mentioning US sanctions on Moscow, Andolong told AFP changes in priorities necessitated by global political developments resulted in the cancellation of the project by the previous administration.
Manila  a longtime Washington ally  agreed in November to pay 12.7 billion pesos $228 million for the Mi-17 helicopters, as it seeks to modernize its military hardware.
I dont know if we can still get back the money since we were the ones who terminated the contract, Lorenzana told reporters.
But last week Lorenzana, who now heads a different government agency, told local media that Duterte himself decided to cancel the deal in the waning days of his administration over the sanctions threat.
FILE PHOTO: A Mi-17 helicopter is seen during the leak test at Kazan Helicopter Plant, a subsidiary of Russian Helicopters, in Kazan, Russia, on August 24, 2020. REUTERSAlexey Nasyrov
The United States and its allies imposed wide-ranging sanctions on Moscow in the wake of its assault on Ukraine in February.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
