Putin said nothing to suggest Ukraine invasion  French official
20220212
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1553960/putin-said-nothing-to-suggest-ukraine-invasion-french-official
We are nevertheless extremely vigilant and alert to the Russian military posture in order to avoid the worst.FEATURED STORIES
The two leaders spoke at a time of high tension over Russias massing of troops near the Ukrainian border, with Washington saying on Friday that Moscow could invade at any moment. Russia has denied it plans to invade.
The French ambassador would review the situation for some 1,000 French nationals in the country, many of whom hold both French and Ukrainian citizenship, the official said. The United States and many other countries have urged citizens to leave Ukraine amid fears of an invasion.
Macron was also due to speak on Saturday with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, US President Joe Biden, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
We see no indication in what President Putin says that he is going to go on the offensive, the official told reporters after Macron and Putin spoke on the phone for nearly 90 minutes.
The Elysee official said France would recommend that French nationals avoid trips to Ukraine and preparations would be made for embassy staff and their families to leave the country if they wanted, the official said.
This referred to a series of Russian security demands, including that it bar Ukraine from ever joining NATO.
Separately, the Kremlin said that Putin had highlighted during the call with Macron a lack of a substantive response from the United States and NATO to well-known Russian initiatives.
Macron visited Moscow earlier this week and then and in their call on Saturday the two discussed ways to move forward on the implementation of the Minsk Agreements on achieving peace in eastern Ukraine, as well conditions for security and stability in Europe, the Elysee said separately in a statement.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron in Moscow, Russia Feb. 7, 2022. SputnikKremlin via REUTERSFile Photo
PARIS  Russian President Vladimir Putin said nothing during a phone call with French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday that he indicated he was preparing to invade Ukraine, an official in the French presidency said.
Putin and Macron also discussed the situation related to provocative speculations around an allegedly planned Russian invasion, the Kremlin said.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
