Putin recognizes Ukraine rebel regions sends troops on what Moscow calls peacekeeping mission
20220221
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1557976/putin-recognises-ukraine-rebel-regions-sends-troops-on-what-moscow-calls-peacekeeping-mission
Putin told Russias defense ministry to deploy troops into the two breakaway regions to keep the peace in a decree issued shortly after he announced recognition for Russia-backed separatists there, drawing U.S. and European vows of new sanctions.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends a ceremony to sign documents, including a decree recognising two Russian-backed breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent entities, with leaders of the self-proclaimed republics Leonid Pasechnik and Denis Pushilin seen in the background, in Moscow, Russia, in this picture released February 21, 2022. Kremlin via REUTERS
MOSCOW  Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine as independent on Monday and ordered the Russian army to launch what Moscow called a peacekeeping operation in the area, upping the ante in a crisis the West fears could unleash a major war.
It was not immediately clear the size of the force that Putin was dispatching, when they would cross the border into Ukraine and exactly what their mission would be.
9 persons of interest tagged in Adamson frat death still at large, 3 with police
Defying Western warnings against such a move, Putin had announced his decision in phone calls to the leaders of Germany and France earlier, both of whom voiced disappointment, the Kremlin said.
Moscows action may well torpedo a last-minute bid for a summit with U.S. President Joe Biden to prevent Russia from invading Ukraine. The rouble extended its losses as Putin spoke, at one point sliding beyond 80 per dollar.
Russian state television showed Putin, joined by Russia-backed separatist leaders, signing a decree recognizing the independence of the two Ukrainian breakaway regions along with agreements on cooperation and friendship.
In a lengthy televised address, Putin, looking visibly angry, described Ukraine as an integral part of Russias history and said eastern Ukraine was ancient Russian lands and that he was confident the Russian people would support his decision..FEATURED STORIES
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
