Qatar emir meets Biden in shadow of Ukraine tensions
20220201
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1548228/qatar-emir-meets-biden-in-shadow-of-ukraine-tensions
WASHINGTON  US President Joe Biden hosted Qatars emir Monday in the White House, underscoring the tiny Gulf states strategic importance  including in a scramble to shield European allies from potential Russian energy cut-offs.
However, Qatar has little to no extra capacity in its LNG and there are limitations to how much supply can be diverted from existing contracts.
We want to talk about security in the Gulf and the broader Middle East, ensuring the stability of global energy supplies, continuing our work together to support the people of Afghanistan, and strengthening commercial cooperation.FEATURED STORIES
The emir was the first Gulf state leader to visit Biden since he became president just over a year ago.
In addition to meeting Biden, the sheikh was meeting with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, members of Congress and other officials.
Recognizing Qatars place in the US militarys global footprint  the state hosts the Pentagons Central Command and a huge airbase  Biden also announced he was designating it a major non-NATO ally, which opens the door to closer military and commercial ties.
Doha served as Washingtons diplomatic contact with the Taliban, through months of painful negotiations, and will be pivotal to any future contact with Afghanistan, as well as playing a role in efforts to resurrect the Iran nuclear deal.
On that last note, the two leaders were able to celebrate a $20 billion deal for Qatar Airways to become the first customer for Boeings new 777x cargo planes, with 34 aircraft in the initial order.
U.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on voting rights during a speech on the grounds of Morehouse College and Clark Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S., January 11, 2022. REUTERSJonathan Ernst
However, there are fears that the oil- and gas-producing giant could then retaliate against the European Union, which imports some 40 percent of its natural gas from Russia and is already going through a steep price crunch.
Qatar is one of the worlds biggest liquid natural gas exporters, along with the United States and Australia, and there are hopes in Washington and Europe that Doha can temporarily redirect exports destined for Asian markets.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Given Qatars energy riches, it now finds itself rising in importance on yet another front now  the transatlantic tensions over Russias intentions in Ukraine.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
A lot on our agenda today,  Biden said in the fireside Oval Office sit-down.
Western capitals are threatening unprecedented economic sanctions if Russia attacks Ukraine, where it has placed more than 100,000 combat troops on the borders.
Im not going to be able to give you anything further on LNG, the official told reporters Sunday, speaking on condition of anonymity. It will figure in the mix, but I cant give you any details.
In a White House ceremony, Qatar Airways likewise signed a letter of intent for $6.7 billion for 25 737 MAX narrow-body airliners.
Overshadowing the meeting, however, were efforts to source enough natural gas to keep Europe heated through the winter if the brewing conflict with Russia escalates.
During the Afghanistan evacuation last year, US forces sent about 60,000 Afghans and Americans transiting through the Qatar air base.
Speaking just ahead of the visit, a senior US official seemed to downplay the focus on how much to expect from Qatar in the energy reshuffle, saying only were consulting with all the leading gas suppliers around the world.
Minutes after Boeing and Qatar Airways concluded a huge new deal, Biden lavished praise on Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, saying our partnership in Qatar has been central to many of our most vital interests.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
