Rollback in local fuel prices seen this week
20220402
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1577313/rollback-in-local-fuel-prices-seen-this-week
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Local oil firm Unioil projected on Saturday a reduction in diesel and gasoline prices next week by P1.80 and P2 per liter, respectively.
Local fuel prices move on a weekly basis and are mainly hinged on the movements of Dubai crude, the Asian bellwether. For finished petroleum products, the index reference is the Mean of Platts Singapore.
As a rule of thumb, every dollar reduction in oil prices results in a decrease of between P0.27 to P0.30 a liter, and for every change in the peso-dollar exchange, local pump prices decrease by P0.13 to P0.15 a liter.
The unprecedented decision by Biden to release 180 million barrels of oil over the next six months sent oil prices below $100 a barrel, although the price of Dubai crude  the Asian bellwether  remained above $100 at $110.89 a barrel as of Saturday.
MANILA, Philippines  A minimal rollback in local pump prices is expected this week after US President Joe Biden announced the release of oil from the countrys strategic petroleum reserve.
HIGHER PUMP PRICES Fuel prices are again increasing this week, prompting the transport sector to seek government intervention. INQUIRER FILE PHOTO
The ongoing Russia-Ukraine war also continued to be a huge factor in the global oil market, given the sheer size of Russias potentially sanctionable exports of 3 million barrels a day.FEATURED STORIES
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Currently, local prices at the pump are hovering between P70 and P80 per liter, depending on the grade. Since January, prices of gasoline and diesel have increased by P18.30 and P27.85, respectively.
Analysts usually release projections of fuel price movements on Friday or over the weekend to cover the entire weekly trading.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
