Romania becomes refuge for Ukrainians on Natos frontline
20220227
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1560572/romania-becomes-refuge-for-ukrainians-on-natos-frontline
Exploration has not yet started, but any findings would be a huge source of gas for the country.
Romania is however concerned that hydrocarbon companies it has contracted to look for natural gas deposits off its shores might be put off by Russian troops so close to Romanian territorial waters.
People coming from Ukraine descend from a ferry boat to enter Romania after crossing the Danube river at the Isaccea-Orlivka border crossing between Romania and Ukraine on February 26, 2022, as Ukrainians flee their country following Russias invasion of Ukraine. AFP
The United States has sent a squadron of Stryker armoured vehicles and some 1,000 troops in recent weeks to a Romanian base near the Black Sea, adding to the 900 personnel already stationed in the country.
Since the beginning of Russias invasion on Thursday, Romanian border guards have counted more than 25,000 Ukrainians crossing into the country.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg on Friday stressed the Kremlins objectives were not limited to Ukraine, as it has demanded the military alliance remove all forces and infrastructure from countries that have joined since 1997.
Nato insists the system serves a purely defensive purpose, but Moscow says it considers it a threat.
We will never be able to return to Ukraine, he said bitterly, after crossing the river with his wife and three children.
And over the past month, six Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft from Germans airforce have joined four similar planes Italy dispatched before the crisis.
We will have to get used to living with the Russians on our border, Defense Minister Vasile Dancu said on Friday, following the islands capture.
Given the regional security dynamic, there is a minimal possibility of the country becoming the target of a conventional offensive action by Russia, the Chief of Defense Staff General Daniel Petrescu said on Saturday.
The situation has been complicated by Russias seizure from Ukraine on Thursday of Snake Island, an uninhabited but strategic rocky outcrop in the Black Sea just 45 km 27 miles from Romanias coastline.
9 persons of interest tagged in Adamson frat death still at large, 3 with police
People coming from Ukraine crowd on a ferry boat to enter Romania as in background can be seen the Ukrainian border point Orlivka, as refugees cross the Danube river at the Isaccea-Orlivka border crossing point between Romania and Ukraine on February 26, 2022, following Russias invasion of Ukraine. AFP
Romania, a former member of the communist bloc now part of Nato and the European Union, fears it could find itself on the frontline against Russia if Moscow overruns neighboring Ukraine.FEATURED STORIES
He said his family had already been forced to flee their home in Ukraines eastern Donbas region due to the conflict there in 2014, finding refuge in the Ukrainian port city of Odesa.
Many Romanians had lost faith in both institutions in recent years, not least because of disinformation originating in Russia.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
But, over the past months of growing tensions in the region, Romania has repeatedly demanded reinforcements be sent to Natos eastern flank.
Among those, Russia wants to see an end to the presence of a Nato anti-missile system at the Deveselu military base in southern Romania.
Bucharest and Kyiv both claimed the island, before the International Court of Justice awarded it to Ukraine in 2009.
Not far off, 40-year-old lawyer Andrey said he feared he had been forced to flee his country for good.
ISACCEA, Romania  Stepping off a ferry onto Romanian soil, Olga was relieved to have whisked her three children across the Danube river to safety after Russia invaded her country Ukraine.
In the small riverside port of Isaccea, Olga said she intended to spend a few days in Romania, before making her way on to next-door Bulgaria.
But these are Nato borders. Romania will not be alone in handling this, it will have support if necessary.
My husband came with us as far as the border, before returning to Kyiv to fight, said the 36-year-old marketing employee, who did not give her surname.
The young Ukrainian was one of hundreds arriving at the border crossing in the town of Isaccea on the Romanian side of the river on Saturday.
Frances army chief of staff said on Friday that 500 soldiers would be dispatched to the eastern European country.
Since the aggression against Ukraine, Romanians trust in the EU and Nato has soared to more than 80 percent, he said.
Beyond the current tensions, sociologist Remus Ioan Stefureac says there is, however, at least one silver lining to the crisis for Romania.
Romania, which shares some 650 km 400 miles of border with Ukraine, feels for the moment that its Nato membership will protect it from any more serious military consequences.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
