Russia will not pause military operation in Ukraine for peace talks
20220411
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1581634/russia-will-not-pause-military-operation-in-ukraine-for-peace-talks
Lavrov said that President Vladimir Putin had ordered to suspend military action during the first round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian negotiators in late February but that Moscows position had changed since.FEATURED STORIES
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what it called a special operation to degrade its southern neighbors military capabilities and root out people it called dangerous nationalists.
FILE PHOTO: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov speaks during a joint news conference with Armenian Foreign Minister Ararat Mirzoyan in Moscow, Russia April 8, 2022. Alexander ZemlianichenkoPool via REUTERS
Lavrov last week accused Kyiv of presenting Moscow with an unacceptable draft peace deal that deviated from agreements the sides had previously reached. Kyiv dismissed Lavrovs comments at the time as a tactic to undermine Ukraine or divert attention from war crime accusations against Russian troops.
Speaking in an interview with Russian state television, Lavrov said he saw no reason not to continue talks with Ukraine but insisted Moscow would not halt its military operation when the sides convene again.
In the interview aired on Monday, Lavrov also said that calls by Josep Borrell, the European Unions top diplomat, for the bloc to continue arming Kyiv marked a very serious U-turn in European policy.
Russian officials said peace talks with Ukraine are not progressing as rapidly as they would like, and have accused the West of trying to derail negotiations by raising war crimes allegations against Russian troops in Ukraine, which Moscow denies.
Ukrainian forces have mounted stiff resistance and the West has imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia in an effort to force it to withdraw its forces.
After we became convinced that the Ukrainians were not planning to reciprocate, a decision was made that during the next rounds of talks, there would be no pause in military action so long as a final agreement is not reached, Lavrov said.
Russia will not pause its military operation in Ukraine for subsequent rounds of peace talks, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
