Russian troops executed photographer in Ukraine press group says
20220623
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1615217/russian-troops-executed-photographer-in-ukraine-press-group-says
Reuters could not independently verify the reports conclusions. Russias defence ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
RSF said it examined evidence at the scene which included bullets and Levins burnt-out car, as well as photos taken of Levin and Chernyshovs bodies when they were discovered on April 1.
Ukrainian photographer Maksim Levin holds a cat near the line of separation from Russian-backed separatists in Luhansk region, Ukraine January 6, 2022. Picture taken January 6, 2022. REUTERS
Ukrainian prosecutors say Levin was killed by two shots from small arms by members of Russias armed forces. Reuters was unable to independently verify this information.
Born in 1981, Levin was a documentary filmmaker and had occasionally contributed to Reuters coverage of the country since 2013. He went missing on March 13, the day RSF says he was executed.FEATURED STORIES
The evidence against the Russian forces is overwhelming, the press freedom group said in an introduction to the report on its website.
PARIS  Ukrainian photographer Maksim Levin was executed in cold blood alongside his friend Oleksiy Chernyshov by Russian forces north of Kyiv on March 13, Reporters Without Borders RSF said in a 16-page report on Wednesday.
John Pullman, Reuters global managing editor for visuals, said of Levin in April: His death is a huge loss to the world of journalism. Our thoughts are with his family at this difficult time.
The report said the position of Chernyshovs body and other evidence indicated he may have been burned alive and Levin was likely killed by one or two gunshots from close range. It said a photo of his corpse showed three visible bullet impacts.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
