RussiaUkraine tensions a long and troubled history
20220127
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1546103/russia-ukraine-tensions-a-long-and-troubled-history
The Holodomor, a famine which claimed the lives of millions of people in Ukraine in 1932-1933, is a major sticking point in Russian-Ukrainian ties.
Moscows critics in Ukraine say the regions demographic make-up was altered by the famine and the movement of hundreds of thousands of Russian workers there after World War II.
After Ukraine gained independence following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Ukrainian, which belongs to the same East Slavic language family, was made the official state language.
Following the annexation of Crimea by Moscow in 2014, Russian has become less popular, and a law in 2019 made Ukrainian the dominant language in some sectors including trade.
A majority of the population is bilingual but considers Ukrainian their mother tongue. Russian is dominant in the south and east, including the regions held by pro-Moscow separatists since 2014.
Crimea is also home to Crimean Tatars, a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority, who mostly opposed Russias annexation. Thousands of Crimean Tatars have fled the peninsula after coming under pressure from the Russian authorities.
In a 5,000-word essay entitled On the historical unity of Russians and Ukrainians, President Vladimir Putin argued that Russians and Ukrainians were one people - a single whole who originated from essentially the same historical and spiritual space.
KYIV  The threat of war between Russia and Ukraine has escalated, with Moscows army building up tanks, troops and artillery on the borders of the ex-Soviet nation.
Historians in Kyiv describe the events as a genocide orchestrated by then-Soviet leader Joseph Stalin to punish Ukrainians for opposing forced collectivization of agricultural land.
Under Putin, Russian authorities have sought to downplay Stalin-era repression. Moscow rejects Kyivs narrative, placing the events in the broader context of famines which devastated regions of Central Asia and Russia.
FILE PHOTO: A service member of the Ukrainian armed forces walks at combat positions near the line of separation from Russian-backed rebels near Horlivka in the Donetsk region, Ukraine, January 22, 2022. Picture taken January 22, 2022. Picture taken REUTERSAnna KudriavtsevaFile Photo
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Previously ruled by the Crimean Khanate, Crimea was annexed by the Russian Empire in the 18th century and played a key role during wars with the Ottoman Empire.
Since then, Moscow has repeatedly accused Kyiv of working to de-Russify Ukraine by promoting the Ukrainian language. Kyiv says its aim is to undo the Russification dating back to the Russian Empire and the Soviet era.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
The region is at the heart of a cultural battle between Kyiv and Moscow since it is populated mainly by Russian speakers who the Kremlin says must be protected from Ukrainian nationalists.
Moscow annexed the strategic Black Sea peninsula of Crimea after a popular uprising in Kyiv ousted a pro-Kremlin president in 2014.
Their shared history dates back a millennium to the Kievan Rus principality. That territory spanned over parts of what is now Russia, Ukraine and Belarus between the 9th and 13th centuries.
Most countries do not recognize Russias takeover of Crimea, and Kyiv hopes that eventually the peninsula will become part of Ukraine again.
Communist party leader Nikita Khrushchev gave the peninsula to Soviet Ukraine in 1954 in what was then a largely symbolic move.
In 2018, Moscow built a bridge across the Kerch Strait to connect the peninsula to Russia.
Fighting between government forces and Moscow-backed separatists erupted following the annexation of Crimea in 2014.
During his end-of-the-year news conference in December, Putin again raised eyebrows by saying Ukraine was created by Vladimir Lenin, the founder of the Soviet Union, in the 1920s, implying differences between the countries were artificial.
Separatist-controlled Donbass in eastern Ukraine is a mining and industrial hub that is economically vital for Ukraine.
