Russias UN envoy storms out of Ukraine meeting over European statement
20220607
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1607432/russias-un-envoy-storms-out-of-ukraine-meeting-over-european-statement
Russias Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine has fueled a global food crisis with prices for grains, cooking oils, fuel and fertilizer soaring. Russia and Ukraine account for nearly a third of global wheat supplies, while Russia is also a fertilizer exporter and Ukraine is an exporter of corn and sunflower oil.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is trying to broker what he calls a package deal to resume Ukrainian food exports and Russian food and fertilizer exports. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is due to visit Turkey on Wednesday to discuss unlocking grain exports from Ukraine.
Mr. Ambassador of the Russian Federation, lets be honest, the Kremlin is using food supplies as a stealth missile against developing countries, Michel said in the Security Council. Russia is solely responsible for this food crisis.
As he left the Security Council chamber during Michels statement, a visibly irritated Nebenzia told Reuters: I couldnt stay because of the lies that Charles Michel came here to distribute.FEATURED STORIES
UNITED NATIONS  Russias U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia stormed out of a U.N. Security Council meeting on Monday as European Council President Charles Michel addressed the 15-member body and accused Moscow of fueling a global food crisis with its invasion of Ukraine.
Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict Pramila Patten is seen on a video screen as she addresses a meeting of the United Nations Security Council about the Russian invasion of Ukraine at U.N. headquarters in New York City, New York, U.S., June 6, 2022. REUTERS
Speaking directly to Nebenzia as he walked out, Michel said: You may leave the room, maybe its easier not to listen to the truth.
During his own statement earlier in the meeting, Nebenzia had categorically refuted any accusations of sexual violence by Russian soldiers, condemning what he said was a lie.
Michel had also accused Russian troops of war crimes and crimes against humanity, specifically citing reports of sexual violence  the focus of the Security Council meeting  and describing it as a tactic of torture, terror and repression.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
