Russians flee Putin regime to join Ukraine refugees in Israel
20220417
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1583807/russians-flee-putin-regime-to-join-ukraine-refugees-in-israel
Once youre on the list of alleged foreign agents, you face a life of self-censorship or, sooner or later, prison, said Bogolyubov, who directed the German-financed 2019 documentary Town of Glory.
We were the next on the list, the couple told AFP in their borrowed flat in Rehovot, a quiet Israeli city 20 kilometres 12 miles south of Tel Aviv.
Over the past few years, we felt threatened. In the past few months in particular, people were spying on us and taking photographs on our film sets, Shishova-Bogolyubova said.
As its international isolation has deepened, Moscow has come to view all movies made with foreign financing with suspicion, including documentaries, and the couple said theirs was no exception.
Israels Law of Return gives the right of citizenship to anyone with at least one Jewish grandparent, a criterion that tens of thousands in both Russia and Ukraine meet.
Romanova, the linguist, found space in her 20 kilograms 44 pounds of luggage for just two books, one an academic work, the other a novel by famed Russian novelist Mikhail Bulgakov which always accompanies her on her travels.
The war in Ukraine is incompatible with my way of thinking and my moral values. It makes me sick, she said, fighting back the tears.
She applied for an Israeli passport after Putins annexation of the Crimean Peninsula in 2014.
Most of those are young graduates, from the urban middle class, the official said, asking not to be identified.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The couple decided to continue working in Russia but, taking advantage of their Jewish ancestry, they obtained Israeli citizenship just in case.
The wave of immigration from Ukraine and Russia over the past seven weeks is the largest Israel has seen since the early 1990s when the collapse of the Soviet Union prompted hundreds of thousands to seek a new life on the shores of the Mediterranean.
When the invasion started on the morning of February 24, it was proof that I needed to leave as quickly as possible.
But we dont know if we will stay  that depends on our work. Right now, we just want to live for the moment and recover from our emotions. Afterwards, we will see.
Sergey, a violinist who asked to be referred to by a pseudonym for fear of retribution, left Moscow for Israel with his pianist wife and three young children but expects to move on.
Even for those who qualify for citizenship, Israel can be a terra incognita for new arrivals and nostalgia for Russia is never far below the surface.
REHOVOT,IsraelThe moment Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine, Russian filmmakers Anna Shishova-Bogolyubova and Dmitry Bogolyubov knew they had to leave Moscow.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Like the Bogolyubovs, Moscow-born linguist Olga Romanova had prepared for the day when she no longer felt safe in Russia.
I lost my country. It was stolen from me. It was taken by Putin and those KGB thugs, she said wistfully.
Since Russian troops invaded on February 24, nearly 24,000 Ukrainians have fled to Israel, some but not all taking advantage of the law, according to immigration ministry figures.
I always thought that one day I would join my children in Israel, but it was then that I realised that things were going wrong in Russia, the 69-year told AFP in her sons house outside Jerusalem surrounded by photographs of her grandchildren.
A man walks near a banner depicting a Ukrainian flag with the words Ukraine Cant Breathe displayed on the facade of the Friends of Zion Museum in the centre of Jerusalem on April 5, 2022. AFp
The film portrays President Vladimir Putins use of references related to the fight against Nazi Germany to establish his authority in Russian villages.FEATURED STORIES
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
