Russian forces disperse Ukraine protestors with gunfire
20220322
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1572052/russian-forces-disperse-ukraine-protestors-with-gunfire
However video footage also showed a group of people treating a stunned and bleeding elderly man, before carrying him away.
Kherson, a city of almost 300,000 people before the war, was the first major Ukrainian city to fall to Russian forces, with Moscow capturing it within the first week of its invasion.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
A series of videos posted on social media and the messaging app Telegram showed citizens gathering in Khersons Freedom Square protesting against Russias recent seizure of the city.
Sobolevsky vowed the demonstrations would continue. Despite everything, the protesters did not disperse! And tomorrow they are going to gather again! he said.
In Kherson, Russian war criminals opened fire at unarmed people who peacefully protested against invaders, Kuleba said.
People in Kherson have held regular demonstrations against Russian control of the city, a direct challenge to Russias claim to have liberated the city.
KYIV  Ukraines leaders on Tuesday accused Russian forces of firing on unarmed protesters in the occupied southern city of Kherson, with videos appearing to show residents fleeing flash-bang grenades and sustained gunfire.
Russian soldiers can be seen firing multiple volleys of gunfire into the air, with no immediate evidence their rifles were trained directly at civilians.
Local official Yuriy Sobolevsky said the elderly mans leg was badly injured and he lost a lot of blood.
This is the ugly face of Russia, a disgrace to humankind. We must stop Russia! Sanction them, isolate them, hold war criminals to account, he said.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Occupiers shot at people who went out peacefully, without weapons, to protest. For freedom  our freedom, President Volodymyr Zelensky said, leading the condemnation.
FILES In this file photo taken on March 20, 2022 in this handout picture released by the Ukrainian Presidency Press Office, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky delivers a video address in Kyiv.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on March 20, 2022 renewed his plea for talks with his Russian counterpart, taking to US television to say negotiations were the only way to end this war. AFP
But he added that medics were treating the wounded and their lives are not in danger.
Dozens of men and women wrapped in Ukraines blue-and-yellow flag are heard chanting Go home and Glory to Ukraine before stun grenades force them to flee in panic.FEATURED STORIES
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
