Russian soldiers start clearing mines from Ukraines Azovstal
20220523
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1601444/russian-soldiers-start-clearing-mines-from-ukraines-azovstal
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The end of fighting in Mariupol, the biggest city Russia has captured since its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, gave Russian President Vladimir Putin a rare victory after a series of setbacks in nearly three months of combat.
Russian service members work on demining the territory of Azovstal steel plant during Ukraine-Russia conflict in the southern port city of Mariupol, Ukraine May 22, 2022. REUTERSAlexander Ermochenko
The fighters who barricaded themselves into the tunnels have given themselves up to Russian and pro-Russian forces.
Sundays operation at Azovstal saw mines detonated in controlled explosions and debris cleared from the steelworks roads using military bulldozers.
Russia on Friday said the last Ukrainian fighters defending Azovstal had surrendered. Ukraine has not confirmed that development, but a commander of one of the units in the factory said in a video that the troops had been ordered to stand down.FEATURED STORIES
Over the last two days, over a 100 explosives have been destroyed. The work continues, Babai said.
Soldiers walked through the compound and swung mine detectors over roads littered with debris, while others checked under objects for the explosive devices, video footage showed.
Full control of Mariupol gives Russia command of a land route linking the Crimean Peninsula, which Moscow seized in 2014, with mainland Russia and parts of eastern Ukraine held by pro-Russia separatists.
MARIUPOL, Ukraine  Russian soldiers cleared mines and debris on the industrial grounds of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol on Sunday after hundreds of Ukrainian forces holed up in the vast plant for weeks were ordered to stand down.
Moscow calls its actions a special military operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless and that the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
The task is huge, the enemy planted their own landmines, we had also planted anti-personnel mines while blocking the enemy. So weve got some two weeks of work ahead of us, said a Russian soldier who only gave his nom de guerre Babai.
Drone footage showed the steelworks buildings left in ruins, many charred, many partially collapsed and some just a pile of debris.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
