Russia establishes diplomatic ties with Ukraines separatist regions
20220223
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1558639/russia-establishes-diplomatic-ties-with-ukraines-separatist-regions
MOSCOW  Russia on Tuesday said it had established diplomatic relations with Ukraines separatist-controlled regions recognized by President Vladimir Putin as independent this week.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The unanimous approval by Russias upper house, the Federation Council, allows Putin to deploy peacekeepers to the two breakaway Ukrainian regions now recognized by Moscow as independent, and potentially into other parts of Ukraine.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has sent congratulations to his counterparts in the Donetsk Peoples Republic and the Lugansk Peoples Republic, the ministry said in a statement.
Ukrainian servicemen patrol in the settlement of Troitske in the Lugansk region near the front line with Russia-backed separatists on February 22, 2022, a day after Russia recognised east Ukraines separatist republics and ordered the Russian army to send troops there as peacekeepers. AFP
An agreement was drawn up on the establishment from that date February 22 of diplomatic relations between the Russian Federation and the Donetsk Peoples Republic, as well as the Russian Federation and Lugansk Peoples Republic at the level of embassies, the foreign ministry in Moscow said.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
The Russian side is aiming for the comprehensive development of cooperation with the DPR and LPR, including through the foreign ministries in the interests of the citizens of our countries, strengthening peace, regional stability and security, the statement added.FEATURED STORIES
Earlier Tuesday Russian lawmakers gave Putin the green light to deploy forces abroad, paving the way for the Russian leader to send troops into Ukraine despite a fierce global backlash.
