Russia returns bodies of 210 Ukrainian fighters to Kyivmilitary
20220608
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1607987/russia-returns-bodies-of-210-ukrainian-fighters-to-kyiv-military
Russia casts the Azov Regiment, which led the defence of the steel works at Mariupol, as a Nazi militia with radical far-right origins.
KYIV  Russia has handed over to Kyiv the bodies of 210 Ukrainian fighters, most of whom who died defending the city of Mariupol from Russian forces at a vast steel works, the Ukrainian military said on Tuesday.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
There has been little information about the fate of the estimated 2,000 Azovstal defenders. Kyiv is seeking the handover of all in a prisoner swap, but some Russian lawmakers want some of the soldiers put on trial.FEATURED STORIES
Russian service members work on demining the territory of Azovstal steel plant during Ukraine-Russia conflict in the southern port city of Mariupol, Ukraine May 22, 2022. REUTERS FILE PHOTO
Its important to note that a third of the bodies handed over were Azov fighters, the affiliation of the other fighters to different units is being clarified, the families said in a statement on Monday.
Ukrainians were holed up in the Azovstal steelworks for weeks as Russia tried to capture the city. The Ukrainian soldiers eventually surrendered last month and were taken into custody by Russia.
Ukraine denies that, saying the unit has been reformed and integrated into its armed forces and is outside politics.
The families of Ukraines Azov unit of the national guard had earlier reported the return of some bodies.
The process of returning the bodies of the fallen defenders of Mariupol is under way. To date, 210 of our troops have been returned  most of them are heroic defenders of Azovstal, Ukraines defence intelligence directorate said on Twitter.
Last week an exchange of 160 bodies between Russia and Ukraine was announced by Ukraines Ministry of Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
