Russias war on Ukraine Day 6 situation on the ground
20220302
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1562122/russias-war-on-ukraine-day-6-situation-on-the-ground
One million people are displaced within Ukraine, and more than 677,000 have fled abroad, UN says.
Russian troops and pro-Moscow rebels link up in a key region in eastern Ukraine, Moscow says.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Members of the Ukrainian community take part in a protest outside of the Russian embassy in Buenos Aires, on March 1, 2022. Photo by JUAN MABROMATA  AFP
Ukraine says Russian strike targets Kyiv main TV tower and knocks out some state broadcasts.
Ukraine says has taken out hundreds of Russian pieces of weaponry, including 29 aircraft, 29 helicopters and 198 tanks.
Ukraine says Russia firing rockets into residential areas after failing to take Kharkiv and Chernihiv.
Russia says fired long-range high-precision weapons from the sea, hitting two unspecified airfields and three air defense radars.
Eight more die in a subsequent air strike on a Kharkiv residential building, Ukraine says.
PARIS  On the sixth day of fighting in Ukraine Tuesday, Russia is striking cities and building up its forces near the capital Kyiv, vowing not to stop until set goals are achieved.
A Russian missile attack on a government building in Kharkiv kills 10 or more and wounds 20, Ukraine says.
Satellite images show 65-kilometer 40-mile column of Russian trucks, armoured vehicles and artillery north of Kyiv.FEATURED STORIES
Russian forces made little progress in past 24 hours and dont control Ukraines airspace, British intelligence says.
Here is a summary of the situation on the ground, based on statements from the warring sides, Western defense and intelligence sources and international organizations.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
