Russia says it shot down three Ukraine fighter jets one near Snake Island
20220516
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1598445/russia-says-it-shot-down-three-ukraine-fighter-jets-one-near-snake-island
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russian forces have been driven out of the area around the city of Kharkiv in the northeast in the past two weeks, their most rapid losses since being expelled from areas around Kyiv and the north of Ukraine at the start of April.FEATURED STORIES
Nearly three months since Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24, Russian and Russian-backed forces are still in control of an area of Ukraine about the size of Greece along the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea, and in Ukraines east bordering Russia.
Russia on Monday said its forces had shot down three Ukrainian fighter jets, one near Snake Island in the Black Sea and the others in the Mykolaiv and Kharkiv regions, while its missiles continued to pound targets in the east of the country.
Satellite view shows smoke rising over Snake Island, Ukraine amid Russias attack on the country, May 8, 2022 in this handout image. REUTERS FILE PHOTO
High-precision Russian missiles hit two command posts in Ukraines Kharkiv region, the ministry said, and also struck other targets including weapons depots and places where Ukrainian troops and equipment were concentrated.
Russia said that since the start of the military operation, its forces had destroyed 168 aircraft, 125 helicopters, 889 unmanned aerial vehicles, 307 anti-aircraft missile systems, and 3,108 tanks and other armoured combat vehicles.
The ministry said it made similar strikes in the pro-Russian self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, also taking out drones.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Russias defense ministry said its forces shot down Su-25 aircraft near the settlements of Yevhenivka in the Mykolaiv region and Velyka Komyshuvakha in Kharkiv, and a Su-24 near Snake Island, which achieved worldwide fame in the conflicts first hours when Ukrainian border guards stationed there rejected a Russian warships demand for their surrender.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
