Russia putting world in danger of famine warns EU
20220618
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1612611/russia-putting-world-in-danger-of-famine-warns-eu
We are fully aware that there is a battle of narratives around this issue of sanctions, Borrell continued.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russia turned the Black Sea into a war zone, blocking shipments of grain and fertilizer from Ukraine but also affecting Russian merchant shipping. Russia is also applying quotas and taxes on its grain exports, he added.
Weare ready to work with the UN and our partners to prevent any unwanted impact on global food security, Borrell said in an article published on his official blog.
The sanctions imposed by the EU do not prohibit Russia to export any agricultural goods, payment for such Russian exports or the provision of seeds, provided that sanctioned individuals or entities are not involved.
He added that it was imperative that Ukrainian exports be allowed to resume by ship.
BRUSSELS, Belgium  Russia is putting the world at risk of famine through its blockade of Ukraines shipments of grains and restrictions on its own exports, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Saturday.
The threat to food security and a battle of narrative with Russia on Western-imposed sanctions on Moscow over Ukraine will dominate European Union foreign ministers talks in Luxembourg on Monday.
Fighters of the territorial defence unit, a support force to the regular Ukrainian army, take part in an exercise for the regular combat tactics classes, not far from the Ukrainian town of Bucha, Kyiv region on June 17, 2022. Photo by Sergei SUPINSKY  AFP
Russias conscious political choice is to weaponize' grain exports and use them as a tool for blackmail against anyone that opposes its aggression in Ukraine, Borrell said.FEATURED STORIES
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
We hope that a solution can be found in the coming days. Not doing this threatens to cause a global food catastrophe, he warned.
We are working closely with the UN on this issue and the EU and its member states are ready to do their part of the necessary actions to achieve this.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
