Russian forces capture Ukrainian city amid missile strikes  news agency
20220226
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1560283/russian-forces-capture-ukrainian-city-amid-missile-strikes-news-agency
Earlier, Ukrainian officials said Russian forces fired cruise missiles from the Black Sea at Mariupol, also in the southeast, as well as Sumy in the northeast and Poltava in the east.
Ukraines air force command earlier said one of its fighters had shot down a Russian transport plane. Reuters could not independently verify the claim.
Ukrainian officials were not immediately available for comment on the fate of Melitopol, a city of about 150,000 people. If the Interfax report citing the Russian defence ministry is confirmed, it would be the first significant population centre the Russians have seized since their invasion began on Thursday.
Ukraine was and remains ready to talk about a ceasefire and peace, Zelenskiy spokesman Sergii Nykyforov said in a Facebook post. We agreed to the proposal of the President of the Russian Federation.
It said Russian troops had hit hundreds of military infrastructure targets and destroyed several aircraft and dozens of tanks and armoured and artillery vehicles.
At the United Nations, Russia vetoed a draft Security Council resolution deploring its invasion, while China abstained, which Western countries took as proof of Russias isolation. The United Arab Emirates and India also abstained while the remaining 11 members voted in favour.
A spokesman for Zelenskiy said Ukraine and Russia would consult in coming hours on a time and place for talks.
After weeks of warnings from Western leaders, Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded from the north, east and south, an attack that threatens to upend Europes post-Cold War order.
Russias defence ministry said their forces used air- and ship-based cruise missiles to carry out overnight strikes on military targets in Ukraine, Interfax said.
A firefighter works inside an apartment building damaged by recent shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine February 26, 2022. REUTERSGleb Garanich
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, speaking in a video message from outside his Kyiv office, was defiant.
Kyiv authorities said a missile hit a residential building, and a Reuters witness said another hit an area near the airport. There was no immediate word on casualties. Gunfire erupted near city-centre government buildings at around dawn, a Reuters witness said. The cause was not clear.FEATURED STORIES
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Ukrainian authorities have urged citizens to help defend Kyiv from the advancing Russians. Some families took cover in shelters and hundreds of thousands have left their homes to find safety, according to a U.N. aid official.
Ukrainians voted overwhelmingly for independence at the fall of the Soviet Union and Kyiv hopes to join NATO and the EU  aspirations that infuriate Moscow.
Ukraine said more than 1,000 Russian soldiers had been killed. Russia did not release casualty figures. Zelenskiy said late on Thursday that 137 soldiers and civilians been killed with hundreds wounded.
Putin said he had to eliminate what he called a serious threat to his country from its smaller neighbour and he cited the need to denazify Ukraines leadership, accusing it of genocide against Russian-speakers in eastern Ukraine.
The White House asked Congress for $6.4 billion in security and humanitarian aid for the crisis, officials said, and Biden instructed the U.S. State Department to release $350 million in military aid.
But U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said Russias offer was an attempt to conduct diplomacy at the barrel of a gun and Putins military must stop bombing Ukraine if it was serious about negotiations.
There are cases of sabotage and reconnaissance groups working in the city, police and self-defence forces are working efficiently against them, Podolyak said.
But even as the fighting grew more intense, the Russian and Ukrainian governments signalled an openness to negotiations, offering the first glimmer of hope for diplomacy since Putin launched the invasion.
The United States imposed sanctions on Putin, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Chief of General Staff Valery Gerasimov. The European Union and Britain earlier froze any assets Putin and Lavrov held in their territory. Canada took similar steps.
In a televised meeting with Russias Security Council on Friday, Putin appealed to Ukraines military to overthrow their neo-Nazi leaders.
The invasion triggered a flurry of credit rating moves on Friday, with SP lowering Russias rating to junk status, Moodys putting it on review for a downgrade to junk, and SP and Fitch cutting Ukraine on default worries.
Mykhailo Podolyak, adviser to the presidents office, said the situation in Kyiv and its outskirts was under control.
Putin says Ukraine, a democratic nation of 44 million people, is an illegitimate state carved out of Russia, a view Ukrainians see as aimed at erasing their more than thousand-year history.
The Kremlin said earlier it offered to meet in the Belarusian capital Minsk after Ukraine expressed a willingness to discuss declaring itself a neutral country, while Ukraine had proposed Warsaw as the venue. That, according to Russian spokesman Dmitry Peskov, resulted in a pause in contacts.
KYIV  Russian forces captured the southeastern Ukrainian city of Melitopol on Saturday, Russias Interfax news agency reported, as Moscow launched coordinated cruise missile and artillery strikes on several cities, including the capital Kyiv.
Western countries have announced a barrage of sanctions on Russia, including blacklisting its banks and banning technology exports. But they have stopped short of forcing it out of the SWIFT system for international bank payments.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
