Russian army says munitions explode at Crimea depot
20220816
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1647694/russian-army-says-munitions-explode-at-crimea-depot
Images posted on social media showed huge fireballs erupting at the site and clouds of black smoke billowing into the air.FEATURED STORIES
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 in the wake of massive nationwide street demonstrations in Ukraine that led to the ouster of a Kremlin-friendly president.
It indicated that the airfield was not targeted by Ukrainian forces but experts said satellite imagery pointed to a likely attack, with several Russian warplanes destroyed.
Ukraine has not claimed responsibility for any attacks in Crimea but officials have made several comments suggesting its forces could be involved.
Those protests precipitated fighting between the army and Moscow-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine, which laid the groundwork for Moscows full-scale assault on February 24 this year.
Local officials told Russian news agencies that some 2,000 people were evacuated from the area as a precaution.
The defense ministry said in a statement that a fire erupted around 6:15 am local time 0315 GMT at a temporary military storage site near the village of Mayskoye in the Dzhankoi district, causing ammunition to detonate.
The ministry said no one had been seriously injured and that work was underway to determine the cause of the fire.
On Tuesday, top Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak said the latest blasts in Dzhankoi were a reminder that Crimea occupied by Russians is about warehouses explosions and high risk of death for invaders and thieves.
On August 9, Moscow said ammunition had detonated at a military airfield in Crimea, killing one person and wounding several more.
MOSCOW  Russia said Tuesday that a fire had set off explosions at a munitions depot in Crimea, a week after a series of similar blasts at an airbase in the peninsula annexed from Ukraine.
Crimeas Moscow-appointed governor Sergei Aksyonov, who went to the site, said two civilians had been injured but that their lives were not at risk.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
