Russia tells its academics to avoid international conferences this year
20220322
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1571871/russia-tells-its-academics-to-avoid-international-conferences-this-year
Russia in recent years has tried to reduce its dependency on Western technology for its economic and industrial needs. But meagre resources and bureaucratic red tape have often hampered scientific development in the country.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Russia sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what it called a special operation to degrade its southern neighbours military capabilities and root out people it called dangerous nationalists.FEATURED STORIES
Ukrainian forces have mounted stiff resistance, and the West has imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia in an effort to force it to withdraw its troops.
Russian scientists who regularly exchange information with their foreign counterparts face scrutiny from the authorities. Several have been charged with treason after being accused of allegedly handing sensitive material to foreigners.
A Russian serviceman guards at Red Square in front of the Kremlin in central Moscow on March 2, 2022. AFP FILE PHOTO
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
We are not calling for abandoning publications in Web of Science and Scopus academic resources, Minister Valery Falkov said in a statement. Russia must remain on the frontier of global science. But we need to act in accordance with our national interests.
The ministry said it had also decided to suspend the indexation of work by Russian scholars in international databases until the end of the year.
Russia has told its academics to avoid scientific conferences abroad this year, the science and higher education ministry said on Monday, as Moscow finds itself increasingly isolated over its military campaign in Ukraine.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
