Russia accuses Kyiv of poisoning some of its soldiers in Ukraine
20220821
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1650381/russia-accuses-kyiv-of-poisoning-some-of-its-soldiers-in-ukraine
The department Russian defense ministry does not clarify whether the poisoning could have been caused by expired canned meat, in which botulinum toxin is often found. Overdue rations have been massively complained about by the occupying forces since the first days of the invasion of Ukraine, he said.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Ukraines defense ministry did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment, but interior ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko commented on the Russian allegation on the Telegram messaging app.
Russia says its special military operation launched on Feb. 24 is aimed at demilitarizing Ukraine and protecting Russian speakers on what President Vladimir Putin called historical Russian land.
Botulinum toxin type B is a neurotoxin that can cause botulism when ingested in previously contaminated food products, but it can also have medical uses.
Ukraine and Western countries view it as an unprovoked war of conquest aimed at wiping out Ukraines national identity.
The Russian defense ministry said it was conducting an additional investigation into an incident in which Volodymyr Saldo, the Russian-installed administration in Ukraines occupied Kherson region, was taken ill.
The Russian defense ministry said a number of Russian servicemen had been taken to a military hospital with signs of serious poisoning on July 31. Tests showed a toxic substance, botulinum toxin type B, in their bodies, it said.
An adviser to Ukraines interior ministry said in response that the alleged poisoning could have been caused by Russian forces eating expired canned meat.
It did not say how many servicemen had suffered or what their condition was now. It did not say what the supporting evidence was.
Saldo, a former mayor of the city of Kherson who was appointed to head the region of the same name when Russian troops overran it in early March, fell ill in early August.
Russias defense ministry accused Ukraine on Saturday of poisoning some of its servicemen in the Russian-controlled part of Ukraines southeastern region of Zaporizhzhia in late July.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
A tank of Russian troops drives in Russian-held part of Zaporizhzhia region, Ukraine, July 23, 2022. REUTERS FILE PHOTO
On the fact of chemical terrorism sanctioned by the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky regime, Russia is preparing supporting evidence with the results of all the analyses, the ministry said in a statement.FEATURED STORIES
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
