Russias invasion of Ukraine at bit of a stalemate  US intel official
20220410
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1595899/russias-invasion-of-ukraine-at-bit-of-a-stalemate-us-intel-official
Haines said earlier that the intelligence community believes Putin would authorize the use of nuclear weapons only if he perceived an existential threat to the Russian state.
He added that so far, between eight and 10 Russian generals have been killed in the deadly war.
We assess President Putin is preparing for a prolonged conflict in Ukraine during which he still intends to achieve goals beyond the Donbas, Haines told lawmakers.
Russias war has killed thousands of civilians, sent millions of Ukrainians fleeing, and reduced cities to rubble. Moscow has little to show for it beyond a strip of territory in the south and marginal gains in the east.
President Vladimir Putin exhorted Russians to battle in a defiant Victory Day speech on Monday but was silent about plans for any escalation in Ukraine despite Western warnings that he might use his Red Square address to order a mobilization.
Combined with the reality that Putin faces a mismatch between his ambitions and Russias current conventional military capabilities  the next few months could see us moving along a more unpredictable and potentially escalatory trajectory, Haines said.
Russia, which calls the invasion a special military operation, poured more troops into Ukraine for a huge offensive last month in the eastern part of the country but its gains have been slow.
A site of a shopping center destroyed by shelling is pictured amid Russias invasion of Ukraine, in Odesa, Ukraine, on May 10, 2022. REUTERSIgor Tkachenko
Biden says he is worried Putin does not have a way out of Ukraine war
She added that Putin was counting on the Western resolve to weaken over time and as the conflict continued, there was concern about how it would develop in the coming months.
The Russians arent winning and the Ukrainians arent winning and were at a bit of a stalemate here, Lieutenant General Scott Berrier, the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said before the Senate Armed Services Committee.FEATURED STORIES
WASHINGTON  Russias three-month-long war in Ukraine is at a bit of a stalemate and Russian President Vladimir Putin appears to be preparing for a long conflict, top US intelligence officials said on Tuesday.
Asked about the prospect of Putin using tactical nuclear weapons, Berrier said: Right now, we do not see that.
US President Joe Biden on Monday said he is worried that Putin does not have a way out of the Ukraine war, and Biden said he was trying to figure out what to do about that.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Western concern at the risk of nuclear war increased after Putin launched Russias invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24 with a speech in which he pointedly referred to Moscows nuclear forces and warned that any attempt to get in Russias way will lead you to such consequences that you have never encountered in your history.
Russia said last month that it plans to deploy its newly tested Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missiles, capable of mounting nuclear strikes against the United States, by autumn.
During the same hearing, Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines said that a Russian victory in the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine might not end the war.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
