Russias war in Ukraine Latest developments
20220310
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1566231/russias-war-in-ukraine-latest-developments-3
US lawmakers are voting on a $14-billion aid package for Ukraine with Canada pledging more military equipment.
Fears are mounting the capital will be encircled, with AFP seeing Russian troops pressing closer as an orchestra played Europes anthem Ode to Joy in Kyivs central square to boost morale.
Power is entirely cut to the Chernobyl power plant, site of the worlds worst nuclear disaster in 1986.FEATURED STORIES
Oil prices tumble while US and European stocks surge after days of market turmoil over Russias invasion of Ukraine.
Moscow accuses Washington of declaring economic war after the United States bans Russian oil imports, with Britain saying it will do the same by the end of this year, and the European Union slashing gas imports by two-thirds.
A Russian air strike severely damages a childrens hospital in the besieged southern port of Mariupol, injuring 17, according to preliminary figures.
The UN says 143,000 fled Ukraine in the last 24 hours, with the total number of refugees topping 2.15 million  and more than half of those in Poland.
The EU adds 14 more Kremlin-linked Russian oligarchs and more than 146 senators to its sanctions blacklist, tightens controls on cryptocurrency transfers and targets Russias maritime sector over the war in Ukraine.
Spectators hold the Ukrainian flags as Musicians of the Kyiv-Classic Symphony Orchestra under the direction of conductor, UNESCO Peace Artist Herman Makarenko perform at Independence Square in Kyiv, on March 9, 2022 to call NATO to close the skies over Ukraine. AFP
Moscow and Kyiv agree a 12-hour ceasefire to allow civilians to flee five badly battered areas including around the capital, with 5,000 making it out of Sumy near the Russian border.
The United States has deployed two new Patriot surface-to-air missile batteries in Poland, in keeping with commitments to defend its NATO allies, a senior Pentagon official says.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
The UN nuclear watchdog IAEA, warns the plant, now in Russian hands, is no longer transmitting data but says it sees no critical impact on safety.
At least 10 people are killed after Russian military opened fire on homes and other buildings in the eastern Ukrainian town of Severodonetsk, a local official says.
The Russian army admits for the first time that conscripts are taking part in Moscows military advance in Ukraine, after Putin vowed only professional soldiers were there.
Others hope to escape what the Red Cross calls the apocalyptic situation in Mariupol, which has been without water and power for nine days.
Fearing a wider conflict, the Pentagon rejects a Polish offer to deliver its Russian-made MiG-29 fighter jets to a US base in Germany, to be eventually handed over to Ukraine.
Russian and Ukrainian foreign ministers will hold face-to-face talks in southern Turkey on Thursday in the first high-level contact since the invasion.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
