Russian tourists to Finland greeted with Ukrainian anthem
20220814
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1646361/russian-tourists-to-finland-greeted-with-ukrainian-anthem
But since the end of July, the city of Imatra has started the show by playing the Ukrainian national anthem, to protest the Russian invasion.FEATURED STORIES
In Saint Petersburg, many people have grandpapas and grandmamas from Finland, like my wife, Kosykh says and adds that he visits Finland every year.
It is a popular attraction especially for Russian tourists. Even Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia, visited Imatrankoski in 1772.
Tourists gather on the bridge over the Vuoksi river near The Imatra Rapids in Imatra, Finland, on August 12, 2022. AFP
After Russia lifted Covid travel restrictions on July 15, the number of Russian tourists heading to Finland has steadily increased.
Spurred by the rising discontent, Finlands Foreign Minister presented a plan last week to limit tourist visas issued to Russians.
Many Russians visit Lappeenranta to shop for clothes and cosmetics, for example, and Russian number plates can be seen on numerous cars.
But tourism from its eastern neighbour has caused discontent in Finland due to the war in Ukraine.
At the same time every day, the rivers almost century-old dam is opened and water rushes under the bridge, to the sound of music by Finnish composer Jean Sibelius.
The aim is to express strong support for Ukraine and to condemn the war of aggression, Lappeenrantas Mayor Kimmo Jarva told AFP.
LAPPEENRANTA, Finland  A crowd of people gathers in the Eastern Finnish city of Imatra on a bridge overlooking Imatrankoski rapids, one of the Nordic countrys most well-known natural attractions.
Haavisto said he believed the final decision to adopt the plan could be taken by the end of the month.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
A poll published last week by Finnish public broadcaster Yle showed 58 percent of Finns in favour of restricting Russian tourist visas.
Although the Schengen regime and Finnish law do not allow for an outright ban on visas based on nationality, Finland can reduce visa numbers issued based on category, Haavisto noted.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
As flights from Russia to the EU have been halted, Finland has become a transit country for many Russians seeking to travel further into Europe.
Of course, if Russian tourists do not come here, there will be a loss of income for businesses, which is unfortunate, Jarva says.
Many saw this as a circumvention of the sanctions regime, Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto told AFP.
The Nordic country remains Russias only EU neighbour without restrictions on tourist visas to Russian citizens.
Also in the nearby city of Lappeenranta, the Ukrainian national anthem is played every evening above its city hall, overlooking shopping centres popular with Russian tourists.
Tourism category can be restricted in the terms of how many visas can be applied for in a day, Haavisto said.
Although many Finns are unhappy with Russian visitors now, traditionally people on both sides of the border region have lived in close contact with each other.
Although he has nothing against individual tourists, Ahtiainen says his relationship with Russians has changed.
Finland, which shares 1,300-kilometer 800-mile eastern border with Russia, is also preparing to limit tourist visas issued for Russians.
This is bad for the Russians who love Finland, says Mark Kosykh, a 44-year-old Russian tourist who has come to see the rapids with his family.
While the numbers are still well below pre-Covid levels, there were more than 230,000 border crossings in July  up on the 125,000 seen in June.
In my opinion, they should be restricted very strongly. I dont see any other way to make Russian politicians think, Lappeenranta local Antero Ahtiainen, 57, says.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
