Scholz and Zelenskiy discuss more sanctions on Russia
20220410
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1581201/scholz-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-sanctions-on-russia
Moscow has rejected allegations by Ukraine and Western nations of war crimes. It denies targeting civilians during what the Kremlin calls a special military operation to demilitarise and denazify its neighbor.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Zelensky has called for an embargo on imported gas and oil from Russia, but Germany so far resisted pressure to do so.
A statement from Scholzs office on the chancellors call with Zelenskiy did not mention a discussion of sanctions, saying Zelenskiy had informed Scholz of the current situation and negotiations between Ukraine and Russia.
Scholz said on Friday that Germany could end Russian oil imports this year but stopping gas imports would be tougher because the country would need to build infrastructure to import gas from alternative sources.
Separately, Zelenskiys office said in a statement the president had held a conference call with Ukrainian officials during which Kyivs proposals for a sixth package of European Union sanctions had been developed.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted on Sunday that he had discussed possible additional sanctions on Russia in a call with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz speaks during a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson in the Downing Street briefing room, following a bilateral meeting at Downing Street, in London, Britain, April 8, 2022. Ben StansallPool via REUTERS
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky attends a news conference, as Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, in Kyiv, Ukraine, April 8, 2022. REUTERSJanis Laizans
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Saturday that Russian forces appeared to have committed war crimes by targeting civilians in Ukraine, but that the matter needed to be investigated by lawyers.
Russian oil accounts for 25 of German imports, down from 35 before the Feb. 24 invasion. Gas imports to Germany from Russia have been cut to 40 from 55, and hard coal imports to 25 from 50.FEATURED STORIES
Scholzs office said the chancellor condemned what he said were war crimes by Russias military in Bucha and other parts of Ukraine on the call and that the German government would ensure perpetrators were identified and brought before national and international courts.
