Singapore sanctions Russia over unprovoked attack on Ukraine
20220305
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1563899/singapore-sanctions-russia-over-unprovoked-attack-on-ukraine
A statement on Thursday by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN, of which Singapore is a member, called for a ceasefire in the Ukraine crisis, but made no mention of Russias involvement.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
A view shows a building, which city officials and locals said was damaged by recent shelling, as Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, in Kharkiv, Ukraine March 4, 2022. REUTERSOleksandr Lapshyn
We cannot accept the Russian governments violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of another sovereign state, its foreign ministry said in a statement, which gave no timeframe for when the sanctions would take effect.FEATURED STORIES
SINGAPORE  Singapore announced sanctions against Russia on Saturday that include four banks and an export ban on electronics, computers and military items, in a rare move by the Asian financial hub in response to what it said was Moscows dangerous precedent in Ukraine.
The restrictions bar Singapores financial institutions from entering into transactions with VTB Bank Public Joint Stock Company, The Corporation Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs Vnesheconombank, Promsvyazbank Public Joint Stock Company and Bank Rossiya. The measures also cover cryptocurrencies.
Asked by Reuters about its exposure to Russia, Singapores sovereign wealth fund GIC reiterated the new measures, which it said would also apply to the governments funds managed by GIC.
For a small state like Singapore, this is not a theoretical principle, but a dangerous precedent. This is why Singapore has strongly condemned Russias unprovoked attack.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
GIC continues to assess the Russian-Ukrainian situation and will ensure compliance, it said in an emailed response.
Singapores stand against Russias invasion is the strongest so far by a Southeast Asia country.
Financial institutions are also barred from entering into transactions and providing services that facilitate fundraising for Russias government, central bank or entities under their control.
The tiny city-state, an international shipping hub, rarely imposes sanctions of its own but said it would not allow export of items that could inflict harm on or subjugate Ukrainians, or help Russia launch cyber attacks.
