Stop playing with Russia end war Zelensky tells West
20220527
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1603303/stop-playing-with-russia-end-war-zelensky-tells-west
Three months into its invasion of Ukraine, Russia has abandoned its assault on the capital Kyiv and is trying to consolidate control of the industrial eastern Donbas region, where it has backed a separatist revolt since 2014.
Reuters journalists in Russian-held territory further south saw proof of Moscows advance in Svitlodarsk, where Ukrainian forces withdrew earlier this week.
Zelensky complained about disagreements within the EU on more sanctions against Russia and asked why some nations were being allowed to block the plan.
Luhansk governor Serhiy Gaidai said around 50 Russian soldiers had reached the highway and managed to gain a foothold, even setting up a checkpoint.
Ukrainian interior ministry adviser Vadym Denisenko told a briefing 25 Russian battalions were attempting to surround the Ukrainian forces.
Reuters drone footage of the nearby abandoned battlefield showed craters pockmarking a green field surrounded by wrecked buildings. Pro-Russian fighters were milling about in trenches.
The EU is discussing a sixth round of punitive measures,including an embargo on Russian oil imports. Such a move requires unanimity but Hungary opposes the idea for now on the grounds its economy would suffer too much.
On Wednesday, he savaged suggestions that Kyiv make concessions to bring peace, saying the idea smacked of attempts to appease Nazi Germany in 1938.
The head of Ukraines armed forces, Valeriy Zaluzhny, called on Telegram for more Western arms, particularly weapons that will allow us to hit the enemy at a big distance.
The checkpoint was broken, they were thrown back  the Russian army does not control the route now, but they are shelling it, he said. It was possible Ukrainian troops would leave one settlement, maybe two. We need to win the war, not the battle, he said.
The Donbas advance has been backed by massive artillery bombardment. Ukraines military said 50 towns in the Donetsk and Luhansk provinces came under shelling on Thursday.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov later warned that any supplies of weapons that could reach Russian territory would be a a serious step towards unacceptable escalation.
Russian forces attacked from three sides to try to encircle Ukrainian forces in Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk on Thursday, said Ukraines military. If the two cities straddling the Siverskiy Donets river fall, nearly all of the Donbas province of Luhansk would be under Russian control.
It is clear that our boys are slowly retreating to more fortified positions  we need to hold back this horde.
Ukraine will always be an independent state and it wont be broken. The only question is what price our people will have to pay for their freedom, and what price Russia will pay for this senseless war against us, said Zelensky in a late-night address on Thursday.
How many more weeks will the European Union try to agree ona sixth package? Zelensky asked, noting Russia was receiving one billion euros a day from the 27-nation bloc for energy supplies.
Western countries led by the United States have provided Ukraine with long-range weaponry, including M777 howitzers from Washington and Harpoon anti-ship missiles from Denmark.
We have concerns about escalation and yet still do not want to put geographic limits or tie their hands too much with the stuff were giving them, said one U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Moscow expects Ukraine to accept its demands at any future peace talks. It wants Kyiv to recognize Russian sovereignty over the Crimea peninsula Moscow seized in 2014, and the independence of separatist-claimed territory.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The catastrophic unfolding events could be still stopped if the world treated the situation in Ukraine as if it were facing the same situation, if the powers that be did not play around with Russia but really pressed to end the war.
Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless and that the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
Washington is even considering providing Kyiv with a rocket system that can have a range of hundreds of kilometers, and has held discussions with Kyiv about the danger of escalation if it strikes deep inside Russia, U.S. and diplomatic officials told Reuters.
The town is now firmly under control of pro-Russian fighters, who have occupied the local government building and hung a Soviet hammer and sickle flag at the door.
KYIV  President Volodymyr Zelensky urged the West to stop playing around with Russia and impose tougher sanctions on Moscow to end its senseless war in Ukraine, adding his country would remain independent, the only question was at what price.
Western military analysts see the battle for Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk as a potential turning point in the war after a shift in momentum towards Russia following the surrender of Ukraines garrison in Mariupol last week.FEATURED STORIES
FILE PHOTO: Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy attends a joint news conference with Polands President Andrzej Duda, amid Russias invasion, in Kyiv, Ukraine May 22, 2022. REUTERSViacheslav Ratynskyi
Zelenskys comments mark the second day in a row that hehas sharpened his criticism of the worlds approach to the war.
Service members of pro-Russian troops drive an armoured vehicle along a street past a destroyed residential building during Ukraine-Russia conflict in the town of Popasna in the Luhansk Region, Ukraine May 26, 2022. The writing on the vehicle reads: Valkyrie. REUTERSAlexander Ermochenko
Zelenskys criticism of the West has mounted in recent days as the European Union moves slowly towards a possible Russian oil embargo and as thousands of Russian forces try to encircle two key eastern cities of Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk.
Pressure on Russia is literally a matter of saving lives.Every day of procrastination, weakness, various disputes orproposals to pacify the aggressor at the expense of the victimmerely means more Ukrainians being killed.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
