Survivors of Russian bombings cling on flattened flats
20220504
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1592118/survivors-of-russian-bombings-cling-on-flattened-flats
The ones who left mostly settled with friends and relatives in surrounding villages or joined the exodus fleeing to the more peaceful west of the country and Poland.
But they have started moving on with their lives, the 44-year-old said. They have their own problems.
Why did they fight to defend me, only to leave me here to die? she says, referring to Ukrainian forces who managed to keep the Russians from seizing the city of nearly 300,000.
The historic city and its ancient churches overlooking the Desna River began to lose its importance and shrivel when its inland port shut down after the Soviet Unions collapse.
The grandmother on the fourth floor locked herself up when the bombs fell. When we forced the door open, she was already dead, Sobistiyanska said.
City workers were mowing the lawn of a green patch in the middle of a roundabout that was surrounded by barricades and buildings with their walls scarred by shells.
9 persons of interest tagged in Adamson frat death still at large, 3 with police
Ukraine will need foreign aid of historic proportions to try and dig out from the ruins  should it ultimately withstand the Russian assault.
Russian troops bombed and shelled the tower blocks dotting Chernigiv for more than a month.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
And the ones who are returning, when they see what has happened, I dont even know, she sighed. They are returning to nothing.
One young father was pushing his son on a scooter past the skeletal remains of a warehouse.
The 51-year-old still lives in one of the nine-story towers hallways and sleeps on its debris-strewn floor.FEATURED STORIES
She remembers the date because that is when Russian mortar fire blew a hole through her apartment on a central street in the battered north Ukrainian city of Chernigiv.
This recovery could require some tough choices. One of them might be whether places such as Chernigiv are worth saving at all.
The outgunned Ukrainian forces ability to defend Chernigiv  a riverside city 100 kilometres 60 miles northeast of Kyiv famous for its brand of beer  played a huge role in stalling Russias assault on the capital in the first weeks of the war.
Sobistiyanska and two of her neighbours sip cold tea off a kitchen table that takes up half the corridors width in the dark.
But I think that 70 percent of it has been damaged. I have no idea how much it would cost to rebuild it all, the 44-year-old grocer said.
Sobistiyanskas neighbor Tetyana Stanivaya says she still finds Chernigiv very beautiful and would love to stay.
But Sobistiyanska is taking out her boiling anger for her plight on both the Ukrainians and the Russians in the third month of the war.
She says local officials have ordered her to move out but offered no assistance other than the locations of area shelters.
The wind shoots thick dust through the wall punctures and leaves everyone shivering in their winter coats and wool hats.
Construction worker Daniil Danchenko said his courtyard neighbours were intially happy to let him charge his phone or fill buckets of water that he could then lug up the stairs to his fourth-floor flat.
Rows of whole buildings around it have functioning shops with few clients and the barest minimum of goods.
The ones who stayed behind depend on the goodwill of neighbours whose buildings still have running water and gas.
An aerial view taken on May 3, 2022 the destroyed Hotel Ukraine in the northern Ukrainian city of Chernigiv, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. AFP
The much more recent closure of the border with Kremlin ally Belarus 50 kilometres 30 miles to the north means the main road running through the city from Kyiv now leads to a dead end.
This is where I was born, this is where I was planning to spend my life. But for that, I need a place to live, he said.
The Russian withdrawal in the first days of April left behind a hollow shell of a city that now forms part of a broader conundrum for Ukraines Western-backed leadership.
They will start by repairing the schools. As for the residential homes That will take a lot of people and time. Some have simply burned to the ground.
The city now comprises a patchwork of ruins and buildings left completely untouched by war.
Most people have already left the city, Stanivaya said while showing off the remains of some of the abandoned apartments in her tower block.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
