The imperfect shape of peace in Ukraine
20220519
https://opinion.inquirer.net/153139/the-imperfect-shape-of-peace-in-ukraine
But the era of glorious wars, overwhelming victories, and clear-cut defeats is over. Yes, Putins murderous army is an inefficient, clumsy machine that has not moved beyond the archaic tactics of World War II. Yet, the combination of barbarism and sheer numbersquantity has a quality of its own, said Stalinhas enabled Putin to achieve significant territorial gains in eastern Ukraine and along the Black Sea coast.FEATURED STORIES
Beyond ending its bid to join Nato and maintain an Austria-like neutralityconcessions to which Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has all but agreeda settlement on the ethnic Russian regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, whose independence Putin recognized days before the invasion, will be needed. A form of self-government, along the lines laid out in the 2015 Minsk II agreement, might be the answer. Project Syndicate
JerusalemThe world knows an unjust war when it sees one. That is why Russian President Vladimir Putins unprovoked invasion of Ukraine has attracted such widespread condemnation. But negotiating a peace settlementthe key to ending most warswill require attention not only to justice but also to stability and balance between competing national interests and ambitions. The question, then, is: What would a stable peace in Ukraine look like?
As they seek to engineer Russias defeat in Ukraine, the United States and its Nato allies must not lose sight of what happens the day after. A vast, nuclear-armed, and humiliated power cannot simply be isolated or ignored. Even as they help Ukraine resist Putins aggression, they must attempt to integrate Russia into Europes broader security architecture, reshaping that architecture in response to Russias concerns. Otherwise, Putin cannot make sufficient concessions without jeopardizing his political, if not physical, survival.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
This is a real risk. Though the West is attempting to calibrate its military aid to Ukraine to avoid provoking a Russian escalation, the pressure on Putin is intensifying. Indeed, judging by his Victory Day speech, he is well aware of both his militarys limits and the fragility of public opinion.
This points to the dangers of a weakened Russia. But even a resounding Russian defeat is an ominous scenario. Yes, under such circumstancesand only such circumstancesPutin might be toppled in some kind of coup led by elements of Russias security apparatus. But the chances that this would produce a liberal democratic Russia that abandons Putins grand strategic designs are slim. More likely, Russia would be a rogue nuclear superpower ruled by military coup-makers with revanchist impulses. Germany after World War I comes to mind.
Of course, the West is providing vastand growingmilitary aid to Ukraine, which could tip the scales to some extent, especially given Russias international isolation. But this remains an asymmetric war, not least because it is happening on Ukrainian soil. As a result, Ukraines economy cannot function, and Russian soldiers can target civiliansand, as multiple reports and videos show, have not hesitated to do so.
Many feared Putin would use the commemoration of Russias victory over Nazi Germany to issue a formal declaration of war on Ukraine, which would have allowed him to send hundreds of thousands of young conscripts to the battlefield. But that day has come and gone, and the war remains a special military operation in Russia. Putin, it seems, did not want to risk stirring popular opposition.
Shlomo Ben-Ami is a former Israeli foreign minister. He is the author of the forthcoming Prophets Without Honor: The 2000 Camp David Summit and the End of the Two-State Solution Oxford University Press, 2022.
In theory, nothing short of true justice in Ukraine should suffice. That means ensuring Russias unconditional defeat, the restitution of Ukraines full territorial integrity, and possibly even reparations from Russia to help fund Ukraines reconstruction.
But this might not be a reason for celebration. Lest we forget, Russia possesses the worlds largest nuclear arsenal, and Putin has both the unconstrained authority to use it and an inability to accept defeat. Autocrats who lose wars lose powerand, sometimes, their heads. If Putin feels backed into a corner, he may well view deployment of tactical nuclear weapons as the minimum requirement to save face.
Mutually damaging deadlocks have often spurred progress toward peace settlements. But, in the current war, a military deadlock would hurt Ukraine far more than it would hurt Russia, even if Putin refrains from using chemical or tactical nuclear weapons. If he does cross that line, the costs to Ukraine would skyrocket.
For many observers, this outcome seems entirely likely. Some, such as Russian opposition politician Vladimir Milov, argue that Putins days in power are numbered. Others believe that Russia will suffer a decisive defeat on the battlefield. British historian Antony Beevor, for one, anticipates a military collapse and humiliating withdrawal. Yuval Noah Harari has assured us that Putin lost the war the day he started it.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
