Thousands march in Kyiv to show unity against the Russian threat
20220212
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1553881/thousands-march-in-kyiv-to-show-unity-against-the-russian-threat
KYIV  Several thousand Ukrainians rallied in Kyiv on Saturday to show unity against the Russian threat of invasion, as Ukraines leader told people not to panic and pushed back against what he said was a glut of bleak war predictions being reported in the media.
People take part in the Unity March, which is a procession to demonstrate Ukrainians patriotic spirit amid growing tensions with Russia, in Kyiv, Ukraine Feb. 12, 2022. REUTERSValentyn Ogirenko
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, who attended police drills in the southern Kherson region, said a Russian attack could happen at any time, but pushed back against what he called excessive amounts of information about a major looming war.FEATURED STORIES
Tension has mounted as Russia has built up more than 100,000 troops near Ukraine and carried out large-scale exercises. The United States said on Friday an invasion could start at any moment. Russia denies planning to invade.
The United States and numerous Western governments have urged their citizens to leave Ukraine, and Washington on Saturday said it was ordering most of its Kyiv embassy staff to leave.
Zelenskiy voiced frustrations just last month with dire assessments of a war. Such warnings have taken their toll on the economy, piling pressure on the national currency.
US President Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin will speak later on Saturday.
Ukrainians filed through the center of Kyiv in a column, chanting Glory to Ukraine and carrying Ukrainian flags and banners that said Ukrainians will resist and Invaders must die.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
We have to be ready each day. It did not begin yesterday. It began in 2014, so, we are ready and this is why we are here, Zelenskiy said in a reference to Russias annexation of Crimea and backing for an anti-Kyiv separatist insurgency in the east.
The best friend of our enemies is panic in our country. And all this information is just provoking panic and cant help us, he said. I cant agree or disagree with what hasnt happened yet. So far, there is no full-scale war in Ukraine.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
