Tram ride through wartime Kyiv stirs memories of lost city
20220313
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1567597/tram-ride-through-wartime-kyiv-stirs-memories-of-lost-city
KYIV  The world-weary conductor nudged her rusty red tram past the barricade and shook her head at the tragedy she has seen befall Kyiv since Russian forces invaded Ukraine.
Passengers get on a tram in Kyiv, on March 12, 2022, on the 17th day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. AFP
Sabirovas tram line is one of the few still trundling through the maze of Kyivs barricades and checkpoints.
I can hear them riding the tram. And I hear them at home, the bartender said. The city has changed.
A highrise to her left had destroyed balconies and windows shattered by a missile a few nights after Russia attacked on February 24.
Its okay when there are no explosions and its scary when there are, she said simply.
East siders such as Tanya Pogorila can cling on to more remnants of their past lives.
And then they come and destroy it. How are we going to rebuild it? With what funds? he asked.
Pensioner Konoplytskiy was himself a lifelong trainline worker and felt especially appreciative of Sabirovas resolve.
This is the first time Ive come out since the start of the war, she said.
Bartender Inna Khmelievskaya sat a few rows in front of the pensioner and contemplated similarly dark thoughts.
The 34-year-old takes Sabirovas 8K line to work daily and knows some of its regular passengers by name.
I havent seen anything too terrible, but I hear things  the explosions, the booms, Sabirova said.
I hope the guy up in the heavens notices that I still keep doing this and takes it into account at the end, she added on a more sardonic note.
Kyivs working-class east bank is home to the citys more sleepy residential neighborhoods and some of its biggest factories.
A group of soldiers to her right were suspiciously peering into passing cars for signs of explosives and guns.
Im worried, I worry for the city. Its been developing for so many years, said 69-year-old Mykola Konoplytskiy.
But her familiar day-dreaming voyages along the east bank of the Dnipro River are now interrupted by booms echoing along Kyivs northern front.
The packed passengers behind her stood sullenly and watched an uncomfortably deserted Kyiv roll by.FEATURED STORIES
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
At least I am helping people get to where they need to go  to bomb shelters, to the train station, she said. But otherwise, of course it is frightening.
Kyivs remaining residents  estimated to be only half of the original three million  appear not only frightened but also profoundly sad to see their city threatened with destruction.
Some of my worst fears are now fading. Im just mostly afraid for my kid, she said of the little boy standing between her knees.
Its trams stopped running almost immediately because they offered a direct route from the front to the cluster of government buildings Ukraines forces need to protect against the Russian advance.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Yelena Sabirovas 19-year career as a tram conductor was never supposed to see her end up on the frontlines of a war.
But he gloomily predicted that Russian President Vladimir Putin would soon order a punishing assault on Kyiv as he has already done on devastated cities such as Mariupol and Kharkiv.
The 45-year-olds eyes wandered across the shuttered shops and piles of rubble lining her regular route.
The tram conductor pulled closer to a beefed-up checkpoint marking the abridged end to her line and wondered how much longer her tram will continue to run.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
