UK not looking to help Russia minister says on prospect of prisoner swap
20220419
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1584972/uk-not-looking-to-help-russia-minister-says-on-prospect-of-prisoner-swap
We always have responsibility for British citizens, which we take seriously. Weve got to get the balance right in Ukraine and thats why I say to anybody: do not travel illegally to Ukraine, Lewis said.
The armed forces in Ukraine have the support of the UK, Lewis said. We continue to put that support in and thats the right way to do it.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The Britons appeared on Russian state TV on Monday and asked to be exchanged for Medvedchuk, a Ukrainian ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin who is being held by the Ukrainian authorities. read more
Asked on Sky News whether a possible swap was something the government would get involved with, Britains Northern Ireland minister Brandon Lewis said: Were actually going through the process of sanctioning people who are close to Putin regime, were not going to be looking at how we can help Russia.
Lewis said he did not want to comment on the specific situation of the two men, Shaun Pinner and Aiden Aslin.FEATURED STORIES
The UKs Foreign Enlistment Act blocks citizens from joining foreign militaries fighting countries at peace with Britain, and the governments foreign secretary and defence minister have warned against Britons fighting in Ukraine after the war began in late February. L2N2VA2BG
LONDON  Britain is not going to be looking at how to help Russia, a senior minister said on Tuesday when asked about the prospect of swapping pro-Russian politician Viktor Medvedchuk for two British fighters who were captured in Ukraine by Russian forces.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Moscows invasion, which Russia has called a special operation, is in its second phase according to Ukrainian officials after Russian forces launched their anticipated offensive in eastern Ukraine.
Pro-Russian Ukrainian politician Viktor Medvedchuk is seen in handcuffs while being detained by security forces in unknown location in Ukraine, in this handout picture released April 12, 2022. Press service of State Security Service of UkraineHandout via REUTERS
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
