Ukraines Zelensky says victory will be ours on day 100 of Russian invasion
20220603
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1606180/ukraines-zelensky-says-victory-will-be-ours-on-day-100-of-russian-invasion
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Kyiv earlier had announced Moscow was in control of a fifth of Ukrainian territory, including Crimea and parts of Donbas seized in 2014.
Ukraines foreign ministry released a statement in English saying international help for the country was the best investment in peace and sustainable development of all mankind.
The mayor of the capital said on Friday that Ukrainians dont want another 100 days of war and called for continued pressure on Putins regime, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
KYIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Friday his countrys military would fend off the Russian invasion, in a video marking 100 days of Moscows all-out assault on its pro-democracy neighbour.
The ministry also called for a special court to investigate war crimes in the country, saying, Russian criminals should be brought before the Tibunal in the same way as it was with the leadership of Nazi Germany.
Prime Minister Shmyhal earlier said the war was pushing his country closer to Europe while Russia was moving towards isolation from the developed world.
Victory will be ours, Zelensky said in the video. raineIt included Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and presidential advisor Mykhaylo Podolyak, recalling an impromptu message they posted outside government buildings at the onset of the war, vowing to remain in the country.
Ukainian President Volodymyr Zelensky C speaks to the press in the town of Bucha, northwest of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, on April 4, 2022. AFP
On the 100th day of Russias invasion, fighting is raging across the east, where Moscows forces are tightening their grip on Ukraines Donbas region.FEATURED STORIES
Yes we need weapons so that we can defend our common values. But we must wage war on the Russian economy so that Russia will finally leave Ukraine in peace, he said.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
