Ukraine formally closes seaports captured by Russia
20220502
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1591202/ukraine-formally-closes-seaports-captured-by-russia
KYIV  Ukraine has formally closed its four Black and Azov sea ports, which Russian forces have captured, the Ukrainian agriculture ministry said on Monday.
It said the volume included 763,000 tonnes exported in April but gave no comparative figures. Senior agriculture officials said this month that Ukraine exported up 300,000 tonnes of grain in March.
The Azov Sea ports of Mariupol, Berdiansk and Skadovsk and the Black Sea port of Kherson were closed until the restoration of control, the ministry said in a statement.
The ministry said last week Ukraines grain exports had reached 45.709 million tonnes in the 202122, July-June season.
Russia calls its intervention in Ukraine a special operation to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say the fascist allegation is baseless and that the war is an unprovoked act of aggression.
A view shows a port in the course of Ukraine-Russia conflict in the southern city of Mariupol, Ukraine April 29, 2022. REUTERS FILE PHOTO
Russia does not let ships come in or go out, it is controlling the Black Sea, Zelenskiy told the Australian news programme 60 Minutes.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
All Ukrainian seaports have suspended their activity as a result of the Russian invasion in late February. Russian forces captured some ports and blockaded others.FEATURED STORIES
Ukraine, a major agricultural producer, used to export most of its goods by sea but has been forced to switch to export by train via its western border or via its small Danube river ports.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Monday Ukraine could lose tens of millions of tonnes of grain due to Russias control of Black Sea shipping, triggering a food crisis that will affect Europe, Asia and Africa.
The adoption of this measure is caused by the impossibility of servicing ships and passengers, carrying out cargo, transport and other related economic activities, ensuring the appropriate level of safety of navigation, it said.
