Ukraine war food price spikes may push 40 million into extreme poverty  group
20220318
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1570555/ukraine-war-food-price-spikes-may-push-40-million-into-extreme-poverty-group
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Households in low-income countries allocate nearly half of their budgets to food, and higher prices will force hard choices between food and other necessities.
WASHINGTON  Massive price spikes for food and energy sparked by Russias invasion of Ukraine will push over 40 million people into extreme poverty, the Center for Global Development CGDEV said on Friday, warning against export curbs and sanctions on Russian food production.
FILE PHOTO: Residents of a small apartment building do house chores outside their units, amid the lockdown to contain the coronavirus disease COVID-19, in a slum area in Tondo, Manila, Philippines, May 4, 2020. REUTERSEloisa LopezFile Photo
Price increases seen to date are already of a similar magnitude to the 2010 increases, and our analysis suggests at least 40 million people will be pushed into extreme poverty by the 2022 price spike, CGDEV researchers wrote.
FILE PHOTO: A boy carries a cooking pot on his head as he walks above an open sewer at a slum in Islamabad March 12, 2015. REUTERSZohra BensemraFile Photo
The World Bank defines extreme poverty as living on less than $1.90 a day.FEATURED STORIES
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
The researchers said the most immediate concern was for direct wheat customers of Ukraine and Russia, which together account for more than a quarter of world wheat exports. These include Egypt, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Azerbaijan, and Turkey, but prices will rise worldwide as importers compete for alternative supplies.
The CGDEV blog urged development agencies and international financial institutions to move quickly to respond to a clear increase in humanitarian needs around the world, while wealthy governments should provide supplemental funding to the institutions well in advance of the coming food crisis.
In an analysis blog, the Washington-based think tank said food commodity prices since the start of the conflict have risen above levels experienced in price spikes in 2007 and 2010. It cited World Bank Research showing that the 2007 spike may have pushed as many as 155 million people into extreme poverty, and separate research showing the 2010 episode pushed 44 million into extreme poverty.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
