Ukraine seeks Mariupol evacuation talks after surrenderordie ultimatum expires
20220420
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1585941/ukraine-seeks-mariupol-evacuation-talks-after-surrender-or-die-ultimatum-expires
Large black clouds of smoke billowed from there on Wednesday as evacuees queued to get onto buses, some clutching luggage or carrying small pets in their arms.
Ukraine said it had so far held off an assault by thousands of Russian troops attempting to advance in what Kyiv calls the Battle of the Donbas, a new campaign to seize two eastern provinces Moscow claims on behalf of separatists.
If Russia captured Mariupol it would link territory held by pro-Russian separatists in the east with the Crimea region that Moscow annexed in 2014.
Ukraine has proposed swapping Russian prisoners of war in exchange for safe passage for trapped civilians and soldiers.
The United States on Wednesday imposed restrictions on dozens of people and entities, including a commercial bank and a virtual currency mining company, targeting the evasion of existing rules.
Ukraine is ready for a special round of negotiations with no conditions to save our guys, the far right Azov battalion, military, civilians, children, the living and the wounded, negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted.FEATURED STORIES
Charles Michel, head of the European Council that groups the 27 EU member states, met Zelenskiy in Kyiv in a show of solidarity.
Putin says Ukraine mistreated Russian speakers in the Donbas, an accusation Kyiv dismisses as false.
Russia was focusing on advancing towards the strategically important Donbas city of Sloviansk, but so far they are not succeeding, Ukrainian presidential advisor Oleksiy Arestovych said.
Fighters remain holed up in the plant and have ignored an ultimatum by Russia to surrender. David Arakhamia, a second negotiator, said in an online post that he and Podolyak were in constant contact with Ukrainian forces in the city.
U.S. President Joe Biden was convening top U.S. military leaders on Wednesday in an annual White House gathering that takes on special significance as the war in Ukraine enters a new phase and Washington plans more military aid.
It is a pleasure  to leave after this nightmare. We lived in basements for 30 days, she said tearfully.
Ukraines Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk accused Russian forces of failing to observe a local ceasefire agreement long enough to allow large numbers of people to leave.
The Kremlin accused Kyiv on Wednesday of delaying the talks and changing its positions. Kyiv accuses Moscow of blocking talks by refusing humanitarian ceasefires.
The head of Ukraines Orthodox Church asked clergy and the faithful to forgo services on Easter Saturday night in areas affected by fighting, fearing the Russian bombardments will continue without respite.
On Wednesday, Russia conducted a first test launch of its Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile, a new and long-awaited addition to its nuclear arsenal.
It denies targeting civilians and has blamed Ukraine for the failure of earlier attempts to organise humanitarian corridors out of Mariupol.
Just five people in Mariupol had surrendered following Moscows 2 p.m. 1100 GMT surrender-or-die ultimatum, Russian-backed separatists said.
Pensioner Tamara, 64, said she was going to stay with her sister in Zaporizhzhia. She was leaving the city with her husband, daughter, son-in-law and grandson.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Ukraine proposed talks with Moscow over evacuating troops and civilians from Mariupol after a Russian surrender-or-die ultimatum expired on Wednesday, leaving many trapped at a steel plant, the last main stronghold of resistance.
Russias forces had carried out strikes on dozens of military facilities in eastern Ukraine and had shot down a Ukrainian Mi-8 helicopter near the village of Koroviy Yar, its defence ministry said.
Today, in a conversation with the city defenders, a proposal was put forward to hold direct negotiations, on site, on the evacuation of our military garrison, he said. For our part, we are ready to arrive for such negotiations at any time as soon as we receive confirmation from the Russian side.
Moscow was forced to retreat from northern Ukraine after an assault on Kyiv was repelled last month, but has poured troops back in for an assault on the east that began this week.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Russia calls its incursion a special military operation to demilitarise and denazify Ukraine. Kyiv and its Western allies reject that as a false pretext.
A few dozen civilians managed to leave the strategically important southeastern port in a small bus convoy, according to Reuters witnesses, escaping the fiercest battle of the nearly eight-week-long war.
This truly unique weapon will  provide food for thought for those who, in the heat of frenzied aggressive rhetoric, try to threaten our country, President Vladimir Putin said.
Mariupol, once a prosperous city of 400,000, is now a wasteland where corpses lie in the streets and Russia was hitting the Azovstal steel plant with bunker-buster bombs, the government in Kyiv said.
The deputy commander of the Azov Regiment in Mariupol, Svyatoslav Kalamar, said several bunkers under the plant still held about 80-100 civilians each.
Over five million Ukrainians have fled abroad since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, the biggest attack on a European state since 1945. Russia has yet to capture any major cities.
A Ukrainian marine commander, Serhiy Volny, said fighters there may not be able to hold out for much longer. President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said an estimated 1,000 civilians are also sheltering at the steel works.
A man and a child ride a bicycle past burnt out buses during Ukraine-Russia conflict in the southern port city of Mariupol, Ukraine April 19, 2022. REUTERS
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
