Ukraines president tells Russians to protest before its too late
20220306
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1564262/ukraines-president-tells-russians-to-protest-before-its-too-late
Citizens of Russia! For you, this is a struggle not only for peace in Ukraine! This is a fight for your country, Zelenskiy said in a televised address, switching from Ukrainian to Russian.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
All forms of protest in Russia have essentially become illegal since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic for what authorities say are safety reasons.
Since last week, thousands of people in Russia have been detained for protesting against the invasion of Ukraine or what the Russian authorities call a special military operation that began on Feb 24.
Russians are now bracing for an uncertain and isolated future after international sanctions plunged the economy into crisis and authorities cracked down on independent media and restricted access to Facebook and other social media sites.FEATURED STORIES
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy appealed directly to Russians on Sunday to take to the streets in protest against the Kremlins invasion of his country or risk their own poverty and repression.
Like the Ukrainian people, Russians now face a choice between life and slavery, Zelenskiy said.
On the 11th day of the invasion, Russian forces are continuing to attack and are preparing to bombard the Black Sea port city of Odessa, he said.
People watch Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on a screen addressing anti-war demonstrations in several European cities including Frankfurt, Vienna, Lyon, Tbilisi, Vilnius and Prague, as Russias invasion of Ukraine continues, at the famous city centre Roemerberg, in Frankfurt, Germany, March 4, 2022. REUTERSTim Reichert
If you keep silent now, only your poverty will speak for you later. And only repression will answer, he said.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
