Ukraine war tests Chinas nolimits bond with Russia
20220306
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1564087/ukraine-war-tests-chinas-no-limits-bond-with-russia
Russian President Vladimir Putin L and Chinese President Xi Jinping pose for a photograph during their meeting in Beijing, on February 4, 2022. AFP
More than a dozen governments urged their citizens to leave Ukraine by mid-February, but China refrained from doing the same.
If we see Chinese casualties in Ukraine, then the pro-Russian neutrality of the Chinese government that we are seeing today will become harder to maintain, Kewalramani added.
At the same time, censors on the tightly controlled Chinese internet have struggled to shape domestic public discourse, initially allowing vociferous posts that tracked Beijings anti-US rhetoric, before pivoting to scrub lewd messages objectifying women fleeing Ukraine as well as anti-war sentiment.
The political position that the Chinese government has adopted has made things difficult for Chinese citizens there, said Manoj Kewalramani, China studies fellow at the Bangalore-based Takshashila Institution.
Russia is a giant, nuclear-armed and resource-rich neighbour that China wont risk agitating, Ghiasy said.
But China seems to have been caught flat-footed by Russias military offensive, fierce Ukrainian resistance, and the volume of the resulting international anti-Kremlin backlash.FEATURED STORIES
Beijings difficult position is compounded by the plight of its 6,000 citizens in Ukraine, who are now being gradually evacuated by road and rail to neighboring countries along with other displaced persons.
Beijing, which has long demanded respect for territorial integrity in border disputes with its own neighbours, has been forced into rhetorical contortions on Ukraine to avoid upsetting Russia.
BEIJING  Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin toasted a friendship with no limits at a warm meeting in February, but just one month later that bond is being tested by the war in Ukraine.
But any mediating role assumed by China would stop short of using its influence to get Putin to change, said Steve Tsang, director of the China Institute at Londons School of Oriental and African Studies.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Security interests virtually always trump economic interests in Chinas calculus, and it will not fundamentally shift toward a more pro-Ukraine stance, he told AFP.
In a hint of how Beijing misread the situation, its embassy in Ukraine initially urged its citizens to display Chinas distinctive red flag on their cars as a protective measure, quickly retracting that advice after some reported subsequent hostility from locals.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
It instead urged its citizens to remain calm and stay at home even as Russian troops moved onto Ukrainian soil, and was forced to cancel a proposed airlift after Ukraine closed its airspace to civilian planes.
With international outrage and sanctions mounting against Russia, Beijing is scrambling to avoid being tainted by association with Moscow while also maintaining their increasingly close ties.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Once bitter Cold War rivals, China and Russia have moved closer than ever since Xi Jinping took power nearly a decade ago, driven by their shared desire to confront US power.
While maintaining lip service to national sovereignty, China has insisted that Moscows security concerns regarding Ukraine and the broader expansion of the US-led North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO are valid.
The worst case, said Tsang, would be for the tightening sanctions on Russia  or a failure of its military objectives in Ukraine  to result in an uprising that ousts Putin from power, potentially leading to a pro-Western government in Moscow.
Failure to finesse the situation puts Beijing at risk of being labelled a Putin enabler, potentially alienating Western trading partners and endangering the tenuous balance of links China has cultivated in recent years with both Russia and Ukraine.
It has refused to condemn Moscow, with Chinese government spokespersons remonstrating foreign journalists at press conferences who refer to the assault on Ukraine as an invasion.
Xi urged Putin in a call last week to resolve the crisis by forming a sustainable European security mechanism through negotiations, and Chinas foreign minister told his Ukrainian counterpart that Beijing regrets the conflict and hopes the two sides can find a diplomatic solution.
You could see the bewilderment in the early statements, said Sergey Radchenko, a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
But he would want to see Putin be able to get what he wants without causing too much collateral damage  for China and its ties with the rest of the world.
The situation has effectively paralysed China, according to Richard Ghiasy, an expert at the Hague Centre for Strategic Studies.
