Ukraine president expects Russia attacks to intensify with EU summit this week
20220620
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1613276/ukraine-president-expects-russia-attacks-to-intensify-with-eu-summit-this-week
In southern Ukraine, Western weaponry had helped Ukrainian forces advance 10 km 6 miles towards Russian-occupied Melitopol, its mayor said in a video posted on Telegram from outside the city.
Whole generations fought for a chance to escape from the prison of the Soviet Union and, like a free bird, to fly to European civilization, the speaker of Ukraines parliament, Ruslan Stefanchuk, said in a statement.
Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the Ukraine conflict could last for years and urged Western governments to continue sending state-of-the-art weaponry to Ukrainian troops, Germanys Bild am Sonntag newspaper reported.
Obviously, this week we should expect from Russia an intensification of its hostile activities, Zelensky said in his Sunday nightly video address. We are preparing. We are ready.
Both Russia and Ukraine have continued heavy bombardment around Sievierodonetsk with little change to the front line, Britains Ministry of Defense said on Sunday.
In Sievierodonetsks twin city of Lysychansk, residential buildings and private houses had been destroyed by Russian shelling, Gaidai said. People are dying on the streets and in bomb shelters, he added.
Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington-based think tank, wrote in a note that Russian forces will likely be able to seize Sievierodonetsk in the coming weeks, but at the cost of concentrating most of their available forces in this small area.
Putin on Friday said Moscow had nothing against Ukraines EU membership, but a Kremlin spokesperson said Russia was closely following Kyivs bid especially in light of increased defense cooperation among member countries.
A prime target of Moscows eastern assault is the industrial city of Sievierodonetsk. Russia said on Sunday it had seized Metyolkine, a village on the outskirts, and Russian state news agency TASS reported that many Ukrainian fighters had surrendered there. Ukraines military said Russia had partial success in the area.
The British military assessment said morale for Ukrainian and Russian combat units in the Donbas was likely variable.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
In Ukraines second-largest city Kharkiv, northwest of Luhansk, Russias defence ministry said its Iskander missiles had destroyed weaponry recently supplied by Western countries.
Luhansk Governor Serhiy Gaidai told Ukrainian TV that a Russian attack on Toshkivka, 35 km 20 miles south of Sievierodonetsk, also had a degree of success.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
On the battlefield, Russian forces are trying to take complete control of the eastern Donbas region, parts of which were already held by Russian-backed separatists before the Feb. 24 invasion.
In Sievierodonetsk itself, a city of 100,000 before the war, Gaidai said Russia controlled the main part but not the entire town after intense fighting. Reuters could not independently confirm the battlefield accounts.
Ukrainian forces have likely suffered desertions in recent weeks, however, Russian morale highly likely remains especially troubled. Cases of whole Russian units refusing orders and armed stand-offs between officers and their troops continue to occur, the British Ministry of Defense said on Twitter.
He later said 19 people had been evacuated on Sunday. We are managing to bring in humanitarian aid and evacuate people as best we can, Gaidai said.
Russian forces were trying to approach Kharkiv, which experienced intense shelling earlier in the war, and turn it into a frontline city, a Ukrainian interior ministry official said.
Leaders of the 27-nation union will consider the question at a summit on Thursday and Friday and are expected to endorse Ukraines application despite misgivings from some member states. The process could take many years to complete.FEATURED STORIES
Russia has said it launched what it calls a special military operation to disarm its neighbour and protect Russian speakers there from dangerous nationalists. Kyiv and its allies dismiss that as a baseless pretext for a war of aggression.
Ukraine applied to join the EU four days after Russian troops poured across its border in February. The EUs executive, the European Commission, on Friday recommended that Ukraine receive candidate status.
A woman walks past destroyed structures at a local market following recent shelling in the course of Ukraine-Russia conflict in Donetsk, Ukraine June 19, 2022. REUTERS
An EU decision in favor of Kyivs ultimate membership would put Ukraine on track to realize an aspiration that would have been out of reach for the former Soviet republic before the Russian invasion.
We must prepare for the fact that it could take years. We must not let up in supporting Ukraine, Stoltenberg was quoted as saying.
The EUs embrace of Ukraine would interfere with one of Russian President Vladimir Putins stated goals when he ordered his troops into Ukraine: to keep Moscows southern neighbor outside of the Wests sphere of influence.
KYIV  Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky predicted Russia will escalate its attacks this week as European Union leaders consider whether to back Kyivs bid to join the bloc and Moscow presses its campaign to win control of the countrys east.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
