Ukraine and Russia What you need to know right now
20220322
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1571775/ukraine-and-russia-what-you-need-to-know-right-now-3
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
A local resident rides a bicycle past a charred armoured vehicle during Ukraine-Russia conflict in the separatist-controlled town of Volnovakha in the Donetsk region, Ukraine March 15, 2022. REUTERS
 Nearly 6.5 million people have been uprooted from homes, the United Nations says. Just over 8,000 people were evacuated on Monday.
 The U.N. General Assembly is expected to vote again this week on a motion criticising Russia for the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine.
Russias almost month-old assault on Ukraine has stalled along most fronts, failing to seize any major city or topple the government. But shelling and missiles are causing devastation.
 In the capital Kyiv, shells hit a shopping center on Sunday evening, killing at least eight people.
Ukraine has defied Russias demand for soldiers to lay down arms in Mariupol, where civilians are besieged in a city being laid to waste by bombardment.
 But the focal point is Mariupol, a strategically important southern port. There, horror and bewilderment stalk the devastated, Russian-besieged city, where some bury neighbours in roadside graves.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
 It is a senseless massacre where every day slaughters and atrocities are being repeated, Pope Francis said.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
 The European Union cannot agree on whether or how to slap sanctions on Russias lucrative energy sector. Germany says the bloc is too dependent on Russian oil for that.
 Russian artillery continues to pound the eastern cities of Kharkhiv, Sumy and Chernihiv.FEATURED STORIES
 Everything is destroyed. Where can we go? asked librarian Irina Chernenko in a dark cellar in Mariupol packed with families for 11 days.
 U.S.-Russia bilateral ties were on the brink of collapse, Russias foreign ministry said, summoning the U.S. ambassador after President Joe Biden called Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal.
