Ukraines Zelensky says everything on table if Putin meets
20220322
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1572040/ukraines-zelensky-says-everything-on-table-if-putin-meets
Away from the frontlines, diplomatic maneuvering will continue this week with Biden flying to Europe for talks with G7, EU and Nato leaders.
At the first meeting with the president of Russia, I am ready to raise these issues, he said, adding that any agreement involving historic changes would be put to a national referendum.
President Joe Biden meanwhile warned that Putin was considering using chemical and biological weapons in Ukraine as he held talks with European leaders on what he called Moscows increasingly brutal tactics.
Russia had given Mariupol until 5:00 am on Monday to surrender, but Kyiv rejected the ultimatum and said the citys resistance was bolstering the defence of all of Ukraine.
In Kyiv, a 35-hour curfew came into effect from 8:00 pm 1800 GMT Monday, after Russian strikes laid waste to the Retroville shopping complex, killing at least eight people.
Zelensky has urged Europe to significantly dial up pressure on Moscow, saying the continent must cease all trade with Russia, but Germany has pushed back on a call for an EU embargo on Russian oil and gas.
He repeated his assertion that Ukraine already understood it could not join NATO but he added that his countrymen would not simply hand over the capital, the eastern city of Kharkiv, or the heavily bombarded and besieged southern port of Mariupol.
This handout picture taken and released by Ukrainian presidential press-service on March 21, 2022 shows Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky addressing Ukrainian people during a broadcast speech. AFP
And it said it was abandoning talks with Japan, aimed at reaching a post-World War II peace treaty, citing Tokyos openly hostile position.
He insisted again on Monday that a meeting with Putin in any format was needed to end the war.
A series of videos posted on social media and the messaging app Telegram showed citizens gathering in Khersons Freedom Square protesting against Russias recent seizure of the city.
The city has been relentlessly assaulted, with more than 2,000 people killed, according to local officials, in what European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell described as a massive war crime.
Moscow has stepped up its military activity, flying 300 sorties in the past 24 hours, in a desperate bid to turn the tide against the Ukrainian resistance, a senior US defence official said.
The war has displaced around 10 million Ukrainians, with around a third becoming refugees, according to the UN, and sparked fears of famine elsewhere because Russia and Ukraine are both major agricultural exporters.
If I have this opportunity and Russia has the desire, we would go through all the questions, he told Ukrainian journalists in an interview published by media outlet Suspilne.
Zelensky said he was even willing to discuss Russian-occupied Crimea and the breakaway Russian regions in Donbas, though he insisted he still believes they must be returned to Ukraine.
This is a very difficult story for everyone. Crimea and Donbas And to find a way out, we need to take this first step, which I spoke about: security guarantees, the end of the war, he added.
Its the biggest bomb to have hit the city until now, said 30-year-old Dima Stepanienko, who found himself flung to the foot of his bed by the explosion.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Biden meanwhile said Putin was considering using chemical and biological weapons, pledging a severe Western response if it did so.
At the Kremlin, spokesman Dmitry Peskov warned such an embargo would have a very serious impact on the world energy market, where oil prices are already sky-high.
Moscow has warned relations with Washington are on the verge of rupture, after Biden branded Putin a war criminal.
On the ground, there was no let-up in the violence, with Kyiv under a new 35-hour curfew after Russian strikes reduced a Kyiv shopping mall to rubble, and the Pentagon saying Moscow was stepping up air and sea operations.
They are also suggesting that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons in Ukraine. Thats a clear sign hes considering using both of those, Biden said, without offering additional evidence.
Nearly a month into the conflict, there has been little progress in talks between the two sides, and Zelensky has repeatedly urged direct discussions with his Russian counterpart.FEATURED STORIES
KYIV  Ukrainian leader Volodymr Zelensky said all issues would be on the table if Russias Vladimir Putin agreed to direct talks to end the war, including contested Crimea and Donbas, but he warned his country would be destroyed before it surrenders.
Mariupol is a pivotal target in Putins war  providing a land bridge between Russian forces in Crimea to the southwest and Russian-controlled territory to the north and east.
With the war edging closer to a stalemate, Zelensky has also appealed to China, urging it to play an important role in ending the conflict.
Western countries and allies are expected to shore up their united front, though possible additional steps to pressure Russia remain unclear.
Russian soldiers could be seen firing into the air, and video footage showing a bleeding elderly man being carried away, though local officials said there were no fatalities.
Putins troops have already been accused of causing a humanitarian catastrophe in Mariupol, where some 350,000 people are trapped without water and electricity.
But even in areas Russia has captured, resistance has continued, with Ukraines leaders on Tuesday accusing Russian troops of firing on unarmed protesters in the occupied southern city of Kherson
Would we solve them all? No. But there is chance, that we partially could  at least to stop the war, he added.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
