Ukraine accuses Russia of using nuclear plant for deadly rocket attack
20220810
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1644709/ukraine-accuses-russia-of-using-nuclear-plant-for-deadly-rocket-attack
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Ukrainian forces would respond to the shelling of Marhanets. Ukraines military said Russia also bombarded several other areas in the Zaporizhzhia region including the coal-mining town of Vuhledar.
Andriy Yermak, Zelenskiys chief of staff, said Russia was launching attacks with impunity from Zaporizhzhia knowing it was risky for Ukraine to fight back.
Washingtons ultimate goal is to exhaust and crush Russia with a protracted war and the cudgel of sanctions, Zhang was quoted as saying.
Moscow pressed its campaign on multiple fronts on Wednesday. Ukraines military reported Russian forces shelled some 28 towns in the northeast, southwest and south including the Kharkiv, Donetsk and Kherson regions. Ukraines general staff said in an unverified statement that Ukrainian counterattacks forced Russian troops to retreat in most of them.
Valentyn Reznychenko, governor of Ukraines central Dnipropetrovsk region, said more than 20 buildings had been damaged in the town on the other side of the Dnipro river from the power plant.
After the United Nations atomic energy watchdog sounded the alarm over a potential nuclear disaster, the Group of Seven leading industrialised countries on Wednesday told Russia to hand back the plant to Ukraine.
Images supplied by Ukrainian officials showed the rubble-strewn corridor of a school with its windows blown out and a residential building pierced by a rocket.
Ukrainians and the countrys allies must think about how to inflict the greatest possible losses on the occupiers in order to shorten the war, he said.
The cowardly Russians cant do anything more so they strike towns ignobly hiding at the Zaporizhzhia atomic power station, he said on social media
The new 3rd Army Corps was based in the city of Mulino, east of Moscow, the British Defence Ministry said in an intelligence bulletin. However, Russia would struggle to build up the numbers needed and the new force is unlikely to sway the war, it added.
Ukraines state nuclear power firm has warned that containers with radioactive material might be shelled and said it is vital Kyiv retake the plant by winter. It accuses Russia of wanting to connect the facility to its power grid.
The town Ukraine says Russia targeted  Marhanets  is one Moscow says its foes have used in the past to shell Russian soldiers at the Zaporizhzhia plant, which they seized in March.
Russia has not commented on the Ukrainian allegations of an attack on Marhanets and Reuters could not independently verify Kyivs version. Moscow says it does not deliberately target civilians in what it calls its special military operation aimed at safeguarding its security against NATO expansion.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Calling on foreign allies to send more powerful weapons, Zelenskiy said in a late-night video address that Kyiv will not leave todays Russian shelling of the Dnipropetrovsk region unanswered.FEATURED STORIES
Beijings ambassador to Moscow, Zhang Hanhui, accused Washington of backing Russia into a corner with repeated expansions of the western-led NATO military alliance and support for Ukraines alignment with the European Union.
Ukraine says around 500 Russian troops with heavy vehicles and weapons are at the plant, where Ukrainian technicians continue to work.
There were no indications that their demand will sway Moscow, which on Wednesday received powerful endorsement from China of its rationale for the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of imperilling the plant, Europes largest nuclear complex, with attacks nearby.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The war has crushed Ukraines economy, but there was some relief on Wednesday when overseas creditors backed Kyivs request for a two-year freeze on payments on almost $20 billion in international bonds. That should avert a messy default.
These funds will help us maintain macrofinancial stability, strengthen the sustainability of the Ukrainian economy and improve the power of our army, he said.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
In another rare positive for Ukraine, the United Nations said it expects to see a big uptick in applications for ships to export its grain under a mediated deal intended to unblock exports and ease global shortages and price hikes.
KYIV  Ukraine accused Russia on Wednesday of firing rockets from around a captured nuclear power plant, killing at least 13 people and wounding 10, in the knowledge it would be risky for Ukraine to return fire.
Beijing is also involved in a standoff with the United States over Taiwan: Since the visit of U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, China has been conducting extensive military drills around the self-ruled island it claims as its own.
An interior view shows a school building damaged by a Russian military strike, as Russias attack on Ukraine continues, in location given as Marhanets town, in Dnipropetrovsk region, Ukraine August 10, 2022. Press service of the State Emergency Service of UkraineHandout via REUTERS
Britain, which is helping Ukraine with arms, intelligence and training, said on Wednesday it believed Russia had almost certainly established a major new ground force to back its war.
As Kyiv hailed the move as a sign of solidarity by private investors abroad, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said the deal would save his country almost $6 billion.
