Ukraine denies attacking fuel depot inside Russia mayor says fire almost out
20220401
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1577059/ukraine-denies-attacking-fuel-depot-inside-russia-mayor-says-fire-almost-out
Russian oil firm Rosneft, which owns the fuel depot, said no one was hurt in the fire. Russias defense ministry said the facility was exclusively for civilian use.
A still image taken from video footage shows a fuel depot on fire in the city of Belgorod, Russia April 1, 2022. Russian Emergencies MinistryHandout via REUTERS
Ukraine is currently conducting a defensive operation against Russian aggression on the territory of Ukraine, and this does not mean that Ukraine is responsible for every catastrophe on Russias territory, he said.
Ukraines top security official rebuffed the Russian accusation  the first by Moscow of an airstrike on Russian soil since Moscow launched its invasion on Feb. 24. Belgorod is one of Russias main logistics hubs for the war.
The resulting blaze forced the evacuation of some people but late in the day, Belgorod mayor Anton Ivanov said fire services were extinguishing the last remnants.
In an online post, Gladkov said a second blast damaged a power line near the village of Nikolskoye but that no one was hurt. Pictures he posted showed a crater in a field.
An ammunition depot near Belgorod caught fire on Wednesday, causing a series of blasts. At the time, Gladkov said authorities were waiting for the defense ministry to establish its cause.
Russias defense ministry said two Ukrainian helicopters struck the facility in Belgorod, some 35 km 22 miles from the border with Ukraine, after entering Russia at an extremely low altitude at around 5 a.m. Moscow time 0200 GMT.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
LVIV, Ukraine  Russia accused Ukraine of carrying out an airstrike against a fuel depot in the Russian city of Belgorod on Friday, an incident the Kremlin said could affect peace talks, but a top Kyiv security official denied responsibility.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said President Vladimir Putin had been briefed about the incident. Peskov said the strike could jeopardize Moscows peace negotiations with Kyiv.
There is no threat to human life and health. All residents can return to their homes, he said in an online post.FEATURED STORIES
Security camera footage, from a location verified by Reuters, showed a flash of light from what appeared to be a missile fired from low altitude in the sky, followed by an explosion on the ground.
For some reason, they say that we did it, but according to our information this does not correspond to reality, said Security Council Secretary Oleksiy Danilov.
Earlier, defense ministry spokesman Oleksandr Motuzyanyk said he would neither confirm nor deny a Ukrainian role.
The White House had no comment on Kremlin allegations that Ukraine had bombed the depot, press secretary Jen Psaki said.
Ukraines Danilov retorted: He says it doesnt help talks, but does it help talks when they kill our children, our women  these outrages they commit on our land? These people are kind of sick.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
