Ukraine US to start Black Sea military drills despite Russian protest
20210629
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1452822/ukraine-us-to-start-black-sea-military-drills-despite-russian-protest
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Ukraine says the main goal is to gain experience in joint actions during multinational peacekeeping and security operations.
Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and says it is Russian territory, but the peninsula is internationally recognized as part of Ukraine.
Members of the United States Marine Corps attend the opening ceremony for the Sea Breeze multinational maritime exercise in Kherson Region, Ukraine June 28, 2021. Press service of the Ukrainian Naval ForcesHandout via REUTERS
Russias embassy in Washington called last week for the drills to be cancelled, and the Russian defense ministry said it would react if necessary to protect its own national security.FEATURED STORIES
Tension rose again this year when Russia massed troops on the border with Ukraine, where some of them remain along with their equipment.
Relations between Kyiv and Moscow plummeted after Russia seized Crimea and over Russias support for a separatist rebellion in eastern Ukraine.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
Sea Breeze 2021 will last two weeks and involve about 5,000 military personnel from NATO and other allies, and around 30 ships and 40 aircraft. U.S. missile destroyer USS Ross and the U.S. Marine Corps will take part.
Sea Breeze 2021 follows a rise in tensions between NATO and Moscow, which said last week it had fired warning shots and dropped bombs in the path of a British warship to chase it out of Black Sea waters off the coast of Crimea. Britain rejected Russias account of the incident.
KYIV  Ukraine and the United States will start a military exercise involving more than 30 countries in the Black Sea and southern Ukraine on Monday, despite Russian calls to cancel the drills.
