Ukraine ready to discuss adopting neutral status in Russia peace dealZelensky
20220328
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1574513/ukraine-ready-to-discuss-adopting-neutral-status-in-russia-peace-deal-zelensky
The Russian censorship agency came out with a threat, Zelensky said in his nightly video address. It would be ridiculous if it werent so tragic.
He also dismissed as a joke allegations made by Russia that Ukraine had nuclear or chemical weapons.
Zelensky said Ukraine refused to discuss certain other Russian demands, such as the demilitarisation of the country.
I dont even know who the Russian army has ever treated like this, he said, adding that, compared to Russian wars in Chechnya, the volume of destruction cannot be compared.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy addresses the participants of the Doha Forum via videolink, as Russias attack on Ukraine continues, in Kyiv, Ukraine March 26, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press ServiceHandout via REUTERS
Russia says it is conducting a special military operation in Ukraine with the aim of demilitarising its neighbour. Ukraine and its Western allies call this a pretext for an unprovoked invasion.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
Speaking more than a month after Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, Zelensky said no peace deal would be possible without a ceasefire and troop withdrawals.
Zelensky focused on the fate of the eastern port city of Mariupol, under siege for weeks. Once a city of 400,000 people, it has undergone prolonged Russian bombardment.
Security guarantees and neutrality, non-nuclear status of our state. We are ready to go for it. This is the most important point, Zelensky said.FEATURED STORIES
He ruled out trying to recapture all Russian-held territory by force, saying it would lead to a third world war, and said he wanted to reach a compromise over the eastern Donbas region, held by Russian-backed forces since 2014.
Russian prosecutors said a legal opinion would be made on the statements made in the interview and on the legality of publishing the interview.
All entries and exits from the city of Mariupol are blocked, Zelensky said. The port is mined. A humanitarian catastrophe inside the city is unequivocal, because it is impossible to go there with food, medicine and water, he said.
Russia has denied targeting civilians in Ukraine. Russia and Ukraine have traded blame for a failure to open humanitarian corridors.
Zelensky pushed back against allegations from Moscow that Ukraine had curbed the rights of Russian speakers, saying it was Russias invasion that wiped Russian-speaking cities off the face of the earth.
Zelensky said Russias invasion had caused the destruction of Russian-speaking cities in Ukraine, with damage worse than the Russian wars in Chechnya.
Zelensky was speaking to Russian journalists in a 90 minute video call, an interview that Moscow authorities had pre-emptively warned Russian media to refrain from reporting. Zelensky spoke in Russian throughout, as he has done in previous speeches when targeting a Russian audience.
LVIV, Ukraine  Ukraine is prepared to discuss adopting a neutral status as part of a peace deal with Russia but such a pact would have to be guaranteed by third parties and put to a referendum, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in remarks aired on Sunday.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
