Ukraine president says Africa hostage in war with Russia
20220621
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1613858/ukraine-president-says-africa-hostage-in-war-with-russia
On Monday, Sall, who is also the chairman of the African Union, said on Twitter after Zelenskys speech the continent remained committed to respecting international law, peacefully resolving conflicts and free trade.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
This war may seem very distant to you and your countries. But catastrophically rising food prices have already brought it home to millions of African families.
NAIROBI  Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Monday that Africa was a hostage in the war with Russia, which had contributed to rising food prices on the continent.
Moscow rejects accusations it is deliberately blocking grain exports from Ukraine and says global food and fuel price hikes are due to Western sanctions imposed on Russia over the Feb. 24 invasion, which it calls a special military operation.
I address you in a state of emergency, when we have a war. In an emergency for the whole world, when Africa is actually taken hostage. Hostage of those who started the war against our state, Zelensky said in a video speech to the Bureau of the Assembly of the African Union.
African countries are acutely affected by the growing crisis, which has sent prices of grains, cooking oils, fuel and fertilizer soaring.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
In a speech to African Union leaders, Zelensky said the continent had been caught up in a situation not of its making.FEATURED STORIES
In early June, Senegals President Macky Sall said Russias Vladimir Putin had told him he was ready to enable the export of Ukrainian grain to ease a global food crisis that was hitting Africa especially hard.
Russia and Ukraine account for nearly a third of global wheat supplies, while Russia is also a key global fertilizer exporter and Ukraine is a major exporter of corn and sunflower oil.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy visits a training base of the National Guard, as Russias attack on Ukraine continues, in Odesa region, Ukraine June 18, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press Service via REUTERS
