US allows some Russian energyrelated transactions until Dec 5
20220615
https://business.inquirer.net/350479/us-allows-some-russian-energy-related-transactions-until-dec-5
The Dec. 5 extension date is the same day that the EU intends to impose a ban of seaborne imports of Russian oil that it agreed to this month.FEATURED STORIES
WASHINGTON  The United States will allow certain energy-related transactions with Sberbank, VTB Bank, Alfa-Bank and several other Russian entities to continue through Dec. 5, the U.S. Department of Treasury said on Tuesday.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
FILE PHOTO: Gas pipelines are pictured at the Atamanskaya compressor station, facility of Gazproms Power Of Siberia project outside the far eastern town of Svobodny, in Amur region, Russia November 29, 2019. REUTERSMaxim ShemetovFile Photo
The United States has banned imports of Russian fossil fuels and imposed punitive sanctions on the country for its invasion of Ukraine. But Washington has allowed bank transactions on Russian oil and gas sent to European countries to continue, allowing those nations time to transition to different sources of fossil fuels and into alternative energy.
The EU has depended on Russia, one of the worlds top energy exporters, for about 40 of its natural gas and 27 of its imported oil.
Treasurys Office of Foreign Asset Control said it was extending the general license authorizing the transactions with entities including Russias Central Bank, Sovcombank, Vnesheconombank, and others.
This suggests U.S. sanctions could correspondingly tighten at that time by ending the energy payment carve-out, ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington-based nonpartisan research group said in a note to clients.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
