What we know about what happened in Ukraines Bucha
20220404
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1578065/what-we-know-about-what-happened-in-ukraines-bucha
Graphic content  Communal workers carry a body of a civilian man in town of Bucha, not far from the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on April 3, 2022. AFP
Shelling stopped on Thursday and Ukrainian forces were only able to fully enter the town a few days ago.
AFP journalists on Saturday saw massive holes left by shells in apartment blocks, numerous wrecked cars and streets littered with debris or downed power lines.
We found mass graves. We found people with their hands and legs tied up with bullet holes in the back of their heads, presidential spokesman Sergiy Nikiforov told the BBC Sunday.
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday that the sight of multiple civilian bodies in Bucha was a punch to the gut.
On Sunday Mayor Fedoruk said 280 people were buried in mass graves because they could not have be buried in cemeteries that were within firing range.
The corpses of 57 people were found in a mass grave, the chief of local rescue efforts Serhiy Kaplychniy, said as he showed AFP the trench where the bodies lay.
French President Emmanuel Macron said the images were unbearable and that Russian authorities must answer for these crimes.
AFP on Saturday saw the bodies of at least 22 people in civilian clothes on a single street in Bucha.
Bucha was occupied by the Russian army on the third day of the war, on February 26, and remained inaccessible for more than a month.FEATURED STORIES
The mayor of Kyiv who went to Bucha on Sunday, Vitaly Klitschko, told AFP that the exact number of victims was not yet known.
The mass grave is behind a church in the towns centre. Some of the bodies were either unburied or partially buried. They were all dressed in civilian clothes.
KYIV,UkraineUkraine on Sunday accused the Russian army of having committed a massacre in Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv recently retaken by Ukrainian troops, where the bodies of civilians were found in the streets.
One of them was on the pavement near a bicycle, others had bags of provisions near them.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The cause of death of these people could not be immediately determined, but at least two of them had large head wounds.
Those who stayed in Bucha, trapped by the incessant fighting, were deprived of water and electricity and lived in very cold temperatures.
On body had his hands tied behind his back and most the bodies were scattered over several hundred metres yards on one street.
Bucha, a commuter town of around 37,000 outside Kyiv, as well as the nearby town of Irpin, saw fierce fighting since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
Germany has said the civilian deaths in Bucha are a terrible war crime that cannot go unanswered and called for fresh sanctions on Moscow.
This is not a war, it is a genocide, a genocide of the Ukrainian population.
The skin on the faces of the corpses looked waxy, suggesting that they had been there for at least several days.
According to the mayor of Bucha, Anatoliy Fedoruk, the victims were killed by Russian forces with a bullet in the back of the neck.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
