Zelensky seeks ban on Russia at all global airports ports
20220301
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1561501/zelensky-seeks-ban-on-russia-at-all-global-airports-ports
Putin said a settlement is possible only if Russias legitimate security interests are unconditionally taken into account, including the recognition of Russian sovereignty over Crimea, the demilitarisation and denazification of the Ukrainian state and ensuring its neutral status, the Kremlin said.
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
As for its pressure campaign against Ukraines leaders, dont waste your time, Zelensky told the Russians in a video message.
We must close entry for this state in all ports, all canals and all the worlds airports, he said on Facebook, as he urged the international community to consider a total closure of the skies to Russian missiles, planes and helicopters.
KYIV  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday sought a global ban on Russian planes and ships using foreign airports or seaports as punishment for Moscow launching an attack on his country.
Fighting continued to rage during the dialogue, with at least 11 people killed by Russian attacks in Ukraines second largest city of Kharkiv, near the Russian border.
Zelensky also accused Russia of bombarding and firing on Ukrainian territory Monday to put pressure on Kyiv during talks aimed at a ceasefire.FEATURED STORIES
Shortly before Mondays talks broke up, agreeing merely to hold a second round of negotiations soon, Russian leader Vladimir Putin laid out his prerequisites for ending the war in a phone call with French President Emmanuel Macron.
More than 350 civilians, including 14 children, have been killed during the invasion, according to Ukraine, while more than a half a million people have fled the country.
4 family members and a mistress: Who are the 5 linked to HK model Abby Chois grisly murder?
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
