Zelensky says Ukraine will win back lost cities admits war is tough to bear
20220625
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1616638/zelensky-says-ukraine-will-win-back-lost-cities-admits-war-is-tough-to-bear
By providing an email address. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy.
The air defense systems  the modern systems that our partners have  should not be on training grounds or in storage, but in Ukraine, where they are needed now, needed more than anywhere else in the world, he said.
It was the only time in the address that he mentioned Sievierodonetsk, which finally fell to Moscows forces earlier in the day after weeks of brutal fighting.FEATURED STORIES
At this stage of the war its spiritually difficult, emotionally difficult  we dont have a sense of how long it will last, how many more blows, losses and efforts will be needed before we see victory is on the horizon, he said.
Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer  other 70 titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am  share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.
In a late-night video address, he also said Ukraine had been hit by 45 Russian missiles and rockets over the previous 24 hours, which he described as a cynical but doomed attempt to break his peoples spirits.
Ukraines President Volodymyr Zelenskiy visits a training base of the National Guard, as Russias attack on Ukraine continues, in Odesa region, Ukraine June 18, 2022. Ukrainian Presidential Press ServiceHandout via REUTERS
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday said Ukraine would win back all the cities it had lost to Russia, including Sievierodonetsk, and admitted the war was becoming tough to handle emotionally.
Therefore all our cities  Sievierodonetsk, Donetsk, Luhansk  well get them all back, he said.
The relentless missiles attacks confirmed that sanctions against Russia were not enough to help Ukraine, which needed more weapons, he said.
