CBS Ukraine Coverage Hammers Home Americas Withering Grasp of the High Stakes
20220303
https://redstate.com/alexparker/2022/03/03/cbs-ukraine-coverage-hammers-home-americas-withering-grasp-of-the-high-stakes-n530911
But CBSs choice of Ukrainian coverage perfectly hammers home the fact that we are no longer a serious nation. We can no longer grasp real danger and hold on tight. Perhaps its one reason so many Americans suffered paralyzing fear during the pandemic  many had lost sight of the fact that the threat of actual death was a perpetual part of life.
Zi Famelu was born and raised in Crimea, an area of Ukraine that was invaded and taken over by Russia in 2014, the report began. Now the 31-year-old lives in Kyiv, the capital city that has been under Russian siege for nearly a week. She is running out of food and hasnt left her house for days as gunfire erupts outside.
To be clear, Ukrainians can attain IDs boasting a sexual distinction opposite their biology. But that requires a protocol Zi Famelu hasnt chosen to endure.
Legislation was introduced in 2017 to lessen the process, but still would require that transgender Ukrainians undergo outpatient psychiatric examinations.
Transgender acceptance in Ukraine is not widespread, and changing legal documents to match gender requires a long process with psychiatric examinations. CBS News spoke with one woman in Kyiv who is now battling a war within a war amid Russias invasion.
Famelu, who is transgender, said that transphobia is pervasive in the city and neighboring countries, and fears that if she leaves, the tension of the ongoing conflict will make her more susceptible to violence. Famelu was previously a popular contestant on the Ukrainian singing competition show Star Factory.
If she makes it to the border of a neighboring country offering refuge, shes not even sure if theyll let her in, as her passport identification does not match her gender. The LGBTQ community has become more visible and accepted over the years, but for transgender people, its more complicated.
Case in point: On Tuesday  amid a brutal Russian invasion killing thousands  CBS News published a piece it mustve considered urgently important.
Putting the spotlighted Kyivan entirely aside, CBSs choice of Ukrainian exploration  while headlines such as Russia Invades Ukraine in Largest European Attack Since WWII hit the global front page  says a lot about the state of America.
Weve conflated small things with medium things, and medium with large. Every issue has become similarly sized. Just like a war within a war  one is the same as the other.
And were so weak that all perception of all difficulty has become all the same.
Of course, everyone in Ukraine is in need of our prayers  including Zi Famelu. May they all stay safe.
In such an instance, were advised, weve been robbed of our dignity. Weve been aggressed. Weve been erased.
Transgender acceptance in Ukraine is not widespread, and changing legal documents to match gender requires a long process with psychiatric examinations. CBS News spoke with one woman in Kyiv who is now battling a "war within a war" amid Russia's invasion https:t.coDJ6vFwmLuR pic.twitter.com7Qp4eTCGMt
And our evolution isnt merely evident among the citizenry its in our institutions. The Armed Forces  an apparatus whose sole function is to kill people and break things  recently made headlines for its socially-conscious interior decorating. Last month, the federal government proclaimed, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Are Necessities in U.S. Military. No, they arent. They may make things interesting. They may even be laudable. But where blowing things up is concerned, theyre neither here nor there. Is any military less diverse than Chinas? How lethal does it appear to be?
Were informed we must be bolstered by our environment  and we must not only be seen but feel so.
I dont want to go through that. This is like, humiliating for the world, the shut-in explained. I decided to keep my passport, keep male in my passport, and now I cannot leave this country.
At a time when mangled bodies litter the Ukrainian earth, pulverized by military might, a major news organization presents a story of self-expression  as if the general subject carries the same weight and sits at the same state of emergency as the threat of a world war.
The post linked to an article titled A War Within a War: Transgender Woman Says Transphobia and Discriminatory Laws Keeping Her Hostage in Kyiv During Russian Invasion.
Erased  our mere existence is only made possible by all the world telling us we are right.
