Head of US European Command Admits Bidens Plan to Stop Russias Invasion of Ukraine Was Worthless
20220331
https://redstate.com/mike_miller/2022/03/31/head-of-u-s-european-command-admits-bidens-plan-to-stop-russias-invasion-of-ukraine-was-worthless-n543189
Gen. Tod Wolters, the head of U.S. European Command, admitted that the Biden administration's attempts to deter a Russian invasion of Ukraine did not work.
I think what we need to do from a U.S. force perspective is look at what takes place in Europe following the completion of the Ukraine-Russia scenario and examine the European contributions, and based on the breadth and depth of the European contributions, be prepared to adjust the U.S. contributions. And my suspicion is were going to still need more.
During questioning from Wisconsin Republican Rep. Mike Gallagher, Wolters said he was part of the effort to deter Russia, as well. Gallagher asked, as transcribed by WE: Would it be fair to say that deterrence failed in Ukraine?
Wolters continued, saying the U.S. would likely deploy additional troops to Europe as a result.
Former editor and senior writer at Independent Journal Review. Constitutional conservative, loather of hypocrisy, hyper-partisanship, and whataboutism. And an insufferable pizza snob, of course.
Bidens threatof sanctions dragged on for weeks, as Russia continued to amass troops and equipment on its border with Ukraine and Putin continued to make bellicose threats. Still, Biden did zero. Even worse, as RedState reported on February 24, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki incredibly and incredulously declared Bidens sanctions strategy had worked  despite Russia having invaded Ukraine.
Wolters made the admission on Wednesday during testimony before the House Armed Services Committee on the continuing war in Ukraine and its overarching effect on the United States and NATO, as reported by the Washington Examiner. Joining Gen. Wolters in testimony was Dr. Celeste Wallander, the assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs.
Speaking of Joe, after weeks of threatened sanctions  which, when they finally came, critics slammed, in effect, as too little, too late  the most inept president in modern history got a bit testy I know, right? and snapped, last Thursday: No one expected the sanctions to keep anything from happening. Oops.
Joe Biden and his White House will continue to claim mission accomplished where there is yet to be one.
Wolters began to give a typical non-answer to Gallaghers question: Number one, I would say that NATOs solidarity remained  prompting the lawmaker to cut him off and demand a direct answer.
With reports suggesting Putin has been kept in the dark about the failures of his army in Ukraine  a claim about which Im skeptical, at best  one thing is certain:
Im not George Patton, but additional U.S. forces to do what? Shore up the defense of NATO countries against a Russian attack that wont happen? Strut U.S. tail feathers to demonstrate resolve after the invasion ship has already sailed? And for whom? NATO countries, Vladimir Putin, or voters in November?
I cant argue with your conclusions. So said Gen. Tod Wolters, head of U.S. European Command and NATOs Supreme Allied Commander Europe SACEUR, in agreement that Joe Bidens threat of sanctions to deter Vladimir Putin from launching an invasion against Ukraine was a failure. Joe begs to differ.
Reports suggest Russia has now committed 70-75 percent of its entire military to the war, after failing to achieve its original invasion objectives. Call me cynical, but Biden will somehow try to twist this little factoid into a win, based entirely on something he did  or didnt do.
Meanwhile, as we reported on Tuesday, Putins invasion continues to bog down, leading Russia to draft 100,000 reservists with combat experience  to send to fight in Ukraine.
Completion of the Ukraine-Russia scenario? Thats a rather antiseptic way to describe the day and night horror being indiscriminately visited on the men, women, and children of Ukraine, is it not?
In response, in one of her near-daily clean-up on aisle 46 responses, Jen Psaki proclaimed Thats not exactly what he meant  a perfect analogy between Bidens failed Ukraine policy and his disastrous presidency to date as a whole: Pay no attention to what I did focus only on what I meant to do.
