Serious People Arent in Charge Right Now
20220224
https://redstate.com/brandon_morse/2022/02/24/serious-people-arent-in-charge-right-now-n527213
I hope President Putin will help us with respect to what we need to do to stay on track with the climate, Kerry said.
As my colleague Nick Arama posted earlier, Kerry became very concerned about the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but not because of the death and destruction that war brings. According to Kerry, its all distracting from the real threat of climate change.
Former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on BBC Arabic: The Ukraine Crisis Could Distract the World from the Climate Crisis While Having Massive Emissions Consequences RussiaUkraineConflict UkraineRussie UkraineRussiaCrisis ClimateCrisis JohnKerry ClimateEnvoy pic.twitter.comnsOC1iZeGm
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton were both sure that marriage was between a man and a woman, then as the LGBT movement grew in power they both somehow evolved. Democrats of every stripe were all about border security until it became politically convenient to open them wide and allow whoever they wanted into the country.
But we can leave Kerry alone for a moment and check out the reaction of other leftists to the invasion of Ukraine.
Theres a scene in Titanic where people are desperately piling onto boats as the ship sinks. The mother of the movies heroine, Rose, dressed in her Sunday best, comments in a very lighthearted way that she hopes the boats dont get too crowded as people desperately attempt to get themselves and their children off the boat to safety.
Their spoiled lives result in spoiled priorities. If hopefully not when war comes to us they will find this isnt like any war theyve ever experienced. This wont be Vietnam where they stayed safe as soldiers went off to war in some distant land. This isnt the Persian Gulf or Afghanistan. This will be a war that engulfs everyone and everything in some way.
In the midst of this hardship, the last thing people will want to talk about is the imaginary problems we created in order to make our easy lives seem more complicated.
Its enough to see Democrats as a party that would swap out their most firmly held beliefs if it meant they got power in return. Its not that they dont have some very strong beliefs, its just that their beliefs begin and end with whatever gets me higher on the ladder.
Ive often wondered if Democrats knew what they were doing when they strung people along with their radicalism or if they truly believed their own BS and were continuously high on their own supply. I never truly trusted the principles of a leftist, seeing that their principles seemed to change whenever the political winds blew in a different direction.
Deputy Managing Editor. Host of RedState LIVE! Culture critic, and video creator. Good at bad photoshops.
Regardless, these people are currently in charge of our ship. This kind of incompetency divorced from reality is what is calling the shots of this nation. Its imperative that we get them out soon and put people in charge who have no delusions about what were up against. Leaving them in charge could very well result in the end of the western world as we know it.
Citizen journalist Lauren Chen compiled some reactions from others and you can see the lunacy on display. Concerns about how vaccinated Ukrainians are, the problem of Putins white privilege, and even some concerns about toxic masculinity.
I cant help but pictures this scene when I read these tweets from these people. The western world has been so comfortable in the power and eases gifted to them by better men in the past that they can see the world falling into chaos, death, and destruction and all they can think about is the made-up socio-political issues they were fed as impressionable teenagers that ultimately have no grounding in reality and change absolutely nothing.
