Ukrainian Member of Parliament Doesnt Hold Back About Bidens SOTU Address
20220302
https://redstate.com/nick-arama/2022/03/02/ukrainian-member-of-parliament-doesnt-hold-back-about-bidens-sotu-address-n530549
To be honest, it was a total disappointment.  Oleksandra Ustinova, a member of the Ukrainian Parliament, on President Bidens State of the Union address pic.twitter.comfLhShKuSWF
So, they were talked out of their nuclear weapons and that protection in part because of the promise of security promised by both Russia and the United States. Sen. Barack Obama D-IL was then instrumental in talking them out of a lot of their conventional weapons the U.S. even paid to help get rid of them. We were very instrumental in leaving them naked in the face of Russia. That doesnt mean we owe troops it does mean that they have something of a right to expect we will be useful. But unfortunately, theyre stuck with Biden.
Now, the U.S. isnt going to be part of implementing a no-fly zone, but even the sanctions they put in place are lacking.
Ukraine once possessed the worlds third-largest arsenal of nuclear weapons following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991.
And today when I see President Biden saying that were going to protect every inch of the NATO territory, excuse me, weve been promised the same thing when we gave up our nuclear weapons, Ustinova said. The Russians have totally destroyed all of the airports in Ukraine, the majority of the roads. We are grateful for help, but we need protection in our sky. .
But Ukrainian Member of Parliament Oleksandra Ustinova said this morning on NBCs Today that Bidens speech was a total disappointment.
Ustinova punctured the Biden claims behind the impact of the SWIFT sanction, saying that only applied to 7 banks out of 300. That is not a sanction, she said. If you are talking about the energy sector, this is whats feeding Putin. Thats his main money where coming from and there are no sanctions for the energy sector.
To be honest, it was a total disappointment for us, she told Savannah Guthrie. I can explain why. Today, the whole world is watching Ukrainians being executed. I cannot name it the other way around.
So, its not hard to see why Ukraine  in the fight for their lives  would feel let down by Biden.
We have been protecting ourselves on the ground, but if we do not protect our sky, if there is not a no-fly zone or if there is no dome to protect it with the air defense, we will all go down, Ustinova said. People will literally die.
What is the red line that Vladimir Putin has to cross for NATO and the U.S. to step in? she said. Were not asking for boots on the ground. Were asking for the iron dome or for the no-fly zone.
Ukraine is under huge assault from Russia, with a convoy bearing down on the capital city of Kyiv. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he hoped that Joe Biden could say something useful. Weve all been hoping that he could do that on any number of topics, not just Ukraine. Its very serious  Im not in a movie, Zelensky, the former actor, said.
Ustinova wanted to know what it would take for the U.S. to heighten its involvement beyond economic sanctions and military assistance of NATO countries bordering Ukraine.
But despite Bidens words, he wouldnt even go about starting to cut off Russian oil and releasing restrictions on American energy production.
Ukraine appears to be feeling some of that frustration that we have felt with Joe Biden with his general failure to be effective on virtually anything.
However, the sovereign nation signed the Budapest Memorandum in 1994 in which Russia, Britain and the U.S. committed to refrain from attacking Ukraine in exchange for the country turning over its nuclear arsenal to Russia to be dismantled.
The right definition is an execution because we see bombs going into our civilian houses every day, we see children dying every day on the streets or in their houses if they didnt make it to the bomb shelter, we see bombs coming to the orphanages, to the schools. And we had been promised a protection by the international community. We gave up our nuclear weapons.
