Unreal Biden Just Made an Offer to Putin Thats Hard to Believe
20220203
https://redstate.com/nick-arama/2022/02/02/unreal-biden-just-made-an-offer-to-putin-thats-hard-to-believe-n516246
Russia is trying to justify its action by claiming theyre concerned about NATO actions. Thats unbelievably bogus because theyve wanted Ukraine for years. Its why they invaded Crimea in 2014. Its a dodge. Putin thinks he can threaten Ukraine and get concessions from NATO into the bargain by throwing a tantrum.
We also saw how he doesnt seem to understand how to deal with Vladimir Putin. Last June Biden acknowledged that he trusted Putin and gave him a list of 16 things that are off-limits for cyberattacks on critical infrastructure. That gave Putin a hit list of the things most important to us and a bye on anything else off the list.
One couldnt believe it if you didnt see it in print. While NATO has formally rejected the Russian proposal that Ukraine never is considered for NATO membership, Joe Biden reportedly offered Putin access to NATO bases to verify that NATO doesnt have any cruise missiles in Romania or Poland. So yes, let them pick up all kinds of intelligence by verifying something they likely already know. Thanks, Joe, how dumb can you be? Why would you ever give them such access?
Unfortunately, weve already seen how costly that ignorance can be with things like the Afghanistan withdrawal.
Now we see Joe Biden having difficulty with the situation between Russia and Ukraine. He waived sanctions on Nord Stream 2, hurting America and Ukraine while empowering Putin. Then he greenlit aggressive action by Russia by saying a minor incursion wouldnt necessarily prompt a big response. He had to scramble to clean that up.
It would only happen if our allies agreed, and Russia would need to provide reciprocity.
Former Obama Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said that Joe Biden was wrong about virtually every foreign policy position he held for the past four decades. Despite that, Biden has always claimed to be a foreign policy expert. Thats about as true as a lot of his made-up stories.
Then Biden made a call to the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky, where Biden allegedly said that a Russian invasion was imminent. Zelensky then had to clean that up too, saying that while the threat is always present, hes in the country and he should know better than Biden. Meanwhile, Biden has reportedly taken the toughest sanctions against Russia off the table and isnt putting any more sanctions in play now, only holding them over Putins head if he invades.
Putin said Washington ignored Russias concerns regarding Ukraine and NATO membership but said they would continue to talk. AFP reported earlier that they had agreed with the U.K. that there needed to be a peaceful resolution to the situation, and that talks would be continuing.
