WATCH Russian Helicopter Gets Blown out of the Sky Illustrates Putins Big Issue
20220301
https://redstate.com/bonchie/2022/03/01/watch-russian-helicopter-gets-blown-out-of-the-sky-illustrates-putins-big-issue-n529848
But no matter how much land is technically taken, the cardinal issue remains the ability of the Russians to hold it. The Western alliances are now pouring war materials into Ukraine, and its having a very real impact, both physically and psychologically. Babak Taghvee, an account Ive recommended many times during several past conflicts for its accuracy, put out a video this morning illustrating Putins big problem.
Regardless, the clip is instructive because it shows the problem the Russians are having and will continue to have if they continue their misadventure in Ukraine. As I said, they can take land, but if the Ukrainians are willing to continue the fight, and theres every indication to believe thats the case, the meat grinder will only get worse.
Even though American forces suffered thousands of losses to low-tech, insurgent fighters in Afghanistan and Iraq, those casualties were relatively limited when put in context. Russia does not have the same technological and organizational edge that the United States does, and we are seeing that play out in real-time with Putins forces taking far greater losses in a far shorter period of time. While fantastical stories like the ghost of Kyiv may be a myth, its not a myth that the Russians have had many helicopters, transport planes, and tanks destroyed at this point.
With the Ukrainians rejecting Russias ridiculous offer to basically become a puppet state, that means the conflict will continue for now. I dont want to give false hope, because there will likely be concessions made in the end. In the meantime, you have to question how many losses Putin is willing to sustain, not just because of the physical loss of life, but because every downed helicopter and abandoned tank is an embarrassment for his military. Russia prides itself in projecting strength beyond what its actually capable of. That facade is being destroyed at this moment.
The visuals alone are incredible. One helicopter is hit and the rest start popping flares. Then you see one Mi-24P the rest of the helicopters were Mi-8MTV-5s slam into the river. Hearing the Ukrainians cheer is probably the best part, though. You can feel the visceral excitement coming through the screen. Its inspiring to see men, basically stuck in an insurgent conflict at this point, just trying to save their homeland. If you value American nationalism, you have to respect it when you see others putting their lives on the line to protect their borders and freedom. I hate to sound like a softy, but the entire spectacle almost made me tear up.
Front-page contributor for RedState. Visit my archives for more of my latest articles and help out by following me on Twitter bonchieredstate.
Whats clearly not embellished, though, is that Vladimir Putins forces have found themselves in a far more difficult position than expected. As Ive said from the beginning, I believe this will still end up with Ukraine at the negotiating table. Kyiv is essentially surrounded and the Russians have taken significant territory.
BREAKING: Watch crash of Mi-8MTV-5 transport helicopters of RussianAirForce at Dniper river in North of Kiev. As you can see, they were flying too low to avoid getting hit by the Stinger MANPAD. Even one of them collided with water but went up again. They lost two helicipters pic.twitter.comMlO45itlBF
Theres been a lot of lore emanating from the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. No doubt, some of the stories of heroism we are hearing have been exaggerated or manufactured. In a kinetic war where morale is key to keeping the resistance to foreign invaders going, thats not unexpected, and dont kid yourself, Russia is putting out false information as well.
