Latest British Gas Octopus EON and EDF energy tariffs as billpayers face rising costs
20220330
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/uk-news/latest-british-gas-octopus-eon-23543252
After the energy price cap, rates will appear in the lower regions in comparison to the other energy providers:
READ MORE: Warning as households are urged to take a meter reading on Thursday amid energy crisis
British Gas are offering advice and support to their customers who are struggling with rising bills, over at the British Gas Energy Trust. This includes energy debt support across England, Scotland and Wales to any person from any energy suppliers, not solely British Gas customers.
It also offers an energy plus home service option with fixed prices for over 12 months, and an electric vehicle EV tariff with fixed prices over 12 months that comes with an installation of an electricity smart meter. Following the energy price cap, rates can expect to look like this:
They provide a pros and cons list between fixed rate, dual energy, and variable tariffs on their website to help customers choose the best tariffs for them. Rates for EDF Energy will rise to be similar to British Gas:
They are offering a new flexible tariff for customers from April 2, 2022, due to the rise in the energy price cap. This tariff is 50 below the price cap for loyal customers with 5m put into the Octopus Assist fund to aid customers that need it the most.
The energy cap was introduced in 2019 by Ofgem to prevent households on different or default tariffs from being ripped off. Ofgem are in talks about changing the energy price cap every three months in order to help suppliers with the drastic changes to the energy market.
British Gas offers a fixed price tariff for contracts over 10 months as well as green tariffs - which match 100 of the electricity and 10 of the gas with renewable charges while offering fixed prices for over 10 months.
It has helped cause a cost of living crisis in the UK with people searching for ways to save money on bills and switch, or weigh up energy providers. In April, the energy price cap is set to rise by 54 and money saving experts have advised most people to remain with their current energy providers, stick with a capped tariff, or to move once their deal ends as opposed to in the middle of the crisis.
 Direct Debit: 1,921 if you are on the standard tariff before April 2 and 1,969 if you come off a fix from April 2
They offer fixed and variable tariffs to suit each customer. These can be viewed and compared by entering your postcode on their website here and scouring through the list of plans on offer.
A new flexible tariff for customers is being offered by Octopus from April 2 due to the rise in the energy price cap
Their energy tariffs for gas and electricity can be found according to your postcode here. As energy tariff rates rise in line with the price cap from April 1, 2022, tariffs remain in flux and unpredictable.
E.ON and E.ON Next offer their customers 100 renewable electricity which is a way to make the most out of smaller amounts of energy, however, their prices have still gone up.
As everyone is painfully aware, energy prices are skyrocketing due in part to the impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Sign up for free to get the latest North East news and updates delivered straight to your inbox
 Prepayment meter: 1,967 if you were on the standard tariff before March 3 and 2,015 joining on prepay after March 3
The independent charitable trust runs a debt programme that awards grants to households most in need of monetary support. You can also find out what benefits you are entitled to by checking the Bounce Back checklist that details the benefits and schemes that will help you maximise your income.
E.ON and their renewable energy supplier E.ON Next will rise costs after the price cap to:
