More free speech and an edit button  Five ways Elon Musk could change Twitter
20220426
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/world-news/more-free-speech-edit-button-23792350
Here are some of the changes Musk has hinted could be in store for Twitter. His ideas have already prompted some to speak out and express their intentions to say goodbye to the platform for good.
One of the changes Musk has been clearest about is that he wants more free speech on Twitter. Yesterday Musk said: "Free speech is the bedrock of a functioning democracy and Twitter is the digital town square where matters vital to the future of humanity are debated."
But the process is difficult and getting a blue tick is hard, which has been a source of frustration for many. Twitter has been handing out blue ticks since 2009, but it has tightened up its rules over time and most people now have to apply.
He added: "I hope that even my worst critics remain on Twitter, because that is what free speech means." However, human rights groups are worried that moves towards more free speech could mean more hate speech as well.
Musk has announced plans to "authenticate all humans" - which could mean everyone gets a blue tick.
She said she expects the platform to "become an even more lawless, hateful, xenophobic, bigoted, misogynistic space".
Sign up for free to get the latest North East news and updates delivered straight to your inbox
Users of Twitter can expect big changes following the news Elon Musk has struck a deal to buy the social media platform for 34billion. The chief executive of Tesla made the announcement that he will buy the microblogging platform outright.
Musk has previously shown interest in allowing an edit function for Twitter. In April, Musk tweeted a poll asking Twitter users if they wanted an edit button.
Another change Musk wants to make is making Twitter more transparent. He has announced ambitions to cut down on spam on the platform and make the Twitter algorithm open source.
Some well-known personalities have announced they will leave Twitter due to the Musk takeover. One is British actor Jameela Jamil, who starred in TV series The Good Place.
Currently, Twitter hands out 'blue tick' authentication to users it thinks are notable in some way. These include politicians, journalists and celebrities, who could lose out if someone sets up a fake account pretending to be them.
This has previously been rejected by Twitter, but the company is now trialling an editing feature for some users.
That means the public will be able to see how Twitter prioritises tweets, how it penalises others and which factors make a tweet go viral.
Musk has agreed to pay 42.57 for every Twitter share with the platform set to become a private company under his ownership. The entrepreneur has already laid out some of his plans for Twitter, though these are very broad at present.
Amnesty International said: "We are concerned with any steps that Twitter might take to erode enforcement of the policies and mechanisms designed to protect users. The last thing we need is a Twitter that wilfully turns a blind eye to violent and abusive speech against users, particularly those most disproportionately impacted, including women, non-binary persons, and others."
More than four million people voted, and more than 70 said yes. This would allow users to change their tweets after they have been sent.
