Russian woman who stormed live TV in antiwar protest faces 14hour interrogation and potential imprisonment
20220315
https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/world-news/russian-woman-tv-news-protest-23400170
For the latest local breaking news direct to your inbox as it happens, go here to sign up to our free newsletter
Marina, wearing Ukrainian colours on her necklace in court, was detained last night by police following her act - with her case heard at Ostankino Court in Moscow.
"As long as your country has not completely closed itself off from the whole world, turning into a very large North Korea, you must fight. You must not lose your chance."
"She has given a striking example of how far people are willing to go to speak truth to power amid the brutal repression seen in todays Russia.
Ovsyannikova burst into the background wielding a sign containing anti-war messages in a mixture of Russian and English - urging viewers to challenge the 'propaganda' being broadcast by Russia's leading media outlet.
Marina Ovsyannikova interrupted a live news broadcast last night on Russia's state-controlled Channel One - the media outlet whom she is also employed by
In a video shared on Telegram, Zelensky said: "To those who are not afraid to protest.
She has today been accused of breaking protesting laws and not fake news laws, according to reports.
Her defiant protest shines a light where the Russian authorities have attempted to impose total darkness.
A brave anti-war protester who stormed a Russian TV news segment has spoken of a thorough 14-hour interrogation following her act of valour.
Previous reports suggested Marina had been missing and her lawyer couldn't find her, but multiple Russian outlets have since shared an image of her with her lawyer Anton Gashinsky.
Last night, Marina's placard read "stop the war, don't believe propaganda, they're lying to you."
Outside tonight she spoke to thank people across the world for their support and said she has not slept for two days.
Her message was written in Russian and English aimed at the channel's millions of viewers - but producers quickly switched the broadcast to a clip of a hospital as they dealt with the situation.
"We didn't say anything in 2014 when it only just began. We didn't protest when the Kremlin poisoned Navalny. We just silently watched this inhuman regime.
In the video, she said: "What's happening in Ukraine is a crime, and Russia is the aggressor. The responsibility for this aggression lies with one man: Vladimir Putin.
Marina still faces criminal proceedings as she could still be charged with 'public dissemination of knowingly false information about the use of the RF Armed Forces', according to the Russian outlet Baza's Telegram channel.
Marina Ovsyannikova, who is a Russian employee of state-controlled Channel One, interrupted newsreader Ekaterina Andreeva last night as she was delivering her evening bulletin - The Mirror reports.
"Now the whole world has turned away from us, and ten generations of our descendants won't wash off this fratricidal war."
Mrs Ovsyannikova claims she wasn't allowed to make any phone calls or see a lawyer while in detention.
Marina Ovsyannikova has shown that the courage to stand up for justice remains stronger than the states propaganda, even among those employed to broadcast it.
Before she stormed the news segment it appeared she recorded a video beforehand where she apologised for her work on Russian state TV and blamed Vladimir Putin for the war.
Marina's appearance today is related to the video she recorded before storming the news segment where she called Russia the 'aggressor' and called: "Russia must stop this fratricidal war", according to reports on Telegram.
"I wasn't given any legal assistance therefore I was in a quite difficult situation so let's leave all comments until tomorrow because today I really need to rest."
Sign up for free to get the latest North East news and updates delivered straight to your inbox
"Unfortunately, for the last few years, I've been working for Channel One. I've been doing Kremlin propaganda and I'm very ashamed of it  that I let people lie from TV screens and allowed the Russian people to be zombified.
No one should be detained solely for expressing their opinions, let alone be kept without contact with the outside world.
"I had very difficult days in my life because I spent two days without sleep, more than 14 hours was the interrogation, I wasn't allowed to get in touch with my relatives and close ones.
She told reporters she is 'exhausted after extensive 14-hour interrogation, without legal help' and confirmed she plans to discuss the matter further tomorrow.
In the photo, Marina appears to be wearing the same blacktop and multicoloured necklace as in her video statement that was released before she stormed the TV news segment.
"My father is Ukrainian, my mother is Russian, and they were never enemies. This necklace shows Russia must stop this fratricidal war.
Marie Struthers, Amnesty Internationals Eastern Europe and Central Asia Director, said: Marina Ovsyannikova committed no crime.
